Many of the small percentage of previously obese humans who successfully maintain weight loss report high levels of physical activity, suggesting a role for exercise in the maintenance of their lower body weights. The rat model of diet-induced obesity (DIO) has been particularly useful, since it shares several common characteristics with human obesity and, unlike the human condition, allows a thorough investigation of the effects of exercise on the central pathways which regulate energy homeostasis. In rats with DIO, voluntary wheel running selectively reduces adiposity without causing a compensatory increase in energy intake. These effects are likely mediated by signals generated by the exercising body such as interleukin-6, fatty acids, and heat which feed back on the brain to regulate central neuropeptide systems involved in the regulation of energy homeostasis. While exercise provides temporary reductions in obesity in adult rats, early postweaning exercise reduces adiposity in high-fat-fed DIO rats long after exercise is terminated. This suggests that early-onset exercise may permanently alter the development of the central pathways which regulate energy homeostasis. Therefore, identification of exercise-induced central and peripheral factors and elucidation of their interactions with central modulatory pathways may aid in the identification of new targets for the pharmacological treatment of human obesity.

There is no prospective study of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in India. This study aims to determine the prevalence rate of dementia and to prospectively analyze a group of patients with MCI. A door-to-door cross-sectional cluster survey was conducted in Kolkata, India, among those aged &gt;50 years to estimate the prevalence rate of dementia. Then annual assessment of cognitive function using a validated questionnaire battery was undertaken among 21 elderly individuals with memory complaints for 4 consecutive years. A total of 53,907 persons were surveyed. The crude prevalence rates of dementia were 0.62% (95% CI 0.44-0.84) and 1.25% (95% CI 0.87-1.74) among those &gt;50 and &gt;60 years of age, respectively. The weighted prevalence rate among those above 50 years was 0.95% (95% CI 0.68-1.29). Alzheimer's disease was the commonest subtype (55%) followed by vascular dementia (36%). In a prospective study, MCI remained static, converted to dementia or reverted to normalcy. There was also transition from one subtype of MCI to another. A similar outcome of MCI is also noted in Western nations. However, the prevalence rate of dementia in Eastern India remained quite low.
The classification of ischemic stroke into different subtypes is supported in genetic association studies. While several gene variants have been identified as being associated with ischemia subtypes, most studies have not been powered to study subtypes separately. We investigated 887 patients with nondisabling cerebral ischemia of arterial origin and classified ischemia as being caused by large or small vessel disease (LVD or SVD), primarily based on neuroimaging findings. In total, 621 patients had LVD and 266 SVD. The coagulation factor XIII subunit B gene (F13B) His95Arg variant was more common in patients with LVD (mean prevalence difference 9.9%; 95% CI 4.7-15). None of 21 other prothrombotic gene variants was associated with LVD or SVD. Many gene variants may not be specific for one subtype. We could not replicate the genetic associations identified in previous smaller previous studies. Thus claims about genetic associations with specific subtypes of ischemia should be interpreted with caution. The association between F13B His95Arg and LVD requires replication.
The optic chiasm with its complex fiber micro-structure is a challenge for diffusion tensor models and tractography methods. Likewise, it is an ideal candidate for evaluation of diffusion tensor imaging tractography approaches in resolving inter-regional connectivity because the macroscopic connectivity of the optic chiasm is well known. Here, high-resolution (156 microm in-plane) diffusion tensor imaging of the human optic chiasm was performed ex vivo at ultra-high field (9.4 T). Estimated diffusion tensors at this high resolution were able to capture complex fiber configurations such as sharp curves, and convergence and divergence of tracts, but were unable to resolve directions at sites of crossing fibers. Despite the complex microstructure of the fiber paths through the optic chiasm, all known connections could be tracked by a line propagation algorithm. However, fibers crossing from the optic nerve to the contralateral tract were heavily underrepresented, whereas ipsilateral nerve-to-tract connections, as well as tract-to-tract connections, were overrepresented, and erroneous nerve-to-nerve connections were tracked. The effects of spatial resolution and the varying degrees of partial volume averaging of complex fiber architecture on the performance of these methods could be investigated. Errors made by the tractography algorithm at high resolution were shown to increase at lower resolutions closer to those used in vivo. This study shows that increases in resolution, made possible by higher field strengths, improve the accuracy of DTI-based tractography. More generally, post-mortem investigation of fixed tissue samples with diffusion imaging at high field strengths is important in the evaluation of MR-based diffusion models and tractography algorithms.
Refreshing is a basic reflective component process that can serve to prolong activation of task-relevant information. Neuroimaging work has shown that left middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and supramarginal gyrus (SMG) are selectively engaged during refreshing. Functional MRI (fMRI), however, is not able to determine if these regions are necessary for refreshing. In this experiment, we utilize repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to assess the behavioral effect of functionally deactivating these regions. We report a selective slowing of response times (RTs) to refresh words following MFG stimulation, consistent with a role of lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) in top-down control mechanisms necessary for refreshing. In contrast, SMG stimulation slowed participants in both refreshing and repeating words, indicating a more general role of SMG in verbal processing.
The cortical processing of auditory-alone, visual-alone, and audiovisual speech information is temporally and spatially distributed, and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) cannot adequately resolve its temporal dynamics. In order to investigate a hypothesized spatiotemporal organization for audiovisual speech processing circuits, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded using electroencephalography (EEG). Stimuli were congruent audiovisual/ba/, incongruent auditory/ba/synchronized with visual/ga/, auditory-only/ba/, and visual-only/ba/and/ga/. Current density reconstructions (CDRs) of the ERP data were computed across the latency interval of 50-250 ms. The CDRs demonstrated complex spatiotemporal activation patterns that differed across stimulus conditions. The hypothesized circuit that was investigated here comprised initial integration of audiovisual speech by the middle superior temporal sulcus (STS), followed by recruitment of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), followed by activation of Broca's area [Miller, L.M., d'Esposito, M., 2005. Perceptual fusion and stimulus coincidence in the cross-modal integration of speech. Journal of Neuroscience 25, 5884-5893]. The importance of spatiotemporally sensitive measures in evaluating processing pathways was demonstrated. Results showed, strikingly, early (&lt;100 ms) and simultaneous activations in areas of the supramarginal and angular gyrus (SMG/AG), the IPS, the inferior frontal gyrus, and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Also, emergent left hemisphere SMG/AG activation, not predicted based on the unisensory stimulus conditions was observed at approximately 160 to 220 ms. The STS was neither the earliest nor most prominent activation site, although it is frequently considered the sine qua non of audiovisual speech integration. As discussed here, the relatively late activity of the SMG/AG solely under audiovisual conditions is a possible candidate audiovisual speech integration response.
Our goal is to model the coupling between neuronal activity, cerebral metabolic rates of glucose and oxygen consumption, cerebral blood flow (CBF), electroencephalography (EEG) and blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) responses. In order to accomplish this, two previous models are coupled: a metabolic/hemodynamic model (MHM) for a voxel, linking BOLD signals and neuronal activity, and a neural mass model describing the neuronal dynamics within a voxel and its interactions with voxels of the same area (short-range interactions) and other areas (long-range interactions). For coupling both models, we take as the input to the BOLD model, the number of active synapses within the voxel, that is, the average number of synapses that will receive an action potential within the time unit. This is obtained by considering the action potentials transmitted between neuronal populations within the voxel, as well as those arriving from other voxels. Simulations are carried out for testing the integrated model. Results show that realistic evoked potentials (EP) at electrodes on the scalp surface and the corresponding BOLD signals for each voxel are produced by the model. In another simulation, the alpha rhythm was reproduced and reasonable similarities with experimental data were obtained when calculating correlations between BOLD signals and the alpha power curve. The origin of negative BOLD responses and the characteristics of EEG, PET and BOLD signals in Alzheimer's disease were also studied.
Increased intraindividual variability (IIV) is a hallmark of disorders of attention. Recent work has linked these disorders to abnormalities in a &quot;default mode&quot; network, comprising brain regions routinely deactivated during goal-directed cognitive tasks. Findings from a study of the neural basis of attentional lapses suggest that a competitive relationship between the &quot;task-negative&quot; default mode network and regions of a &quot;task-positive&quot; attentional network is a potential locus of dysfunction in individuals with increased IIV. Resting state studies have shown that this competitive relationship is intrinsically represented in the brain, in the form of a negative correlation or antiphase relationship between spontaneous activity occurring in the two networks. We quantified the negative correlation between these two networks in 26 subjects, during active (Eriksen flanker task) and resting state scans. We hypothesized that the strength of the negative correlation is an index of the degree of regulation of activity in the default mode and task-positive networks and would be positively related to consistent behavioral performance. We found that the strength of the correlation between the two networks varies across individuals. These individual differences appear to be behaviorally relevant, as interindividual variation in the strength of the correlation was significantly related to individual differences in response time variability: the stronger the negative correlation (i.e., the closer to 180 degrees antiphase), the less variable the behavioral performance. This relationship was moderately consistent across resting and task conditions, suggesting that the measure indexes moderately stable individual differences in the integrity of functional brain networks. We discuss the implications of these findings for our understanding of the behavioral significance of spontaneous brain activity, in both healthy and clinical populations.
In this study, we tested the prediction of the component process model of priming [Henson, R.N. (2003). Neuroimaging studies of priming. Prog Neurobiol, 70 (1), 53-81] that repetition priming of familiar and unfamiliar objects produces qualitatively different neural repetition effects. In an fMRI study, subjects viewed four repetitions of familiar objects and globally unfamiliar objects with familiar components. Reliable behavioral priming occurred for both item types across the four presentations and was of a similar magnitude for both stimulus types. The imaging data were analyzed using multivariate linear modeling, which permits explicit testing of the hypothesis that the repetition effects for familiar and unfamiliar objects are qualitatively different (i.e., non-scaled versions of one another). The results showed the presence of two qualitatively different latent spatial patterns of repetition effects from presentation 1 to presentation 4 for familiar and unfamiliar objects, indicating that familiarity with an object's global structural, semantic, or lexical features is an important factor in priming-related neural plasticity. The first latent spatial pattern strongly weighted regions with a similar repetition effect for both item types. The second pattern strongly weighted regions contributing a repetition suppression effect for the familiar objects and repetition enhancement for the unfamiliar objects, particularly the posterior insula, superior temporal gyrus, precentral gyrus, and cingulate cortex. This differential repetition effect might reflect the formation of novel memory representations for the unfamiliar items, which already exist for the familiar objects, consistent with the component process model of priming.
Recent studies have shown that blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response amplitude during short periods of breath holding (BH) measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be an effective metric for intersubject calibration procedures. However, inconsistency in the depth of inspiration during the BH scan may account for a portion of BOLD variation observed in such scans, and it is likely to reduce the effectiveness of the calibration measurement. While modulation of BOLD signal has been correlated with end-tidal CO2 and other measures of breathing, fluctuations in performance of BH have not been studied in the context of their impact on BOLD signal. Here, we studied the degree to which inspiration depth corresponds to BOLD signal change and tested the effectiveness of a method designed to control inspiration level through visual cues during the BH task paradigm. We observed reliable differences in BOLD signal amplitude corresponding to the depth of inspiration. It was determined that variance in BOLD signal response to BH could be significantly reduced when subjects were given visual feedback during task inspiration periods. The implications of these findings for routine BH studies of BOLD-derived neurovascular response are discussed.
This article proposes a Bayesian spatio-temporal model for source reconstruction of M/EEG data. The usual two-level probabilistic model implicit in most distributed source solutions is extended by adding a third level which describes the temporal evolution of neuronal current sources using time-domain General Linear Models (GLMs). These comprise a set of temporal basis functions which are used to describe event-related M/EEG responses. This places M/EEG analysis in a statistical framework that is very similar to that used for PET and fMRI. The experimental design can be coded in a design matrix, effects of interest characterized using contrasts and inferences made using posterior probability maps. Importantly, as is the case for single-subject fMRI analysis, trials are treated as fixed effects and the approach takes into account between-trial variance, allowing valid inferences to be made on single-subject data. The proposed probabilistic model is efficiently inverted by using the Variational Bayes framework under a convenient mean-field approximation (VB-GLM). The new method is tested with biophysically realistic simulated data and the results are compared to those obtained with traditional spatial approaches like the popular Low Resolution Electromagnetic TomogrAphy (LORETA) and minimum variance Beamformer. Finally, the VB-GLM approach is used to analyze an EEG data set from a face processing experiment.
In the present work, we briefly review the evidence on the key role played by the neuroimmunoendocrine network in the etiopathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and provide new behavioral, immune and endocrinological data obtained on old male and female triple-transgenic 3xTg-AD mice harboring PS1(M146V), APP(Swe) and tau(P301L) transgenes in contrast to wild-type animals. The results indicate that several aspects of the impairment of the neuroimmunoendocrine network that occurs with aging are more evident in the 3xTg-AD mice, especially in males. This supports the hypothesis of a premature immunosenescence as a pathogenically relevant factor in AD which was found to be enhanced in the 3xTg-AD males, suggesting that this could also be responsible for the increased morbidity and mortality of these subjects. Therefore, future research on strategies that could improve the immune system and the other regulatory systems, such as the nervous and the endocrine system, as well as their communication, could have preventive and/or therapeutical effects on that disease. The results also show the relevance of gender differences that should be taken into consideration in both basic and clinical research for assessing new strategies for the control of AD.
Tryptophan is an essential amino acid and metabolic precursor of serotonin. Serotonin is both a classical neurotransmitter and a signaling molecule that plays crucial roles in the development of neural circuits and plasticity. The specification of neural circuits in rodents occurs during the postnatal period with conspicuous influence of environmental factors including the nutritional status. Sensory, motor and cognitive systems develop during a critical period, a time window that is crucial to the use-dependent organization of neuronal circuits. This review presents recent experimental findings that disclose some mechanism of tryptophan- and serotonin-dependent plasticity in the developing and adult brain.

Generation algorithms allow for the generation of Virtual Neurons (VNs) from a small set of morphological properties. The set describes the morphological properties of real neurons in terms of statistical descriptors such as the number of branches and segment lengths (among others). The majority of reconstruction algorithms use the observed properties to estimate the parameters of a priori fixed probability distributions in order to construct statistical descriptors that fit well with the observed data. In this article, we present a non-parametric generation algorithm based on kernel density estimators (KDEs). The new algorithm is called KDE-NEURON: and has three advantages over parametric reconstruction algorithms: (1) no a priori specifications about the distributions underlying the real data, (2) peculiarities in the biological data will be reflected in the VNs, and (3) ability to reconstruct different cell types. We experimentally generated motor neurons and granule cells, and statistically validated the obtained results. Moreover, we assessed the quality of the prototype data set and observed that our generated neurons are as good as the prototype data in terms of the used statistical descriptors. The opportunities and limitations of data-driven algorithmic reconstruction of neurons are discussed.
Making use of very detailed neurophysiological, anatomical, and behavioral data to build biologically-realistic computational models of animal behavior is often a difficult task. Until recently, many software packages have tried to resolve this mismatched granularity with different approaches. This paper presents KInNeSS, the KDE Integrated NeuroSimulation Software environment, as an alternative solution to bridge the gap between data and model behavior. This open source neural simulation software package provides an expandable framework incorporating features such as ease of use, scalability, an XML based schema, and multiple levels of granularity within a modern object oriented programming design. KInNeSS is best suited to simulate networks of hundreds to thousands of branched multi-compartmental neurons with biophysical properties such as membrane potential, voltage-gated and ligand-gated channels, the presence of gap junctions or ionic diffusion, neuromodulation channel gating, the mechanism for habituative or depressive synapses, axonal delays, and synaptic plasticity. KInNeSS outputs include compartment membrane voltage, spikes, local-field potentials, and current source densities, as well as visualization of the behavior of a simulated agent. An explanation of the modeling philosophy and plug-in development is also presented. Further development of KInNeSS is ongoing with the ultimate goal of creating a modular framework that will help researchers across different disciplines to effectively collaborate using a modern neural simulation platform.





Objective. For targeting the subthalamic nucleus (STN), we attempted to quantify the changes in multiple cell activities by computing the neural noise level and multiple-cell spike density (MSD). Methods. We analyzed the neural noise level and MSD by stepwise recording at every 0.25-mm increment during the final tracking in 90 sides of 45 patients with Parkinson's disease. The MSD was analyzed with cut-off levels ranging from 1.2- to 2.0-fold the neural noise level in the internal capsule or zona incerta in each trajectory. Results. The dorsal boundary of the STN was identified from an increase in the neural noise ratio in all sides. The ventral boundary was identifiable, however, from a decrease in the neural noise ratio in only 70 sides (78%). In contrast, both the dorsal and ventral boundaries were clearly identified from an increase and a decrease in the MSD, respectively, in all of the 90 sides. Conclusion. MSD analysis by semimicroelectrode recording represents a useful, practical, and apparently reliable means for identifying the boundaries of the STN.
Substantial evidence indicates bioenergetic dysfunction and mitochondrial impairment contribute either directly and/or indirectly to the pathogenesis of numerous neurodegenerative disorders. Treatment paradigms aimed at ameliorating this cellular energy deficit and/or improving mitochondrial function in these neurodegenerative disorders may prove to be useful as a therapeutic intervention. Creatine is a molecule that is produced both endogenously, and acquired exogenously through diet, and is an extremely important molecule that participates in buffering intracellular energy stores. Once creatine is transported into cells, creatine kinase catalyzes the reversible transphosphorylation of creatine via ATP to enhance the phosphocreatine energy pool. Creatine kinase enzymes are located at strategic intracellular sites to couple areas of high energy expenditure to the efficient regeneration of ATP. Thus, the creatine kinase/phosphocreatine system plays an integral role in energy buffering and overall cellular bioenergetics. Originally, exogenous creatine supplementation was widely used only as an ergogenic aid to increase the phosphocreatine pool within muscle to bolster athletic performance. However, the potential therapeutic value of creatine supplementation has recently been investigated with respect to various neurodegenerative disorders that have been associated with bioenergetic deficits as playing a role in disease etiology and/or progression which include; Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Huntington's disease. This review discusses the contribution of mitochondria and bioenergetics to the progression of these neurodegenerative diseases and investigates the potential neuroprotective value of creatine supplementation in each of these neurological diseases. In summary, current literature suggests that exogenous creatine supplementation is most efficacious as a treatment paradigm in Huntington's and Parkinson's disease but appears to be less effective for ALS and Alzheimer's disease.
Psychotic symptoms are common in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and have a negative impact on quality of life. It is suggested that psychotic symptoms may be attributed to genetic risk factors which are revealed during neurodegeneration. CHRNA7, the gene for the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, has been associated with schizophrenia in linkage and association studies. Hence we investigated single SNPs and haplotypes in CHRNA7 in relation to AD with psychosis in a large, well-characterised and previously described cohort within the Northern Ireland population. A significant association between delusions and the T allele of rs6494223 (P = 0.014, OR = 1.63, CI = 1.22-2.17) was found. This suggests that the alpha 7 receptor may be a suitable target for the treatment of AD with psychosis.
Beta-site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a biological and positional candidate gene for Alzheimer's disease (AD). BACE1 is a protease that catalyses APP cleavage at the beta-secretase site. We evaluated all common and putatively functional polymorphisms in the genomic region encompassing BACE1 for an association with AD, and for functional effects on platelet beta-secretase activity. Tag SNPs (n = 10) derived from phase II of the International HapMap Project, and a nonsynonymous variant, were successfully genotyped in 901 Caucasian individuals from Northern Ireland using Sequenom iPLEX and TaqMan technologies. APOE genotyping was performed by PCR-RFLP. Platelet membrane beta-secretase activity was assayed in a subset of individuals (n = 311). Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was observed for all variants. Evidence for an association with AD was observed with multi-marker haplotype analyses (P = 0.01), and with rs676134 when stratified for APOE genotype (P = 0.02), however adjusting for multiple testing negated the evidence for association of this variant with AD. chi(2) analysis of genotype and allele frequencies in cases versus controls for individual SNPs revealed no evidence for association (5% level). No genetic factors were observed that significantly influenced platelet membrane beta-secretase activity. We have selected an appropriate subset of variants suitable for comprehensive genetic investigation of the BACE1 gene. Our results suggest that common BACE1 polymorphisms and putatively functional variants have no significant influence on genetic susceptibility to AD, or platelet beta-secretase activity, in this Caucasian Northern Irish population.
Compelling evidence from epidemiological studies suggests beneficial roles of dietary phytochemicals in protecting against chronic disorders such as cancer, and inflammatory and cardiovascular diseases. Emerging findings suggest that several dietary phytochemicals also benefit the nervous system and, when consumed regularly, may reduce the risk of disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The evidence supporting health benefits of vegetables and fruits provide a rationale for identification of the specific phytochemicals responsible, and for investigation of their molecular and cellular mechanisms of action. One general mechanism of action of phytochemicals that is emerging from recent studies is that they activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways. From an evolutionary perspective, the noxious properties of such phytochemicals play an important role in dissuading insects and other pests from eating the plants. However at the subtoxic doses ingested by humans that consume the plants, the phytochemicals induce mild cellular stress responses. This phenomenon has been widely observed in biology and medicine, and has been described as 'preconditioning' or 'hormesis.' Hormetic pathways activated by phytochemicals may involve kinases and transcription factors that induce the expression of genes that encode antioxidant enzymes, protein chaperones, phase-2 enzymes, neurotrophic factors, and other cytoprotective proteins. Specific examples of such pathways include the sirtuin-FOXO pathway, the NF-kappaB pathway, and the Nrf-2/ARE pathway. In this article, we describe the hormesis hypothesis of phytochemical actions with a focus on the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway as a prototypical example of a neuroprotective mechanism of action of specific dietary phytochemicals.
The Roman poet Horace was among the first to recognize that when &quot;clogged with yesterday's excess, the body drags the mind down with it.&quot; Although considerable attention has been paid in neuroscience to the enhancement of neuronal function by wheel running and caloric restriction, far less is known about the other side of this issue. What are the consequences of unhealthy habits to central nervous system function? Prolonged exposure to excessive caloric intake impairs neuronal function and also contributes to obesity and other risk factors for diabetes. Diabetes, a disease characterized by reduced sensitivity to glucose and insulin, is also associated with deficits in brain structure and function. In contrast, enhancement of somatic metabolism by wheel running or caloric restriction improves central neuroplasticity. Generalizing across studies reveals a relationship between global metabolic efficiency and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus, a brain region that is essential for learning and memory. The specific principles upheld by these findings are suggestive of a continuum, with global metabolic alterations fluctuating in concert with neuroplasticity in the hippocampus.
Exercise can prevent the development of stress-related mood disorders, such as depression and anxiety. The underlying neurobiological mechanisms of this effect, however, remain unknown. Recently, researchers have used animal models to begin to elucidate the potential mechanisms underlying the protective effects of physical activity. Using the behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress or &quot;learned helplessness&quot; as an animal analog of depression- and anxiety-like behaviors in rats, we are investigating factors that could be important for the antidepressant and anxiolytic properties of exercise (i.e., wheel running). The current review focuses on the following: (1) the effect of exercise on the behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress and the implications of these effects on the specificity of the &quot;learned helplessness&quot; animal model; (2) the neurocircuitry of learned helplessness and the role of serotonin; and (3) exercise-associated neural adaptations and neural plasticity that may contribute to the stress-resistant brain. Identifying the mechanisms by which exercise prevents learned helplessness could shed light on the complex neurobiology of depression and anxiety and potentially lead to novel strategies for the prevention of stress-related mood disorders.
Research in humans and animals has shown that exercise improves mood and cognition. Physical activity also causes a robust increase in neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, a brain area important for learning and memory. The positive correlation between running and neurogenesis has raised the hypothesis that the new hippocampal neurons may mediate, in part, improved learning associated with exercise. The present review gives an overview of research pertaining to exercise-induced cell genesis, its possible relevance to memory function and the cellular mechanisms that may be involved in this process.
Habitual exercise increases plasticity in a variety of neurotransmitter systems. The current review focuses on the effects of habitual physical activity on monoamine dopamine (DA) neurotransmission and the potential implication of these changes to exercise-induced fatigue. Although it is clear that peripheral adaptations in muscle and energy substrate utilization contribute to this effect, more recently it has been suggested that central nervous system pathways &quot;upstream&quot; of the motor cortex, which initiate activation of skeletal muscles, are also important. The contribution of the brain to exercise-induced fatigue has been termed &quot;central fatigue.&quot; Given the well-defined role of DA in the initiation of movement, it is likely that adaptations in DA systems influence exercise capacity. A reduction in DA neurotransmission in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), for example, could impair activation of the basal ganglia and reduce stimulation of the motor cortex leading to central fatigue. Here we present evidence that habitual wheel running produces changes in DA systems. Using in situ hybridization techniques, we report that 6 weeks of wheel running was sufficient to increase tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression and reduce D2 autoreceptor mRNA in the SNpc. Additionally, 6 weeks of wheel running increased D2 postsynaptic receptor mRNA in the caudate putamen, a major projection site of the SNpc. These results are consistent with prior data suggesting that habitually physically active animals may have an enhanced ability to increase DA synthesis and reduce D2 autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of DA neurons in the SNpc compared to sedentary animals. Furthermore, habitually physically active animals, compared to sedentary controls, may be better able to increase D2 receptor-mediated inhibition of the indirect pathway of the basal ganglia. Results from these studies are discussed in light of our understanding of the role of DA in the neurobiological mechanisms of central fatigue.
Stress exerts complex effects on the brain and periphery, dependent on the temporal profile and intensity of the stressor. The consequences of a stressful event can also be determined by other characteristics of the stressor, such as whether it is predictable and controllable. While the traditional view has focused primarily on the negative effects of stress on a variety of somatic systems, emerging data support the idea that certain forms of stress can enhance cellular function. Here we review the current literature on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulation by wheel running, a voluntary and controllable stressor with a distinct temporal profile. While running indeed activates a number of systems related to the stress response, other mechanisms exist to reduce the reactivity to this stressor, with possible crosstalk between running and other forms of stress.
Mutations in DJ-1 cause inherited Parkinson's disease (PD) in several families. The normal function of DJ-1 is unknown, but mice lacking DJ-1 exhibit a deficit in dopaminergic signaling in the striatum. Since the hippocampus contains relatively high levels of DJ-1, and PD patients are often cognitively impaired, we evaluated the effects of DJ-1 deficiency on the plasticity of hippocampal CA1 synapses. LTP was slightly impaired and LTD was abolished in DJ-1-/- mice, whereas DJ-1+/- mice exhibited no alterations in synaptic plasticity. The dopamine receptor D2/3 agonist quinpirole rescued LTD in DJ-1-/- mice, suggesting a role for impaired dopaminergic signaling in the hippocampal LTD deficit.
During development, neurotrophic factors are known to play important roles in regulating the survival of neurons in the autonomic nervous system (ANS) and the formation of their synaptic connectivity with their peripheral targets in the cardiovascular, digestive, and other organ systems. Emerging findings suggest that neurotrophic factors may also affect the functionality of the ANS during adult life and may, in part, mediate the effects of environmental factors such as exercise and dietary energy intake on ANS neurons and target cells. In this article, we describe the evidence that ANS neurons express receptors for multiple neurotrophic factors, and data suggesting that activation of those receptors can modify plasticity in the ANS. Neurotrophic factors that may regulate ANS function include brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, insulin-like growth factors, and ciliary neurotrophic factor. The possibility that perturbed neurotrophic factor signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of ANS dysfunction in some neurological disorders is considered, together with implications for neurotrophic factor-based therapeutic interventions.

Converging evidence suggests that the endocannabinoid system is an important constituent of neuronal substrates involved in brain reward processes and emotional responses to stress. Here, we evaluated motivational effects of intravenously administered anandamide, an endogenous ligand for cannabinoid CB1-receptors, in Sprague-Dawley rats, using a place-conditioning procedure in which drugs abused by humans generally produce conditioned place preferences (reward). Anandamide (0.03-3 mg/kg intravenous) produced neither conditioned place preferences nor aversions. However, when rats were pre-treated with the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor URB597 (cyclohexyl carbamic acid 3'-carbamoyl-3-yl ester; 0.3 mg/kg intraperitoneal), which blocks anandamide's metabolic degradation, anandamide produced dose-related conditioned place aversions. In contrast, URB597 alone showed no motivational effects. Like URB597 plus anandamide, the synthetic CB1-receptor ligand WIN 55,212-2 (50-300 microg/kg, intravenous) produced dose-related conditioned place aversions. When anxiety-related effects of anandamide and URB597 were evaluated in a light/dark box, both a low anandamide dose (0.3 mg/kg) and URB597 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) produced anxiolytic effects when given alone, but produced anxiogenic effects when combined. A higher dose of anandamide (3 mg/kg) produced anxiogenic effects and depressed locomotor activity when given alone and these effects were potentiated after URB597 treatment. Finally, anxiogenic effects of anandamide plus URB597 and development of place aversions with URB597 plus anandamide were prevented by the CB1-receptor antagonist AM251 (3 mg/kg intraperitoneal). Thus, additive interactions between the effects of anandamide on brain reward processes and on anxiety may account for its aversive effects when intravenously administered during FAAH inhibition with URB597.
Footshock stress induces both endocannabinoid mobilization and antinociception. The present studies investigated behavioral plasticity in cannabinoid antinociceptive mechanisms following repeated activation using the tail-flick test. A secondary objective was to ascertain whether blockade of stress antinociception by the CB(1) antagonist rimonabant could be attributed to changes in locomotor activity. The cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 induced hypoactivity in the open field relative to vehicle-treated controls. By contrast, rimonabant, administered at a dose that virtually eliminated endocannabinoid-mediated stress antinociception, failed to alter locomotor behavior (i.e. time resting, ambulatory counts, distance traveled) in rats subjected to the same stressor. Rats exposed acutely to footshock were hypersensitive to the antinociceptive effects of WIN55,212-2 and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC). The converse was also true; acute Delta(9)-THC and WIN55,212-2 administration potentiated stress antinociception, suggesting a bidirectional sensitization between endocannabinoid-mediated stress antinociception and exogenous cannabinoid antinociception. Stress antinociception was also attenuated following chronic relative to acute treatment with WIN55,212-2 or Delta(9)-THC. Repeated exposure to footshock (3 min/day for 15 days), however, failed to attenuate antinociception induced by either footshock stress or WIN55,212-2. Our results demonstrate that endocannabinoid-mediated stress antinociception cannot be attributed to motor suppression. Our results further identify a functional plasticity of the cannabinoid system in response to repeated activation. The existence of cross-sensitization between endocannabinoid-mediated stress antinociception and exogenous cannabinoid antinociception suggests that these phenomena are mediated by a common mechanism. The observation of stress-induced hypersensitivity to effects of exogenous cannabinoids may have clinical implications for understanding marijuana abuse liability in humans.
Cannabinoid agonists regulate NO and cyclic AMP production in N18TG2 neuroblastoma cells, leading to the hypothesis that neuronal cyclic GMP production could be regulated by CB(1) cannabinoid receptors. NO (nitric oxide)-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (GC) is a heterodimeric cytosolic protein that mediates the down-stream effects of NO. Genes of proteins in the cyclic GMP pathway (alpha(1), alpha(2), and beta(1) subunits of NO-sensitive GC and PKG1, but not PKG2) were expressed in N18TG2 cells, as was the CB(1) but not the CB(2) cannabinoid receptor. Stimulation of N18TG2 cells by cannabinoid agonists CP55940 and WIN55212-2 increased cyclic GMP levels in an ODQ-sensitive manner. GC-beta(1) in membrane fractions was increased after 5 or 20 min stimulation, and was significantly depleted in the cytosol by 1h. The cytosolic pool of GC-beta(1) was replenished after 48 h of continued cannabinoid drug treatment. Translocation of GC-beta(1) from the cytosol was blocked by the CB(1) antagonist rimonabant (SR141716) and by the Gi/o inactivator pertussis toxin, indicating that the CB(1) receptor and Gi/o proteins are required for translocation. Long-term treatment with rimonabant or pertussis toxin reduced the amount of GC-beta(1) in the cytosolic pool. We conclude that CB(1) receptors stimulate cyclic GMP production and that intracellular translocation of GC from cytosol to the membranes is intrinsic to the mechanism and may be a tonically active or endocannabinoid-regulated process.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) mediate transient and long-lasting synaptic plasticity in several brain structures. In the dentate gyrus, activation of the type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) by exogenous ligands reportedly depresses excitatory synaptic transmission. However, direct evidence of eCB signaling at excitatory synapses in this region has been lacking. Here, we demonstrate that eCB release can be induced by a brief postsynaptic depolarization of dentate granule cells (DGCs), which potently and transiently suppresses glutamatergic inputs from mossy cell interneurons (MCs) but not from entorhinal cortex via the lateral and medial perforant paths. This input-specific depolarization-induced suppression of excitation (DSE) is calcium-dependent and can be modulated by agonists of cholinergic and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Inhibiting the synthesis of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), one of the most abundant eCBs in the brain, by diacyglycerol lipase (DGL) does not abolish DSE. Moreover, preventing the breakdown of anandamide, the other main eCB, does not potentiate DSE. Thus, eCB signaling underlying DSE in the dentate does not require DGL activity and is unlikely to be mediated by anandamide. Finally, we find that manipulations known to induce eCB-LTD at other central synapses do not trigger LTD at MCF-DGC synapses.
There is a general consensus that the effects of cannabinoid agonists on anxiety seem to be biphasic, with low doses being anxiolytic and high doses ineffective or possibly anxiogenic. Besides the behavioural effects of cannabinoids on anxiety, very few papers have dealt with the neuroanatomical sites of these effects. We investigated the effect on rat anxiety behavior of local administration of THC in the prefrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala and ventral hippocampus, brain regions belonging to the emotional circuit and containing high levels of CB1 receptors. THC microinjected at low doses in the prefrontal cortex (10 microg) and ventral hippocampus (5 microg) induced in rats an anxiolytic-like response tested in the elevated plus-maze, whilst higher doses lost the anxiolytic effect and even seemed to switch into an anxiogenic profile. Low THC doses (1 microg) in the basolateral amygdala produced an anxiogenic-like response whereas higher doses were ineffective. All these effects were CB1-dependent and closely linked to modulation of CREB activation. Specifically, THC anxiolytic activity in the prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus was paralleled by an increase in CREB activation, whilst THC anxiogenic response in the basolateral amygdala was paralleled by a decrease in CREB activation. Our results suggest that while a mild activation of CB1 receptors in the prefrontal cortex and ventral hippocampus attenuates anxiety, a slight CB1 receptor stimulation in the amygdala results in an anxiogenic-like response. The molecular underpinnings of these effects involve a direct stimulation of CB1 receptors ending in pCREB modulation and/or a possible alteration in the fine tuning of local neuromodulator release.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the most abundant neuropeptide in the central nervous system. In the hippocampal CA1 region, CCK is co-localized with GABA in a subset of interneurons that synapse on pyramidal cell somata and apical dendrites. CCK-containing interneurons also uniquely express a high level of the cannabinoid receptor, CB(1), and mediate the retrograde signaling process called DSI. Reported effects of CCK on inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) in hippocampus are inconsistent, and include both increases and decreases in activity. Hippocampal interneurons are very heterogeneous, and these results could be reconciled if CCK affected different interneurons in different ways. To test this prediction, we used sharp microelectrode recordings from pyramidal cells with ionotropic glutamate receptors blocked, and investigated the effects of CCK on pharmacologically distinct groups of IPSPs during long-term recordings. We find that CCK, acting via the CCK(2) receptor, increases some IPSPs and decreases others, and most significantly, that the affected IPSPs can be classified into two groups by their pharmacological properties. IPSPs that are increased by carbachol (CCh-sIPSPs), are depressed by CCK, omega-conotoxin GVIA, and endocannabinoids. IPSPs that are enhanced by CCK (CCK-sIPSPs) are blocked by omega-agatoxin IVA, and are unaffected by carbachol or endocannabinoids. Interestingly, a CCK(2) antagonist enhances CCh-sIPSPs, suggesting normally they may be partially suppressed by endogenous CCK. In summary, our data are compatible with the hypothesis that CCK has opposite actions on sIPSPs that originate from functionally distinct interneurons.
CB1 receptor agonists increase the state of phosphorylation of the dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at the cAMP-dependent protein kinase site, Thr 34. This effect, which occurs in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum, has been proposed to mediate the motor depressant action of cannabinoids. In this study, we have examined the effect produced by systemic administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the major component of marihuana and hashish, on DARPP-32. We show that THC increases DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr 34 both in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Time-course and dose-response experiments indicate that DARPP-32 phosphorylation is maximal 30 min following administration of 10mg/kg of THC. The THC-mediated increase in DARPP-32 phosphorylation is reduced by administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A (3mg/kg). A similar attenuation of the effect of THC is also exerted by suppression of cAMP signaling achieved using the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.125 mg/kg), or the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, KW6002 (3mg/kg). These results indicate that, in the striatum, THC promotes PKA-dependent phosphorylation of DARPP-32 in striatal medium spiny neurons expressing dopamine D1 and adenosine A2A receptors.



Neural changes related to learning of the meaning of Chinese characters in English speakers were examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We examined item specific learning effects for trained characters, but also the generalization of semantic knowledge to novel transfer characters that shared a semantic radical (part of a character that gives a clue to word meaning, e.g. water for lake) with trained characters. Behavioral results show that acquired semantic knowledge improves performance for both trained and transfer characters. Neuroimaging results show that the left fusiform gyrus plays a central role in the visual processing of orthographic information in characters. The left superior parietal cortex seems to play a crucial role in learning the visual-spatial aspects of the characters because it shows learning related decreases for trained characters, is correlated with behavioral improvement from early to late in learning for the trained characters, and is correlated with better long-term retention for the transfer characters. The inferior frontal gyrus seems to be associated with the efficiency of retrieving and manipulating semantic representations because there are learning related decreases for trained characters and this decrease is correlated with greater behavioral improvement from early to late in learning.
Recent studies have suggested an uneven profile of executive dysfunction in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). For example, some authors have reported deficits on newly developed tests of executive function sensitive to rostral prefrontal function, despite spared, or even superior, performance on other tests. We investigated the performance of a group of high-functioning participants with ASD (N=15) and an age- and IQ-matched control group (N=18) on two executive function tests, whilst undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Behaviourally, there were no significant differences between the two groups. In a classical test of executive function (random response generation), BOLD signal differed between the groups in the cerebellum but not in the frontal lobes. However, on a new test of executive function (selection between stimulus-oriented and stimulus-independent thought), the ASD group exhibited significantly greater signal-change in medial rostral prefrontal cortex (especially Brodmann Area 10) in the comparison of stimulus-oriented versus stimulus-independent attention. In addition, the new test (but not the classical test) provided evidence for abnormal functional organisation of medial prefrontal cortex in ASD. These results underline the heterogeneity of different tests of executive function, and suggest that executive functioning in ASD is associated with task-specific functional change.
Memory processes can be enhanced by reward, and social signals such a smiling face can be rewarding to humans. Using event-related functional MRI (fMRI), we investigated the rewarding effect of a simple smile during the encoding and retrieval of face-name associations. During encoding, participants viewed smiling or neutral faces, each paired with a name, and during retrieval, only names were presented, and participants retrieved the associated facial expressions. Successful memory activity of face-name associations was identified by comparing remembered vs. forgotten trials during both encoding and retrieval, and the effect of a smile was identified by comparing successful memory trials for smiling vs. neutral faces. The study yielded three main findings. First, behavioral results showed that the retrieval of face-name associations was more accurate and faster for smiling than neutral faces. Second, the orbitofrontal cortex and the hippocampus showed successful encoding and retrieval activations, which were greater for smiling than neutral faces. Third, functional connectivity between the orbitofrontal cortex and the hippocampus during successful encoding and retrieval was stronger for smiling than neutral faces. As a part of the reward system, the orbitofrontal cortex may modulate memory processes of face-name associations mediated by the hippocampus. Interestingly, the effect of a smile during retrieval was found even though only names were presented as retrieval cues, suggesting that the effect was mediated by face imagery. Taken together, the results demonstrate how rewarding social signals from a smiling face can enhance relational memory for face-name associations.
One of the most common and debilitating consequences of stroke is the loss of vision in the contralesional visual field. Clinicians typically regard this loss as irreversible and attempts at visual restoration have delivered only small and unreliable improvements. However, Schendel and Robertson [Schendel, K., &amp; Robertson, L. C. (2004). Reaching out to see: Arm position can attenuate human visual loss. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 16(6), 935-943] reported that the visual abilities of a hemianopic patient (WM) were significantly improved when the left arm was extended into the blind field. They suggest that visual stimuli near the arm recruited bimodal visual-tactile neurons, and this activity was sufficient to bring the stimulus into awareness. This result has enormous potential therapeutic value, but given that it is a single case study there are a number of reasons to be cautious about interpreting the data. Here, we investigate the effects of manipulating arm position on visual loss in a sample of five patients with homonymous field deficits. None of our patients showed any evidence of improved implicit or explicit visual ability in the blind field as a consequence of moving the arm. We suggest that WMs improvement was the consequence of a spatial bias towards the space containing his extended arm rather than the recruitment of bimodal neurons, and conclude that manipulating arm position is of little therapeutic value to patients with dense hemianopia.
Although parietal cortex is frequently activated during episodic memory retrieval, damage to this region does not markedly impair episodic memory. To account for these and other findings, a new dual attentional processes (DAP) hypothesis is proposed. According to this hypothesis, dorsal parietal cortex (DPC) contributes top-down attentional processes guided by retrieval goals, whereas ventral parietal cortex (VPC) contributes bottom-up attentional processes captured by the retrieval output. Consistent with this hypothesis, DPC activity increases with retrieval effort whereas VPC activity increases with confidence in old and new responses. The DAP hypothesis can also account for the overlap of parietal activations across different cognitive domains and for opposing effects of parietal activity on encoding vs. retrieval. Finally, the DAP hypothesis explains why VPC lesions yield a memory neglect syndrome: a deficit in spontaneously reporting relevant memory details but not in accessing the same details when guided by specific questions.
Previous studies have linked action recognition with a particular pool of neurons located in the ventral premotor cortex, the posterior parietal cortex and the superior temporal sulcus (the mirror neuron system). However, it is still unclear if transitive and intransitive gestures share the same neural substrates during action-recognition processes. In the present study, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess the cortical areas active during recognition of pantomimed transitive actions, intransitive gestures, and meaningless control actions. Perception of all types of gestures engaged the right pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), and bilaterally in the posterior superior temporal cortex, the posterior parietal cortex, occipitotemporal regions and visual cortices. Activation of the posterior superior temporal sulcus/superior temporal gyrus region was found in both hemispheres during recognition of transitive and intransitive gestures, and in the right hemisphere during the control condition; the middle temporal gyrus showed activation in the left hemisphere when subjects recognized transitive and intransitive gestures; activation of the left inferior parietal lobe and intraparietal sulcus (IPS) was mainly observed in the left hemisphere during recognition of the three conditions. The most striking finding was the greater activation of the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) during recognition of intransitive actions. Results show that a similar neural substrate, albeit, with a distinct engagement underlies the cognitive processing of transitive and intransitive gestures recognition. These findings suggest that selective disruptions in these circuits may lead to distinct clinical deficits.
The perception/action model is the dominant account of the primary division of labour in the human visual pathway. Integral to this model is the idea that goal-directed actions are guided spatially by bottom-up vision, independent of perceptual recognition and top-down object knowledge. We question this idea by showing that the expected size of familiar objects (matchboxes) affects the amplitude of reaches made to grasp them, and the pre-shaping of the hand, even when binocular cues are available. This suggests that perceptual recognition routinely influences action programming.
There has been much recent investigation into the role of parietal cortex in memory retrieval. Proposed hypotheses include attention to internal memorial representations, an episodic working memory-type buffer, and an accumulator of retrieved memorial information. The current investigation used event-related potentials (ERPs) to test the episodic buffer hypothesis, and to assess the memorial contribution of parietal cortex in younger and older adults, and in patients with circumscribed lateral parietal lesions. In a standard recognition memory paradigm, subjects studied color pictures of common objects. One-third of the test items were presented in the same viewpoint as the study phase, one-third were presented in a 90 degrees rotated viewpoint, and one-third were presented in a noncanonical viewpoint. Conflicting with the episodic buffer hypothesis, results revealed that the duration of the parietal old/new effect was longest for the canonical condition and shortest for the noncanonical condition. Results also revealed that older adults demonstrated a diminished parietal old/new effect relative to younger adults. Consistent with previous data reported by Simons et al., patients with lateral parietal lesions showed no behavioral impairment compared to controls. Behavioral and ERP data from parietal lesion patients are presented and discussed. From these results, the authors speculate that the parietal old/new effect may be the neural correlate of an individual's subjective recollective experience.

Many single case studies have reported selective impairment of proper or common names in anomic speakers, providing evidence for a categorical organisation of the lexical-semantic network. These dissociations have been observed in oral and/or written naming and sometimes in comprehension. Here we report the case of an aphasic patient with severely impaired phonological encoding presenting a dissociation between proper and common names. Superior production of countries and nationalities was observed in all output tasks (naming, reading and repetition). The interest of a preservation of proper name categories in the context of phonological impairment lies in the question of the propagation of categorical organisation to the processes of phonological encoding. We suggest that the observed dissociation can be explained by relative sparing of countries and nationalities at lexical-semantic level as in previous reported cases and that this organisation spreads beyond lexical selection, to phonological encoding.
The functional organization of working memory (WM) in the human prefrontal cortex remains unclear. The present study used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to clarify the role of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) both in the types of information (verbal vs. spatial), and the types of processes (maintenance vs. manipulation). Subjects performed three independent experiments (1-back and 2-back tasks) while rTMS was applied over dlPFC for 500 ms in the last period of the delay. In two experiments (1 and 2) physically identical stimuli (letters shown at different locations on a screen) under different domain conditions (letters or locations) were employed. Under these conditions, we discovered a double dissociation only in the 2-back task: during the letter condition, when applied to the right dlPFC, rTMS significantly delayed task performance, whereas, the same result was present during the location condition, but only when rTMS was applied to the left dlPFC. The other 2-back task (experiment 3), in which we had eliminated the task-irrelevant information (i.e. we used stimuli that varied only in one domain), did not show significant results. We propose that the functional dichotomy of the hemispheres may be due to mechanisms of cognitive control on interference, which resolve conflict through the inhibition of task-irrelevant information only during high WM load. In conclusion, these findings confirm the role of dlPFC in implementing top-down attentional control, and provide evidence for the theoretical suggestion that working memory serves to control selective attention in the normal human brain.
Single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied to the hand area of the left primary motor cortex or, as a control, to the vertex (STIMULATION: TMS(M1) vs. TMS(vertex)) while right-handed volunteers silently read verbs related to hand actions. We examined three different tasks and time points for stimulation within the same experiment: subjects indicated with their left foot when they (i) had finished reading, (ii) had judged whether the corresponding movement involved a hand rotation after simulating the hand movement, and (iii) had judged whether they would frequently encounter the action verb in a newspaper (TASK: silent reading, motor imagery, and frequency judgment). Response times were compared between TMS(M1) and TMS(vertex), both applied at different time points after stimulus onset (DELAY: 150, 300, 450, 600, and 750 ms). TMS(M1) differentially modulated task performance: there was a significant facilitatory effect of TMS(M1) for the imagery task only (about 88 ms), with subjects responding about 10% faster (compared to TMS(vertex)). In contrast, response times for silent reading and frequency judgments were unaffected by TMS(M1). No differential effect of the time point of TMS(M1) was observed. The differential effect of TMS(M1) when subjects performed a motor imagery task (relative to performing silent reading or frequency judgments with the same set of verbs) suggests that the primary motor cortex is critically involved in processing action verbs only when subjects are simulating the corresponding movement. This task-dependent effect of hand motor cortex TMS on the processing of hand-related action verbs is discussed with respect to the notion of embodied cognition and the associationist theory.
Visual working memory (VWM) permits the maintenance of object identities and their locations across brief delays such as those accompanying eye movements. Recent neuroimaging studies have emphasized the role of the posterior parietal lobe in this process although the specific nature of this involvement in VWM remains controversial. Neuroimaging findings suggest that the parietal lobe may have a general role in remembering various types of visual information whereas neuropsychological findings suggest that parietal involvement is primarily related to motor spatial attention and spatial memory. In the present study, patients with unilateral right parietal lobe damage, lacking symptoms of neglect, were tested in several VWM old/new recognition tasks. Parietal damage lead to impaired performance on all VWM tasks, including spatial, object, and object/spatial conjunction tasks. Deficits were found across several stimulus categories. These results provide neuropsychological support for neuroimaging results, and more generally indicate that the parietal lobe serves a general role in diverse forms of VWM.
The 'executive' regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) such as the dorsolateral PFC (dlPFC) and its rodent equivalent medial PFC (mPFC) are thought to respond in concert with the 'limbic' regions of the PFC such as the orbitofrontal (OFC) cortex to orchestrate behavior that is consistent with context and expected outcome. Both groups of regions have been implicated in behavioral abnormalities associated with addiction and psychiatric disorders, in particular, schizophrenia and mood disorders. Theories about the pathophysiology of these disorders, however, incorporate abnormalities in discrete PFC regions independently of each other or assume they are one and the same and, thus, bunch them under umbrella of 'PFC dysfunction.' Emerging data from animal studies suggest that mPFC and OFC neurons display opposing patterns of plasticity during associative learning and in response to repeated exposure to psychostimulants. These data corroborate clinical studies reporting different patterns of activation in OFC versus dlPFC in individuals with schizophrenia or addictive disorders. These suggest that concomitant but divergent engagement of discrete PFC regions is critical for learning stimulus-outcome associations, and the execution of goal-directed behavior that is based on these associations. An atypical interplay between these regions may lead to abnormally high or low salience assigned to stimuli, resulting in symptoms that are fundamental to many psychiatric and addictive disorders, including attentional deficits, improper affective response to stimuli, and inflexible or impulsive behavior.
Using addictive drugs can evolve from controlled social use into the compulsive relapsing disorder that characterizes addiction. This transition to addiction results from genetic, developmental, and sociological vulnerabilities, combined with pharmacologically induced plasticity in brain circuitry that strengthens learned drug-associated behaviors at the expense of adaptive responding for natural rewards. Advances over the last decade have identified the brain circuits most vulnerable to drug-induced changes, as well as many associated molecular and morphological underpinnings. This growing knowledge has contributed to an expanded understanding of how drugs usurp normal learning circuitry to create the pathology of addiction, as evidenced by involuntary activation of reward circuits in response to drug-associated cues and simultaneous reports of drug craving. This new understanding provides unprecedented potential opportunities for novel pharmacotherapeutic targets in treating addiction. There appears to be plasticity associated with the addiction phenomenon in general as well as changes produced by addiction to a specific class of addicting drugs. These findings also provide the basis for the current understanding of addiction as a chronic, relapsing disease of the brain with changes that persist long after the last use of the drug. Here, we describe the neuroplasticity in brain circuits and cell function induced by addictive drugs that is thought to underlie the compulsions to resume drug-taking, and discuss how this knowledge is impelling exploration and testing of novel addiction therapies.
Plasticity in the brain is important for learning and memory, and allows us to respond to changes in the environment. Furthermore, long periods of stress can lead to structural and excitatory changes associated with anxiety and depression that can be reversed by pharmacological treatment. Drugs of abuse can also cause long-lasting changes in reward-related circuits, resulting in addiction. Each of these forms of long-term plasticity in the brain requires changes in gene expression. Upon stimulation, second messenger pathways are activated that lead to an enhancement in transcription factor activity at gene promoters. This stimulation results in the expression of new growth factors, ion channels, structural molecules, and other proteins necessary to alter the neuronal circuit. With repeated stimulation, more permanent modifications to transcription factors and chromatin structure are made that result in either sensitization or desensitization of a circuit. Studies are beginning to uncover the molecular mechanisms that lead to these types of long-term changes in the brain. This review summarizes some of the major transcriptional mechanisms that are thought to underlie neuronal and behavioral plasticity.
Heavy ecstasy use has been associated with neurocognitive deficits in various behavioral and brain imaging studies. However, this association is not conclusive owing to the unavoidable confounding factor of polysubstance use. The present study, as part of the Netherlands XTC Toxicity study, investigated specific effects of ecstasy on working memory, attention, and associative memory, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A large sample (n=71) was carefully composed based on variation in the amount and type of drugs that were used. The sample included 33 heavy ecstasy users (mean 322 pills lifetime). Neurocognitive brain function in three domains: working memory, attention, and associative memory, was assessed with performance measures and fMRI. Independent effects of the use of ecstasy, amphetamine, cocaine, cannabis, alcohol, tobacco, and of gender and IQ were assessed and separated by means of multiple regression analyses. Use of ecstasy had no effect on working memory and attention, but drug use was associated with reduced associative memory performance. Multiple regression analysis showed that associative memory performance was affected by amphetamine much more than by ecstasy. Both drugs affected associative memory-related brain activity, but the effects were consistently in opposite directions, suggesting that different mechanisms are at play. This could be related to the different neurotransmitter systems these drugs predominantly act upon, that is, serotonin (ecstasy) vs dopamine (amphetamine) systems.
Most previous magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of patients with bipolar disorder (BD) report similar hippocampus (HC) volumes across patients and controls, but because patients studied were heterogeneous with respect to course of illness variables and medication status, the conclusions of these studies remain equivocal. Lithium (Li) is the reference-standard drug for BD and its role as an important agent in neuroprotection and neurogenesis has been documented in human and in animal studies. We compared the volume of the HC, hippocampal head (Hh), and body/tail (Hbt) in three groups with no history of medication use before entry into this study: (a) a group of patients treated with Li for 1-8 weeks and then scanned; (b) a group comprised of patients who were unmedicated at the time of scan; and (c) a group of patients treated with either valproic acid or lamotrigine. Healthy age- and sex-matched comparison subjects were also scanned. HC volumes did not differ between the unmedicated and healthy comparison groups. There was a bilateral increase in volumes of HC and Hh in the Li-treated group compared to the unmedicated group, an effect that was apparent even over a brief treatment period. Our study provides further confirmation that Li can exert structural effects on the HC, which are detectable in vivo. The study emphasizes the need to control for even brief exposure to medication in volumetric studies of the HC.
Chronic stress is a risk factor for the development of many psychopathological conditions in humans, including major depression and anxiety disorders. There is a high degree of comorbidity of depression and anxiety. Moreover, cognitive impairments associated with frontal lobe dysfunction, including deficits in cognitive set-shifting and behavioral flexibility, are increasingly recognized as major components of depression, anxiety disorders, and other stress-related psychiatric illnesses. To begin to understand the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the cognitive and emotional consequences of chronic stress, it is necessary to employ an animal model that exhibits similar effects. In the present study, a rat model of chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) consistently induced a cognitive impairment in extradimensional set shifting capability in an attentional set shifting test, suggesting an alteration in function of the medial prefrontal cortex. CUS also increased anxiety-like behavior on the elevated plus-maze. Further, chronic treatment both with the selective norepinephrine reuptake blocker, desipramine (7.5 mg/kg/day), and the selective serotonin reuptake blocker, escitalopram (10 mg/kg/day), beginning 1 week before CUS treatment and continuing through the behavioral testing period, prevented the CUS-induced deficit in extradimensional set-shifting. Chronic desipramine treatment also prevented the CUS-induced increase in anxiety-like behavioral reactivity on the plus-maze, but escitalopram was less effective on this measure. Thus, CUS induced both cognitive and emotional disturbances that are similar to components of major depression and anxiety disorders. These effects were prevented by chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs, consistent also with clinical evidence that relapse of depressive episodes can be prevented by antidepressant drug treatment.

Consistent with the aging population, neuropsychologists are being asked with increased frequency to evaluate older adults. These assessments are often complicated by medical and psychiatric co-morbidities, polypharmacy, and complex psychosocial and legal issues that are frequently encountered in this population. The aim of this review article is to address the challenges neuropsychologists and other frontline clinicians often confront when evaluating older individuals. Specifically, we review psychiatric and medical co-morbidities, testing accommodations, diagnostic versus descriptive testing approaches, normative issues, polypharmacy, and reimbursement rates. Finally, future implications are discussed for advancing the neuropsychologist's role in evaluating and treating older individuals.
It has been suggested that the recent rapid developments in the fields of neuroscience and psychopharmacology have increased the possibilities for pharmacological enhancement of mental functioning. Here, evidence is reviewed which shows that drugs acting on a variety of neurotransmitter systems can indeed enhance cognition, and to a lesser extent mood and pro-social behavior. Moreover, it seems possible to interfere with the (re)consolidation of traumatic memories. There are, however, a number of caveats: first, as cognition-enhancing drugs can simultaneously exert both linear and quadratic (U-shaped) effects, doses most effective in facilitating one behavior could at the same time exert null or even detrimental effects on other cognitive domains. Second, individuals with a 'low memory span' might benefit from cognition-enhancing drugs, whereas 'high span subjects' are 'overdosed'. And finally, evidence suggests that a number of trade-offs could occur. For example, increases of cognitive stability might come at the cost of a decreased capacity to flexibly alter behavior. A short overview of ethical issues raised by the use of cognition and mood enhancing drugs demonstrates the tremendous variety in views and opinions regarding the subject.

Studies of the medial temporal lobe and basal ganglia memory systems have recently been extended towards understanding the neural systems contributing to category learning. The basal ganglia, in particular, have been linked to probabilistic category learning in humans. A separate parallel literature in systems neuroscience has emerged, indicating a role for the basal ganglia and related dopamine inputs in reward prediction and feedback processing. Here, we review behavioral, neuropsychological, functional neuroimaging, and computational studies of basal ganglia and dopamine contributions to learning in humans. Collectively, these studies implicate the basal ganglia in incremental, feedback-based learning that involves integrating information across multiple experiences. The medial temporal lobes, by contrast, contribute to rapid encoding of relations between stimuli and support flexible generalization of learning to novel contexts and stimuli. By breaking down our understanding of the cognitive and neural mechanisms contributing to different aspects of learning, recent studies are providing insight into how, and when, these different processes support learning, how they may interact with each other, and the consequence of different forms of learning for the representation of knowledge.
Several rodent models of deep brain stimulation (DBS) have been developed in recent years. Electrophysiological and neurochemical studies have been performed to examine the mechanisms underlying the effects of DBS. In vitro studies have provided deep insights into the role of ion channels in response to brain stimulation. In vivo studies reveal neural responses in the context of intact neural circuits. Most importantly, recording of neural responses to behaviorally effective DBS in freely moving animals provides a direct means for examining how DBS modulates the basal ganglia thalamocortical circuits and thereby improves motor function. DBS can modulate firing rate, normalize irregular burst firing patterns and reduce low frequency oscillations associated with the Parkinsonian state. Our current efforts are focused on elucidating the mechanisms by which DBS effects on neural circuitry improve motor performance. New behavioral models and improved recording techniques will aide researchers conducting future DBS studies in a variety of behavioral modalities and enable new treatment strategies to be explored, such as closed-loop stimulations based on real time computation of ensemble neural activity.
This article examines how independent corticostriatal loops linking basal ganglia with cerebral cortex contribute to visual categorization. The first aspect of categorization discussed is the role of the visual corticostriatal loop, which connects the visual cortex and the body/tail of the caudate, in mapping visual stimuli to categories, including evaluating the degree to which this loop may generalize across individual category members. The second aspect of categorization discussed is the selection of appropriate actions or behaviors on the basis of category membership, and the role of the visual corticostriatal loop output and the motor corticostriatal loop, which connects motor planning areas with the putamen, in action selection. The third aspect of categorization discussed is how categories are learned with the aid of feedback linked dopaminergic projections to the basal ganglia. These projections underlie corticostriatal synaptic plasticity across the basal ganglia, and also serve as input to the executive and motivational corticostriatal loops that play a role in strategic use of feedback.

A substantial and growing body of evidence from cognitive neuroscience supports the concept of multiple memory systems (MMS). However, the existence of multiple systems has been questioned by theorists who instead propose that dissociations can be accounted for within a single memory system. We present convergent evidence from neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies of category learning in favor of the existence of MMS for category learning and declarative knowledge. Whereas single-system theorists have argued that their approach is more parsimonious because it only postulates a single form of memory representation, we show that the MMS approach is superior in its ability to account for a broad range of data from psychology and neuroscience.
Here we review recent functional neuroimaging, neuropsychological and behavioral studies examining the role of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and the caudate in learning visual categories either by verbalizeable rules or without awareness. The MTL and caudate are found to play dissociable roles in different types of category learning with successful rule-based (RB) categorization depending selectively on the MTL and non-verbalizeable information-integration (II) category learning depending on the posterior caudate. These studies utilize a combination of experimental cognitive psychology, mathematical modeling (Decision Bound Theory (DBT)) and cognitive computational modeling (the COVIS model of Ashby et al. [1998. A neuropsychological theory of multiple systems in category learning. Psychological Review 105, 442-481]) to enhance the understanding of data obtained via functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The combination of approaches is used to both test hypotheses of the cognitive model and also to incorporate hypotheses about the strategies used by participants to direct analysis of fMRI data. Examination of the roles of the MTL and caudate in visual category learning holds the promise of bridging between abstract cognitive models of behavior, systems neuroscience, neuropsychology, and the underlying neurophysiology of these brain regions.
Within the cognitive neuroscience literature, discussion of the functional role of the superior temporal sulcus (STS) has traditionally been divided into two domains; one focuses on its activity during language processing while the other emphasizes its role in biological motion and social attention, such as eye gaze processing. I will argue that a common process underlying both of these functional domains is performed by the STS, namely analyzing changing sequences of input, either in the auditory or visual domain, and interpreting the communicative significance of those inputs. From a developmental perspective, the fact that these two domains share an anatomical substrate suggests the acquisition of social and speech perception may be linked. In addition, I will argue that because of the STS' role in interpreting social and speech input, impairments in STS function may underlie many of the social and language abnormalities seen in autism.
[Avena, N.M., Rada, P., Hoebel B.G., 2007. Evidence for sugar addiction: Behavioral and neurochemical effects of intermittent, excessive sugar intake. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews XX(X), XXX-XXX]. The experimental question is whether or not sugar can be a substance of abuse and lead to a natural form of addiction. &quot;Food addiction&quot; seems plausible because brain pathways that evolved to respond to natural rewards are also activated by addictive drugs. Sugar is noteworthy as a substance that releases opioids and dopamine and thus might be expected to have addictive potential. This review summarizes evidence of sugar dependence in an animal model. Four components of addiction are analyzed. &quot;Bingeing,&quot; &quot;withdrawal,&quot; &quot;craving&quot; and &quot;cross-sensitization&quot; are each given operational definitions and demonstrated behaviorally with sugar bingeing as the reinforcer. These behaviors are then related to neurochemical changes in the brain that also occur with addictive drugs. Neural adaptations include changes in dopamine and opioid receptor binding, enkephalin mRNA expression and dopamine and acetylcholine release in the nucleus accumbens. The evidence supports the hypothesis that under certain circumstances rats can become sugar dependent. This may translate to some human conditions as suggested by the literature on eating disorders and obesity.
The technique of electrical stimulation of brain tissue-known clinically as deep brain stimulation (DBS)-is at the fore of treatment of human neurological disease. Here we provide a general overview highlighting the anatomy and circuitry of the basal ganglia (BG). We introduce common disease states associated with BG dysfunction and current hypotheses of BG function. Throughout this introductory review we direct the reader to other reviews in this special issue of Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews highlighting the interaction between basic science and clinical investigation to more fully understand the BG in both health and disease.

In vivo voltammetry is a valuable technique for rapid measurement of dopamine in the brain of freely behaving rats. Using a conventional voltammetry system, however, behavioural freedom is restricted by cables connecting the head assembly to the measurement system. To overcome these difficulties, we developed a wireless voltammetry system utilizing radio waves. This system consisted of a potentiostat and transmitter system that was mounted on the back of the rat, and a receiver and analysis system. A single-step pulse (100-250 mV) was applied at 4 Hz after an activation pulse to a carbon fibre recording electrode (diameter: 7 microm). Measurement of dopamine (detection limit: 2.7 x 10(-7)M) was demonstrated in vitro. In vivo experiment was performed at least 1 week after the recording electrode was implanted in the rat striatum. Administration of 2-phenylethylamine to rats increased dopamine signal current, which was consistent with the result in the microdialysis measurement. During a resident-intruder test, dopamine signal current in a resident rat increased upon introduction of an intruder rat. These results show that the present wireless system is useful for a long-term measurement of dopamine in behaving rats.
A 60-year-old housewife noticed sudden onset left hemiparesis. On admission, she had left hemiparesis, more severe in the lower limb. A brain CT scan at this time was normal. After a few days, her hemiparesis was almost diminished, however, she had ataxia on the left side without paresis. She had no facial weakness and dysarthria.




Axillary neuropathy due to entrapment of the nerve in the quadrilateral space is seen rarely. Here, we describe a 24-year-old patient diagnosed with isolated axillary neuropathy that mimicked quadrilateral space syndrome. Quadrilateral or quadrangular space syndrome (QSS), first described by Cahill and Palmer in 1983, was defined as the entrapment of the distal branch of the axillary nerve and the posterior humeral circumflex artery (PHCA) in the quadrangular shaped anatomic space. We tracked the follow up of the patient for one year both clinically and electrophysiologically. Our aim in reporting this case is to stress the point that cases of such a nature usually represent situations of diagnostic and treatment challenges, where multidisciplinary approaches are required.
A girl with Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome with partial motor seizures is reported. She had hemimegalencephaly and band heterotopia on MRI of the brain.
Olfactory groove schwannoma is a very rare tumor breaking through the skull base and orbit. The tumor may also extend to the subfrontal region intradurally. A case of olfactory groove schwannoma in a 35-year-old female, originating from the left olfactory groove with left proptosis, diplopia, supra-orbital mass, and gross intracranial extension is reported. The presence of bony scalloping on CT and absence of meningeal tail on contrast enhanced MRI are in favor of the diagnosis. Histological examination and immuno-histochemical evaluation for S-100 protein, showed the tumor as a schwannoma. Total excision through a frontal craniotomy and skull base reconstruction are the main therapeutic steps.
Tuberculosis is endemic in developing countries. However, skull tuberculosis is uncommon with few cases reported in the literature. We report a 10-year-old boy admitted for a left parietal painless swelling. A CT scan demonstrated a left parietal bony defect, destroying both inner and outer tables. This was associated with an enhanced epidural collection and scalp swelling. The patient was operated, and the microscopic examination revealed typical tuberculosis granuloma. The clinical presentation and management of this rare location of tuberculosis are discussed.












Status epilepticus is defined as a continuous seizure lasting for at least 30 minutes or recurrent seizures persisting for over 30 minutes, without recovery of consciousness. The estimated incidence in childhood is approximately 20 per 100,000 children per year. The incidence is higher in those under one year of age, with an incidence of approximately 50 per 100,000 per year. Among 1-4 year olds, approximately 30 per 100,000 per year will have an episode of status and in those aged 5-9 years, the incidence is approximately 10 per 100,000 per year. Those aged 10-15 years have the lowest incidence (approximately 2 per 100,000 per year). The mortality associated with status epilepticus in children is estimated at 2.5-5%, and is primarily related to the underlying cause of the episode of status. Neurological morbidity is seen in less than 15% of affected children. In most cases, the episode of status is either a single isolated event or is the first manifestation of epilepsy. Only 12% of cases occur in children with a prior diagnosis of epilepsy. It is essential to have an organized approach for dealing with status epilepticus. There is little data to support the contention that one protocol is better than another. It is recommended that each center should decide on a protocol that is rational and is standard practice for their patients. Most centers initiate therapy with either buccal or intravenous lorazepam. Alternate initial therapies include diazepam or midazolam. Early treatment is generally recommended although, in humans, there is minimal evidence that the length of seizure directly affects outcome. There is however, abundant evidence in animals, which indicates that longer seizures are harmful and result in poorer outcome. Early intervention does, however, increase the likelihood of attaining seizure control in humans. The optimal management of the child in a prolonged seizure therefore demands an understanding of the potential causes, appropriate investigations, and therapy.


Dr. Lennart Heimer, the famous neuroanatomist of Swedish descent, died last year but left a legacy that will impact the neurosciences and potentially psychosurgery for years to come. He developed an anatomical technique for demonstrating the terminal boutons that helped to delineate basal forebrain anatomy. During these studies, he realized the relationship of basal forebrain structures to the limbic system, thus initiating the concept of the ventral striatum and parallel basal ganglia circuitry. Heimer excelled as a teacher as well and honed his brain dissection technique to one of the most effective tools for understanding neuroanatomy. His legendary sessions with neurosurgical residents resulted in his recognition as one of the world's leading fiber tract dissectors. His gentle, engaging manner has been documented in several media formats.



Despite advances in medical and surgical care, the current clinical therapies for spinal cord injury (SCI) are largely ineffective. During the last 2 decades, the search for new therapies has been revolutionized by the discovery of stem cells, which has inspired scientists and clinicians to search for a stem cell-based reparative approaches to many diseases, including neurotrauma. In the present study, the authors briefly summarize current knowledge related to the pathophysiology of SCI, including the concepts of primary and secondary injury and the importance of posttraumatic demyelination. Key inhibitory obstacles that impede axonal regeneration include the glial scar and a number of myelin inhibitory molecules including Nogo. Recent advancements in cell replacement therapy as a therapeutic strategy for SCI are summarized. The strategies include the use of pluripotent human stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and a number of adult-derived stem and progenitor cells such as mesenchymal stem cells, Schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing cells, and adult-derived neural precursor cells. Although current strategies to repair the subacutely injured cord appear promising, many obstacles continue to render the treatment of chronic injuries challenging. Nonetheless, the future for stem cell-based reparative strategies for treating SCI appears bright.
The major objective in carotid endarterectomy is to achieve safe and complete removal of intimal plaque and provide lasting, nonstenotic closure. Controversy exists as to which technical variation best achieves this. In this paper, the authors review the operative nuances and outcomes with conventional and eversion endarterectomy, with a focus on the latter. The views expressed reflect specific neurosurgical and vascular perspectives in the context of a multi-disciplinary stroke unit, where carotid stenosis is managed with all available open and endovascular means. The neurosurgical approach was almost entirely conventional endarterectomy with primary repair, while the vascular surgeons used the eversion method with few exceptions.


Nanotechnology as a science has evolved from notions and speculation to emerge as a prominent combination of science and engineering that stands to impact innumerable aspects of technology. Medicine in general and neurosurgery in particular will benefit greatly in terms of improved diagnostic and therapeutic capabilities. The recent explosion in nanotechnology products, including diverse applications such as beauty products and medical contrast agents, has been accompanied by an ever increasing volume of literature. Recent articles from our institution provided an historical and scientific background of nanotechnology, with a purposeful focus on nanomedicine. Future applications of nanotechnology to neuroscience and neurosurgery were briefly addressed. The present article is the first of two that will further this discussion by providing specific details of current nanotechnology applications and research related to neuroscience and clinical neurosurgery. This article also provides relevant perspective in scale, history, economics, and toxicology. Topics of specific importance to developments or advances of technologies used by neuroscientists and neurosurgeons are presented. In addition, advances in the field of microelectromechanical systems technology are discussed. Although larger than nanoscale, microelectromechanical systems technologies will play an important role in the future of medicine and neurosurgery. The second article will discuss current nanotechnologies that are being, or will be in the near future, incorporated into the armamentarium of the neurosurgeon. The goal of these articles is to keep the neuroscience community abreast of current developments in nanotechnology, nanomedicine, and, in particular, nanoneurosurgery, and to present possibilities for future applications of nanotechnology. As applications of nanotechnology permeate all forms of scientific and medical research, clinical applications will continue to emerge. Physicians of the present and future must take an active role in shaping the design and research of nanotechnologies to ensure maximal clinical relevance and patient benefit.
Convection-enhanced delivery (CED) of substances within the human brain is becoming a more frequent experimental treatment option in the management of brain tumors, and more recently in phase 1 trials for gene therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD). Benefits of this intracranial drug-transfer technology include a more efficient delivery of large volumes of therapeutic agent to the target region when compared with more standard delivery approaches (i.e., biopolymers, local infusion). In this article, we describe specific technical modifications we have made to the CED process to make it more effective. For example, we developed a reflux-resistant infusion cannula that allows increased infusion rates to be used. We also describe our efforts to visualize the CED process in vivo, using liposomal nanotechnology and real-time intraoperative MRI. In addition to carrying the MRI contrast agent, nanoliposomes also provide a standardized delivery vehicle for the convection of drugs to a specific brain-tissue volume. This technology provides an added level of assurance via visual confirmation of CED, allowing intraoperative alterations to the infusion if there is reflux or aberrant delivery. We propose that these specific modifications to the CED technology will improve efficacy by documenting and standardizing the treatment-volume delivery. Furthermore, we believe that this image-guided CED platform can be used in other translational neuroscience efforts, with eventual clinical application beyond neuro-oncology and PD.
MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridium ion), a complex I - inhibiting metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), causes anatomic-specific neurodegeneration. To evaluate the broader role of mitochondria in MPP+-induced cell death, we exposed neuron-like NT2 human teratocarcinoma cells with mtDNA rho+ and without mtDNA (rho0) to MPP+. MPP+ minimized the ability of both rho+ and rho0 cells to reduce MTT. Only rho+ cells, though, initiated intrinsic pathway-mediated apoptosis. MPP+ also activated calpains in both rho+ and rho0 cell lines. The calpain inhibitor MDL 28710 was able to prevent the MPP+-related MTT reduction change in rho0 but not rho+ cells. We conclude that 1) MPP+-induced apoptosis requires functional mitochondria, 2) MPP+ activates calpains independent of respiratory chain inhibition, and 3) calpain activation mediates some aspects of MPP+ toxicity.
It has recently been demonstrated that developmental exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) is associated with perseveration on operant tasks. An understanding of the behavioral mechanisms underlying this phenomenon may improve human testing of MeHg exposures and could provide insight into clinical syndromes that include perseveration as a component. One possible mechanism is that MeHg-induced enhancement of reinforcer efficacy produces a &quot;reinforcement trap&quot; that inhibits change in novel situations. Rats were exposed gestationally to 0, 0.5 or 5 ppm mercury (Hg) as MeHg via maternal drinking water. They also received a diet during gestation and throughout life that was marginal (0.06 ppm) or rich (0.6 ppm) in selenium (Se), a nutrient believed to protect against MeHg's toxicity. Reinforcer efficacy was evaluated using a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement during adulthood. Maximum ratio obtained (MRO) was determined using 20 or 60 mg sucrose pellets and with ratio requirements that increased at 5% or 20% per reinforcer. MRO was related to the rate at which the ratio increased, reinforcer magnitude, sex, and exposure regimen; MRO was increased for the 0.6 ppm Se, 5 ppm Hg group. This extends an earlier observation that developmental MeHg exposure enhances reinforcer efficacy, an effect that could be related to reports of perseveration.
We have studied at the ultrastructural level the presence of manganese (Mn) in rat basal ganglia, which are target regions of the brain for Mn toxicity. The rats underwent a moderate level of Mn exposure induced per os for 13 weeks. Mn was detected by means of electron spectroscopy imaging (ESI) and electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) analyses on perfusion fixed samples embedded in resin. While no significant contamination by exogenous Mn occurred during the processing procedures, less than 50% of endogenous Mn was lost during fixation and dehydration of the brain samples. The residual Mn ions in the samples appeared as discrete particles, localized in selected sub-cellular organelles in a cell, suggesting that no significant translocation had occurred in the surrounding area. In control rats, the Mn sub-cellular localization and relative content were the same in neurons and astrocytes of rat striatum and globus pallidus: the Mn level was highest in the heterochromatin and in the nucleolus, intermediate in the cytoplasm, and lowest in the mitochondria (p&lt;0.001). After chronic Mn treatment, while no ultrastructural damage was detected in the neurons and glial cells, the largest rate of Mn increase was noted in the mitochondria of astrocytes (+700%), an intermediate rate in the mitochondria of neurons (+200%), and the lowest rate in the nuclei (+100%) of neurons and astrocytes; the Mn level in the cytoplasm appeared unchanged. EELS analysis detected the specific spectra of Mn L(2,3) (peak at DeltaE = 665 eV) in such organelles, confirming the findings of ESI. Although a consistent loss of Mn occurred during the processing of tissue samples, ESI and EELS can be useful methods for localization of endogenous Mn in embedded tissues. The high rate of Mn sequestration in the mitochondria of astrocytes in vivo may partly explain the outstanding capacity of astrocytes to accumulate Mn, and their early dysfunction in Mn neurotoxicity. The high level of Mn in the heterochromatin and nucleoli of neurons and astrocytes in basal conditions and its further increase after Mn overload should provide insight into new avenues of investigating the role of Mn in the normal brain and a baseline for future Mn toxicity studies.
Results from recent studies suggest that chronic cigarette smoking is associated with increased white matter volume in the brain as determined by in vivo neuroimaging. We used diffusion tensor imaging to examine the microstructural integrity of the white matter in 10 chronic smokers and 10 nonsmokers. All individuals were healthy, without histories of medical or psychiatric illness. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and trace were measured in the genu, body, and splenium of the corpus callosum. FA provides a measure of directional versus nondirectional water diffusion, whereas trace provides a measure of nondirectional water diffusion. Lower FA and higher trace values are considered to reflect less brain integrity. Voxel-based morphometry was used to define volumes in each of these regions of the corpus callosum. Chronic smokers exhibited significantly higher FA in the body and whole corpus callosum and a strong trend for higher FA in the splenium compared with nonsmokers. FA did not differ between groups in the genu, and neither trace nor white matter volumes differed between groups in any of the regions of interest. When subdivided by Fagerstrm score (low vs. high), the low Fagerstrm group exhibited significantly higher FA in the body of the corpus callosum compared with the high Fagerstrm group and the nonsmokers. These results suggest that, among healthy adults, lower exposure to cigarette smoking is associated with increased microstructural integrity of the white matter compared with either no exposure or higher exposure. Additional studies are needed to further explore differences in white matter integrity between smokers and nonsmokers.


Poor drug compliance caused by side effects is an important factor affecting clinical outcomes. Thus reliable and valid rating scales to accurately evaluate the side effects of medications in their early stages are needed. This study aimed to develop the Korean version of the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersgelser (UKU) Side Effects Rating Scale for Patients (K-UKU-SERS-Pat) to comprehensively measure side effects of psychotropic medications by the self-report method and to examine reliability and validity in patients with bipolar disorder (BD). Ninety-three patients diagnosed with BD by DSM-IV criteria were recruited in this study. The patients completed the K-UKU-SERS-Pat. The Side Effects Rating Scale for Clinicians was administered simultaneously. In 19 patients, the K-UKU-SERS-Pat was conducted twice on a 3-day interval to examine the test-retest reliability. Depressive symptoms were evaluated with the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale-17 and (hypo)manic symptoms with the Young Mania Rating Scale. The test-retest reliability (rho=0.89, P&lt;0.01) and the concurrent validity (rho=0.80, P&lt;0.01) of K-UKU-SERS-Pat were good. However, patients had a tendency to report their side effects more frequently and severely than clinicians. The K-UKU-SERS-Pat is proved to be a reliable and valid tool to comprehensively and practically monitor the side effects of psychotropics.
The aim of this study was to investigate barriers to diagnosis and adequate treatment of patients with early-onset dysthymia by studying how understandings of illness by patients and providers have evolved and how treatments have been negotiated over time. A theory-testing and explorative multiple-case study design was used with developmental cognitive theory as framework. Data pertaining 10 non-remission dysthymic patients were analyzed using five sources: 1) case records, 2) interviews, 3) self-report questionnaires, 4) observations, and 5) life-charting, eliciting life events, course and treatments. The analysis comprised qualitative content analysis and a coding scheme of knowledge structures. Barriers could be explained by misunderstandings as patients mainly expressed illness in concrete, perceptually bound knowledge structures and providers focused on one aspect, instead of on the complexity of concurrent aspects. Another barrier, associated to comorbid personality disorder, was a core pattern of concealing due to fear of rejection and mistrust. Other barriers were connected to providers' attitudes and contextual factors such as access problems and lack of follow-up. A theoretical model that involves patients' understanding of illness in preoperational thinking and providers' cognitive errors can explain communication barriers. Means of shared understanding and treatment planning are suggested. Future treatment research could elucidate the impact of the core belief of rejection with associated strategy of concealing by assessing these variables as predictors and as targets for change.
Psychosocial development in children with chronic disease is a key issue in paediatrics. This study investigated whether psychosocial adjustment could be reliably assessed with the 42-item Adolescent Adjustment Profile (AAP) instrument. The study mainly focused on adjustment-to-obesity measurement, although it compared three patient groups with chronic conditions. All phenylketonuria (PKU) patients in Sweden between ages 9 and 18 and their parents and teachers were invited to participate. Patients with neurobehavioural syndromes and obesity were age- and gender-matched with PKU patients. Healthy children constituted a reference group. Psychosocial adjustment was measured using the AAP, which is a multi-informant questionnaire that contains four domains. Information concerning parents' socio-economic and civil status was requested separately. Respondents to the three questionnaires judged the PKU patients to be normal in all four domains. Patients with neurobehavioural syndromes demonstrated less competence and the most problems compared with the other three groups. According to the self-rating, the parent rating and the teacher rating questionnaires, obese patients had internalizing problems. The parent rating and the teacher rating questionnaire scored obese patients as having a lower work capacity than the reference group. Compared with the reference group, not only families with obese children but also families with children with neurobehavioural syndromes had significantly higher divorce rates. Obese patients were also investigated with the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), another instrument that enables comparison between two measures of adjustment. The AAP had good psychometric properties; it was judged a useful instrument in research on adolescents with chronic diseases.
The highly prevalent psychiatric disorders dysthymia and panic disorder have often a chronic or recurrent course with superimposed major depression. The prominent comorbidity between these diagnoses constitutes a confounding factor in the study of long-term outcome. We performed a 9-year follow-up of 38 patients with &quot;pure&quot; diagnoses, i.e. without comorbid dysthymia and panic disorder, selected from two 2-year naturalistic treatment studies with psychotherapy and antidepressant medication. The aims of the present study were to investigate 1) the stability of change, and 2) the impact of comorbid personality disorders (PDs) on long-term outcome. Patients were reassessed with SCID-I and SCID-II interviews, SCL-90/BSI and a detailed, modified life-charting interview, investigating course and treatment over time. About 50% of patients showed substantial improvement, of whom about half were in remission. Comorbid PD was a negative prognostic factor independently of Axis I diagnosis. Although patients with panic disorder had a lower frequency of comorbid PD, later onset, shorter duration of illness and better outcome after the original studies, there was no difference in the long-term outcome. The less stable outcome among panic patients suggests that standard treatments are not resulting in enduring remission. In order to achieve remission, it is necessary to 1) address comorbid PDs, 2) perform careful assessments of all comorbid diagnoses, and 3) build routines for the follow-up and augmentation of treatments.
Emerging genetic and biological data strongly supports Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) as a schizophrenia risk gene of great significance for not only understanding the underlying causes of schizophrenia and related disorders but potentially to open up new avenues of treatment. DISC1 appeared to be a very enigmatic protein upon the initial disclosure of its protein sequence. Though it contained some well-characterized protein domains, they did not reveal anything about possible function. Recently, the identification of its binding partners has revealed an incredible diversity of potential cellular and physiological functions. In an attempt to capture this information we set out to generate a comprehensive network of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) around DISC1. This was achieved by utilizing iterative yeast-two hybrid screens, combined with detailed pathway and functional analysis. This so-called 'DISC1 interactome' contains many novel PPIs and has provided a molecular framework to explore the function of DISC1. Interrogation of the interactome has shown DISC1 to have a PPI profile consistent with that of an essential synaptic protein, which fits well with the underlying molecular pathology observed at the synaptic level and the cognitive deficits seen behaviourally in schizophrenics. Furthermore, potential novel therapeutic targets have also emerged as we have characterized in detail the interactions with the phosphodiesterase PDE4B in collaboration with the Porteous and Houslay labs, and with Ndel1-EOPA with Hayashi and colleagues. Many components of the interactome are themselves now being shown to be schizophrenia risk genes, or to interact with other risk genes, emphasising the power of protein interaction studies for revealing the underlying biology of a disease.
Various chronic antidepressant treatments increase adult hippocampal neurogenesis, but the functional importance of this phenomenon remains unclear. Using radiological and genetic methods, we show that disrupting neurogenesis blocks behavioural responses to antidepressants. X-irradiation of a restricted region of mouse brain containing the hippocampus prevented the neurogenic and behavioural effects of two classes of antidepressants. Similarly, a genetic strategy that ablates adult progenitor cells resulted in a lack of effect of antidepressants. In addition, we have identified a form of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus that is dependent on the presence of young neurons and which is stimulated by antidepressants. These findings suggest that the behavioural effects of chronic antidepressants require hippocampal neurogenesis and are mediated by an increased synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus.
Long-lasting changes in the basis of memory storage require delivery of newly synthesized proteins to the affected synapses. While most of these proteins are generated in the cell body, several key molecules for plasticity can be delivered in the form of silent mRNAs at synapses in extra-somatic compartments where they are locally translated in response to specific stimuli. One such mRNA encodes brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a key molecule in neuronal development that plays a critical role in learning and memory, and which displays abnormal levels in several neuropsychiatric disorders. BDNF mRNA accumulates in distal dendrites in response to stimuli that trigger activation of NMDAR and TrkB receptors. A single BDNF protein is produced from several splice variants having different 5'UTRs. We have shown that these mRNA variants have a different subcellular localization (soma, proximal or distal dendritic compartment) and that the protein is co-localized with the transcript from which it originated. As these splice variants are also differentially expressed in response to various stimuli and antidepressants, we propose that they represent a spatial and temporal code to regulate BDNF protein expression locally.
Neurotrophins are important regulators of neuronal plasticity in the developing and adult brain. In particular, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB are implicated in these functions. The synthesis and release of BDNF is regulated by neuronal activity, and synaptic reorganization mediated by BDNF is thought to be a critical process which shapes neuronal networks to code optimally for environmentally relevant information. Recent evidence links neuronal plasticity and neurotrophin signalling in mood disorders. A polymorphism in the BDNF gene has been associated with depression and bipolar disorder. BDNF levels are reduced in postmortem brain samples and in the blood of depressed patients, and these reductions are reversible by successful antidepressant treatment. Furthermore, BDNF signalling plays a critical role in the mechanism of antidepressant drug action; at least in rodents, BDNF signalling appears to be both necessary and sufficient for the behavioural effects produced by antidepressant drugs. These data suggest that neurotrophin-mediated neuronal plasticity is a critical factor in mood disorders and in their therapy. Antidepressant treatments may, through enhanced BDNF signalling, improve the ability of critical brain circuits to respond optimally to environmental demands, a process that may be critical in the recovery from depression.
Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder that affects up to 1% of the population worldwide. Traditional models of schizophrenia have emphasized dopaminergic dysfunction. Over the last 15 years, however, glutamatergic models have become increasingly mainstream, and account for features of the disorder that are poorly explained by dopaminergic dysfunction alone. Glutamatergic models, such as the PCP/NMDA model, are based upon the observation that the psychotomimetic agents phencyclidine (PCP) and ketamine induce psychotic symptoms and neurocognitive disturbances similar to those of schizophrenia by blocking neurotransmission at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors. Because NMDA receptors are located throughout the brain, information-processing deficits are observed not only in higher cortical regions, but also in sensory cortices and subcortical systems. Further, NMDA receptors are located on brain circuits that regulate dopamine release, suggesting that dopaminergic deficits in schizophrenia may also be secondary to underlying glutamatergic dysfunction. Agents that stimulate glutamatergic neurotransmission, including glycine-site agonists and glycine transport inhibitors, have shown encouraging results in preclinical studies and are currently undergoing clinical development. Overall, these findings suggest that glutamatergic theories may lead to new conceptualizations and treatment approaches that would not be possible based upon dopaminergic models alone.
Phosphoprotein-binding domains (PPBDs) mediate many important cellular and molecular processes. Ten PPBDs have been known to exist in the human proteome, namely, 14-3-3, BRCT, C2, FHA, MH2, PBD, PTB, SH2, WD-40 and WW. PepCyber:P approximately PEP is a newly constructed database specialized in documenting human PPBD-containing proteins and PPBD-mediated interactions. Our motivation is to provide the research community with a rich information source emphasizing the reported, experimentally validated data for specific PPBD-PPEP interactions. This information is not only useful for designing, comparing and validating the relevant experiments, but it also serves as a knowledge-base for computationally constructing systems signaling pathways and networks. PepCyber:P approximately PEP is accessible through the URL, http://www.pepcyber.org/PPEP/. The current release of the database contains 7044 PPBD-mediated interactions involving 337 PPBD-containing proteins and 1123 substrate proteins.

The rise in Infantile Autism, learning problems, cognitive decline with age, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's Diseases and the SIDS epidemic, has a common cause in the rising dietary deficit in Omega-3 brain-food. This paper suggests that aside from the wider concept of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) and Pervasive Developmental Disorders (PDD), the rise in Infantile Autism (IA) in the last decade is the effect of deficient brain-food (Omega-3). The consequent delay of development prolongs the 2nd regressive event in infancy to pruning of the centre in the Medial Frontal Lobe System that connects Hippocampus and Cingulum. With a consequently defective Supplementary Motor Area (SMA), the Delayed Response Function is affected leading to persistent psychosis. Post-Pubertal Episodic Psychoses are associated with acute reduction of excitation, a risk of breakdown of circuitry, insufficient fill-in mechanisms, and silent spots. An acute psychosis occurs if the silent spots comprise of SMA. Only two brain areas have continuous neurogenesis, indicating their important functions: the Hippocampus and Olfactory Bulb that belongs to the Lateral Frontal Lobe System essential to survival. Concerned with necessity of action in response to the environment, it relies upon short-term memory and Acute Feedback Mechanisms influenced by emotion and motivation from the external world. In contrast, the Medial Frontal Lobe network is controlled by Feed-Forward Predictive Mechanisms related to storage of information. The Delayed Response Function is mastered at 7 months, when 2nd event occurs with pruning of axons and dendrites. An abolished or defective Delayed Response Function seriously incapacitates an individual: A defective &quot;Social Brain&quot; with an inability for conscious action and to communicate, predominates in IA. There is a near lack of speech, despite normal vision and hearing in the minority without marked adversity in pregnancy, at delivery or in infancy. I propose that the recent rise in IA despite no rise in adversity signifies a rising deficiency in brain-food. That this is so is suggested by a changing clinical picture: no Mental Retardation in an IA majority. Deficit in Olfaction is pathognomonic in schizophrenia since 30 yrs and distinguishes the Asperger Syndrome. If brain-food deficiency alone sufficiently prolongs pruning to cause absent activity in SMA in infancy, less mentally retarded IA from other causes might be observed. Deficit in brain-food was evident in the Sudden Infant Death Syndrome: birthweight averaged 200-300 g lower than sibs, Omega-3 levels in brainstem were lower than controls. Only 20 % SIDS died in first hypoxic episode, suggesting such episodes are more frequent than we imagined. Children with learning-behaviour problems have similarly depressed birthweight. A general deficiency in Omega-3 contributes to the lacking reduction in Schizophrenia, despite early puberty predominates. Olfactory Bulb is first affected in the Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease. Cognitive decline with age, Hippocampal dysfunctions rise markedly irrespective of disease, but the major mental illnesses and Infantile Autism in particular, benefit from &quot;brain-food&quot; that might also prevent a development of these disorders. To secure optimal brain function in the coming generations, there is a need to change the diet now from its emphasis on protein for body growth to food for the brain. This means there is a need to increase fish and sea food consumption.

In this study the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) pattern of three Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) subtypes was measured with SPECT in 60 patients (nineteen with an amnestic deficit, sixteen with disexecutive deficits, and twenty five with mild multidomain deficits) and compared with that of 15 healthy matched older adults. The amnestic MCI subgroup showed significant hypoperfusion in the left hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus and fronto-parieto-temporal areas. The disexecutive subgroup had significant hypoperfusion of the left superior, medial frontal and cingulate cortex. The multidomain subgroup had similar perfusion deficits to the amnestic subgroup, with an additional deficit in the left posterior cingulate gyrus. This study found differential patterns of hypoperfusion in MCI subtypes. Since all patients who progressed to dementia converted to probable Alzheimer's disease, the different rCBF patterns most likely reflect the neuropathological heterogeneity at onset and differences in disease stage.
Over the last two decades, our ever-increasing ability to manipulate the mouse genome has resulted in a variety of genetically defined mouse models of depression and other psychiatric and neurological disorders. However, it is still the case that some relevant rodent models for depression and antidepressant action have been validated experimentally in rats only and not in mice. An important example of such models is the operant model of antidepressant action known as differential-reinforcement-of-low-rates 72-second (DRL 72-s). A specific set of drug-induced changes on the performance of rats responding under a DRL 72-s schedule of reinforcement has been shown to be a highly reliable predictor of antidepressant activity in human depressive disorders. The aim of this study is to validate the use of the DRL 72-s schedule in mice by both genetic and pharmacological means. We have analyzed the actions of the specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine and the tricyclic agent desipramine (DMI) on wild-type and 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptor-null mutant (5-HT(1A)R KO) mice. In agreement with the literature on rats, we found that fluoxetine produced an acute antidepressant-like effect in 5-HT(1A)R KO mice but not in wild-type (Wt) mice. Additionally, an antidepressant-like effect was observed when DMI was administered to both 5-HT(1A)R KO and Wt mice. In conclusion: through the use of both genetic and pharmacological strategies, this study validates the extension of a protocol involving the DRL 72-s operant schedule of reinforcement as a behavioral model for the action of antidepressants in mice.


The exact mechanism of the masseter muscle pain recognized as a prominent symptom in temporomandibular disorders remains unclear, although it is clinically known that excessive muscular contraction causes tenderness in masseter muscles. It has been demonstrated that P2X3 receptors (P2X3Rs) in sensory neurons play a role in pain signaling from the periphery. We determined the role of P2X(3)R on pressure pain and mechanical hyperalgesia in a newly developed rat model of masseter muscle pain. The pain in the masseter muscle was assessed by the pressure pain threshold (PPT), which was defined as the amount of pressure required to induce head flinching. In naive animals, systemic treatment with morphine was associated with increase of PPTs. Changes in PPTs were examined after administration of P2XR agonists or antagonists into the masseter muscle. The masseter muscle injection of alpha,beta-meATP (P2X(1,3,2/3)R-specific agonist) induced a significantly greater behavioral response than its vehicle. This enhanced response was completely blocked by the co-application of alpha,beta-meATP with PPADS (P2X(1,2,3,5,1/5,2/3)R-specific antagonist). Excessive contraction in masseter muscle was produced by electrical stimulation. The exerted masseter muscles showed a significant reduction in PPTs indicating the induction of mechanical hyperalgesia of the muscle. Moreover, administration of PPADS to the exerted masseter muscles produced a complete recovery of reducing PPT. Immunohistochemically, the number of P2X3R-positive neurons innervating the masseter muscles increased in the excessively contracted condition in trigeminal ganglia. Our results suggested that P2X3R plays an important role in pressure pain and mechanical hyperalgesia in masseter muscle caused by excessive muscular contraction.

Engrailed genes are homeodomain-containing transcription factors necessary for the development and maintenance of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. Deletion in the Engrailed genes has been shown to affect the survival of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons both during development and in the adult. Here we describe for the first time a significant reduction in striatal dopamine levels in En1+/-;En2+/- mice compared with their En2+/- littermates, accompanied by a modest reduction in the number of nigral DA neurons. Our results strengthen previous evidence indicating Engrailed genes as survival factors for mature dopaminergic neurons. Furthermore, our data suggest a role for these transcription factors in the maintenance of synaptic dopaminergic neurotransmission in adult neurons.

Adenosine A(2A) antagonists can exert antiparkinsonian effects in animal models. Recent experiments studied the ability of MSX-3 (an adenosine A(2A) antagonist) to reverse the locomotor suppression and tremor produced by dopamine antagonists in rats. MSX-3 reversed haloperidol-induced suppression of locomotion, and reduced the tremulous jaw movements induced by haloperidol, pimozide, and reserpine. Infusions of MSX-3 into the nucleus accumbens core increased locomotion in haloperidol-treated rats, but there were no effects of infusions into the accumbens shell or ventrolateral neostriatum. In contrast, MSX-3 injected into the ventrolateral neostriatum reduced pimozide-induced tremulous jaw movements. Dopamine/adenosine interactions in different striatal subregions are involved in distinct aspects of motor function.
It has been shown that diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC) potentiates 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity in mice as a result of increased levels of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) in the striatum. Brain CYP2E1 inhibition by DDC in C57Bl mice was responsible for increased toxicity and striatal MPP(+) accumulation. However, CYP2E1-null mice did not show any enhanced sensitivity to MPTP or any MPP(+) accumulation. This unexpected finding suggested that the CYP2E1-null mice compensate with other isozymes as already described for acetaminophen-induced liver damage. MPP(+) intoxication of mesencephalic cell cultures from CYP2E1-null mice indicated a reduced sensitivity of dopaminergic (DA) neurons from knockout animals. Surprisingly, MPP(+) cell distribution under these conditions indicated that the toxin accumulates more intracellularly in knockout cultures, suggesting further that CYP2E1 has a role in MPP(+) storage and efflux.
The ability of L-dopa to relieve the motor impairments in Parkinson's disease patients declines over time, and side-effects, such as dyskinesias, appear--limiting the use of the drug in the advanced stage of the disease. Serotonergic neurons are able to convert L-dopa to dopamine and to store this neurotransmitter in synaptic vesicles. This peculiarity might be very important in the advanced disease, when most of the dopaminergic neurons have degenerated. Indeed, an increasing body of evidence points to dopamine released as a false neurotransmitter from the serotonin terminals as the main pre-synaptic determinant of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in animal models of Parkinson's disease. These findings make the serotonin system an intriguing target for anti-dyskinetic therapies.

Idiopathic paroxysmal dyskinesias (PxD) are characterized by attacks of hyperkinetic movement, with no inter-ictal symptoms. We report two cases, one with paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia and another with paroxysmal exercise-induced dystonia, both of whom had myoclonus and dystonia between attacks. This previously unreported association highlights the heterogeneity of paroxysmal movement disorders.
A case is described of a patient with levodopa responsive parkinsonism, dyskinesia, and off periods who underwent bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nuclei (DBS-STN) with good result. As the disease progressed, the patient fit diagnostic criteria for progressive supranuclear palsy parkinsonism (PSP-P). Benefit of DBS for the parkinsonian phenomena is still apparent 4 years later. That DBS-STN provided targeted symptom relief in this unusual patient suggests that the parkinsonism of PSP-P and that of Parkinson's disease (PD) may share a common pathophysiologic mechanism. The presence of dystonic features in this illness raises the possibility that the globus pallidus might also have been an effective target.
In this study, we found the sensitivity and specificity of family history data given by essential tremor (ET) patients to be 43.3% and 94.4%. Compared to relatives with less severe tremor (tremor score &lt;24), those with more severe tremor (tremor score 24) were more likely to be identified by the ET probands (8/8 vs. 5/22, p=0.001, chi2 14.3). Our study suggests that family history information reported by ET patients was inaccurate, and poorly validated. Clinical and genetic studies in ET should take the limitation of family history data into consideration.
Amoebic infections of the central nervous system (CNS) are very rare and usually fatal. A 33-year-old Bolivian male injured his elbow 18 months ago in an accident and, months later, developed multiple skin lesions. He was admitted with confusion, and brain images showed large multifocal lesions with mass effect. Review of the skin biopsy revealed the presence of amoebic trophozoites within a granulomatous inflammation. Despite treatment, he continued to deteriorate and died 17 days after admission. The brain was swollen with prominent uncal herniation, and the leptomeninges showed patchy exudate. Coronal sections revealed widespread hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions. Histology confirmed granulomatous amoebic meningoencephalitis (GAM) with the presence of amoebic trophozoites and occasional cysts. Post-mortem culture confirmed Balamuthia mandrillaris. GAM due to B. mandrillaris may occur in any age group, may or may not be associated with immunosuppression, and is present worldwide. It usually has a subacute and fatal course from hematogenous dissemination of chronic skin or lung lesions.
The ketogenic diet is a therapeutic diet used to treat medically refractory epilepsy in children. It was found to be effective and safe. Apart from a reduced number of seizures, positive cognitive effects were described. The mechanisms of action are not fully understood, but both antiseizure and antiepileptogenic effects were proposed. Among other changes ascribed to the introduction of the diet, changes in electroencephalogram patterns might contribute to an understanding of the effects of the ketogenic diet. In this study, 23 children (mean age, 6.5 years) with pharmacoresistant epilepsy were started on the diet. They were examined via 24-hour ambulatory electroencephalogram directly before starting the diet, and after 3 months of treatment. The changing electroencephalogram pattern was evaluated qualitatively and semiquantitatively. Background activity, interictal epileptiform activity, ictal activity, and seizure reduction were evaluated. Quality of life was estimated on a visual analog scale. In 15 of 23 patients, the electroencephalogram indicated improvement in terms of more normal background activity or decreased interictal epileptiform activity. This improvement was seen in both seizure-reduction responders and nonresponders, and was not predictive of response to treatment.
Penetrating head injury is uncommon and is always a curiosity in terms of the mechanism involved. The complete extent of the damage can only be known with CT scan of the brain, which at times may be difficult to get, due to the large size of the foreign body. The management of such patients is always a challenge and requires innovative planning. A case of crochet needle injury is described in which the needle entered through the mouth and passed through the jugular foramen into the cerebellum. This patient, fortunately, escaped without any neurological deficit and complications. The principles of management are highlighted.
Neonatal intracranial aneurysms are rare, with only 20 cases being reported in the literature. No case of spontaneous resolution of a giant intracranial cavernous segment aneurysm in a neonate is reported till date. The authors describe a 3-week-old male child who presented with a left-sided tonic seizure episode and was diagnosed as having a right-sided giant cavernous internal carotid artery aneurysm. The aneurysm was found to be totally thrombosed on angiography done before planning definitive treatment. The child is doing well at 2 years of follow-up. Spontaneous thrombosis, an exceptionally rare but fortunate outcome in a rare case of giant neonatal internal carotid artery aneurysm, has led the authors to report this case. The need of repeat imaging or angiography should be considered to rule out this rare outcome, more so if there is any delay between the ictus and treatment.

Posterior fossa glioblastoma multiforme is a very rare childhood tumor with an extremely poor prognosis. There are only few cases of primary cerebellar glioblastoma described in the literature, and primary cerebellar glioblastoma presenting radiologically as a cerebellopontine angle mass lesion has not been reported previously. The authors report a multicentric glioblastoma multiforme in an 11-year-old child presenting predominantly as a cerebellopontine angle mass lesion, who finally expired 2 months after surgery. The presentation was very bizarre and the diagnosis was made only after histopathology examination.


Knockout and pharmacological studies have shown that delta opioid peptide (DOP) receptor signalling regulates emotional responses. In the present study, the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological profile of the DOP ligand, H-Dmt-Tic-NH-CH(CH2-COOH)-Bid (UFP-512) was investigated. In receptor binding experiments performed on membranes of CHO cells expressing the human recombinant opioid receptors, UFP-512 displayed very high affinity (pKi 10.20) and selectivity (&gt;150-fold) for DOP sites. In functional studies ([35S]GTP gamma S binding in CHOhDOP membranes and electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens) UFP-512 behaved as a DOP selective full agonist showing potency values more than 100-fold higher than DPDPE. In vivo, in the mouse forced swimming test, UFP-512 reduced immobility time both after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) and intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration. Similar effects were recorded in rats. Moreover, UFP-512 evoked anxiolytic-like effects in the mouse elevated plus maze and light-dark aversion assays. All these in vivo actions of UFP-512 were fully prevented by the selective DOP antagonist naltrindole (3 mg/kg, s.c.). In conclusion, the present findings demonstrate that UFP-512 behaves as a highly potent and selective agonist at DOP receptors and corroborate the proposal that the selective activation of DOP receptors elicits robust anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like effects in rodents.
This review critically reappraises recent scientific evidence concerning central leptin insufficiency versus leptin resistance formulations to explain metabolic and neural disorders resulting from subnormal or defective leptin signaling in various sites in the brain. Research at various fronts to unravel the complexities of the neurobiology of leptin is surveyed to provide a comprehensive account of the neural and metabolic effects of environmentally imposed fluctuations in leptin availability at brain sites and the outcome of newer technology to restore leptin signaling in a site-specific manner. The cumulative new knowledge favors a unified central leptin insufficiency syndrome over the, in vogue, central resistance hypothesis to explain the global adverse impact of deficient leptin signaling in the brain. Furthermore, the leptin insufficiency syndrome delineates a novel role of leptin in the hypothalamus in restraining rhythmic pancreatic insulin secretion while concomitantly enhancing glucose metabolism and non-shivering thermogenic energy expenditure, sequelae that would otherwise promote fat accrual to store excess energy resulting from consumption of energy-enriched diets. A concerted effort should now focus on development of newer technologies for delivery of leptin or leptin mimetics to specifically target neural pathways for remediation of diverse ailments encompassing the central leptin insufficiency syndrome.
A sound that is briefly interrupted by a silent gap is perceived as discontinuous. However, when the gap is filled with noise, the sound may be perceived as continuing through the noise. It has been shown that this continuity illusion depends on the masking of the omitted target sound, but the underlying mechanisms have yet to be quantified thoroughly. In this article, we systematically quantify the relation between perceived continuity and the duration, relative power, or notch width of the interrupting broadband noise for interrupted and noninterrupted amplitude-modulated tones at different frequencies. We fitted the psychometric results in order to estimate the range of the noise parameters that induced auditory grouping. To explain our results within a common theoretical framework, we applied a power spectrum model to thedifferent masking resultsand estimated the critical bandwidth of the auditory filter that may be responsible for the continuity illusion. Our results set constraints on the spectral resolution of the mechanisms underlying the continuity illusion and provide a stimulus set that can be readily applied for neurophysiological studies of its neural correlates.
Previous investigations of visual object recognition have found that some views of both familiar and unfamiliar objects promote more efficient recognition performance than other views. These views are considered as canonical and are often the views that present the most information about an object's 3-D structure and features in the image. Although objects can also be efficiently recognised with touch alone, little is known whether some views promote more efficient recognition than others. This may seem unlikely, given that the object structure and features are readily available to the hand during object exploration. We conducted two experiments to investigate whether canonical views existed in haptic object recognition. In the first, participants were required to position each object in a way that would present the best view for learning the object with touch alone. We found a large degree of consistency of viewpoint position across participants for both familiar and unfamiliar objects. In a second experiment, we found that these consistent, or canonical, views promoted better haptic recognition performance than other random views of the objects. Interestingly, these haptic canonical views were not necessarily the same as the canonical views normally found in visual perception. Nevertheless, our findings provide support for the idea that both the visual and the tactile systems are functionally equivalent in terms of how objects are represented in memory and subsequently recognised.
Two different versions of Adelson's snake lightness illusion are quantitatively investigated. In one experiment an additive version of the illusion is investigated by varying the additive component of the atmosphere transfer function (ATF) introduced by Adelson [2000, in The New Cognitive Neuroscience Ed. M Gazzaniga (Cambridge, MA: MIT Press) pp 339-351]. In the other, a multiplicative version of the illusion is examined by varying the multiplicative component of the ATE In both experiments four observers matched the targets' lightness of the snake patterns with Munsell samples. Increasing the additive or the multiplicative component elicited an approximately equal increase in the magnitude of the lightness illusion. The results show that both components, in the absence of other kinds of information, can be used as heuristics by our visual system to anchor luminance of the object when converting it into lightness.
Judgments of speed and animacy from monolingual English readers were compared with those of bilingual readers of both English and a language read from right to left. Participants viewed a pair of dots moving horizontally across a screen at the same speed. Using a two-alternative forced-choice task, participants judged which dot in a pair moved faster (a direct measure of speed perception) or appeared to be alive (an indirect and correlated judgment of speed perception). In two experiments monolingual participants judged dots moving left to right to be faster and alive more often than dots moving right to left. In contrast, bilingual participants exhibited no directional bias for speed or animacy. These results suggest that the highly practiced eye movements involved in reading are associated with the presence or absence of a directional anisotropy for speed and animacy.
It has recently been suggested that visual spatial attention can only affect consciously perceived events. We measured the effects of sustained spatial attention on orientation-selective adaptation to gratings, rendered invisible by prolonged interocular suppression. Spatial attention augmented the orientation-selective adaptation to invisible adaptor orientation. The effect of attention was clearest for test stimuli at peri-threshold, intermediate contrast levels, suggesting that previous negative results were due to assessing orientation discrimination at maximum contrast. On the basis of these findings we propose a constrained hypothesis for the difference between neuronal mechanisms of spatial attention in the presence versus absence of awareness.
Adults rate average faces as more attractive than most of the faces used in the creation of the average. One explanation for this is that average faces appear as both more familiar and more attractive because they resemble internal face prototypes formed from experience. Here we evaluated that explanation by examining the influence of recent experience on participants' subsequent judgments of attractiveness. Participants first performed a memory task lasting 8 min in which all of the female faces to be remembered had their features placed in a low, average, or high position, depending on experimental condition. In what was described as a separate experiment, participants then moved the features of a female face with averaged features to their most attractive vertical location. The most attractive location was affected by the faces seen during the memory task, with participants who saw faces with features in the high position placing features in higher locations than participants who saw faces with features in either the low or average positions. The results demonstrate that perceptions of attractiveness are influenced by recent experience, and suggest that internal face prototypes are constantly being updated by experience.
Previous work has demonstrated that facial identity recognition, expression recognition, gender categorisation, and race categorisation rely on a holistic representation. Here we examine whether a holistic representation is also used for judgments of facial attractiveness. Like past studies, we used the composite paradigm to assess holistic processing (Young et al 1987, Perception 16 747-759). Experiment 1 showed that top halves of upright faces are judged to be more attractive when aligned with an attractive bottom half than when aligned with an unattractive bottom half. To assess whether this effect resulted from holistic processing or more general effects, we examined the impact of the attractive and unattractive bottom halves when upright halves were misaligned and when aligned and misaligned halves were presented upside-down. The bottom halves had no effect in either condition. These results demonstrate that the perceptual processes underlying upright facial-attractiveness judgments represent the face holistically. Our findings with attractiveness judgments and previous demonstrations involving other aspects of face processing suggest that a common holistic representation is used for most types of face processing.
Several studies have shown that participants, without a deficit in face recognition, give an increased skin conductance response (SCR) to familiar faces when presented subliminally, hence suggesting covert recognition of these faces. In the experiment presented here we manipulated familiarity and attractiveness and tested whether participants distinguished between faces for these variables when presented too fast to allow conscious recognition. Three sets of faces were presented: famous attractive; unfamiliar attractive; and unfamiliar less attractive. SCRs were the same for each category of faces whether presented subliminally or supraliminally, and were the same for attractive faces, whether famous or unfamiliar; however, SCRs differed between the attractive and less attractive faces. The findings support those of Stone et al (2001 Cognitive, Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience 1 183-191) and suggest that higher SCRs to famous faces are not necessarily due to covert recognition, but may be a response to the positive affective valence of the stimuli.
Blind or deaf? Surprisingly, a small but noticeable minority, 17%, opted for blindness. Another 6% were indifferent. For these individuals (23% of the sample), the loss of the aesthetic experience--music--was given relatively greater weight than the loss of the practical--conversation. This was not a symmetric effect in that those who opted for being deaf did not place greater value on the aesthetic aspects of vision compared to those who opted for being blind. What predicts the preference for being blind was not the amount of time spent listening to music but the extent to which one formally studied, created, and played music and experienced intense emotions when engaged by music.
Many letters of the alphabet are consistently mapped to specific colours by English-speaking adults, both in the general population and in individuals with grapheme-colour synaesthesia who perceive letters in colour. Such associations may be naturally biased by intrinsic sensory cortical organisation, or may be based in literacy (eg 'A' is for 'apple', apples are red; therefore A is red). To distinguish these two hypotheses, we tested pre-literate children in three experiments and compared their results to those of literate children (aged 7-9 years) and adults. The results indicate that some colour letter mappings (O white, X black) are naturally biased by the shape of the letter, whereas others (A red, G green) may be based in literacy. They suggest that sensory cortical organisation initially binds colour to some shapes, and that learning to read can induce additional associations, likely through the influence of higher-order networks as letters take on meaning.
Adults appear to be more sensitive to configural information, including second-order relations (the spacing of features), in faces than in other objects. Superior processing of second-order relations in faces may arise from our experience of identifying faces at the individual level of categorisation (eg Bob versus John) but other objects at the basic level of categorisation (eg table versus chair; Gauthier and Tarr, 1997 Vision Research 37 1673- 1682). We simulated this learning difference with novel stimuli (comprised of blobs) by having two groups view the same stimuli but learn to identify the objects only at the basic level (based on the number of constituent blobs) or at both the basic level and individual level (based on the spacing, or second-order relations, of the blobs) of categorisation. Results from two experiments showed that, after training, observers in the individual-level training group were more sensitive to the second-order relations in novel exemplars of the learned category than observers in the basic-level training group. This is the first demonstration of specific improvement in sensitivity to second-order relations after training with non-face stimuli. The findings are consistent with the hypothesis that adults are more sensitive to second-order relations in faces than in other objects, at least in part, because they have more experience identifying faces at the individual level of categorisation.
Perception depends not only on sensory input but also on the state of the brain receiving that input. A classic example is perception of a stable visual world in spite of the saccadic eye movements that shift the images on the retina. A long-standing hypothesis is that the brain compensates for the disruption of visual input by using advance knowledge of the impending saccade, an internally generated corollary discharge. One possible neuronal mechanism for this compensation has been previously identified in parietal and frontal cortex of monkeys, but the origin of the necessary corollary discharge remained unknown. Here, we consider recent experiments that identified a pathway for a corollary discharge for saccades that extends from the superior colliculus in the midbrain to the frontal eye fields in the cerebral cortex with a relay in the medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus. We first review the nature of the evidence used to identify a corollary discharge signal in the complexity of the primate brain and show its use for guiding a rapid sequence of eye movements. We then consider two experiments that show this same corollary signal may provide the input to the frontal cortex neurons that alters their activity with saccades in ways that could compensate for the displacements in the visual input produced by saccadic eye movements. The first experiment shows that the corollary discharge signal is spatially and temporally appropriate to produce the alterations in the frontal-cortex neurons. The second shows that this signal is necessary for this alteration because inactivation of the corollary reduces the compensation by frontal-cortex neurons. The identification of this relatively simple circuit specifies the organization of a corollary discharge in the primate brain for the first time and provides a specific example upon which consideration of the roles of corollary activity in other systems and for other functions can be evaluated.
One of the stable hypotheses in systems neuroscience is the relationship between attention and the enhancement of visual responses when an animal attends to the stimulus in its receptive field (Goldberg and Wurtz, 1972 Journal of Neurophysiology 35 560-574). This was first discovered in the superior colliculus of the monkey: neurons in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus responded more intensely to the onset of a stimulus during blocks of trials in which the monkey had to make a saccade to it than they did during blocks of trials in which the monkey had to continue fixating a central point and not respond to the stimulus. This enhancement has been found in many brain regions, including prefrontal cortex (Boch and Goldberg, 1987 Investigative Ophthalmology 28 Supplement, 124), V4 (Moran and Desimone, 1985 Science 229 782-784), and lateral intraparietal area (Colby et al, 1996 Journal of Neurophysiology 76 2841-2852; Colby and Goldberg, 1999 Annual Review of Neuroscience 22 319-349), and even V1 (Lamme et al, 2000 Vision Research 40 1507-1521). In these studies the assumption has been that the monkey attended to the stimulus because the stimulus evoked an enhanced response. In the experiments described here we show that for abruptly appearing stimuli, attention is not related to the initial response evoked by the stimulus, but by the activity present on the salience map in the parietal cortex when the stimulus appears. Attention to the stimulus may subsequently, by a top down signal, sustain the map, but stimuli can as easily be suppressed by top down features as they can be enhanced.

Competent realistic drawings preserve viewpoint-invariant shape characteristics of simple parts, such that a contour in the object that is straight or curved, for example, is depicted that way in the drawing. A more subtle invariant--a V-shaped singularity of the occluding boundary, containing a T-junction and a contour termination--is produced at the junction between articulated smooth surfaces, as with the leg joining the body of a horse. 45% of the drawings made in 2007 by individuals with only minimal art education correctly depicted such junctions, a proportion that is not reliably different from the incidence (42%) of correct depictions in a large sample of cave art made 17000 years ago. Whether a person did or did not include the invariant in their drawing, all agreed that it made for a better depiction.
N,N-dipropyltryptamine (DPT) is a synthetic tryptamine hallucinogen which has been used psychotherapeutically in humans, but has been studied preclinically only rarely. In the present studies, DPT was tested in a drug-elicited head-twitch assay in mice, and in rats trained to discriminate lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), N,N-dimethyl-4-phosphoryloxytryptamine (psilocybin), or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). A separate group of rats was also trained to recognize DPT itself as a discriminative stimulus, and in all cases, the behavioral effects of DPT were challenged with the selective serotonin (5-HT)2A antagonist M100907, the 5-HT1A selective antagonist WAY-100635, or their combination. In the head-twitch assay, DPT elicited dose-dependent effects, producing a biphasic dose-effect curve. WAY-100635 produced a parallel rightward shift in the dose-effect curve for head twitches, indicative of surmountable antagonism, but the antagonist effects of M100907 were functionally insurmountable. DPT produced partial to full substitution when tested in rats trained to discriminate LSD, psilocybin or MDMA, and served as a discriminative stimulus. In all cases, the antagonist effects of M100907 were more profound than were those of WAY-100635. DPT is thus active in two rodent models relevant to 5-HT2 agonist activity. The effectiveness with which M100907 antagonizes the behavioral actions of this compound strongly suggest that the 5-HT2A receptor is an important site of action for DPT, but the modulatory actions of WAY-100635 also imply a 5-HT1A-mediated component to the actions of this compound.
Purinergic signalling is important both in short-term control of vascular tone and in longer-term control of cell proliferation, migration and death involved in vascular remodelling. There is dual control of vascular tone by ATP released from perivascular nerves and by ATP released from endothelial cells in response to changes in blood flow (shear stress) and hypoxia. Both ATP and its breakdown product, adenosine, regulate smooth muscle and endothelial cell proliferation. The involvement of these regulatory mechanisms in pathological conditions, including hypertension, atherosclerosis, restenosis, diabetes and vascular pain, are discussed.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune, neurological disability with unknown etiology. The current therapies available for MS work by an immunomodulatory action, preventing T-cell- and macrophage-mediated destruction of brain-resident oligodendrocytes and axonal loss. Recently, FTY720 (fingolimod) was shown to significantly reduce relapse rates in MS patients and is currently in Phase III clinical trials. This drug attenuates trafficking of harmful T cells entering the brain by regulating sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptors. Here, we outline the direct roles that S1P receptors play in the central nervous system (CNS) and discuss additional modalities by which FTY720 may provide direct neuroprotection in MS.
The heterotrimeric G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) represent the largest and most diverse family of cell surface receptors and proteins. GPCR are widely distributed in the peripheral and central nervous systems and are one of the most important therapeutic targets in pain medicine. GPCR are present on the plasma membrane of neurons and their terminals along the nociceptive pathways and are closely associated with the modulation of pain transmission. GPCR that can produce analgesia upon activation include opioid, cannabinoid, alpha2-adrenergic, muscarinic acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB), groups II and III metabotropic glutamate, and somatostatin receptors. Recent studies have led to a better understanding of the role of these GPCR in the regulation of pain transmission. Here, we review the current knowledge about the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie the analgesic actions of GPCR agonists, with a focus on their effects on ion channels expressed on nociceptive sensory neurons and on synaptic transmission at the spinal cord level.
The focus of this review is to critically examine and review the literature on the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its primary receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), in the actions of pharmacologically diverse antidepressant treatments for depression. This will include a review of the studies on the regulation of BDNF and TrkB by different types of antidepressant drug treatments and animal in models of depression, as well as altered levels of BDNF and TrkB in the blood and postmortem brain of patients with depression. Results from clinical and basic studies have demonstrated that stress and depression decrease BDNF expression and neurogenesis and antidepressant treatment reverses or blocks these effects, leading to the neurotrophic hypothesis of depression. Clinical studies demonstrate an association between BDNF levels and several disorders, including depression, epilepsy, bipolar disorder, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Physical activity and diet exert neurotrophic effects and positively modulate BDNF levels. A common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the BDNF gene, a methionine substitution for valine, is associated with alterations in brain anatomy and memory, but what role it has in clinical disorders is unclear. Findings suggest that early childhood events and adult stress produce neurodegenerative alterations in the brain that can eventually cause breakdown of information processing in the neuronal networks regulating mood. Antidepressant treatments elevate activity-dependent neuronal plasticity by activating BDNF, thereby gradually restoring network function and ultimately mood.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) are a family of GTPase-activating proteins (GAP) that interact with heterotrimeric G proteins in the negative regulation of G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling. RGS4, the first identified mammalian member of the RGS family, has been implicated in many GPCR signaling pathways involved in disease states. We report herein the identification of a 16-amino-acid peptide (P17) as an inhibitor of RGS4. The peptide was found by screening a random peptide library using RGS4 as 'bait' in a yeast two-hybrid system. This peptide inhibited RGS4 GAP activity on Galpha(i1)in a GTPase assay, and blocked the interaction between RGS4 and Galpha(i1)in a pull-down assay. The peptide displayed dose-dependent inhibition of RGS4 and Galpha-interacting protein (GAIP) GAP activities, yet showed no substantial effect on RGS7. Electrophysiological studies in Xenopus oocytes demonstrated that P17 attenuates RGS4 modulation of M(2) muscarinic receptor stimulation of GIRK (G-protein-mediated inwardly rectifying potassium) channels. Deletion of an arginine at the N terminus of P17 abolished its ability to inhibit RGS4 GAP activity, as did deletions of C-terminal residues. The P17 peptide showed no similarity to any known peptide sequence. Further investigation and optimization of the peptide may provide unique information for the development of RGS4 inhibitors for future therapeutic application.
The diffusion of neuroactive substances in the extracellular space (ECS) plays an important role in short- and long-distance communication between nerve cells and is the underlying mechanism of extrasynaptic (volume) transmission. The diffusion properties of the ECS are described by three parameters: 1. ECS volume fraction alpha (alpha=ECS volume/total tissue volume), 2. tortuosity lambda (lambda2=free/apparent diffusion coefficient), reflecting the presence of diffusion barriers represented by, e.g., fine neuronal and glial processes or extracellular matrix molecules and 3. nonspecific uptake k'. These diffusion parameters differ in various brain regions, and diffusion in the CNS is therefore inhomogeneous. Moreover, diffusion barriers may channel the migration of molecules in the ECS, so that diffusion is facilitated in a certain direction, i.e. diffusion in certain brain regions is anisotropic. Changes in the diffusion parameters have been found in many physiological and pathological states in which cell swelling, glial remodeling and extracellular matrix changes are key factors influencing diffusion. Changes in ECS volume, tortuosity and anisotropy significantly affect the accumulation and diffusion of neuroactive substances in the CNS and thus extrasynaptic transmission, neuron-glia communication, transmitter &quot;spillover&quot; and synaptic cross-talk as well as cell migration, drug delivery and treatment.
The processing of species-specific communication signals in the auditory system represents an important aspect of animal behavior and is crucial for its social interactions, reproduction, and survival. In this article the neuronal mechanisms underlying the processing of communication signals in the higher centers of the auditory system--inferior colliculus (IC), medial geniculate body (MGB) and auditory cortex (AC)--are reviewed, with particular attention to the guinea pig. The selectivity of neuronal responses for individual calls in these auditory centers in the guinea pig is usually low--most neurons respond to calls as well as to artificial sounds; the coding of complex sounds in the central auditory nuclei is apparently based on the representation of temporal and spectral features of acoustical stimuli in neural networks. Neuronal response patterns in the IC reliably match the sound envelope for calls characterized by one or more short impulses, but do not exactly fit the envelope for long calls. Also, the main spectral peaks are represented by neuronal firing rates in the IC. In comparison to the IC, response patterns in the MGB and AC demonstrate a less precise representation of the sound envelope, especially in the case of longer calls. The spectral representation is worse in the case of low-frequency calls, but not in the case of broad-band calls. The emotional content of the call may influence neuronal responses in the auditory pathway, which can be demonstrated by stimulation with time-reversed calls or by measurements performed under different levels of anesthesia. The investigation of the principles of the neural coding of species-specific vocalizations offers some keys for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying human speech perception.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect and mechanism of low concentration of lidocaine on subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (SMPO) and burst discharges in chronically compressed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. DRG neurons were isolated by enzymatic dissociation method. SMPO, burst discharges and single spike were elicited by whole cell patch-clamp technique in current clamp mode. Persistent Na(+) current (I(NaP)) and transient Na(+) current (I(NaT)) were elicited in voltage clamp mode. The results showed that SMPO was suppressed and burst discharges were eliminated by tetrodotoxin (TTX, 0.2 micromol/l) in current clamp mode, I(NaP) was blocked by 0.2 micromol/l TTX in voltage clamp mode. SMPO, burst discharges and I(NaP) were also suppressed by low concentration of lidocaine (10 micromol/l) respectively. However, single spike and I(NaT) could only be blocked by high concentration of lidocaine (5 mmol/l). From these results, it is suggested that I(NaP) mediates the generation of SMPO in injured DRG neurons. Low concentration of lidocaine (10 micromol/l) suppresses SMPO by selectively inhibiting I(NaP), but not I(NaT), in chronically compressed DRG neurons.
In all mammals, tissue inflammation leads to pain and behavioral sensitization to thermal and mechanical stimuli called hyperalgesia. We studied pain mechanisms in the African naked mole-rat, an unusual rodent species that lacks pain-related neuropeptides (e.g., substance P) in cutaneous sensory fibers. Naked mole-rats show a unique and remarkable lack of pain-related behaviors to two potent algogens, acid and capsaicin. Furthermore, when exposed to inflammatory insults or known mediators, naked mole-rats do not display thermal hyperalgesia. In contrast, naked mole-rats do display nocifensive behaviors in the formalin test and show mechanical hyperalgesia after inflammation. Using electrophysiology, we showed that primary afferent nociceptors in naked mole-rats are insensitive to acid stimuli, consistent with the animal's lack of acid-induced behavior. Acid transduction by sensory neurons is observed in birds, amphibians, and fish, which suggests that this tranduction mechanism has been selectively disabled in the naked mole-rat in the course of its evolution. In contrast, nociceptors do respond vigorously to capsaicin, and we also show that sensory neurons express a transient receptor potential vanilloid channel-1 ion channel that is capsaicin sensitive. Nevertheless, the activation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons in naked mole-rats does not produce pain-related behavior. We show that capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors in the naked mole-rat are functionally connected to superficial dorsal horn neurons as in mice. However, the same nociceptors are also functionally connected to deep dorsal horn neurons, a connectivity that is rare in mice. The pain biology of the naked mole-rat is unique among mammals, thus the study of pain mechanisms in this unusual species can provide major insights into what constitutes &quot;normal&quot; mammalian nociception.
This paper demonstrates a previously unreported property of deoxyribonucleic acid-the ability of dye-labeled, solid-state DNA dried onto a surface to detect odors delivered in the vapor phase by changes in fluorescence. This property is useful for engineering systems to detect volatiles and provides a way for artificial sensors to emulate the way cross-reactive olfactory receptors respond to and encode single odorous compounds and mixtures. Recent studies show that the vertebrate olfactory receptor repertoire arises from an unusually large gene family and that the receptor types that have been tested so far show variable breadths of response. In designing biomimetic artificial noses, the challenge has been to generate a similarly large sensor repertoire that can be manufactured with exact chemical precision and reproducibility and that has the requisite combinatorial complexity to detect odors in the real world. Here we describe an approach for generating and screening large, diverse libraries of defined sensors using single-stranded, fluorescent dye-labeled DNA that has been dried onto a substrate and pulsed with brief exposures to different odors. These new solid-state DNA-based sensors are sensitive and show differential, sequence-dependent responses. Furthermore, we show that large DNA-based sensor libraries can be rapidly screened for odor response diversity using standard high-throughput microarray methods. These observations describe new properties of DNA and provide a generalized approach for producing explicitly tailored sensor arrays that can be rationally chosen for the detection of target volatiles with different chemical structures that include biologically derived odors, toxic chemicals, and explosives.


This study was designed to investigate the impact of medical terminology on perceptions of disease. Specifically, we look at the changing public perceptions of newly medicalized disorders with accompanying newly medicalized terms (e.g. impotence has become erectile dysfunction disorder). Does using &quot;medicalese&quot; to label a recently medicalized disorder lead to a change in the perception of that condition? Undergraduate students (n = 52) rated either the medical or lay label for recently medicalized disorders (such as erectile dysfunction disorder vs. impotence) and established medical conditions (such as a myocardial infarction vs. heart attack) for their perceived seriousness, disease representativeness and prevalence. Students considered the medical label of the recently medicalized disease to be more serious (mean = 4.95 (SE = .27) vs. mean = 3.77 (SE = .24) on a ten point scale), more representative of a disease (mean = 2.47 (SE = .09) vs. mean = 1.83 (SE = .09) on a four point scale), and have lower prevalence (mean = 68 (SE = 12.6) vs. mean = 122 (SE = 18.1) out of 1,000) than the same disease described using common language. A similar pattern was not seen in the established medical conditions, even when controlled for severity. This study demonstrates that the use of medical language in communication can induce bias in perception; a simple switch in terminology results in a disease being perceived as more serious, more likely to be a disease, and more likely to be a rare condition. These findings regarding the conceptualization of disease have implications for many areas, including medical communication with the public, advertising, and public policy.
The concept of an individual swapping his or her body with that of another person has captured the imagination of writers and artists for decades. Although this topic has not been the subject of investigation in science, it exemplifies the fundamental question of why we have an ongoing experience of being located inside our bodies. Here we report a perceptual illusion of body-swapping that addresses directly this issue. Manipulation of the visual perspective, in combination with the receipt of correlated multisensory information from the body was sufficient to trigger the illusion that another person's body or an artificial body was one's own. This effect was so strong that people could experience being in another person's body when facing their own body and shaking hands with it. Our results are of fundamental importance because they identify the perceptual processes that produce the feeling of ownership of one's body.
We propose a mechanism for copying of neuronal networks that is of considerable interest for neuroscience for it suggests a neuronal basis for causal inference, function copying, and natural selection within the human brain. To date, no model of neuronal topology copying exists. We present three increasingly sophisticated mechanisms to demonstrate how topographic map formation coupled with Spike-Time Dependent Plasticity (STDP) can copy neuronal topology motifs. Fidelity is improved by error correction and activity-reverberation limitation. The high-fidelity topology-copying operator is used to evolve neuronal topologies. Possible roles for neuronal natural selection are discussed.
The relationship between contextual information and object perception has received considerable attention in neuroimaging studies. In the work reported here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the relationship between aesthetic judgment and images of objects in their normal contextual setting versus images of objects in abnormal contextual settings and the underlying brain activity. When object-context relationships are violated changes in visual perception and aesthetic judgment emerges that exposes the contribution of vision to interpretations shaped by previous experience. We found that effects of context on aesthetic judgment modulates different memory sub-systems, while aesthetic judgment regardless of context recruit medial and lateral aspects of the orbitofrontal cortex, consistent with previous findings. Visual cortical areas traditionally associated with the processing of visual features are recruited in normal contexts, irrespective of aesthetic ratings, while prefrontal areas are significantly more engaged when objects are viewed in unaccustomed settings.


The discovery of mirror neurons has suggested a potential neural basis for simulation and common coding theories of action perception, theories which propose that we understand other people's actions because perceiving their actions activates some of our neurons in much the same way as when we perform the actions. We propose testing this model directly in humans with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) by means of cross-modal classification. Cross-modal classification evaluates whether a classifier that has learned to separate stimuli in the sensory domain can also separate the stimuli in the motor domain. Successful classification provides support for simulation theories because it means that the fMRI signal, and presumably brain activity, is similar when perceiving and performing actions. In this paper we demonstrate the feasibility of the technique by showing that classifiers which have learned to discriminate whether a participant heard a hand or a mouth action, based on the activity patterns in the premotor cortex, can also determine, without additional training, whether the participant executed a hand or mouth action. This provides direct evidence that, while perceiving others' actions, (1) the pattern of activity in premotor voxels with sensory properties is a significant source of information regarding the nature of these actions, and (2) that this information shares a common code with motor execution.

To generate adaptive behavior, the nervous system is coupled to the environment. The coupling constrains the dynamical properties that the nervous system and the environment must have relative to each other if adaptive behavior is to be produced. In previous computational studies, such constraints have been used to evolve controllers or artificial agents to perform a behavioral task in a given environment. Often, however, we already know the controller, the real nervous system, and its dynamics. Here we propose that the constraints can also be used to solve the inverse problem--to predict from the dynamics of the nervous system the environment to which they are adapted, and so reconstruct the production of the adaptive behavior by the entire coupled system. We illustrate how this can be done in the feeding system of the sea slug Aplysia. At the core of this system is a central pattern generator (CPG) that, with dynamics on both fast and slow time scales, integrates incoming sensory stimuli to produce ingestive and egestive motor programs. We run models embodying these CPG dynamics--in effect, autonomous Aplysia agents--in various feeding environments and analyze the performance of the entire system in a realistic feeding task. We find that the dynamics of the system are tuned for optimal performance in a narrow range of environments that correspond well to those that Aplysia encounter in the wild. In these environments, the slow CPG dynamics implement efficient ingestion of edible seaweed strips with minimal sensory information about them. The fast dynamics then implement a switch to a different behavioral mode in which the system ignores the sensory information completely and follows an internal &quot;goal,&quot; emergent from the dynamics, to egest again a strip that proves to be inedible. Key predictions of this reconstruction are confirmed in real feeding animals.



Despite their prevalence in nature, echoes are not perceived as events separate from the sounds arriving directly from an active source, until the echo's delay is long. We measured the head-saccades of barn owls and the responses of neurons in their auditory space-maps while presenting a long duration noise-burst and a simulated echo. Under this paradigm, there were two possible stimulus segments that could potentially signal the location of the echo. One was at the onset of the echo; the other, after the offset of the direct (leading) sound, when only the echo was present. By lengthening the echo's duration, independently of its delay, spikes and saccades were evoked by the source of the echo even at delays that normally evoked saccades to only the direct source. An echo's location thus appears to be signaled by the neural response evoked after the offset of the direct sound.

In an age of increasing globalization and discussion of the possibility of global pandemics, increasing rates of reporting of these events may influence public perception of risk. The present studies investigate the impact of high levels of media reporting on the perceptions of disease. Undergraduate psychology and medical students were asked to rate the severity, future prevalence and disease status of both frequently reported diseases (e.g. avian flu) and infrequently reported diseases (e.g. yellow fever). Participants considered diseases that occur frequently in the media to be more serious, and have higher disease status than those that infrequently occur in the media, even when the low media frequency conditions were considered objectively 'worse' by a separate group of participants. Estimates of severity also positively correlated with popular print media frequency in both student populations. However, we also see that the concurrent presentation of objective information about the diseases can mitigate this effect. It is clear from these data that the media can bias our perceptions of disease.
A variety of physiological and pathological factors induce cellular swelling in the brain. Changes in cell volume activate several types of ion channels, which mediate the release of inorganic and organic osmolytes and allow for compensatory cell volume decrease. Volume-regulated anion channels (VRAC) are thought to be responsible for the release of some of organic osmolytes, including the excitatory neurotransmitters glutamate and aspartate. In the present study, we compared the in vivo properties of the swelling-activated release of glutamate, aspartate, and another major brain osmolyte taurine. Cell swelling was induced by perfusion of hypoosmotic (low [NaCl]) medium via a microdialysis probe placed in the rat cortex. The hypoosmotic medium produced several-fold increases in the extracellular levels of glutamate, aspartate and taurine. However, the release of the excitatory amino acids differed from the release of taurine in several respects including: (i) kinetic properties, (ii) sensitivity to isoosmotic changes in [NaCl], and (iii) sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide, which is known to modulate VRAC. Consistent with the involvement of VRAC, hypoosmotic medium-induced release of the excitatory amino acids was inhibited by the anion channel blocker DNDS, but not by the glutamate transporter inhibitor TBOA or Cd2+, which inhibits exocytosis. In order to elucidate the mechanisms contributing to taurine release, we studied its release properties in cultured astrocytes and cortical synaptosomes. Similarities between the results obtained in vivo and in synaptosomes suggest that the swelling-activated release of taurine in vivo may be of neuronal origin. Taken together, our findings indicate that different transport mechanisms and/or distinct cellular sources mediate hypoosmotic medium-induced release of the excitatory amino acids and taurine in vivo.

Exported proteases of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) are potentially involved in pathogen-associated disorders leading to gastric inflammation and neoplasia. By comprehensive sequence screening of the H. pylori proteome for predicted secreted proteases, we retrieved several candidate genes. We detected caseinolytic activities of several such proteases, which are released independently from the H. pylori type IV secretion system encoded by the cag pathogenicity island (cagPAI). Among these, we found the predicted serine protease HtrA (Hp1019), which was previously identified in the bacterial secretome of H. pylori. Importantly, we further found that the H. pylori genes hp1018 and hp1019 represent a single gene likely coding for an exported protein. Here, we directly verified proteolytic activity of HtrA in vitro and identified the HtrA protease in zymograms by mass spectrometry. Overexpressed and purified HtrA exhibited pronounced proteolytic activity, which is inactivated after mutation of Ser205 to alanine in the predicted active center of HtrA. These data demonstrate that H. pylori secretes HtrA as an active protease, which might represent a novel candidate target for therapeutic intervention strategies.
Visual categorization may already start within the first 100-ms after stimulus onset, in contrast with the long-held view that during this early stage all complex stimuli are processed equally and that category-specific cortical activation occurs only at later stages. The neural basis of this proposed early stage of high-level analysis is however poorly understood. To address this question we used magnetoencephalography and anatomically-constrained distributed source modeling to monitor brain activity with millisecond-resolution while subjects performed an orientation task on the upright and upside-down presented images of three different stimulus categories: faces, houses and bodies. Significant inversion effects were found for all three stimulus categories between 70-100-ms after picture onset with a highly category-specific cortical distribution. Differential responses between upright and inverted faces were found in well-established face-selective areas of the inferior occipital cortex and right fusiform gyrus. In addition, early category-specific inversion effects were found well beyond visual areas. Our results provide the first direct evidence that category-specific processing in high-level category-sensitive cortical areas already takes place within the first 100-ms of visual processing, significantly earlier than previously thought, and suggests the existence of fast category-specific neocortical routes in the human brain.
Organization in hierarchical dominance structures is prevalent in animal societies, so a strong preference for higher positions in social ranking is likely to be an important motivation of human social and economic behavior. This preference is also likely to influence the way in which we evaluate our outcome and the outcome of others, and finally the way we choose. In our experiment participants choose among lotteries with different levels of risk, and can observe the choice that others have made. Results show that the relative weight of gains and losses is the opposite in the private and social domain. For private outcomes, experience and anticipation of losses loom larger than gains, whereas in the social domain, gains loom larger than losses, as indexed by subjective emotional evaluations and physiological responses. We propose a theoretical model (interdependent utilities), predicting the implication of this effect for choice behavior. The relatively larger weight assigned to social gains strongly affects choices, inducing complementary behavior: faced with a weaker competitor, participants adopt a more risky and dominant behavior.
A dysfunction of retinoid hippocampal signaling pathway has been involved in the appearance of affective and cognitive disorders. However, the underlying neurobiological mechanisms remain unknown. Hippocampal granule neurons are generated throughout life and are involved in emotion and memory. Here, we investigated the effects of vitamin A deficiency (VAD) on neurogenesis and memory and the ability of retinoic acid (RA) treatment to prevent VAD-induced impairments. Adult retinoid-deficient rats were generated by a vitamin A-free diet from weaning in order to allow a normal development. The effects of VAD and/or RA administration were examined on hippocampal neurogenesis, retinoid target genes such as neurotrophin receptors and spatial reference memory measured in the water maze. Long-term VAD decreased neurogenesis and led to memory deficits. More importantly, these effects were reversed by 4 weeks of RA treatment. These beneficial effects may be in part related to an up-regulation of retinoid-mediated molecular events, such as the expression of the neurotrophin receptor TrkA. We have demonstrated for the first time that the effect of vitamin A deficient diet on the level of hippoccampal neurogenesis is reversible and that RA treatment is important for the maintenance of the hippocampal plasticity and function.

Menthol is a widely-used cooling and flavoring agent derived from mint leaves. In the peripheral nervous system, menthol regulates sensory transduction by activating TRPM8 channels residing specifically in primary sensory neurons. Although behavioral studies have implicated menthol actions in the brain, no direct central target of menthol has been identified. Here we show that menthol reduces the excitation of rat hippocampal neurons in culture and suppresses the epileptic activity induced by pentylenetetrazole injection and electrical kindling in vivo. We found menthol not only enhanced the currents induced by low concentrations of GABA but also directly activated GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) in hippocampal neurons in culture. Furthermore, in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices, menthol enhanced tonic GABAergic inhibition although phasic GABAergic inhibition was unaffected. Finally, the structure-effect relationship of menthol indicated that hydroxyl plays a critical role in menthol enhancement of tonic GABA(A)R. Our results thus reveal a novel cellular mechanism that may underlie the ambivalent perception and psychophysical effects of menthol and underscore the importance of tonic inhibition by GABA(A)Rs in regulating neuronal activity.
Central nervous system (CNS) is an immune privileged site, nevertheless inflammation associates with many CNS diseases. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are a family of nuclear hormone receptors that regulate immune and inflammatory responses. Specific ligands for PPARalpha, gamma, and delta isoforms have proven effective in the animal models of multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and trauma/stroke, suggesting their use in the treatment of neuroinflammatory diseases. The activation of NF-kappaB and Jak-Stat signaling pathways and secretion of inflammatory cytokines are critical in the pathogenesis of CNS diseases. Interestingly, PPAR agonists mitigate CNS disease by modulating inflammatory signaling network in immune cells. In this manuscript, we review the current knowledge on how PPARs regulate neuroinflammatory signaling networks in CNS diseases.
In the recent years, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a well known target for type II diabetes treatment, has received an increasing attention for its therapeutic potential in inflammatory and degenerative brain disorders. PPAR-gamma agonists, which include naturally occurring compounds (such as long chain fatty acids and the cyclopentenone prostaglandin 15-deoxy Delta(12,14) prostaglandin J(2)), and synthetic agonists (among which the thiazolidinediones and few nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) have shown anti-inflammatory and protective effects in several experimental models of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis and stroke, as well as in few clinical studies. The pleiotropic effects of PPAR-gamma agonists are likely to be mediated by several mechanisms involving anti-inflammatory activities on peripheral immune cells (macrophages and lymphocytes), as well as direct effects on neural cells including cerebral vascular endothelial cells, neurons, and glia. In the present article, we will review the recent findings supporting a major role for PPAR-gamma agonists in controlling neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration through their activities on glial cells, with a particular emphasis on microglial cells as major macrophage population of the brain parenchyma and main actors in brain inflammation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a debilitating and one of the most common adult-onset neurodegenerative diseases with the prevalence of about 5 per 100 000 individuals. It results in the progressive loss of upper and lower motor neurons and leads to gradual muscle weakening ultimately causing paralysis and death. ALS has an obscure cause and currently no effective treatment exists. In this review, a potentially important pathway is described that can be activated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) agonists and has the ability to block the neuropathological damage caused by inflammation in ALS and possibly in other neudegenerative diseases like Huntington's disease (HD). Neuroinflammation is a common pathological feature in neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, PPAR-gamma agonists are thought to be neuroprotective in ALS and HD. We and others have tested the neuroprotective effect of pioglitazone (Actos), a PPAR-gamma agonist, in G93A SOD1 transgenic mouse model of ALS and found significant increase in survival of G93A SOD1 mice. These findings suggest that PPAR-gamma may be an important regulator of neuroinflammation and possibly a new target for the development of therapeutic strategies for ALS. The involvement of PPAR-gamma in HD is currently under investigation, one study finds that the treatment with rosiglitazone had no protection in R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD. PPAR-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) is a transcriptional coactivator that works together with combination of other transcription factors like PPAR-gamma in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis. Therefore, PPAR-gamma is a possible target for ALS and HD as it functions as transcription factor that interacts with PGC-1alpha. In this review, the role of PPAR-gamma in ALS and HD is discussed based on the current literature and hypotheses.
Traumatic injury to the spinal cord results in multiple anatomical, physiological, and functional deficits as a result of local neuronal and glial cell death as well as loss of descending and ascending axons traversing the injury site. The many different mechanisms thought to contribute to protracted secondary cell death and dysfunction after spinal cord injury (SCI) are potential therapeutic targets. Agents that bind and activate the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) show great promise for minimizing or preventing these deleterious cascades in other models of CNS disorders. This review will summarize the major secondary injury cascades occurring after SCI and discuss data from experimental CNS injury and disease models showing the exciting potential for PPARgamma therapies after SCI.
Stroke (focal cerebral ischemia) is a leading cause of death and disability among adult population. Many pathological events including inflammation and oxidative stress during the acute period contributes to the secondary neuronal death leading the neurological dysfunction after stroke. Transcriptional regulation of genes that promote these pathophysiological mechanisms can be an effective strategy to minimize the poststroke neuronal death. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand-activated transcription factors known to be upstream to many inflammatory and antioxidant genes. The goal of this review is to discuss the therapeutic potential and putative mechanisms of neuroprotection following PPAR activation after stroke.
DNA molecules suitable for amplification by Polymerase Chain Reaction were obtained by immobilizing whole blood or isolated leukocytes and incubating the immobilized cells for one hour with the known non-enzymatic solution described for preparing intact DNA molecules for PFGE. Cell immobilization was done in agarose gels and punches of 1.2 mm of diameter had the amount of DNA needed for amplifying chromosomal and mitochondrial sequences, many times. The approach was successfully used in preparing DNA molecules from multiple samples in flat-bottom 96-well ELISA plates. The procedure is simple and does not demand special conditions for sample transportation or conservation; thus, it should be useful to collect and process samples under field conditions in epidemiological studies.
Introduction: Abuse of inhalants and solvents is a significant public health problem. There is no specific treatment for inhalant withdrawal.Objective: To study the effect of baclofen in treating craving and withdrawal symptoms in patients with inhalant dependence.Case Reports: Case studies of 3 young male patients with DSM-IV diagnoses of inhalant dependence treated in an inpatient setting with baclofen are presented. All patients had nonspecific withdrawal symptoms in the form of irritability, insomnia, and craving. Baclofen was given in doses up to 50 mg/day and was continued throughout the period of hospitalization.Discussion: All patients reported significant reduction in withdrawal symptoms within 48 hours of treatment and were free of symptoms for the duration of their hospital stay. One patient continued the medication as an outpatient and has remained abstinent to date. Baclofen was well tolerated by all patients. Our results suggest that baclofen may be an effective treatment modality in this patient population. These effects are possibly due to the agonistic action of baclofen at gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptors in the ventral tegmental area.
Objective: The aim of this article is to present the assessment of the presentation of symptoms and psychiatric morbidity of children and adolescents from the Andaman and Nicobar islands during the first 3 months following the December 2004 earthquake and tsunami.Method: According to predefined criteria, a primary survivor is one who was exposed directly to the earthquake and tsunami, a secondary survivor is one with close family and personal ties to primary survivors, and tertiary survivors are individuals from the communities beyond the impact area, a majority of which were exposed to the earthquake only. This study included 37 primary and secondary survivors (aged &lt;/= 18 years) and 498 tertiary survivors of the tsunami disaster. Tertiary survivors were recruited from the 10th and 12th grades of schools in Port Blair, India. The following 3 screening and treatment methods were adopted: (1) mental health clinic, (2) art therapy, and (3) group discussions.Results: The most common psychiatric morbidities observed among the primary and secondary survivors were adjustment disorder (N = 5, 13.5%), depression (N = 5, 13.5%), panic disorder (N = 4, 10.8%), posttraumatic stress disorder (N = 4, 10.8%), schizophrenia (N = 1, 2.7), and other disorders (N = 16, 43.2%). Subclinical syndrome was present in the majority of the primary and secondary survivors. Few tertiary survivors had subsyndromal symptoms.Conclusion: Only a few of the primary and secondary survivors required intensive individual psychiatric interventions; however, a majority of the primary, secondary, and tertiary survivors required community-based group interventions. Community-based group interventions and group discussions are simple, easy to implement using local resources, and effective in all groups, and provide important components of psychosocial rehabilitation. This kind of approach should be started as early as possible, targeting all children and adolescents affected by any disaster in developing countries.
A dysfunction in copper homeostasis seems to occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We recently demonstrated that an excess of non-ceruloplasmin-copper (i.e., 'free' copper) correlates with the main functional and anatomical deficits as well as the cerebrospinal markers of the disease, thus suggesting that copper contributes to AD neurodegeneration. Aim of this study was to investigate the profile of serum ceruloplasmin isoforms immunoreactive protein in relation to copper dysfunction in AD. Twenty-five AD patients and 25 controls were included in the study. All subjects underwent individual measurements of serum ceruloplasmin and copper concentrations, and the amount of 'free' copper was computed for each copper and ceruloplasmin pair. Serum samples were also pooled and analyzed by two dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) and western blot analysis. The mean concentration of 'free' copper resulted higher in AD patients than in controls. Ceruloplasmin 2-D PAGE western blot analysis of pooled sera showed in the AD samples low-molecular-weight spots in the &lt;50 kDa range that were not detected in controls' pooled sera (p &lt; 0.029). Our data indicate a ceruloplasmin fragmentation in the serum of AD patients, possibly related to 'free' copper deregulation in this disease.
We present a new standard atlas of the human brain based on magnetic resonance images. The atlas was generated using unbiased population registration from high-resolution images obtained by multichannel-coil acquisition at 3T in a group of 24 normal subjects. The final atlas comprises three anatomical channels (T(1)-weighted, early and late spin echo), three diffusion-related channels (fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, diffusion-weighted image), and three tissue probability maps (CSF, gray matter, white matter). The atlas is dynamic in that it is implicitly represented by nonrigid transformations between the 24 subject images, as well as distortion-correction alignments between the image channels in each subject. The atlas can, therefore, be generated at essentially arbitrary image resolutions and orientations (e.g., AC/PC aligned), without compounding interpolation artifacts. We demonstrate in this paper two different applications of the atlas: (a) region definition by label propagation in a fiber tracking study is enabled by the increased sharpness of our atlas compared with other available atlases, and (b) spatial normalization is enabled by its average shape property. In summary, our atlas has unique features and will be made available to the scientific community as a resource and reference system for future imaging-based studies of the human brain.
Glaucoma is a visual disorder characterized by progressive loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which is often associated with high intraocular pressure. However, mechanisms of RGC death in glaucoma still remain a mystery. Two theories have been proposed as pathogeneses of glaucoma: mechanical and vascular. We demonstrate that glutamate excitotoxicity triggered by overactivation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors may contribute according to both theories to RGC death in glaucoma and other retinal diseases such as ischemia. From a therapeutic standpoint, NMDA receptors and downstream signaling pathways, triggered by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and caspases, are potential targets of intervention to prevent RGC death. Glutamate, however, mediates synaptic transmission essential for normal function of the nervous system. Hence, complete blockade of NMDA receptor activity causes unacceptable side effects. Studies in our laboratory have shown that an open-channel blocker of the NMDA receptors, memantine, blocks only excessive NMDA receptor activity while leaving normal function relatively intact. This characteristic endows memantine with clinical tolerability, as demonstrated by its approval for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, and clinical trials for glaucoma. In this review, we discuss improved memantine derivatives, p38 MAPK, and caspase inhibitors as plausible therapeutics to prevent RGC death.
Disturbances in attentional processes are a common feature of several psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and Huntington's disease. The use of animal models has been useful in defining various candidate neural systems thus enabling us to translate basic laboratory science to the clinic and vice-versa. In this chapter, a comparative and integrated account is provided on the neuroanatomical and neurochemical modulation of basic behavioural operations such as selective attention, vigilance, set-shifting and executive control focusing on the comparative functions of the serotonin and dopamine systems in the cognitive control exerted by the prefrontal cortex. Specifically, we have reviewed evidence emerging from several behavioural paradigms in experimental animals and humans each of which centres on a different aspect of the attentional function. These paradigms offering both human and animal variants include the five-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT), attentional set-shifting and stop-signal reaction time task. In each case, the types of operation that are measured by the given paradigm and their neural correlates are defined. Then, the role of the ascending dopaminergic and serotonergic systems in the neurochemical modulation of its behavioural output are examined, and reference is made to clinical implications for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders which exhibit deficits in these cognitive tests.
Appearance of dyskinesia is a common problem of long-term Levodopa (L-DOPA) treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and represents a major limitation for the pharmacological management of the motor symptoms in the advanced stages of disease. An increasing body of evidence points to dopamine released as a false neurotransmitter from the striatal serotonin terminals as the main pre-synaptic determinant of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Here we review the animal experimental and human clinical data in support of this view, which point to the serotonin system as a promising target for anti-dyskinetic therapy in PD patients under L-DOPA medication.
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is a heterogeneous brainstem nucleus located in the midbrain and pons. Via widespread projections, which target a multitude of brain areas, its neurons utilize many transmitters to control various physiological functions, including learning, memory and affect. Accordingly, the DRN has been strongly associated with brain dysfunction, especially mood disorders such as depression, but also Alzheimer's disease. The DRN's most abundant transmitter, serotonin, has received the most attention in studies on both normal brain function and disease, and lately its involvement in the regulation of neuroplasticity has been under particular scrutiny. This chapter begins with a systematic overview of what we currently know about the anatomy of the DRN and its neurons, including their ascending projections. It continues with a review of the transmitters of the DRN, followed by a discussion on the connection between the DRN and neuroplasticity. Special emphasis is put on serotonin and its central role in neuroplasticity, which is proving to be of high priority in unraveling the full picture of the cellular mechanisms and their interconnections in the etiology of major depression and Alzheimer's disease.
Previous studies have produced contradictory evidence on the nature of the visual search impairment in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Eye movements were measured during multi-target search in nine individuals with mild-to-moderate PD. Subjects were asked to click on a response button whenever they judged they were fixating a target for the first time. Compared to age-matched healthy volunteers, PD patients were impaired at efficient search (detecting &quot;+&quot;s amongst &quot;L&quot;s) but not inefficient search (&quot;T&quot;s amongst &quot;L&quot;s). However, these patients had normal memory for locations as indexed by their rate of re-clicking on previously inspected locations. We suggest that the pattern of gaze for efficient search may reflect impaired saliency processing in PD.
The oculomotor deficits associated with Huntington's Disease (HD) are one of the earliest signs of disease onset. They include a marked delay in executing voluntary saccades and a difficulty inhibiting saccades to task-irrelevant stimuli. In addition, HD patients develop a deficit in task-switching, which can be demonstrated by the continued adherence to a rule after it has been recently changed. These deficits are likely to be the result of a progressive neural degeneration of the fronto-striatal system, which is a distinguishing feature of HD neuropathology. It is predicted that as the disease progresses the magnitude of these specific deficits should increase. We tested a cohort of early HD patients and presymptomatic HD gene carriers on a series of oculomotor tasks designed to measure saccade initiation, inhibition and rule switch cost. Saccadic latencies and error rates in early HD patients were found to be systematically higher than controls. Presymptomatic HD subjects showed small increases in saccadic latencies and error rates that were in proportion to the predicted age of disease onset. These results suggest that saccadometry and a cognitively demanding oculomotor task may be useful as an indicator of function in HD.
The pulvinar nucleus of the thalamus has been considered as a key structure for visual attention functions (Grieve, K.L. et al. (2000). Trends Neurosci., 23: 35-39; Shipp, S. (2003). Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci., 358(1438): 1605-1624). During the past several years, we have studied the role of the human pulvinar in visual attention and oculomotor behaviour by testing a small group of patients with unilateral pulvinar lesions. Here we summarize some of these findings, and present new evidence for the role of this structure in both eye movements and visual attention through two versions of a temporal-order judgment task and an antisaccade task. Pulvinar damage induces an ipsilesional bias in perceptual temporal-order judgments and in saccadic decision, and also increases the latency of antisaccades away from contralesional targets. The demonstration that pulvinar damage affects both attention and oculomotor behaviour highlights the role of this structure in the integration of visual and oculomotor signals and, more generally, its role in flexibly linking visual stimuli with context-specific motor responses.
Most studies of visual attention have used indirect manual reaction time measures to make inferences about where processing priority is allocated in the scene. Eye tracking offers an important opportunity to probe more directly where attention is deployed, in both health and disease. Here we provide a selective overview of oculomotor investigations which have demonstrated how attention can be captured &quot;bottom-up&quot; by conspicuous elements in the scene as well as how it can be allocated &quot;top-down&quot; on the basis of task goals and reward outcomes. We consider the concept of salience maps within the brain that might be responsible for computing attentional priorities and saccade targets in the visual scene, discussing the evidence for their existence. Finally, we consider how one supposedly crucial role of attention--that of binding features which belong to an object--might operate so that object representations are veridically maintained and remapped across eye movements.
Although the conceptual distinction between voluntary and automatic acts seems intuitively obvious, its neural basis remains opaque. Assigning volition--or some paraphrase such as action selection--to discrete parts of the brain arguably tells us nothing about what volition actually is in neural terms. Equally, exploring the relative sensitivity of discrete brain areas to manipulations of action choice, including its asymptote--free choice--would only be informative if voluntary processes could thereby be reliably isolated. Unfortunately, such manipulations are subject to ineliminable confounds, such as the complexity of the underlying condition-action associations. Here we propose an adaptation of a classic oculomotor task--saccadic choice with asynchronous targets--where the processes engaged in free choice manifest as interference in the performance of an automatic task, thereby circumventing the difficulties in parameterising volition. We suggest that this task may be useful in probing deficits in voluntary action in pathological states.
Predictive processes are widespread in the motor and sensory areas of the primate brain. They enable rapid computations despite processing delays and assist in resolving noisy, ambiguous input. Here we propose that the frontal eye field, a cortical area devoted to sensorimotor aspects of eye movement control, implements a prediction map of the postsaccadic visual scene for the purpose of constructing a stable percept despite saccadic eye movements.
Visual and vestibular perceptual processes are intimately related. Previous data suggest a reciprocal visual-vestibular inhibition with regard to head motion (velocity) perception with each sensory modality mediated by distinct cerebral cortical loci. The relationship between visual and vestibular perceptual processes with regard to displacement perception is unknown. In a path-reversal vestibular navigation task, we investigated the effects of early visual deprivation on vestibular perception by comparing performance and strategies employed (i.e., displacement vs. velocity matching) by a group of congenitally blind subjects to that of a sighted control group. In a second experiment in a sighted group, we attempted to disrupt firstly displacement encoding and then velocity encoding, during a path-reversal vestibular navigation task, by applying repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the right posterior parietal cortex (PPC), vs. a left motor cortex control. Our data show that for a path-reversal vestibular navigation task, when given free choice, sighted and blind subjects can utilize both displacement- and velocity-matching strategies, and overall, both groups display equivalent performance in performing the path-reversal task. In sighted subjects, when rTMS was applied during encoding in the path-reversal task, displacement but not velocity encoding was disrupted for leftward rotations. In summary, our data suggest that early visual deprivation does not degrade the perception of vestibular signals of head velocity or of derived percepts of angular displacement. The rTMS results in the sighted group show that leftward vestibular-derived displacement perception is encoded in the right PPC, an area prominent in visuo-spatial perception. Thus, in contrast to current theories of vestibular head velocity perception which involve reciprocal inhibition between separate and competing visual and vestibular cortical areas, we suggest that at least for displacement perception, visual and vestibular-derived signals are encoded in a common cortical locus.
Humans mostly use combined eye-head movements to shift gaze to a new target. Here, we discuss head motor control during human gaze shifts. We demonstrate that vestibular feedback monitors and guides the head movement on-line. Our results further suggest that cerebellar signals play a role in this on-line control, possibly by contributing to detect vestibular input indicating deviations from the intended movement trajectory.
Two cortical areas that crucially contribute to the generation and maintenance of smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM) are the medial superior temporal area (MST) and the pursuit area of the frontal eye fields (FEF). They both project to the brainstem premotor structures via different parallel pathways. A special property of the pursuit system is the increased sensitivity to retinal image motion for increasing pursuit velocities (dynamic gain control), which might be attributed to the FEF. On the other hand, MST is regarded as the main site for estimating the target velocity in space and therefore for maintaining an ongoing SPEM. However, neural activities in these areas during visually driven SPEM have not been fully understood. We present a simple model of smooth pursuit gain control that comprises population activities, as well as single unit sensitivities with respect to eye and retinal image motion in MST and FEF. We show that the nonlinear computation necessary for dynamic gain control may be accomplished by units that exhibit a curvilinear sensitivity to retinal image motion and eye velocity.
MSTd neurons in the behaving monkey were investigated during step-ramp smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM), short perturbations of the small visual target during ongoing pursuit, and large-field visual stimulation inducing ocular following responses (OFR). Neurons responded with short latencies to visual motion during OFR. In contrast the non-retinal responses during SPEM and perturbations followed the eye movements by 100-150 ms and were in the opposite direction to the OFR response. Often neurons were not modulated by the perturbation. Although, both the OFR and the perturbation response are involuntary eye movements due to visual motion, it seems very unlikely that these MSTd neurons with non-retinal responses are involved in their direct control. Based on these responses, we suggest that our MSTd neurons may code for gaze direction in space based on visual estimates of self-motion and extraretinal estimates of eye-in-head motion.
The visual system is tied to the retina. Because the eyes move in the orbit, and the head moves on the body, accurate location of an object in extrapersonal space cannot simply result from a visual signal. Instead, the retinal signal must be combined with an estimate of where the eyes are in the orbit, and where the head is in space, to calculate where that object is relative to the observer. There is abundant evidence for eye position signals in various areas of the visual cortex. However, the source of that eye position signal is unknown. Estimates of eye position can arise from two different sources. One is outflow, an 'efference copy' or 'corollary discharge' which might arise from some eye position signal used to specify eye position for the eye muscles. The second source is inflow, a direct proprioceptive signal from the muscles themselves. Nevertheless, neither a proprioceptive representation of eye position nor corollary discharge of a motor command for eye position has ever been demonstrated unambiguously in the cerebral cortex. We recently discovered the neuronal representation of proprioceptive eye position signal in monkey primary somatosensory cortex.
The development of &quot;selective&quot; drugs targeting oxytocin/vasopressin receptors has enormously progressed since the original synthesis of oxytocin more than 50 years ago. However, several factors still hamper the availability of a rich and complete range of selective agonists and antagonists acting at the different oxytocin/vasopressin receptor subtypes, making the use of these drugs still a daunting task. In this paper we will briefly review the major problems encountered when dealing with oxytocin/vasopressin selective ligands, proving few rules for their correct pharmacological use, in order to avoid common pitfalls. Finally, we will glimpse at new challenges, such us the discovery of coupling selective ligands, which foster the search for new classes of selective compounds.
Osmotic control of arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT) release from magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei is essential for body fluid homeostasis. The electrical activity of MNCs, which is regulated by intrinsic and extrinsic osmosensitive factors, is a primary determinant of blood AVP and OXT levels. Although we now understand many of the cellular mechanisms that mediate the osmotic control of electrical activity and secretion from MNCs, further insight is likely to emerge from a molecular analysis of these mechanisms. An important step towards this goal could be made through the use of mouse genetic models. However, the electrophysiological properties of MNCs in mice have not been characterized, making direct comparisons with the rat model somewhat difficult. In this study, we examined the electrical properties of MNCs from the mouse SON. Extracellular recordings from neurons in superfused explants revealed modes of basal and osmotically modulated firing very similar to those observed previously in rats. Recordings in hypothalamic slices confirmed that SON neurons receive kynurenic-acid-sensitive excitatory synaptic inputs from the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (OVLT). Current-clamp recordings from acutely dissociated SON neurons showed proportional changes in membrane cation conductance during changes in fluid osmolality. We conclude, therefore, that MNCs in the mouse SON display intrinsic osmosensitive properties and firing patterns that are very similar to those reported in the rat. Mouse MNCs therefore represent a useful model for the study of molecular factors contributing to the osmotic control of AVP and OXT release.
Oxytocin and vasopressin are two neuropeptides that have been extensively studied for their systemic and physiological roles. Studies in rodents show that oxytocin and vasopressin play an opposite role in several behavioural and physiological tests for anxiety and fear. Their effects on single cell activity in the central amygdala (CeA) triggered a number of electrophysiological studies that allowed us to develop a model of their opposing effects. In our model, GABAergic neurons in the lateral part of the central amygdala are excited by oxytocin and project to the medial part where they inhibit neurons that can be excited by vasopressin. Besides oxytocin and vasopressin, the CeA expresses a large number of other neuropeptide receptors and the question arises if a similar model can apply to their actions. We here develop a hypothesis in which neuropeptides, through their effects on distinct populations in the CeA, affect specific projections and specific physiological expressions of the fear response. Our hypothesis may be of importance for the current interest in neuropeptide receptors as therapeutic targets for neuropsychiatric disorders.
One of the more interesting and complex phenomena involving neurohypophysial hormones is the milk ejection reflex and the events surrounding it. Accordingly, many investigations over the years have taken up the challenge of elucidating its myriad aspects. Much has been learned from in vivo preparations about the sequence of events that so regularly occurs: important priming by maternal behaviours, the intermittent rhythms, gating of bursting, synchrony of the oxytocin (OXT) neuronal bursts emitted intermittently in response to the continuous suckling of the young and the factors that influence the amplitude of the bursts/milk ejections (e.g. number of suckling pups). In vivo electrophysiological studies are constrained by the infeasibility of routinely recording transmembrane events and, therefore, cannot offer detailed membrane and/or synaptic analyses. Recent studies have developed an in vitro model of OXT neuronal bursting that has allowed more mechanistic analyses of these bursts as well as factors involved in their generation and structure. Here we review many of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that have been shown to underlie the milk ejection bursts, as revealed by in vitro analyses.
The adult hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system undergoes a striking activity-dependent morphological remodelling that modifies the glial enwrapping of its magnocellular neurons. Although the functional consequences of such remodelling remain hypothetical, recent evidence has provided new insights into the repercussions of glial environment modifications on the physiology of magnocellular neurosecretory cells at the synaptic level. These studies have revealed that the reduced astrocytic coverage of magnocellular neurons occurring in the SON affects various functions in which astrocytes play key roles. These functions include uptake of neurotransmitters such as glutamate, restricting diffusion of neuroactive substances within the extracellular space and release of informative molecules known as gliotransmitters that act on neighbouring neurons to modulate synaptic transmission and excitability. Overall, our observations indicate that the neuron-glial anatomical reorganization leads to modifications of glutamatergic transmission that might be important for the physiology of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.
Semantic memory is the component of long-term memory that stores our concepts about the world. The disruption of semantic memory as a result of brain damage may have profound negative consequences on an individual's ability to name objects and process concepts. This can be disrupted as a result of many forms of brain damage, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). The current paper reviews research demonstrating that semantics deteriorates early in AD, particularly on effortful semantic tasks. There is a &quot;category effect&quot;, meaning that AD preferentially affects concepts dealing with living things and abstract concepts compared to non-living objects and verbs/actions. While this pattern of deterioration, specific for AD, may reflect a breakdown within a distributed semantic system (where living things are distinguished by a high rate of inter-correlations between concepts or by a particular mode of being learned), it is equally possible that there is a regional distribution of semantic knowledge, with living things preferentially involving left temporal regions which become damaged early on in AD. Evidence from patients with strokes and semantic dementia, as well as activation studies in normal individuals, implicates the left posterior temporal region in semantic processing for pictures, abstract words, and concrete words. AD individuals, who are impaired in a variety of semantic tasks, show functional deficits in this area, and fail to activate it normally.
While changes in the efficacy of synaptic transmission are believed to represent the physiological bases of learning mechanisms, other recent studies have started to highlight the possibility that a structural reorganization of synaptic networks could also be involved. Morphological changes of the shape or size of dendritic spines or of the organization of postsynaptic densities have been described in several studies, as well as the growth and formation following stimulation of new protrusions. Confocal in vivo imaging experiments have further revealed that dendritic spines undergo a continuous turnover and replacement process that may vary as a function of development, but can be markedly enhanced by sensory activation or following brain damage. The implications of these new aspects of plasticity for learning and memory mechanisms are discussed.
Synaptic remodeling and synaptic growth accompany various forms of long-term memory. Storage of the long-term memory for sensitization of the gill-withdrawal reflex in Aplysia has been extensively studied in this respect and is associated with the growth of new synapses by the sensory neurons onto their postsynaptic target neurons. Recent time-lapse imaging studies of living sensory-to-motor neuron synapses in culture have monitored both functional and structural changes simultaneously so as to follow remodeling and growth at the same specific synaptic connections continuously over time and to examine the functional contribution of these learning-related structural changes to the different time-dependent phases of memory storage. Insights provided by these studies suggest the synaptic differentiation and growth induced by learning in the mature nervous system are highly dynamic and often rapid processes that can recruit both molecules and mechanisms used for de novo synapse formation during development.
A general discussion of various levels of models in computational neuroscience is presented. A detailed case study of modeling at the sub-cellular level is undertaken. The process of learning actions by reward or punishment is called 'Instrumental Conditioning' or 'Reinforcement Learning' (RL). Temporal difference learning (TDL) is a mathematical framework for RL. Houk et al. (1995) proposed a cellular signaling model for interaction of dopamine (DA) and glutamate activities at the striatum that forms the basis for TDL. In the model, glutamatergic input generates a membrane depolarization through N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-5-hydroxy-3-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA), metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), and opens calcium two plus ion (Ca(2+)) channels resulting in the influx of Ca(2+) into the dendritic spine. This raises the postsynaptic calcium concentration in the dendritic spine leading to the autophosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). The timely arrival of the DA input at the neck of the spine head generates a cascade of reactions which then leads to the prolongation of long-term potentiation (LTP) generated by the autophosphorylation of CaMKII. Since no simulations were done so far to support this proposal, we undertook the task of computational verification of the model. During the simulations it was found that there was enhancement and prolongation of autophosphorylation of CaMKII. This result verifies Houk's proposal for LTP in the striatum. Our simulation results are generally in line with the known biological experimental data and also suggest predictions for future experimental verification.
Modern philosophy of mind cannot be understood without recent developments in computer science, artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, neuroscience, biology, linguistics, and psychology. Classical philosophy of formal languages as well as symbolic AI assume that all kinds of knowledge must explicitly be represented by formal or programming languages. This assumption is limited by recent insights into the biology of evolution and developmental psychology of the human organism. Most of our knowledge is implicit and unconscious. It is not formally represented, but embodied knowledge, which is learnt by doing and understood by bodily interacting with changing environments. That is true not only for low-level skills, but even for high-level domains of categorization, language, and abstract thinking. The embodied mind is considered an emergent capacity of the brain as a self-organizing complex system. Actually, self-organization has been a successful strategy of evolution to handle the increasing complexity of the world. Genetic programs are not sufficient and cannot prepare the organism for all kinds of complex situations in the future. Self-organization and emergence are fundamental concepts in the theory of complex dynamical systems. They are also applied in organic computing as a recent research field of computer science. Therefore, cognitive science, AI, and robotics try to model the embodied mind in an artificial evolution. The paper analyzes these approaches in the interdisciplinary framework of complex dynamical systems and discusses their philosophical impact.
Research on attention has been closely linked with possible advances in the study of consciousness. Various theories and models have been proposed for attention in the past 50 years. Behavioural, computational, and neuroscientific approaches have been successful in improving our understanding of attentional processes. Given the current status of attention research, what can we say about the relationship between attention and consciousness? This paper discusses the possible relationships between attention and consciousness. Findings from cognitive science and neuroscience relevant to the elucidation of this relationship are discussed. Recent findings from phenomena that have a bearing on this relationship such as inattentional amnesia, change blindness, attentional blink, perceptual stabilization, and afterimages are described. The implications of the results of these phenomena for attention and awareness are also discussed. It is proposed that top-down attention is not a unitary phenomena and such a characterization may provide a way to interpret some of the results from these findings.
Modern consciousness studies are in a healthy state, with many progressive empirical programmes in cognitive science, neuroscience, and related sciences, using relatively conventional third-person research methods. However not all the problems of consciousness can be resolved in this way. These problems may be grouped into problems that require empirical advance, those that require theoretical advance, and those that require a re-examination of some of our pre-theoretical assumptions. I give examples of these, and focus on two problems--what consciousness is, and what consciousness does--that requires all three. In this, careful attention to conscious phenomenology and finding an appropriate way to relate first-person evidence to third-person evidence appears to be central to progress. But we may also need to re-examine what we take to be &quot;natural facts&quot; about the world, and how we can know them. The same appears to be true for a trans-cultural understanding of consciousness that combines classical Indian phenomenological methods with the third-person methods of Western science.
Traumatic injury to the brain or spinal cord and multiple sclerosis (MS) share a common pathophysiology with regard to axonal demyelination. Despite advances in central nervous system (CNS) repair in experimental animal models, adequate functional recovery has yet to be achieved in patients in response to any of the current strategies. Functional recovery is dependent, in large part, upon remyelination of spared or regenerating axons. The mammalian CNS maintains an endogenous reservoir of glial precursor cells (GPCs), capable of generating new oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. These GPCs are upregulated following traumatic or demyelinating lesions, followed by their differentiation into oligodendrocytes. However, this innate response does not adequately promote remyelination. As a result, researchers have been focusing their efforts on harvesting, culturing, characterizing, and transplanting GPCs into injured regions of the adult mammalian CNS in a variety of animal models of CNS trauma or demyelinating disease. The technical and logistic considerations for transplanting GPCs are extensive and crucial for optimizing and maintaining cell survival before and after transplantation, promoting myelination, and tracking the fate of transplanted cells. This is especially true in trials of GPC transplantation in combination with other strategies such as neutralization of inhibitors to axonal regeneration or remyelination. Overall, such studies improve our understanding and approach to developing clinically relevant therapies for axonal remyelination following traumatic brain injury (TBI) or spinal cord injury (SCI) and demyelinating diseases such as MS.


Benzodiazepines (BDZs) are the most used psychoactive drugs in the pharmacotherapy of anxiety. A large number of structurally different classes of ligands are also active in the modulation of anxiety, showing high affinity for the benzodiazepine binding site (BDZ-bs) of the GABA (A) receptor complex. Various synthetic derivatives of natural flavonoids have been found to have very potent anxiolytic properties. This study was undertaken to provide a behavioral characterization of two novels halogenated flavonoids, 5-methoxy-6, 8-dibromoflavanone (FV1), and 6-bromoflavanone (FV2). These compounds were tested and compared to diazepam (0.5 mg/kg) and to the natural flavonoid chrysin (1 mg/kg) as a standard of activity. When injected in mice (0.5, 1 mg/kg i.p) both synthetic flavonoids increased the locomotor activity and the exploratory skills of the animals, as measured in the open-field and in the hole-board tests. Both compounds, indeed, had a clear anxiolytic activity in the elevated plus-maze, as measured by an increased number of entries and the percentage of time spent in the open arms. At the tested doses, both compounds did not induce sedative action or compulsive behaviour. These results encourage making deeper investigations on this field.
Deficits in attention and response inhibition are apparent across several neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders for which current pharmacotherapy is inadequate. The 5-choice serial reaction time test (5-CSRTT), which originated from the continuous performance test (CPT) in humans, may serve as a useful translational assay for efficacy in these key behavioral domains. The selective norepinepherine reuptake inhibitor, atomoxetine, represents the first non-stimulant based drug approved for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and has replaced methylphenidate (Ritalin) as the first line in pharmacotherapy for the treatment of ADHD. Methylphenidate and atomoxetine have different cortical and sub-cortical neurochemical signatures that could predict differences in cognitive and non-cognitive functions. The present experiments investigated the effects of acute methylphenidate and atomoxetine in male long Evans rats in the 5-choice serial reaction time (5CSRT) test that is hypothesized to serve as a model of vigilance and impulsivity behaviors associated with ADHD. Long Evans rats were trained to perform at 75% correct responses with fewer than 20% missed trials in the 5CSRT test (500 ms stimulus duration, 5 s inter-trial interval (ITI)). By varying the ITI (10, 7, 5, and 4 s) on drug test days, impulsivity (as defined by premature responses) was dramatically increased with a concomitant decrease in attention (percent correct). Subsequently, animals were treated with methylphenidate (2.5 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) or atomoxetine (0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) using this design. In Experiment 1, treatment with methylphenidate modestly improved overall attention but the highest dose of methylphenidate (5.0 mg/kg) significantly increased impulsivity. In contrast, treatment with atomoxetine induced a marked decrease in impulsivity whilst modestly improving overall attention. Interestingly, no effect was observed on measures of performance (e.g. motivation/sedation) with atomoxetine, whilst moderate hyperactivity (faster overall response latencies; magazine, correct, incorrect) was observed in the methylphenidate group. Those data suggest that the 5CSRT test can be used to differentiate stimulant and non-stimulant pharmacotherapies on measures of impulsivity.

Efforts to define facial esthetics and natural attraction using objective criteria go back in time. Nowadays, the abundance of available information, the evolution in our understanding, the intermeshing of the neurosciences and biology, as well as the potential of digital technology, have provided new elements for the objective definition of esthetics and shaped new perceptions and perspectives. The aim of this paper is to attempt a critical analysis from a clinical orthodontic perspective of the conventional methods assessing facial beauty as well as of the trends and viewpoints that form today's concept of an esthetically ideal face, based on a historical review from ancient times to the 21st century. It appears that the &quot;beauty standards&quot; formulated artificially by the mass media and the internet remain a challenge for the orthodontist, who is called upon to explore the aspirations, motives and expectations of patients in order to be able to contribute in improving their social status and quality of life.
Over the last decade, the use of the zebrafish as a genetic model has moved beyond the proof-of-concept for the analysis of vertebrate embryonic development to demonstrated utility as a mainstream model organism for the understanding of human disease. The initial identification of a variety of zebrafish mutations affecting the eye and retina, and the subsequent cloning of mutated genes have revealed cellular, molecular and physiological processes fundamental to visual system development. With the increasing development of genetic manipulations, sophisticated techniques for phenotypic characterization, behavioral approaches and screening strategies, the identification of novel genes or novel gene functions will have important implications for our understanding of human eye diseases, pathogenesis, and treatment.


The author discusses the evolution of psychoanalytic understanding from Freud's time to the present, citing the influence of various sociocultural changes. He addresses Freud's proper place in history and notes ways in which Freud's contributions cast him as belonging to Romanticism. Freud's shift from the topographic model of the mind to the structural one, and the influence of this on psychoanalysis, is discussed, as well as important developments in the field since Freud. The author focuses particularly on difficulties encountered in psychoanalytic practice today, and he describes what he has termed organizing interpretations as uniquely valuable in the treatment setting.
Most current mainstream research, diagnostic assessment, and treatment strategies focus on specific psychiatric disorders--on diagnoses that are based on manifest symptoms within a categorical, atheoretical approach. This disorder-centered approach has been antithetical to psychoanalytic views, which are fundamentally person centered, focusing on the dynamics of individual lives. Growing realization of the high comorbidity among psychiatric disorders has led to the need to include developmental considerations and hierarchical models in the classification and treatment of psychopathology. In addition, this realization has led to a renewed interest in the principles of equifinality and multifinality--that a given end state can be the result of different developmental paths and that similar developmental factors may lead to dissimilar outcomes. In this chapter these developments are illustrated by research on the impact of early adversity, a central domain in psychoanalytic thought. Findings from various strands of research in the neurosciences and genetic research, in particular, suggest that early adversity leads to vulnerability for a wide variety of both psychiatric and (functional) somatic disorders. These findings have contributed to the rediscovery of the importance of early experiences more generally and to the need for a broad developmental perspective. In this context, we also discuss the danger of reductionism associated with the growing influence and popularity of affective neuroscience and genetics as well as the vital role a psychoanalytic perspective might play in countering this reductionism by reestablishing the importance of meaning and meaning making in understanding and treating patients with a history of early adversity. In particular, we focus on the importance of narrative and mental representations in the development of the capacity for mentalization in these patients.
Some species and individuals are able to learn cognitive skills more flexibly than others. Learning experiences and cortical function are known to contribute to such differences, but the specific factors that determine an organism's intellectual capacities remain unclear. Here, an integrative framework is presented suggesting that variability in cognitive plasticity reflects neural constraints on the precision and extent of an organism's stimulus representations. Specifically, it is hypothesized that cognitive plasticity depends on the number and diversity of cortical modules that an organism has available as well as the brain's capacity to flexibly reconfigure and customize networks of these modules. The author relates this framework to past proposals on the neural mechanisms of intelligence, including (a) the relationship between brain size and intellectual capacity; (b) the role of prefrontal cortex in cognitive control and the maintenance of stimulus representations; and (c) the impact of neural plasticity and efficiency on the acquisition and performance of cognitive skills. The proposed framework provides a unified account of variability in cognitive plasticity as a function of species, age, and individual, and it makes specific predictions about how manipulations of cortical structure and function will impact intellectual capacity.
When participants are attending to a subset of visual targets or events and ignoring irrelevant distractors (&quot;selective looking&quot;), they often fail to detect the appearance of an unexpected visual object or event even when the object is visible for several seconds (&quot;sustained inattentional blindness&quot;). An important factor influencing detection rates in selective looking is the attentional set of the participant: the more similar the features of the unexpected object are to the attended ones, the more probably it will be detected. We examined the possible contribution of active ignoring to this similarity effect by studying the role of the distractor objects in sustained inattentional blindness. First we showed the similarity effect for chromatic colors and then we manipulated the similarity of the unexpected object in relation to the distractor objects and did not find any effects. Moreover, we found that inattentional blindness was present even when the displays did not contain any irrelevant to-be-ignored objects. We conclude that attending to target items on the basis of attentional set, but not active ignoring of nontargets items, is sufficient for the occurrence of sustained inattentional blindness.
External noise methods and observer models have been widely used to characterize the intrinsic perceptual limitations of human observers and changes of the perceptual limitations associated with cognitive, developmental, and disease processes by highlighting the variance of internal representations. The authors conducted a comprehensive review of the 5 most prominent observer models through the development of a common formalism. They derived new predictions of the models for a common set of behavioral tests that were compared with the data in the literature and a new experiment. The comparison between the model predictions and the empirical data resulted in very strong constraints on the observer models. The perceptual template model provided the best account of all the empirical data in the visual domain. The choice of the observer model has significant implications for the interpretation of data from other external noise paradigms, as well as studies using external noise to assay changes of perceptual limitations associated with observer states. The empirical and theoretical development suggests possible parallel developments in other sensory modalities and studies of high-level cognitive processes.
This study compared the influence of categorization on perceptual processing in adults with autistic spectrum disorders (ASD) and normal control participants. Participants were asked to categorize hybrid faces (composed of two overlapped faces of different spatial bandwidths) by gender and emotion. Control participants exhibited a bias for low-pass information during gender categorization and a bias for high-pass information during emotion categorization. By contrast, adults with ASD showed the same low-pass bias in both tasks. This absence of a shift in processing style in the ASD group is discussed in terms of diminished top-down modulation in autism.
Medically ill patients present with a high prevalence of non-specific comorbid symptoms including pain, sleep disorders, fatigue and cognitive and mood alterations that is a leading cause of disability. However, despite major advances in the understanding of the immune-to-brain communication pathways that underlie the pathophysiology of these symptoms in inflammatory conditions, little has been done to translate this newly acquired knowledge to the clinics and to identify appropriate therapies. In a multidisciplinary effort to address this problem, clinicians and basic scientists with expertise in areas of inflammation, psychiatry, neurosciences and psychoneuroimmunology were brought together in a specialized meeting organized in Bordeaux, France, on May 28-29, 2007. These experts considered key questions in the field, in particular those related to identification and quantification of the predominant symptoms associated with inflammation, definition of systemic and central markers of inflammation, possible domains of intervention for controlling inflammation-associated symptoms, and relevance of animal models of inflammation-associated symptoms. This resulted in a number of recommendations that should improve the recognition and management of inflammation-associated symptoms in medically ill patients.









People tend to recall a disproportionately large number of personal events from their adolescence and early adulthood. This &quot;reminiscence bump&quot; has been examined extensively, but its causes remain unclear. In this Internet-based experiment, nearly 3,500 participants were given 10 cue words and were asked to describe the personal events that came to mind. Furthermore, they were asked to date each event and to indicate whether it was a first-time experience. Finally, the participants were asked to rate the strength of the emotional reaction to the event or the valence or the importance of the event. Surprisingly, the reminiscence bump consisted of relatively fewer novel, emotional, important positive or negative events. This result increases the likelihood of an alternative explanation--namely, that memory is generally enhanced in adolescence and early adulthood. However, this account has not been tested directly.
Although a single diagnostic label, conduct disorder, is currently applied to children exhibiting antisocial behaviour, multiple routes to the same behavioural phenomena exist. Morton and Frith's (1995) causal modelling has been fundamentally important in influencing models of cognitive/affective and associated neural differences between callous-unemotional (CU) and reactive/threat-based antisocial behaviour. Current behavioural genetic research is still catching up with the developmental cognitive neuroscience, and very few genetically informative studies differentiate between these two subtypes of antisocial behaviour. Our own work with preadolescent twins suggests that while the CU subtype is genetically vulnerable to antisocial behaviour, the non-CU subtype manifests a primarily environmental aetiology to their antisocial behaviour. Molecular genetic work to date has not differentiated between these two subtypes, and we highlight why it might be of interest to do so. Finally, we discuss how the novel approach of imaging genetics could be harnessed to study genes to cognition pathways for different subtypes of conduct disorder. Uta Frith's contributions to articulating research strategies for developmental disorders are important in conducting and interpreting this work.
Adolescence is usually defined as the period of psychological and social transition between childhood and adulthood. The beginning of adolescence, around the onset of puberty, is characterized by large hormonal and physical changes. The transition from childhood to adulthood is also characterized by psychological changes in terms of identity, self-consciousness, and cognitive flexibility. In the past decade, it has been demonstrated that various regions of the human brain undergo development during adolescence and beyond. Some of the brain regions that undergo particularly protracted development are involved in social cognitive function in adults. In the first section of this paper, I briefly describe evidence for a circumscribed network of brain regions involved in understanding other people. Next, I describe evidence that some of these brain regions undergo structural development during adolescence. Finally, I discuss recent studies that have investigated social cognitive development during adolescence.
Autoimmune encephalitis is a heterogeneous group of disorders probably resulting from a reaction of the immune system against antigens of the central nervous system. Historically, the autoimmune hypothesis was based on the neuropathological discovery of an immune cellular infiltrate in the brain parenchyma and around the cerebral blood vessels, resembling a form of viral encephalitis without any detectable viral antigens. These syndromes can be divided into forms with prevalent grey matter involvement, forms with prevalent white matter damage and forms in which the target of the immune process is the vessels. In this paper, we review recent knowledge about the syndromes belonging to the first group. This group encompasses syndromes in which there is neuronal loss and antibodies directed against antigens expressed in the neurons (anti-neuronal antibodies) are frequently detected in the sera or cerebrospinal fluid. These antibodies are not necessarily the cause of neurological impairment but are important markers for these syndromes. It is essential to acquire knowledge on these disorders since they are an important cause of rapidly progressive cognitive decline and behavioural problems which may remain underrecognized, but often improve with immunomodulatory therapies.
Epithelia in multicellular organisms constitute the frontier with the environment. Hence, epithelial cells are specialized in regulating the transit of ions and molecules from and into the organism. Therapeutic agents in order to reach their targets frequently need to cross epithelial sheets. Two routes are available for such purpose: the transcellular and the paracellular pathways. The former is employed by lipophilic drugs and by molecules selectively transported by channels, pumps and carriers present in the plasma membrane. Hydrophilic molecules cannot cross biological membranes. Therefore their transepithelial transport is significantly enhanced if they move through the paracellular pathway. Transit through this route is regulated by tight junctions (TJs). This review focuses on patented inventions designed to open the paracellular route in a reversible manner in order to enhance drug delivery across epithelial and endothelial barriers. In these patents, the paracellular route is opened by altering the TJ with peptides homologous to the external loops of integral proteins of the TJ, antisense oligonucleotides and siRNA for TJ proteins, toxins and proteins derived from microorganisms that target TJ proteins, and with other molecules such as peptides, lipids, heparins, chitosan derivatives, phospholipase inhibitors and kinase activators.
Development of puberty in female mice was examined in relationship with the ano-genital distance index (AGDI), phyto-oestrogen content of diet and exposure to males post weaning. Throughout gestation and post-natal development, females were exposed to a regular diet or a nutritionally similar diet deficient in phyto-oestrogens. After segregation at weaning on the basis of short or long AGDI, an indirect measure of in utero androgen exposure, females were housed alone or underneath two outbred adult males for 2 weeks. Female urinary samples were collected non-invasively throughout this exposure, then assayed for oestradiol, progesterone and creatinine. Females were then killed and uterine and ovarian mass was determined. Urinary oestradiol was substantially reduced in females raised on the phyto-oestrogen-free diet. Oestradiol levels were more dynamic over days in urine of male-exposed females, especially among those on the regular diet. Urinary progesterone was not strongly influenced by diet. Progesterone was more dynamic in urine of male-exposed females, and was generally elevated compared with levels in isolated females, the size of this effect dependent on AGDI, diet and whether the measure was adjusted for creatinine. Urinary creatinine was elevated by the phyto-oestrogen-free diet and reduced by male exposure, tending to decline over days in females exposed to males. Male exposure increased uterine and ovarian mass and was influenced by AGDI in interaction with diet and male exposure.
The current doctrine regards fields of partial cortical blindness as permanent once a temporally restricted window for spontaneous recovery has passed. Accordingly, neuropsychological rehabilitation mainly applies compensatory procedures that train patients to make better use of their sighted field. The more ambitious goal of functional recovery depends on the survival of pathways that continue to transmit retinal information from the blind field. Although wide-spread antero- and retrograde degeneration follows lesions that destroy or denervate the primary visual cortex and cause partial cortical blindness, several retinofugal pathways survive in cats, monkeys, and humans. In all three species, they subserve a variety of visual functions which develop and improve with practice. Post lesion plasticity is greater when the lesion occurs early in life, but changes in behavioural performance and brain responses have also been demonstrated in late lesion subjects. Although the extent of functional improvement is variable, and the most effective approaches still need to be established across cohorts, the evidence for perceptual learning in fields of cortical blindness indicates that the visual processes mediated by the surviving parts of the visual system can be harnessed to improve functional outcome.
Astrocytes comprise a heterogeneous cell population that plays a complex role in repair after spinal cord injury. Reactive astrocytes are major contributors to the glial scar that is a physical and chemical barrier to axonal regeneration. Yet, consistent with a supportive role in development, astrocytes secrete neurotrophic factors and protect neurons and glia spared by the injury. In development and after injury, local cues are modulators of astrocyte phenotype and function. When multipotent cells are transplanted into the injured spinal cord, they differentiate into astrocytes and other glial cells as opposed to neurons, which is commonly viewed as a challenge to be overcome in developing stem cell technology. However, several examples show that astrocytes provide support and guidance for axonal growth and aid in improving functional recovery after spinal cord injury. Notably, transplantation of astrocytes of a developmentally immature phenotype promotes tissue sparing and axonal regeneration. Furthermore, interventions that enhance endogenous astrocyte migration or reinvasion of the injury site result in greater axonal growth. These studies demonstrate that astrocytes are dynamic, diverse cells that have the capacity to promote axon growth after injury. The ability of astrocytes to be supportive of recovery should be exploited in devising regenerative strategies.
The olfactory nerve differs from cranial nerves III-XII in that it contains a specialised type of glial cell, called 'olfactory ensheathing cell' (OEC), rather than Schwann cells. In addition, functional neurogenesis persists postnatally in the olfactory system, i.e. the primary olfactory pathway continuously rebuilds itself throughout adult life. The presence of OECs in the olfactory nerve is thought to be critical to this continuous growth process. Because of this intrinsic capacity for self-repair, the mammalian olfactory system has proved as a useful model in neuroregeneration studies. In addition, OECs have been used in transplantation studies to promote pathway regeneration elsewhere in the nervous system. Here, we have reviewed the parameters that allow for repair within the primary olfactory pathway and the role that OECs are thought to play in this process. We conclude that, in addition to intrinsic growth potential, the presence of an aligned substrate to the target structure is a fundamental prerequisite for appropriate restoration of connectivity with the olfactory bulb. Hence, strategies to promote regrowth of injured nerve pathways should incorporate usage of aligned, oriented substrates of OECs or other cellular conduits with additional intervention to boost neuronal cell body responses to injury and/or neutralisation of putative inhibitors.
The use of genetically modified mice to study axon regeneration after spinal cord injury has served as a useful in vivo model for both loss-of-function and gain-of-function analysis of candidate proteins. This review discusses the impact of genetically modified mice on axon regeneration after spinal cord injury in the context of axon growth inhibition by myelin, the glial scar, and chemorepellent molecules. We also discuss the use of mice which transgenically express fluorescent proteins in specific axons for increasing our understanding of how spinal cord axons behave after injury.
This review will describe the unique advantages that are offered by the visual system of mammals and other vertebrates for studying the regenerative responses of the central nervous system (CNS) to injury, and recent insights provided by such studies. In the mouse and rat visual system a variety of experimental paradigms promote survival of retinal ganglion cells (RGC) and optic nerve regeneration, probably through stimulation by neurotrophic factors (NTF) either directly, or indirectly through retinal astrocyte/Mller cell intermediary activation. NTF induce disinhibition of axon growth through regulated intramembranous proteolysis of p75NTR, and the inactivation of RhoA and EGFR signalling. The concomitant release of metalloproteinases (MMP) and plasminogen activators from RGC axons, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases from optic nerve glia repress scarring and thereby reduce titres of scar-derived inhibitory ligands expressed in the wound. MMP also degrade myelin-derived inhibitory ligands along regenerating axon trajectories after regulated release from glia at the growing front of regenerating RGC axons. Optic nerve transection induces apoptosis of RGC which is blocked by anti-apoptotic regimes and thus, in combination with blockers of axon-growth inhibitory signalling and promoters of axon growth may be a therapeutic formula for promoting sustained axon regeneration. All these findings in the visual system are translatable to the CNS as a whole and thus strategies that successfully promote visual axon regeneration will be equally effective elsewhere in the CNS. Future developments likely to advance the field of regenerative research include a greater understanding of phylogenetic differences in the response of the CNS to injury, the role of NTF, cAMP, EGFR, glia/neuron interactions in disinhibiting and promoting axon growth, the control of neuron death, and effective drug delivery.
After injury to the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), neurons are not able to regenerate their axons and recovery is limited by restricted plasticity. Axon regeneration is inhibited by the presence of the various inhibitory molecules, including chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) which are upregulated around the injury site. Plasticity after the end of critical periods is restricted by extracellular matrix changes, particularly the formation of CSPG-containing perineuronal nets. Enzymatic removal of chondroitin sulfate (CS) chains with chondroitinase ABC promotes axon regeneration and reactivates plasticity. This review details the structures and properties of the different CSPGs in the normal and damaged CNS, the use of the enzyme chondroitinase ABC to promote neural regeneration and plasticity, and discusses mechanisms of action and possible therapeutic uses of this enzyme.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) play important roles in cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions in both mature and developing nervous system. During development, they are involved in cell migration, axon guidance, target recognition, and synapse formation; while in the mature nervous system, they maintain synaptic connections, cell-cell contacts, and neuron-glial interactions. Injuries to the nervous systems break the stable state of the tissues and the repair of damaged tissues and regeneration of axons require the participation of CAMs both as adhesion molecules and as signal transduction molecules. One group of the well-studied CAMs in the nervous system is the immunoglobulin superfamily including L1 and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM). This review will be focussed on the involvement of L1, NCAM, and polysialylated NCAM in neural repair and axon regeneration after nerve injury and their potential applications in the treatment of CNS injury.
Adult fish, in contrast to mammals, are capable of regenerating axonal tracts as well as cells and even entire tissues in the central nervous system (CNS). The zebrafish is a powerful genetic model for studies on the developing CNS and is now emerging as a CNS regeneration model. Here we review recent progress in adult regeneration paradigms in zebrafish ranging from axonal re-growth models to those of tissue regeneration. Moreover, we review the tools that have become available in zebrafish to elucidate the factors contributing to successful CNS regeneration. Since many molecular pathways are shared between zebrafish and mammals, it is hoped that insights from zebrafish may contribute to future therapeutic approaches in CNS injury and disease.
Neuropeptide B (NPB) and neuropeptide W (NPW) are neuropeptides that were recently identified as endogenous ligands for the previously orphan G-protein coupled receptors, GPR7 (NPBWR1) and GPR8 (NPBWR2). This neuropeptide system is thought to have a role in regulating feeding behavior, energy homeostasis, neuroendocrine function, and modulating inflammatory pain. Strong and discrete expression of their receptors in the extended amygdala suggests a potential role in regulating stress responses, emotion, anxiety and fear; however, there have been no functional studies to date to support this possibility. Future studies of NPB/NPW using both pharmacological and phenotypic analysis of genetically engineered mice will lead to further elucidation of the physiological role of this novel neuropeptide system.
The G-protein coupled receptor GPR54 has an essential role in the initiation and maintenance of mammalian fertility. Humans and mice with mutations in GPR54 have hypogonadotropic hypogonadism characterized by absence of sexual maturation and low levels of gonadotropic hormones (LH and FSH). The ligand for GPR54 is encoded by the KISS1 gene, which produces a 54-amino-acid peptide (metastin or kisspeptin-54) that can be cleaved into shorter peptides (kisspeptins 14, 13 and 10) with similar potencies. Kisspeptin administration stimulates gonadotropin release in several species by inducing GnRH secretion from hypothalamic GnRH neurons expressing GPR54. Kisspeptins are produced by neurons located in the AVPV and ARC regions of the hypothalamus. Expression of Kiss1 in these neurons is differentially regulated by sex steroids providing a mechanism by which testosterone or estrogen can regulate GnRH release. The AVPV region is sexually dimorphic with highest expression of kisspeptin in females. Positive feedback by estrogen on expression of Kiss1 in the AVPV region may be responsible for the pre-ovulatory LH surge during the estrus cycle. Central administration of kisspeptin to immature female rats can induce precocious activation of the gonadotropic axis, causing advanced vaginal opening, elevated uterus weight, increased serum levels of LH and estrogen and induce ovulation. Kisspeptins/GPR54 have also been implicated in regulating the estrus cycle of seasonal breeders and in the control of lactational amenorrhea. Expression of Gpr54 and Kiss1 have also been reported in several peripheral tissues including the pituitary, ovary, testes and the placenta raising the possibility that these genes may have additional functions in these tissues. Regulation of kisspeptin expression by peripheral factors such as leptin may be involved in coordinating metabolic status with the reproductive axis.



Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a powerful non-invasive tool to investigate neuronal processing. In the last ten years a new methodological approach in the field of fMRI has been developed: fMRI adaptation. It has been found that the repetition of a stimulus leads to a decrease of the fMRI signal in the brain region that processes this stimulus. The phenomenon has been related to neuronal adaptation effects found in single-cell recordings. Since the first experiments that observed fMRI-adaptation effects, the method has been applied extensively to study various visual phenomena, such as the perception of motion, shape, objects, and orientation. The great advantage of fMRI adaptation is that it allows assessing the functional response profile of a brain region at a subvoxel level. The purpose of the current review is to evaluate the different experimental approaches used to elicit fMRI-adaptation effects. We discuss papers published in the domain of visual neuroscience that made use of fMRI-adaptation paradigms. In doing so, we focus on methodological considerations concerning experimental design, stimulus presentation and influencing factors such as awareness and attention. In the course of this review, we show that different fMRI-adaptation designs capture heterogeneous neuronal adaptation effects. As the picture of the mechanisms underlying neuronal adaptation changes from simple synaptic fatigue to complex network interactions, the concept of fMRI adaptation has to be redefined.
Primary neuronal cultures are commonly used to dissect the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie human brain diseases. Neurons dissociated from an embryonic brain and grown in culture dishes are almost by definition different from those residing inside a living brain. Not only are the individual cells stripped of their normal chemical and physical contacts, but the cellular composition of the cultures (the ratio of cell types) can be affected by many intrinsic and extrinsic factors, including brain region, neuronal birthday, gender, genetic background and in vitro age. Changes in any of these factors may have a strong impact on the outcome of the experiment. In a recent study, Romito-DiGiacomo et al. /54/ demonstrated that when neurons were harvested from murine embryonic cortex, the typical protocol favored cells that were just finishing cell division at the time of harvest. By taking advantage of the fact that the date of the final cell division (birthday) of a neuron correlates with its final position in the cortical plate they were able to assay deeper layer neurons (layers V-VI) separately from the more superficial layers (layers II-III). They reported that while the superficial cells were sensitive to the toxic effect of beta-amyloid, the deeper layer neurons were virtually resistant to death in its presence. The findings recapitulate selective vulnerability in the neocortex of Alzheimer's disease. This is a beautiful example of how to turn the apparent weakness of primary cultures into strength through experimental design and data interpretation. Selective vulnerability is a common feature of neurodegenerative disease, thus it is critical to use the right primary culture. Do you know what is in your culture?
For more than 50 years, Parkinson's disease (PD) has been conceptualized as a product of nigro-striatal dopamine (NSD) system degeneration. In spite of a growing body of evidence depicting the mammalian brain as an interrelated complexity of circuitous systems, dopamine (DA) deficiency of the NSD is still regarded as the main problem, with DA replacement being the purpose of therapeutic intervention. For at least 191 years circadian involvement in various aspects of PD, including depression and insomnia, has been recognized as an integral part of the symptom matrix of PD and yet attempts to elucidate the involvement of this system is uncharted territory. The present review attempts a major reorganization of mammalian brain into a coordinated complex involving the NSD and the retinal hypothalamic tract (RHT) as the primary systems involved in the retino-diencephalic/mesencephalic-pineal (RDMP) axis. Secondary systems including the lateral hypothalamus (LH), the area postraema (AP) and the subthalamic nucleus (STN) also form an integral part of this system as they have been shown to be either intimately related to the primary systems of the RDMP axis or have been shown to be significantly involved in the expression and treatment of PD. A large volume of evidence suggests that the RDMP axis is activated during the course of PD and during therapeutic intervention. Four types of neurotoxicity associated with melatonin are identified and the susceptibility of various parts of the RDMP axis to undergo neuropathological change, the tendency for melatonin to induce PD-like behavioural toxicity, and the relationship of this to PD symptomotology are described. This includes adverse effects of melatonin on motor function, hypotension, the adjuvant use of benzodiazepines, depression, insomnia, body weight regulation and various biochemical effects of melatonin administration: all problems currently facing the proposal to introduce melatonin as an adjuvant. It is suggested further that traditional DA replacement may well work by exerting its effect upon the circadian system, rather than simply replacing deficient DA. Activation of the circadian function by antagonizing melatonin with bright light not only has therapeutic value in treating the primary symptoms of PD but it shares a common mechanism with L-dopa in reducing the occurrence of seborrheic dermatitis. Concepts at the centre of understanding pineal function in PD, including pineal calcification, melatonin deficiency, symptomatic versus protective features of melatonin and antioxidative effects, are explained in a counterintuitive context. Intriguing propositions including the role of the retina in the aetiology of PD and that the nigra functions as a retina in this disorder are presented with the intention to provide a new understanding of the underlying compromised function in PD and to provide new treatment strategies. For the first time, abundant evidence is presented describing PD as an endocrine disorder of melatonin hyperplasia. The role of circadian interventive therapies and internal desynchrony in the aetiology and progression of PD provides a new direction for understanding the underlying physiology of a disease which is currently in a state of impasse and provides new hope for those who suffer from its debilitating effects.
Glutamatergic afferents of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) play an important role in the functioning of the VTA and are involved in the pathophysiology of drug addiction. It has recently been demonstrated that the VTA is densely innervated by glutamatergic axons and that glutamatergic neurons projecting to the VTA are situated in almost all structures that project there. While the projection from the prefrontal cortex is essentially entirely glutamatergic, subcortical glutamatergic neurons innervating the VTA intermingle with non-glutamatergic, most likely GABAergic and/or peptidergic VTA-projecting neurons. The first part of this review focuses on the origins and putative functional implications of various glutamatergic projections to the VTA. In the second part we consider how different neuropeptides via different mechanisms modulate glutamatergic actions in the VTA. We conclude by developing a model of how the glutamatergic afferents might together contribute to the functions of the VTA.
The accumulation of the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta), the main constituent of the 'amyloid plaque', is widely considered to be the key pathological event in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In particular, the accumulation of Abeta42 is the central event triggering neurodegeneration. Reduction of Abeta is now a major therapeutic strategy. However, only a few patients show evidence of increased Abeta production. Thus, defects in proteases that degrade Abeta could underlie some or many cases of familial and sporadic AD. Among the Abeta degrading enzymes, namely, neprilysin (NEP), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), endothelin-converting enzyme (ECE) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), ACE is the most commonly targeted enzyme by inhibitors in elderly populations because it plays a central role in the regulation of blood pressure and hypertension. Genetic, pathological and biochemical studies have associated ACE with AD. This review discusses genetic, molecular and clinical studies that might help explain the relationship between ACE, hypertension, Abeta degradation and AD.
Modulation of the acoustic startle response is a simple and objective indicator of emotionality and attention in rodents and humans. This finding has proven extremely valuable for the analysis of neural systems associated with fear and anxiety. Until recently, there have been few efforts to develop acoustic startle measurement in non-human primates. Here we review recent work in which whole body acoustic startle amplitude has been measured in rhesus monkeys. Initial studies revealed that the amplitude of whole body startle in monkeys, as in rodents and humans, is directly proportional to acoustic stimulus intensity and gradually habituates with repeated exposures. Presentation of a weak acoustic stimulus 25-5,000 msec before a startle stimulus reduces startle amplitude by 40-50% depending on inter-stimulus interval length (prepulse inhibition). We have also measured significant fear-potentiated startle in the presence of a visual stimulus after pairing it with an inescapable pulse of pressurized air (fear-potentiated startle). This effect was reduced by diazepam and morphine, but not by buspirone. Ibotenic acid-induced lesions of the amygdala prevented the acquisition of fear-potentiated startle but, remarkably, did not prevent the expression of fear-potentiated startle when fear conditioning was carried out prior to the lesion. Finally, we have developed an objective measure of fear inhibition in monkeys using a novel conditioned inhibition procedure identical to one used in rats and humans. Our data demonstrate that acoustic startle in non-human primates successfully bridges rodent and human research. The opportunity now emerges to link concepts developed in rodents to the more complex neuroanatomical and cognitive processes common to monkeys and humans.
Preclinical work into the effects of cocaine on mesostriatal and mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems has rightly been dominated by studies in rodent models. From the wealth of data that has resulted from those studies, models of chronic neurobiological adaptations have been developed that might illuminate the cellular and systems bases for the compulsive and self-injurious aspects of addiction. Chronic adaptations of dopaminergic mechanisms often dominate these models. Our studies into the acute and chronic dopaminergic effects of cocaine in non-human primates are compared to important aspects of the larger rodent literature. In some ways there is good concordance, but in others the non-human primate results differ in ways that are more similar to the human literature. This is especially true in regard to sensitization of dopamine systems in response to chronic self-administration. To best evaluate potential models of addiction, it will be important to also consider data from non-human primates as a more proximal animal model to the human condition, particularly in the greater complexity of cortical development.
Neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies in humans have shown that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is involved in long-term memory functioning. In general, the participation of the PFC in long-term memory has been attributed to its role in executive control rather than information storage. Accumulating data from recent animal studies, however, suggest the possible role of the PFC in the storage of long-term memory. In support of this view, there is evidence that various projection systems in the PFC support long-term synaptic plasticity. Recording studies have further demonstrated neural correlates of learning in various animal species. Lastly, behavioral and physiological studies indicate that the PFC is critically involved in memory consolidation, retrieval and extinction processes. These studies then suggest that the PFC is an integral part of the neural network where long-term memory trace is stored and retrieved. Though decisive evidence is still lacking at present, we propose here to assign a term 'control memory' (i.e., memory for top-down control processes) as a new type of memory function for the PFC. This new principle of PFC-long-term memory can help organize existing data and provide novel insights into future empirical studies.
The methodological and empirical development of cognitive, affective and clinical neuroscience has brought these fields into the ideal position of being able to benefit from the increasing number of techniques and interdisciplinary applications developed since the completion of the sequencing of the human genome. An increasingly investigated topic in behavioral, molecular and neuroimaging genetics concerns genetic influences on emotional reactivity and regulation. The estimation of the heritability of emotional traits and states, and the identification of functional genetic polymorphisms that are associated with emotional aspects of behavior, hold great promise for understanding the etiology and pathogenesis of mood and anxiety disorders. This article briefly reviews evidence from twin, genetic association, and neuroimaging genetic studies of individual differences in emotion reactivity and regulation, with an emphasis on trends in recent research, and their potential to contribute to the clinical neuroscience of emotional dysfunction.
Our understanding of estrogen signaling in the nervous system has undergone a significant shift in recent years. For over three decades, the idea that all estradiol actions were explained by direct regulation of transcription held sway. Within the past decade, the idea that in addition to classical effects, membrane-initiated actions of estradiol are important has gained traction. While several novel putative membrane estrogen receptors (ERs) have been described, a large fraction of measured responses appear to be due to membrane-localized estrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) and estrogen receptor-beta (ER beta), the same proteins that regulate gene expression. These membrane-localized ERs participate in the regulation of the synthesis of neuroprogesterone, dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron excitation, and female sexual receptivity. This is achieved by the modulation of intracellular cell signaling pathways usually associated with the activation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). ER alpha and ER beta are themselves not GPCRs that directly activate G proteins to regulate physiological responses, but rather interact with traditional GPCRs to initiate cell signaling. This review presents results that support a direct protein-protein interaction between ER alpha and ER beta with metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), allowing estradiol to signal through mGluRs. This ER/mGluR hypothesis explains how estradiol can activate a wide-range of intracellular pathways and provides an underlying mechanism for the hitherto seemingly unrelated rapid membrane actions in the nervous system.
Over the past decade, two-photon microscopy has successfully made the transition from the laser laboratory into a true biological research setting. This has been due in part to the recent development of turnkey ultrafast laser systems required for two-photon microscopy, allowing ease of use in nonspecialist laboratories. The advantages of two-photon microscopy over conventional optical sectioning techniques are for greater imaging depths and reduced overall phototoxicity, as such enabling noninvasive intra-vital imaging of cellular and subcellular processes. Greater understanding of these advantages has allowed this technique to be more effectively utilized in a biological research setting. This review will cover the recent widespread uses of two-photon microscopy and highlight the wide range of physiological studies enabled in fields such as neurosciences, developmental biology, immunology, cancer biology, and endocrinology.


Thirty-five young adults (22-32 years old, mean 25) born with complete unilateral or bilateral clefts participated in a follow-up of speech, appearance, and teeth after treatment. They completed a questionnaire about their satisfaction with their speech, nose, lip, and teeth on visual analogue scales, and indicated on two overall questions how often they thought about their cleft, and how often they were asked questions about their speech, nose, or lip. Their speech was recorded and assessed blindly and independently by two speech and language pathologists. Participants' satisfaction with their speech did not correlate significantly with the speech assessments. Satisfaction with the nose had the highest correlation with the overall questions. No participant indicated more dissatisfaction with speech than the midpoint of the scale, making conclusions about covariance between satisfaction with speech and the overall questions difficult.


The current study investigated whether human influenza viral infection in midpregnancy leads to alterations in proteins involved in brain development. Human influenza viral infection was administered to E9 pregnant Balb/c mice. Brains of control and virally-exposed littermates were subjected to microarray analysis, SDS-PAGE and western blotting at three postnatal stages. Microarray analysis of virally-exposed mouse brains showed significant, two-fold change in expression of multiple genes in both neocortex and cerebellum when compared to sham-infected controls. Levels of mRNA and protein levels of four selected genes were examined in brains of exposed mice. Nucleolin mRNA was significantly decreased in day 0 and day 35 neocortex and significantly increased in day 35 cerebellum. Protein levels were significantly upregulated at days 35 and 56 in neocortex and at day 56 in cerebellum. Connexin 43 protein levels were significantly decreased at day 56 in neocortex. Aquaporin 4 mRNA was significantly decreased in day 0 neocortex. Aquaporin 4 protein levels decreased in neocortex significantly at day 35. Finally, microcephalin mRNA was significantly decreased in day 56 neocortex and protein levels were significantly decreased at 56 cerebellum. These data suggest that influenza viral infection in midpregnancy in mice leads to long-term changes in brain markers for enhanced ribosome genesis (nucleolin), increased production of immature neurons (microcephalin), and abnormal glial-neuronal communication and neuron migration (connexin 43 and aquaporin 4).
The objectives of this study were 1) to examine whether the prevalence of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) in schizophrenia patients with the Deficit syndrome is higher than the reported approximately 2% for the population of schizophrenia patients as a whole, and 2) to estimate the overall prevalence of 22q11DS among schizophrenia patients by combining all available studies. Our sample, enriched for patients with the Deficit syndrome, had 88% power to detect an estimated prevalence of 5% of 22q11.2 deletions. No 22q11.2 deletions were detected in 311 schizophrenia patients, 146 of whom met criteria for the Deficit syndrome. Our literature research revealed that in eight studies sixteen deletions were identified in 2133 patients with schizophrenia. This corresponds to a prevalence of 0.75% (95%CI: 0.5%-1.2%). In conclusion: The prevalence of 22q11.2DS in schizophrenia patients with the Deficit syndrome is not higher than in the population of schizophrenia patients as a whole. The prevalence of 22q11.2DS in schizophrenia patients is lower than the frequently reported prevalence of 2% or more.

Using Micro-Electro-Mechanical-Systems (MEMS) technologies, we have developed silicon wafer-based platinum microelectrode arrays (MEAs) modified with glutamate oxidase (GluOx) for electroenzymatic detection of glutamate in vivo. These MEAs were designed to have optimal spatial resolution for in vivo recordings. Selective detection of glutamate in the presence of the electroactive interferents, dopamine and ascorbic acid, was attained by deposition of polypyrrole and Nafion. The sensors responded to glutamate with a limit of detection under 1muM and a sub-1-second response time in solution. In addition to extensive in vitro characterization, the utility of these MEA glutamate biosensors was also established in vivo. In the anesthetized rat, these MEA glutamate biosensors were used for detection of cortically-evoked glutamate release in the ventral striatum. The MEA biosensors also were applied to the detection of stress-induced glutamate release in the dorsal striatum of the freely-moving rat.
Kallmann syndrome (KS) combines hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and anosmia. Anosmia is related to the absence or hypoplasia of the olfactory bulbs and tracts. Hypogonadism is due to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) deficiency, which presumably results from a failure of the embryonic migration of neuroendocrine GnRH cells from the olfactory epithelium to the forebrain. This failure could be a consequence of the early degeneration of olfactory nerve and terminal nerve fibres, because the latter normally act as guiding cues for the migration of GnRH cells. Defects in GnRH cell fate specification, differentiation, axon elongation or axon targeting to the hypothalamus median eminence may, however, also contribute to GnRH deficiency, at least in some genetic forms of the disease. To date, five KS genes have been identified, namely, FGFR1, FGF8, PROKR2, PROK2, and KAL1. Mutations in these genes, however, account for barely 30% of all KS cases. Mutations in FGFR1, encoding fibroblast growth factor receptor 1, underlie an autosomal dominant form of the disease. Mutations in PROKR2 and PROK2, encoding prokineticin receptor-2 and prokineticin-2, have been found in heterozygous, homozygous or compound heterozygous states. These two genes are likely to be involved both in monogenic recessive and digenic or oligogenic KS transmission modes. Finally, KAL1, encoding the extracellular glycoprotein anosmin-1, is responsible for the X chromosome-linked form of the disease. It is believed that anosmin-1 acts as an enhancer of FGF signalling and perhaps of prokineticin signalling too.
Evidence has been accumulating that the cerebellum in vertebrates contributes not only to the well-known postural balance, motor coordination, and the acquisition of skilled movements, but also to the higher cognitive function. However, there exist controversies about how the modular organization, being uniformly distributed throughout the cerebellum, fits with its roles in the motor learning and the classical conditioning, and these have long been hot spots in neuroscience research. Here, some basic advances in these respects were reviewed.
Tension pneumocephalus is an unusual, potentially life-threatening complication of frontal fossa tumors. We present an uncommon case of a frontoethmoidal osteoma causing a tension pneumocephalus and neurological deterioration prompting a combined endonasal ethmoidectomy and bifrontal craniotomy with craniofacial approach for resection. A 68-year-old man presented with a 1-week history of worsening headache, slowness of speech, and increasing confusion. Standard computed tomography scan revealed a marked tension pneumocephalus with ventricular air and 1-cm midline shift to the right. Further studies showed a calcified left ethmoid mass and a left anterior cranial-base defect. A team composed of neurosurgery and otolaryngology performed a combined endonasal ethmoidectomy and bifrontal craniotomy with craniofacial approach to resect a large frontoethmoid bony tumor. No abscess or mucocele was identified. The skull base defect was repaired with the aid of a transnasal endoscopy, a titanium mesh, and a pedunculated pericranial flap. Postoperatively, the pneumocephalus and the patient's symptoms completely resolved. Pathology was consistent with a benign osteoma. This is an uncommon case of a frontoethmoidal osteoma associated with tension pneumocephalus. Recognition of this entity and timely diagnosis and treatment, consisting of an endonasal ethmoidectomy and a bifrontal craniotomy with craniofacial approach, may prevent potential life-threatening complications.


Since the discovery of mirror neurons, much effort has been invested into studying their location and properties in the human brain. Here we review these original findings and introduce the main topics of this special issue of Social Neuroscience. What does the mirror system code? How is the mirror system embedded into the mosaic of circuits that compose our brain? How does the mirror system contribute to communication, language and social interaction? Can the principle of mirror neurons be extended to emotions, sensations and thoughts? Papers using a wide range of methods, including single cell recordings, fMRI, TMS, EEG and psychophysics, collected in this special issue, start to give us some impressive answers.
The grim prognosis that accompanies a diagnosis of a malignant glioma affects quality of life (QOL) as patients attempt to adapt to overwhelming losses. Caregivers also experience negative changes in QOL as responsibilities grow. This pilot study measured the QOL of patients with malignant gliomas prior to tumor progression and the QOL of their caregivers. It examined negative and positive factors that impacted the QOL while highlighting positive factors often overlooked in brain tumor QOL research. Standardized QOL questionnaires and focus groups were utilized. Patients experienced distress in the domains of physical, psychological, and social QOL but in all four of the QOL domains there were also positive outcomes. Caregiver data demonstrated mostly positive outcomes in the four QOL domains except for loved one's declining health and fear that the loved one would die.



Measurement of salivary cortisol can provide important information about hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity under normal conditions and in response to stress. However, there are many variables relating to the measurement of cortisol in saliva which may introduce error and therefore may render difficult the comparison and interpretation of data between, and within, laboratories. This review addresses the effects of gender, age, time and location of sampling, units of measurement, assay conditions and compliance with the protocol, all of which have the potential to impact upon the precision, accuracy and reliability of salivary cortisol measurements in the literature. Some of these factors are applicable to both adults and children, but the measurement of salivary cortisol in children introduces aspects of unique variability which demand special attention. The specific focus of this review is upon the somewhat neglected area of methodological variability of salivary cortisol measurement in children. In addition to these methodological issues, the review highlights the use of salivary cortisol measurements to provide information about HPA axis dysfunction associated with psycho- and patho-physiological conditions in children. Novel applications for salivary cortisol measurements in future research into HPA axis activity in children are also discussed.


The NeuroLOG project designs an ambitious neurosciences middleware, gaining from many existing components and learning from past project experiences. It is targeting a focused application area and adopting a user-centric perspective to meet the neuroscientists expectations. It aims at fostering the adoption of HealthGrids in a pre-clinical community. This paper details the project's design study and methodology which were proposed to achieve the integration of heterogeneous site data schemas and the definition of a site-centric policy. The NeuroLOG middleware will bridge HealthGrid and local resources to match user desires to control their resources and provide a transitional model towards HealthGrids.
In this study clinical decision making (CDM) is formalized by representing the aetiology and the human body by one directed graph (digraph) and using standard digraph operators (change, add, delete, contract) to model transitions between health and disorder. All nodes of the digraph have the same composite structure &lt;localization, carrier, agent&gt;. For example, an aetiology node is &lt;Ganges river, water, Vibrio cholera&gt;. Paths in the aetiology subdigraph model epidemiological spread. Virulent paths model the entrance into and damage of aetiological agents on the body. Pathogenetic mechanisms make out internal pathways between organs and between cells, and is sharply discriminated from the aetiology. CDM is based on recognizing the difference between healthy and disordered digraphs. The result is a novel and powerful approach to CDM.
We hypothesized that simulation based practice will results in skill improvement on trocar insertion task. Novices, junior trainees and surgeons inserted a trocar into a simulated abdomen. The depth of penetration (plunge) was the similar for novice and junior trainees (p=.98), and exceeded that observed for practicing surgeons (p&lt;.05). Trocar insertion may be an important variable to consider for surgical skill training. To date, no virtual reality (VR) trainers allow for practice of this skill. We will present a prototype of a VR trainer designed.
It is well known that in most countries, there is a perennial shortage of specialists in neurosciences. Even the few available neurologists and neurosurgeons are clustered in the metros and urban areas. Those living in suburban and rural areas have limited or no access to neurological care. At the same time there has been an unprecedented growth in ICT (Information and Communication Technology). In this article, the authors review the increasing use of telemedicine in neurosciences.
Speculations about the nature of nerve action, including animal spirits, date back to antiquity. Only during the 18th century, when it became possible to store electricity in Leyden jars, did natural philosophers begin to realise that the sensations caused by electric fish are like those produced by these primitive capacitors. The important roles played by amateur observers in the Dutch colonies of South-America, and how they communicated with more established Dutch scientists in The Netherlands, are often relatively overlooked in histories of how the nerves became electrical. In this article we examine two mid-18th-century letters from South-America to the Netherlands. Both dealt with what would soon be called the electric eel, and were published in the proceedings of the first Dutch Society of Science (in Haarlem). The discovery of the electric nature of the shocks produced by these fish in particular proved to be a crucial step in understanding animal electricity and the true nature of neurophysiology.
Deregulated lipid metabolism may be of particular importance for CNS injuries and disorders, as this organ has the highest lipid concentration next to adipose tissue. Atherosclerosis (a risk factor for ischemic stroke) results from accumulation of LDL-derived lipids in the arterial wall. Pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-1), secretory phospholipase A2 IIA and lipoprotein-PLA2 are implicated in vascular inflammation. These inflammatory responses promote atherosclerotic plaques, formation and release of the blood clot that can induce ischemic stroke. TNF-alpha and IL-1 alter lipid metabolism and stimulate production of eicosanoids, ceramide, and reactive oxygen species that potentiate CNS injuries and certain neurological disorders. Cholesterol is an important regulator of lipid organization and the precursor for neurosteroid biosynthesis. Low levels of neurosteroids were related to poor outcome in many brain pathologies. Apolipoprotein E is the principal cholesterol carrier protein in the brain, and the gene encoding the variant Apolipoprotein E4 is a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Parkinson's disease is to some degree caused by lipid peroxidation due to phospholipases activation. Niemann-Pick diseases A and B are due to acidic sphingomyelinase deficiency, resulting in sphingomyelin accumulation, while Niemann-Pick disease C is due to mutations in either the NPC1 or NPC2 genes, resulting in defective cholesterol transport and cholesterol accumulation. Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating condition of the CNS. Inhibiting phospholipase A2 attenuated the onset and progression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. The endocannabinoid system is hypoactive in Huntington's disease. Ethyl-eicosapetaenoate showed promise in clinical trials. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis causes loss of motorneurons. Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition reduced spinal neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis transgenic mice. Eicosapentaenoic acid supplementation provided improvement in schizophrenia patients, while the combination of (eicosapentaenoic acid + docosahexaenoic acid) provided benefit in bipolar disorders. The ketogenic diet where &gt;90% of calories are derived from fat is an effective treatment for epilepsy. Understanding cytokine-induced changes in lipid metabolism will promote novel concepts and steer towards bench-to-bedside transition for therapies.
In order to estimate the prevalence of opiate use and to cross-validate the current program of urine testing as the sole screening and detection method for finding opiate abusers in Iran, urine samples of 1120 men with a mean (+/- SD) age of 46.6 (+/- 16.5) years referring to a large clinical lab for diagnostic and screening purposes in Kerman (the center of the biggest province in Iran) were assayed by anonymous, unlinked testing for opioid metabolites during 2004. The specimens were analyzed by an immunoassay screening test and a thin-layer chromatography (TLC) confirmation test. The initial screening test was positive in 28.8% (95% CI: 26.1-31.5) of cases (322 individuals), half of whom were confirmed by TLC. As a whole, 14.4% (95% CI: 12.4-16.6) of urine samples were positive for opioid metabolites. Although individuals referring to clinical labs do not exactly represent the general population, according to relatively high figures achieved in this study we suggest revising the urine test as the sole screening and detection method for finding Iranians who use opiates for non-medical reasons. Research is needed to further pursue these findings.


The results of studies on the interaction of genes with the environment seem to take the 'nature nurture' discussion to higher ground. Genes and the environment influence each other via complex processes. Psychopathology apparently develops as a result of a person's genetic make-up which can influence behaviour only in the context of specific environmental factors. Or, you can turn the argument around: environmental factors only lead to psychopathology if someone has a specific genetic make-up. Genes and the environment are therefore dependent on each other and interact on a daily basis. People, just like plants and animals, are finely tuned so that adaptation can occur. The quality of early relationships plays a decisive role in this tuning. In the light of recent progress in the neurosciences, particularly in the field of biological models of early development, there is a need for conceptual adaptation in psychiatry.
This article reports the findings of a multiple case study tracing the long-term (3-10 years post event) recovery patterns of 8 stroke survivors who had participated in an unusually enriched recovery environment for at least 2 years. Data sources included extended interviews as well as archival records from that period. Shared aspects across cases included the following: (a) the singular importance of this social educational environment to their respective recoveries, (b) extended grief and new anxiety problems co-occurring with recovery during the first years, and (c) shared temporal patterns of recovery trajectory, including the multi-year duration of functional improvement. Findings are discussed within the context of recent research in mental health, adult education, and neuroscience. Recovery models that embrace the dynamic interplay of real-life environments, events, and goals situated in an individualized yet social context suggest the potential for an integrated recovery paradigm within the rehabilitation sciences.

The extracellular matrix of the central nervous system (CNS) serves as both a supporting structure for cells and a rich source of signaling molecules that can influence cell proliferation, survival, migration and differentiation. A large proportion of this matrix is composed of proteoglycans--proteins with long chains of polysaccharides, called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), covalently attached. Although many of the activities of proteoglycans depend on their core proteins, GAGs themselves can influence cell signaling. Here we review accumulating evidence that two GAGs, chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronan, play essential roles during nervous system development but also accumulate in chronic CNS lesions and inhibit axonal regeneration and remyelination, making them significant hindrances to CNS repair. We propose that the balance between the synthesis and degradation of these molecules dictates, in part, how regeneration and recovery from CNS damage occurs.
The discovery that mice lacking rods and cones are capable of regulating their circadian rhythms by light provided the conceptual framework for the discovery of an entirely new photoreceptor system within the mammalian eye. We now know that a small subset of retinal ganglion cells are directly photosensitive and utilize an opsin/vitamin A-based photopigment called melanopsin maximally sensitive in the blue part of the spectrum. We also know that these photosensitive retinal ganglion cells mediate a broad range of physiological responses to light, ranging from the regulation of circadian rhythms to pupil constriction. Most recently, it has become clear that the melanopsins are only distantly related to visual pigments and in terms of their biochemistry share more in common with invertebrate photopigments. Here we outline the discovery of this remarkable new photoreceptor system, review the structure of melanopsin and conclude with a working model of melanopsin phototransduction.
Calcium signaling is critical for all cells. As a free ion (Ca(2+)), calcium links many physiological stimuli to their intracellular effectors by interacting with binding proteins whose occupancy determines the cellular effect of stimulation. Because binding site occupancy depends on the history of Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]), Ca(2+) dynamics are critical. Calcium dynamics depend on the functional interplay between Ca(2+) transport and buffering systems whose activities depend nonlinearly on [Ca(2+)]. Thus, understanding Ca(2+) dynamics requires detailed information about these Ca(2+) handling systems and their regulation in intact cells. However, effective methods for measuring and characterizing intracellular Ca(2+) handling have not been available until recently. Using concepts relating voltage-gated ion-channel activity to membrane potential dynamics, we developed such methods to analyze Ca(2+) fluxes in intact cells. Here we describe this approach and applications to understanding depolarization-induced Ca(2+) responses in sympathetic neurons.
The proper development of the nervous system requires precise spatial and temporal control of gene expression at both the transcriptional and translational levels. In different experimental model systems, microRNAs (miRNAs) - a class of small, endogenous, noncoding RNAs that control the translation and stability of many mRNAs - are emerging as important regulators of various aspects of neuronal development. Further dissection of the in vivo physiological functions of individual miRNAs promises to offer novel mechanistic insights into the gene regulatory networks that ensure the precise assembly of a functional nervous system.

Light microscopy is still the main tool in diagnostic histopathology, though it does not always lead to a definitive diagnosis. It has therefore been a constant ambition to develop methods which can add further information to the diagnosis. In endocrine pathology, a major problem has been to distinguish between neuroendocrine and non-neuroendocrine tumours. The silver stains, such as the Bodian, Grimelius and Sevier-Munger methods, were the first useful &quot;general neuroendocrine&quot; markers. Electron microscopy can also be useful for identifying neuroendocrine tumours. A further step forward was the introduction of histochemical fluorescence methods, as these could identify biogenic amines. With the introduction of immunohistochemical techniques, tumours could be characterized in a more specific way regarding peptide hormones and biogenic amines content, proliferation factors, hormone receptors, etc. Another method, DNA cytometry, has been used mainly in predicting the prognosis. In situ hybridization can be a useful complement to the histopathological diagnosis when other methods have failed to demonstrate the neuroendocrine nature of the tumour. Some endocrine tumours, especially the well-differentiated ones, still cause diagnostic problems in predicting tumour behaviour, why further complementary methods would be of great value.
Wilson disease (WD) is a recessively inherited copper storage disorder mainly affecting liver and brain. Genotype/phenotype correlations have been report ed but as yet not regarding psychic symptoms. Our aim was to investigate if a correlation might exist between genotype and phenotype concerning psychopathology and/or personality traits in patients with treated WD. Nine homozygous and three compound heterozygous Swedish patients were retrospectively investigated, representing four different mutation settings. Psychopathological symptoms were studied using the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS), personality traits using the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) and mutations were analyzed by manifold sequencing. Psychopathological symptoms: Patients with the Trp779Stop mutation had the lowest scores on the total CPRS, due to less pronounced reported CPRS items, as compared to the other three groups of patients. Compound heterozygotes for the His1069Gln/Arg1319Stop mutation showed the highest total CPRS scores. Personality traits: Patients homozygous for the Trp779Stop and the Thr977Met mutations had high scores on Psychopathy related scales whereas patients with His1069Gln/Arg1319Stop mutations had the lowest scores on these scales. Serum ceruloplasmin levels were undetectable in all patients with the Trp779Stop and Thr977Met mutations. The results show a trend towards a genotype/phenotype correlation regarding psychopathological symptoms and personality traits in treated patients with WD. If replicable, these results might contribute to the elucidation of the possible clinical importance of functionally deleterious gene mutations in WD psychopathology and personality traits.
To evaluate basic psychometric properties and obtain normative values for a novel 3-item scale, the Minimal Insomnia Symptom Scale (MISS), a sleep questionnaire was sent out to a randomly selected sample of the general population, aged 20-64 years. Responses were obtained from 1075 subjects corresponding to a response rate of 78%. Results showed that MISS possessed satisfactory reliability and validity. Women scored significantly higher than men while there was no age relationship. A receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed that MISS was able to distinguish subjects with a clinical insomnia according to ICD-10 research criteria. The main advantage of MISS over other insomnia instruments is its brevity and ease of use. Evidence was provided for the utility of MISS in epidemiological settings. MISS also showed promise as a convenient ultra-short screening measure of insomnia in health care settings.
Decline in cognitive functions that accompany aging in dogs may have a biologic basis, and many of the disorders associated with aging in dogs may be mitigated through dietary modifications that incorporate specific nutraceuticals. Based on previous research and the results of laboratory and clinical studies, antioxidants may be one class of nutraceutical that provides benefits to aged dogs. Brains of aged dogs accumulate oxidative damage to proteins and lipids, which may lead to dysfunction of neuronal cells. The production of free radicals and lack of increase in compensatory antioxidant enzymes may lead to detrimental modifications to important macromolecules within neurons. Reducing oxidative damage through food ingredients rich in a broad spectrum of antioxidants significantly improves, or slows the decline of, learning and memory in aged dogs.
Excised eyes of the horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus) have long provided robust preparations for fundamental studies of the visual neuroscience of photoreceptors. Such preparations are particularly useful for immersion in perfusion chambers whose perfusate can be varied as needed. Little attention has been paid in the past to the osmotic properties of such perfusates because they have generally been virtually isotonic with natural seawater. We here report that (1) some recent Limulus studies have used organ culture perfusates that are severely hypotonic and (2) that that fact has not been adequately disclosed.
This study sought to quantify the temporal properties of the human visual system by measuring forced-choice reaction times for discriminating the drift direction of first-order motion (luminance-modulated noise) and a variety of second-order motion patterns (modulations of either the contrast, polarity, orientation or spatial length of a noise carrier) over a range of stimulus modulation depths. In general, reaction times for all types of second-order motion were slower than those for first-order motion. Specifically, reaction times were similar for modulations of image contrast, polarity and orientation but were markedly slower for modulations of spatial length. There was also a tendency for reaction times to decrease as stimulus modulation depth increased. The rate of this decrease was shallowest for first-order, luminance-defined patterns. For second-order motion reaction times decreased at a similar rate for contrast, polarity and orientation but this decrease was steepest for spatial length. However, when equated in terms of visibility (multiples of direction-discrimination threshold), the rate at which reaction times decreased as modulation depth increased became comparable for patterns defined by luminance, contrast, polarity and orientation. For patterns defined by spatial length, performance could not be equated in this manner. These findings demonstrate that the time taken to encode the direction of each pattern is not an invariant response metric. The results are consistent with psychophysical and electrophysiological evidence for longer response latencies for second-order motion and may reflect the additional processing stages (e.g. filter-rectify-filter) required for its extraction.
Psychophysical and neuroimaging studies suggest that perceptual learning may affect activity in primary visual cortex (V1). Yet, it remains unclear whether such changes involve intrinsic V1 plasticity or feedback from later processing stages. Here we recorded high-density electro-encephalography in 24 volunteers, 24-h after training on a visual texture discrimination task in the upper or lower visual-field. Post-training improvement in upper visual-field was associated with changes in early visual responses, starting 40ms post-stimulus, with reduced amplitude of retinotopic C1, known to reflect V1 activity. No behavioral or neurophysiological effect was found after training in lower visual-field, suggesting retinotopic constraints on perceptual learning. Our results demonstrate that successful acquisition of a perceptual skill can produce long-lasting changes for initial sensory inputs in the adult human visual system.
Traditionally, explanations of spatial cueing effects posit the operation of orienting mechanisms that act to reposition the spatial locus of attention. This process is often viewed to be analogous to the movement of an attentional 'spotlight' across the visual field to the cued region and is thought to occur either in an exogenous or endogenous manner, depending on the nature of the cue. In line with this view, anomalous findings in dyslexic groups using paradigms involving brief peripheral cues have been interpreted as evidence for a particular deficiency with stimulus-driven, exogenous orienting. Here, we demonstrate that an exogenous orienting deficit is an unfeasible explanation of recent findings in which dyslexic individuals fail to derive benefit from peripheral cues indicating the location of a target in a single fixation visual search task. In a series of experiments examining cueing effects in normal readers, we find no evidence to support the operation of an attentional orienting mechanism that is (i) fast but transient; (ii) automatic and involuntary; and (iii) preferentially driven by abrupt luminance transients. Rather, we find that the magnitude of obtained benefits is primarily determined by the informational value of the cue (irrespective of how information is conveyed) and the accessibility of the target representation once the cue had been delivered. In addition, we show that dyslexic individuals' difficulties with cued search do not reflect problems with detecting and localising the cue, and generalize to different cue types. These results are consistent with a general weakness of attentional selection in dyslexia.
It has often been postulated that asymmetries in performance within the visual field (VF) are not characteristic of early visual processing. Here, human retinal (naso/temporal), cortical (left/right) and superior/inferior patterns of asymmetry were explored with achromatic contrast sensitivity (CS) tasks, that probed distinct spatiotemporal frequency channels. Low spatial, high temporal frequency stimuli (illusory frequency-doubling (FD)) yielded superior and temporal field disadvantage. Independent right and nasal visual hemifield patterns of disadvantage were found when probing an intermediate spatial frequency (ISF) channel, with stationary sinusoidal gratings. These findings show that asymmetries in spatial vision are explained by independent retinal and cortical mechanisms.

The anatomist and brain scientist Franz Joseph Gall (1758-1828) developed the &quot;phrenology&quot; in the early 19(th) century. At this time, his new teachings were more seen as a temporary fashion than science and were discredited. No more than hundred years ago, it was realised that the phrenology established the basis of modern brain sciences. By all means Gall was the first one to combine defined regions of the cerebral cortex with distinct cognitive functions.
This study is a prospective multicentre cohort study entitled Work and Health in the Processing and Engineering Industries, the AHA Study (AHA is the Swedish abbreviation for the study). Four large workplaces in Sweden participated during the years from 2000 to 2003. The present report has two objectives: (1) to present a comprehensive occupational health intervention programme and (2) to evaluate this programme with a focus on lifestyle (smoking and exercise), health related quality of life (HRQoL) and sick leave. Interventions were provided on an individual and group level, including evidence-based methods for four health/focus areas (individual level) and a group intervention based on a survey-feedback methodology. The analyses in this report were exclusively employed at an organizational level. The proportion of smokers decreased at three companies and the course of the HRQoL was advantageous at two of the companies as compared to a gainfully employed reference group. A significant decrease in sick leave was revealed at one company, whereas a break in an ascending sick-leave trend appeared at a second company as compared to their respective corporate groups. This comprehensive workplace intervention programme appears to have had positive effects on smoking habits, HRQoL and sick leave.
In the area of work rehabilitation, many decisions about future interventions for the client are based on the results of various kinds of assessments. Therefore, it is important that the assessment instruments used are adequate, useful, and reliable. The purpose of this study was to investigate the content validity and utility of the instrument Assessment of Work Performance (AWP) which is used to assess an individual's observable (working) skills during work performance, i.e. how efficient and appropriate a client performs a work activity. A questionnaire was answered by 67 respondents who used the AWP in various work rehabilitation settings in Sweden. The result indicates content validity and utility for the AWP that supports further testing of the instrument.
The search for biomarkers as a diagnostic aid to the identification of patients in pre-dementia stages is a fast growing research area. In view of the low specificity attained with the clinically based diagnostic criteria, including those for mild cognitive impairment (MCI), biomarker information will add precision to the incipient dementia diagnostic work-up, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). We present a systematic review of the literature and meta-analysis of the most relevant publications about the role of CSF biomarkers in the identification of patients with probable Alzheimer's disease at pre-dementia stages. A total of 16 studies were included in the systematic review, five of which were suitable for meta-analysis. We compared the standard mean differences (SMD) of beta-amyloid 42 (Abeta42), total tau (T-tau) and phosphorylated tau (P-tau) for 130, 169 and 123 patients with MCI who converted to AD (MCI-AD) and 142, 157 and 130 controls, respectively. We conclude that when a clinical diagnosis of MCI is made at baseline assessment, low CSF levels of Abeta42 (SMD: -1.57, CI 95% [-2.30 to -0.84], P &lt; 0.001), along with high T-tau (SMD: 1.52, CI 95% [1.25 to 1.79], P &lt; 0.001), and high P-tau (SMD: 1.75, CI 95% [0.99 to 2.51], P &lt; 0.001), help to predict the conversion to Alzheimer's disease as compared to controls subjects.

For nearly fifteen years, the impact of modern neuroscience has become a central focus of public debate, not just following the Decade of the Brain in the United States. Newly developed options for manipulating the central nervous system (CNS) are not only of primary medical concern but have come to be regarded as extremely questionable in recent bioethical discourse. This article provides an in-depth comparison between modern neuromanipulative approaches from &quot;Deep Brain Stimulation&quot; (DBS) with methods from earlier historical periods. After World War II, electrophysiological stimulation was developed, which changed the functional capacity of the human brain. It is argued that many contemporary debates questioning neuroethical applications are flawed in significant respects: A unique neuroethical position can neither be upheld philosophically nor with regard to consumer-oriented clinical practice. By drawing on individual case examples from the contemporary and recent history of neuroscience, some related problem fields and consequences are mapped out and discussed. They show an increasingly blurred conceptual boundary furnished by the complex relations between clinical research, physiological restitution, and functional enhancement inherent in modern biomedicine.
To study polysynaptic reflex excitability in different clinical forms of headache of tension, 187 patients with episodic (135) and chronic (52) forms of the disease were examined. The Visual-Analogue Scale, clinical neurological examination, neuropsychological testing, interference EMC of scalp and cervical muscles, electroneurophysiological study of polysynaptic blinking reflex were used. The increase of polysynaptic reflex excitability, the level of which was correlated with disease severity, was found in patients. This finding characterizes the insufficiency of central inhibition and inefficacy of antinociceptive control. Electroneurophysiological examination of polysynaptic reflexes may be applied as a diagnostic test for assessing severity and prognosis of the course of pathological process in headache of tension.
Thirty-seven patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) underwent AChR-Ab analysis, clinical study and neurophysiological examination - repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS). About 16,2% of MG patients who were anti-AChR-negative constituted a so-called seronegative MG group (SNMG). Compared to the AChR-Ab positive patients (SPMG), the SNMG was characterized by the higher female/male ratio (6:1), higher frequency of infantile onset of MG (33,3%), absence of association with thymoma and highest frequency of myasthenic crisis (83,3%). The clinical pattern of SNMG differed from SPMG and was characterized by predominant affect of mimic bulbar and respiratory muscles that determined severity of the course and high frequency of myasthenic crises. The identical clinical pattern was found in 19,3% of SPMG patients. However the character of neuromuscular transmission in orbicularis oculi muscle was different in SNMG and this SPMG-group. The pathological decrement was observed in 83,3% muscles of the SPMG-group (from -20% to -74%) and only in one case in the SNMG-group (-48%). Besides, the absence of clinical and neurophysiological responses to anticholinesterase was noted in the SNMG-group. Cholinergic neuromuscular hyperactivity in SNMG patients manifested itself in clinical fasciculations and myokymic contractions of muscles which prevailed in facial muscles in 66,7% of SNMG patients. Neurophysiologic examination displayed extra repetitive discharges after the compound motor action potential (R-CMAP) at low-frequency stimulation after acetylcholine esterase inhibitors in 100% cases.
Present study demonstrated that fibrillar beta-amyloid peptide (fAbeta1-42) induced ATP release, which in turn activated NADPH oxidase via the P2X7 receptor (P2X7R). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in fAbeta1-42- treated microglia appeared to require Ca2+ influx from extracellular sources, because ROS generation was abolished to control levels in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Considering previous observation of superoxide generation by Ca2+ influx through P2X7R in microglia, we hypothesized that ROS production in fAbeta-stimulated microglia might be mediated by ATP released from the microglia. We therefore examined whether fAbeta1-42-induced Ca2+ influx was mediated through P2X7R activation. In serial experiments, we found that microglial pretreatment with the P2X7R antagonists Pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'- disulfonate (100 microM) or oxidized ATP (100 microM) inhibited fAbeta-induced Ca2+ influx and reduced ROS generation to basal levels. Furthermore, ATP efflux from fAbeta1-42- stimulated microglia was observed, and apyrase treatment decreased the generation of ROS. These findings provide conclusive evidence that fAbeta-stimulated ROS generation in microglial cells is regulated by ATP released from the microglia in an autocrine manner.
A degree of brain inflammation is required for repair of damaged tissue, but excessive inflammation causes neuronal cell death. Here, we observe that IL-10 is expressed in LPS-injected rat cerebral cortex, contributing to neuronal survival. Cells immunopositive for IL-10 were detected as early as 8 h post-injection and persisted for up to 3 d, in parallel with the expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS. Double immunofluorescence staining showed that IL-10 expression was localized mainly in activated microglia. Next, we examined the neuroprotective effects of IL-10 using IL-10 neutralizing antibody (IL-10NA). Blockade of IL-10 action caused a significant loss of neurons both 3 d and 7 d after LPS injection. Further, the induction of mRNA species encoding IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and NADPH oxidase activation, increased after co-injection of LPS and IL-10NA, compared to the levels seen after injection of LPS alone. Taken together, these results clearly suggest that LPS-induced endogenous expression of IL-10 in microglia contributes to neuronal survival by inhibiting brain inflammation.

Induction of the immediate early gene protein product Fos has been used extensively to assess neural activation in the striatum after repeated amphetamine administration to rats in their home cages. However, this technique has not been used to examine striatal activation after repeated administration outside the home cage, an environment where repeated drug administration produces more robust psychomotor sensitization. We determined the dose-response relationship for amphetamine-induced psychomotor activity and Fos expression in nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen 1 week after repeated administration of amphetamine or saline in locomotor activity chambers. Repeated administration of amphetamine enhanced amphetamine-induced locomotor activity and stereotypy and Fos expression in nucleus accumbens, but not in caudate-putamen. In comparison, levels of Fos expression induced by 1mg/kg amphetamine were not altered in nucleus accumbens or caudate-putamen by repeated amphetamine administration in the home cage. Double-labeling of Fos protein and enkephalin mRNA indicates that Fos is expressed in approximately equal numbers of enkephalin-negative and enkephalin-positive neurons in nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen following injections outside the home cage. Furthermore, repeated amphetamine administration increased drug-induced Fos expression in enkephalin-positive, but not enkephalin-negative, neurons in nucleus accumbens. We conclude that repeated amphetamine administration outside the home cage recruits the activation of enkephalin-containing nucleus accumbens neurons during sensitized amphetamine-induced psychomotor activity.
CR/periphilin (CR) retards cell cycle progression mainly at the S-phase in part by transcriptionally repressing expression of Cdc7, the key regulator of DNA replication, and in part by unknown mechanisms. In this study, we show that enforced expression of CR inhibits Cdc7 promoter activity. The attachment of the DNA-binding domain of the yeast GAL4 transcription factor to CR that appears without DNA-binding sequences, enables CR to repress GAL4 promoter-mediated transcription in a histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity-dependent manner. CR forms a complex with mSin3A, a common component in transcriptional repressor complexes, as well as with HDAC1, suggesting that CR may behave as a co-repressor by functional interaction with the Sin3/HDAC co-repressor complex. We also demonstrate that an alternatively spliced variant of CR, CR-S, which is without a region encoded by exon 4 of the CR gene and is a weak interactor with HDAC1, shows a suppressing effect on CR activity.

Feature-based attention is known to support perception of visual features associated with early and intermediate visual areas. Here we examined the role of feature-based attention in higher levels of object processing. We used a dual-task design to probe perception of poorly attended contour-defined or motion-defined loops while attention was occupied with congruent or incongruent feature detection tasks. Perception of the unattended task was better when concurrently presented with a congruent stimulus. However, this effect was eliminated when detection of the primary task was made easy suggesting that task-demand in object perception is feature specific. Our results provide evidence for the contribution of feature-based attention to object perception.
Characterization of neuromuscular junction formation and function in mice lacking all neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) isoforms or only the 180 isoform demonstrated that the 180 isoform was required at adult synapses to maintain effective transmission with repetitive stimulation whereas the 140 and/or 120 isoform(s) were sufficient to mediate the downregulation of synaptic vesicle cycling along the axon after synapse formation. However, the expression and targeting of each isoform and its relationship to distinct forms of synaptic vesicle cycling before and after synapse formation was previously unknown. By transfecting chick motoneurons with fluorescently tagged mouse 180, 140 and 120 isoforms, we show that before myotube contact the 180 and 140 isoforms are expressed in distinct puncta along the axon which are sites of an immature form (Brefeldin A sensitive, L-type Ca2+ channel mediated) of vesicle cycling. After myotube contact the 140 and 180 isoforms are downregulated from the axon and selectively targeted to the presynaptic terminal. This coincided with the downregulation of vesicle cycling along the axon and the expression of the mature form (BFA insensitive, P/Q type Ca2+ channel mediated) of vesicle cycling at the terminal. The synaptic targeting of exogenously expressed 180 and 140 isoforms also occurred when chick motoneurons contacted +/+ mouse myotubes; however only the 180 but not the 140 isoform was targeted on contact with NCAM-/- myotubes. These observations indicate that postsynaptic NCAM is required for the synaptic targeting of presynaptic 140 NCAM but that the localization of presynaptic 180 NCAM occurs via a different mechanism.
Does the parietal lobe have a critical role in memory? The neuroimaging literature indicates that it has an important role, especially in episodic memory. However, the neuropsychological literature suggests that its role is more limited to attentional, spatial, or imagery aspects of memory. Here, we present data to adjudicate this disagreement. Two patients with bilateral parietal lobe damage received detailed assessments of their autobiographical memories. The results show that although both patients easily recalled various memories, their freely recalled memories were relatively impoverished, lacking in detail. This deficit was ubiquitous, and not limited to spatial or perceptual aspects of memory. The memory deficit disappeared when memory was specifically probed by asking pointed questions. Additional tests show that it is unlikely that their free recall deficit can be explained by general mental imagery problems. In sum, the parietal lobe appears to have a critical role in recollection aspects of episodic memory.
The trafficking of postsynaptic AMPA receptors (AMPARs) is a powerful mechanism for regulating the strength of excitatory synapses. It has become clear that the surface levels of inhibitory GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) are also subject to regulation and that GABA(A)R trafficking may contribute to inhibitory plasticity, although the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we report that NMDA receptor activation, which has been shown to drive excitatory long-term depression through AMPAR endocytosis, simultaneously increases expression of GABA(A)Rs at the dendritic surface of hippocampal neurons. This NMDA stimulus increases miniature IPSC amplitudes and requires the activity of Ca2+ calmodulin-dependent kinase II and the trafficking proteins N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor, GABA receptor-associated protein (GABARAP), and glutamate receptor interacting protein (GRIP). These data demonstrate for the first time that endogenous GABARAP and GRIP contribute to the regulated trafficking of GABA(A)Rs. In addition, they reveal that the bidirectional trafficking of AMPA and GABA(A) receptors can be driven by a single glutamatergic stimulus, providing a potent postsynaptic mechanism for modulating neuronal excitability.
Sensorimotor gating commonly occurs at sensory neuron synapses onto motor circuit neurons and motor neurons. Here, using the crab stomatogastric nervous system, we show that sensorimotor gating also occurs at the level of the projection neurons that activate motor circuits. We compared the influence of the gastro-pyloric receptor (GPR) muscle stretch-sensitive neuron on two projection neurons, modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and commissural projection neuron 2 (CPN2), with and without a preceding activation of the mechanosensory ventral cardiac neurons (VCNs). MCN1 and CPN2 project from the paired commissural ganglia (CoGs) to the stomatogastric ganglion (STG), where they activate the gastric mill (chewing) motor circuit. When stimulated separately, the GPR and VCN neurons each elicit the gastric mill rhythm by coactivating MCN1 and CPN2. When GPR is instead stimulated during the VCN-gastric mill rhythm, it slows this rhythm. This effect results from a second GPR synapse onto MCN1 that presynaptically inhibits its STG terminals. Here, we show that, during the VCN-triggered rhythm, the GPR excitation of MCN1 and CPN2 in the CoGs is gated out, leaving only its influence in the STG. This gating effect appears to occur within the CoG and does not result from a ceiling effect on projection neuron firing frequency. Additionally, this gating action enables GPR to either activate rhythmic motor activity or act as a phasic sensorimotor feedback system. These results also indicate that the site of sensorimotor gating can occur at the level of the projection neurons that activate a motor circuit.
Excitatory synapses onto dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) represent a critical site of psychostimulant-induced synaptic plasticity. This plasticity involves alterations in synaptic strength through AMPA receptor (AMPAR) redistribution. Here, we report an in vitro model for studying regulation of AMPAR trafficking in DA neurons under control conditions and after elevation of DA levels, mimicking cocaine exposure. We used cocultures containing rat VTA neurons and prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons from enhanced cyan fluorescent protein-expressing mice. In VTA-PFC cocultures, D1 receptor activation (10 min) increased synaptic and nonsynaptic glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) and GluR2 surface expression on DA neurons. NMDA or AMPA receptor antagonists blocked this effect, and it was not observed in pure VTA cultures, suggesting that DA agonists acted on D1 receptors on PFC neurons, altering their excitatory transmission onto VTA DA neurons and, thus, influencing AMPARs. To mimic the longer elevation in extracellular DA levels produced by systemic cocaine, cocultures were incubated with DA for 1 h. Synaptic GluR1 was increased 24 h later, reminiscent of the increased AMPA/NMDA ratio at excitatory synapses onto VTA DA neurons 24 h after cocaine injection (Ungless et al., 2001). In contrast, GluR2 was unchanged. Analysis of colocalization of surface GluR1-3 labeling suggested that control DA neurons express a substantial number of GluR1/2, GluR2/3, and homomeric GluR1 receptors and that the increase in surface AMPARs 24 h after DA exposure may in part reflect increased GluR1/3-containing receptors. These results help define the cellular basis for plasticity underlying the development of behavioral sensitization.
Neuroma formation after peripheral nerve injury is detrimental to functional recovery and is therefore a significant clinical problem. The molecular basis for this phenomenon is not fully understood. Here, we show that the expression of the chemorepulsive protein semaphorin 3A (sema3A), but not semaphorin 3F, is increased in human neuroma tissue that has formed in severe obstetric brachial plexus lesions. Sema3A is produced by fibroblasts in the epineurial space and appears to be secreted into the extracellular matrix. It surrounds fascicles, minifascicles, or single axons, suggesting a role in fasciculation and inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Lentiviral vector-mediated knock-down of Neuropilin 1, the receptor for sema3A, leads to increased neurite outgrowth of F11 cells cultured on neuroma tissue, but not of F11 cells cultured on normal nerve tissue. These findings demonstrate the putative inhibitory role of sema3A in human neuroma tissue. Our observations are the first demonstration of the expression of sema3A in human neural scar tissue and support a role for this protein in the inhibition of axonal regeneration in injured human peripheral nerves. These findings contribute to the understanding of the outgrowth inhibitory properties of neuroma tissue.
The Smoothened gene is necessary for cells to transduce hedgehog signaling. Although we and others have previously shown that embryonic removal of Smoothened in the neural tube results in a loss of stem cells from the postnatal subventricular zone, it was unclear whether this reflected a requirement for hedgehog signaling in the establishment or maintenance of the adult niche. Here, we have examined the consequences of conditional removal of Smoothened gene function within the subventricular zone of the adult neural stem cell niche. We observe that both proliferation and neurogenesis are compromised when hedgehog signaling is removed from subventricular zone stem cells. Moreover, even after a 10 month survival period, the stem cell niche fails to recover. It has been reported that the adult subventricular zone quickly rebounds from an antimitotic insult by increasing proliferation and replenishing the niche. During this recovery, it has been reported that hedgehog signaling appears to be upregulated. When mice in which hedgehog signaling in the subventricular zone has been strongly attenuated are given a similar antimitotic treatment, recovery is limited to the reduced level of proliferation and neurogenesis observed before the mitotic insult. Furthermore, the limited recovery that is observed appears to be largely restricted to the minority of neural stem cells that escape the conditional inactivation of Smoothened gene function. These results demonstrate that ongoing hedgehog signaling is required to maintain adult neural stem cells and that their ability to self-renew is limited.

Schizophrenia is often associated with emotional blunting--the diminished ability to respond to emotionally salient stimuli--particularly those stimuli representative of negative emotional states, such as fear. This disturbance may stem from dysfunction of the amygdala, a brain region involved in fear processing. The present article describes a novel animal model of emotional blunting in schizophrenia. This model involves interfering with normal fear processing (classical conditioning) in rats by means of acute ketamine administration. We confirm, in a series of experiments comprised of cFos staining, behavioral analysis and neurochemical determinations, that ketamine interferes with the behavioral expression of fear and with normal fear processing in the amygdala and related brain regions. We further show that the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine, but not the typical antipsychotic haloperidol nor an experimental glutamate receptor 2/3 agonist, inhibits ketamine's effects and retains normal fear processing in the amygdala at a neurochemical level, despite the observation that fear-related behavior is still inhibited due to ketamine administration. Our results suggest that the relative resistance of emotional blunting to drug treatment may be partially due to an inability of conventional therapies to target the multiple anatomical and functional brain systems involved in emotional processing. A conceptual model reconciling our findings in terms of neurochemistry and behavior is postulated and discussed.
Tropomyosin is a coiled coil that associates N-terminus to C-terminus to form a continuous strand along both sides of the actin filament and regulates its function. One long, high molecular weight tropomyosin molecule spans the length of seven actin subunits. In these forms there is a 7-fold periodicity in noninterface residues that have been proposed to correspond to seven quasi-equivalent actin binding sites. Interruption of the stable, canonical coiled coil by residues that destabilize the interhelical interface, such as Ala clusters, is required for actin binding. Previous studies have shown that the N-terminal half of period 5 (residues 165-188) is critical for actin binding and regulatory function and that both the surface &quot;consensus&quot; residues and the embedded, destabilizing Ala cluster are required for function. In the present work we test the hypothesis of quasi-equivalence of tropomyosin's periodic sites by replacing the proposed binding sites by substituting the crucial period 5 region with regions of period 1 or 2. Replacement mutants were designed to test the importance of the coincidence of the consensus residues and a destabilizing interface. The results show that generic (interface instability) and specific periodic surface residues are essential for function and that the periods tested (periods 1, 2, and 5) are quasi-equivalent for actin binding. However, regulatory functions are period-specific: periods 1 and 5 for binding to actin in the force-producing state and period 5 for Ca2+-dependent regulation with troponin.
In order to investigate the central nervous mechanism and the diseases involved in catecholamine transmitter secretion, the dynamics of catecholamine release is studied in single cell, brain slice or in vivo. Noradrenaline is an important neurotransmitter and modulator in the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). In the present paper, we first compared three real-time methods used to measure noradrenaline secretion in single cells (membrane capacitance, amperometry and confocal fluorescence microscopy imaging). Compared to the electrophysiological method and fluorescence microscopy, the basic usage of the carbon fiber electrode (CFE) in neuroscience research was presented as an example. Then, we presented a primary description of ion channels, including voltage-gated Na(+), K(+) and Ca(2+) channels in locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in rat brain slices. Finally, we presented example recordings of combined patch-clamp and amperometry measurements in LC neurons, indicating Ca(2+)-dependent quantal noradrenaline release following Ca(2+) influx through Ca(2+) channels.
Altered regulation of dopamine D(2) receptors is implicated in addiction, schizophrenia and movement disorders, as well as lactotroph growth and regulation. Dopamine D(2S) and dopamine D(2L) receptors are alternately-spliced variants that differ by 29 amino acids in the third intracellular (i3) domain and display different sensitivity to desensitization by protein kinase C (PKC). In the present studies we determined the specific phosphorylation sites on the dopamine D(2S) receptor that confer PKC-mediated desensitization. In dopamine D(2L) receptors, we identified a PKC pseudosubstrate site responsible for the relative insensitivity of the receptor to PKC-induced uncoupling. In transiently transfected Ltk(-) fibroblast cells, 2-min preactivation of PKC with 12-O-tetradecanoyl 4beta-phorbol 13alpha-acetate (TPA) completely inhibited calcium mobilization induced by the dopamine D(2S) receptor, but not the dopamine D(2L) variant. Point mutation of i3 PKC sites Ser228/229Gly rendered the dopamine D(2S) receptor resistant to PKC action, with lesser effects of other Ser and Thr mutations. Inactivation of the PKC pseudosubstrate motif in the dopamine D(2L) receptor sensitized the receptor to PKC, and this was reversed by mutation of i3 PKC sites Ser228/229. A phospho-specific antibody generated against phospho-Ser228/229 demonstrated PKC-induced phosphorylation at these sites of dopamine D(2S), but not D(2L) receptors, in Ltk(-) cells. Conversely, the pseudosubstrate dopamine D(2L) receptor mutant displayed PKC-induced phosphorylation at Ser228/229, which was abolished when these sites were mutated. Similar phosphorylation results were observed using GH4 cells stably transfected with dopamine D(2) receptors and mutants. Thus the relative location of phosphorylation and pseudosubstrate sites provides an important determinant substrate sensitivity to PKC.


Transient receptor potential melastatin type 2 (TRPM2) is a redox-sensitive, calcium-permeable cation channel activated by various signals, such as adenosine diphosphate ribose (ADPR) acting on the ADPR pyrophosphatase (ADPRase) domain, and cyclic ADPR. Here, we purified the FLAG-tagged tetrameric TRPM2 channel, analyzed it using negatively stained electron microscopy, and reconstructed the three-dimensional structure at 2.8-nm resolution. This multimodal sensor molecule has a bell-like shape of 18 nm in width and 25 nm in height. The overall structure is similar to another multimodal sensor channel, TRP canonical type 3 (TRPC3). In both structures, the small extracellular domain is a dense half-dome, whereas the large cytoplasmic domain has a sparse, double-layered structure with multiple internal cavities. However, a unique square prism protuberance was observed under the cytoplasmic domain of TRPM2. The FLAG epitope, fused at the C terminus of the ADPRase domain, was assigned by the antibody to a position close to the protuberance. This indicates that the agonist-binding ADPRase domain and the ion gate in the transmembrane region are separately located in the molecule.
The enzyme gamma-secretase has long been considered a potential pharmaceutical target for Alzheimer disease. Presenilin (the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase) and signal peptide peptidase (SPP) are related transmembrane aspartyl proteases that cleave transmembrane substrates. SPP and gamma-secretase are pharmacologically similar in that they are targeted by many of the same small molecules, including transition state analogs, non-transition state inhibitors, and amyloid beta-peptide modulators. One difference between presenilin and SPP is that the proteolytic activity of presenilin functions only within a multisubunit complex, whereas SPP requires no additional protein cofactors for activity. In this study, gamma-secretase inhibitor radioligands were used to evaluate SPP and gamma-secretase inhibitor binding pharmacology. We found that the SPP enzyme exhibited distinct binding sites for transition state analogs, non-transition state inhibitors, and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug sulindac sulfide, analogous to those reported previously for gamma-secretase. In the course of this study, cultured cells were found to contain an abundance of SPP binding activity, most likely contributed by several of the SPP family proteins. The number of SPP binding sites was in excess of gamma-secretase binding sites, making it essential to use selective radioligands for evaluation of gamma-secretase binding under these conditions. This study provides further support for the idea that SPP is a useful model of inhibitory mechanisms and structure in the SPP/presenilin protein family.
The behavior of females in search of a mate determines the likelihood that a high quality male is encountered in the search process and alternative search strategies provide different fitness returns to searchers. Models of search behavior are typically formulated on an assumption that the quality of prospective mates is revealed to searchers without error, either directly or by inspection of a perfectly informative phenotypic character. But recent theoretical developments suggest that the relative performance of a search strategy may be sensitive to any uncertainty associated with the to-be-realized fitness benefit of mate choice decisions. Indeed, uncertainty in the decision process is inevitable whenever unobserved male attributes influence the fitness of searchers. In this paper, we derive solutions to the sequential search strategy and the fixed sample search strategy for the general situation in which observed and unobserved male attributes affect the fitness consequences of female mate choice decisions and we determine how the magnitude of various parameters that are influential in the standard models alter these more general solutions. The distribution of unobserved attributes amongst prospective mates determines the uncertainty of mate choice decisions-the reliability of an observed male character as a predictor of male quality-and the realized functional relationship between an observed male character and the fitness return to searchers. The uncertainty of mate choice decisions induced by unobserved male attributes has no influence on the generalized model solutions. Thus, the results of earlier studies of these search models that rely on the use of a perfectly informative male character apply even if an observed male trait does not reveal the quality of prospective mates with certainty. But the solutions are sensitive to any changes of the distribution of unobserved male attributes that alter the realized functional relationship between an observed character and the fitness return to searchers. For example, the standard sequential search model exhibits a reservation property--the acceptability of prospective mates is delimited by a unique threshold criterion--and the existence of this model property under generalized conditions depends critically on the association between the observed and unobserved male characters. In our formulations of the models we assumed that females use a single male character to evaluate the quality of prospective mates, but the model properties generalize to situations in which male quality is evaluated by a direct inspection of multiple male characters.
The runners-up for 2007's Breakthrough of the Year include advances in cellular and structural biology, astrophysics, physics, immunology, synthetic chemistry, neuroscience, and computer science.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) provides both a physical framework and a microenvironment that supplies instructive signals from the earliest stages of multicellular development. As a first step toward understanding the role of the ECM in regulating the behavior of neural stem cells (NSCs), here we show the localization of laminins, a heterotrimeric family of ECM molecules expressed in many different stem cell microenvironments, and their corresponding receptors in the embryonic murine ventricular zone (VZ) within which the NSCs undergo symmetrical and asymmetrical divisions required for cortical development. In addition to the presence of laminins containing both the alpha2 and alpha4 chains, we find distinct patterns of ECM receptor expression in the VZ and in the overlying cortex. Neural stem cells derived from the VZ express high levels of the integrin laminin receptor alpha6beta1. At developmental stages at which NSCs undergo asymmetrical divisions, integrin beta1 was unevenly distributed in some mitotic pairs at the ventricular wall. These results suggest a significant role in the regulation of NSC fate for laminin/integrin signaling within the microenvironment of the VZ and provide a framework for future molecular and cellular analyses of the role of the ECM in neural development.
Hypoxic-ischemic (HI) encephalopathy is an important neurological problem of the perinatal period. Little is known of the long-term progression of HI insults or the maladaptive changes that lead to epilepsy. Using rats with unilateral carotid occlusion followed by hypoxia at postnatal day 7, this study provides an initial analysis of the epilepsy caused by a perinatal HI insult with chronic and continuous behavioral monitoring. The histopathology was investigated at postnatal day 30 and later at &gt; or =6 months of age using cresyl violet, Timm, and rapid Golgi staining and immunocytochemistry. The resultant epilepsy showed an increase in seizure frequency over time, with a preponderance for seizure clusters and behavioral features of an ipsilateral cerebral syndrome. In addition to parasagittal infarcts and porencephalic cysts in severe lesions, columnar neuronal death was found with cytomegaly in isolated groups of dysmorphic cortical neurons. Cortical dysgenesis was seen in the form of deep laminar cell loss, microgyri, white matter hypercellularity, and blurring of the white and gray matter junction. Mossy fiber sprouting was not only detected in the atrophied ipsilateral dorsal hippocampus of HI rats with chronic epilepsy, but was also found in comparable grades in spared ipsi- and contralateral ventral hippocampi. The cortical lesions in this animal model show histological similarities with those found in humans after perinatal HI. The occurrence of cortical abnormalities that are associated with epilepsy in humans correlates with the consequent detection of spontaneous recurrent seizures.
Significant trial-by-trial variation persists even in the most practiced skills. One prevalent view is that such variation is simply 'noise' that the nervous system is unable to control or that remains below threshold for behavioural relevance. An alternative hypothesis is that such variation enables trial-and-error learning, in which the motor system generates variation and differentially retains behaviours that give rise to better outcomes. Here we test the latter possibility for adult bengalese finch song. Adult birdsong is a complex, learned motor skill that is produced in a highly stereotyped fashion from one rendition to the next. Nevertheless, there is subtle trial-by-trial variation even in stable, 'crystallized' adult song. We used a computerized system to monitor small natural variations in the pitch of targeted song elements and deliver real-time auditory disruption to a subset of those variations. Birds rapidly shifted the pitch of their vocalizations in an adaptive fashion to avoid disruption. These vocal changes were precisely restricted to the targeted features of song. Hence, birds were able to learn effectively by associating small variations in their vocal behaviour with differential outcomes. Such a process could help to maintain stable, learned song despite changes to the vocal control system arising from ageing or injury. More generally, our results suggest that residual variability in well learned skills is not entirely noise but rather reflects meaningful motor exploration that can support continuous learning and optimization of performance.


HCN1 hyperpolarization-activated cation channels act as an inhibitory constraint of both spatial learning and synaptic integration and long-term plasticity in the distal dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. However, as HCN1 channels provide an excitatory current, the mechanism of their inhibitory action remains unclear. Here we report that HCN1 channels also constrain CA1 distal dendritic Ca2+ spikes, which have been implicated in the induction of LTP at distal excitatory synapses. Our experimental and computational results indicate that HCN1 channels provide both an active shunt conductance that decreases the temporal integration of distal EPSPs and a tonic depolarizing current that increases resting inactivation of T-type and N-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, which contribute to the Ca2+ spikes. This dual mechanism may provide a general means by which HCN channels regulate dendritic excitability.
Endocannabinoids are well established as inhibitors of chemical synaptic transmission via presynaptic activation of the cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB1R). Contrasting this notion, we show that dendritic release of endocannabinoids mediates potentiation of synaptic transmission at mixed (electrical and chemical) synaptic contacts on the goldfish Mauthner cell. Remarkably, the observed enhancement was not restricted to the glutamatergic component of the synaptic response but also included a parallel increase in electrical transmission. This effect involved the activation of CB1 receptors and was indirectly mediated via the release of dopamine from nearby varicosities, which in turn led to potentiation of the synaptic response via a cAMP-dependent protein kinase-mediated postsynaptic mechanism. Thus, endocannabinoid release can potentiate synaptic transmission, and its functional roles include the regulation of gap junction-mediated electrical synapses. Similar interactions between endocannabinoid and dopaminergic systems may be widespread and potentially relevant for the motor and rewarding effects of cannabis derivatives.
Synaptojanin1 degrades the signaling lipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate and facilitates compensatory endocytosis, clathrin-coat disassembly, and vesicle reavailability at active synapses. In this issue of Neuron, Mani et al. provide new information about the separate roles of synaptojanin's two phosphatase domains and its interactions with endophilin in regulating these important aspects of the vesicle cycle.

Kv3 (Shaw) channels regulate rapid spiking, transmitter release and dendritic integration of many central neurons. Crucial to functional diversity are the complex targeting patterns of channel proteins. However, the targeting mechanisms are not known. Here we report that the axon-dendrite targeting of Kv3.1 is controlled by a conditional interaction of a C-terminal axonal targeting motif (ATM) with the N-terminal T1 domain and adaptor protein ankyrin G. In cultured hippocampal neurons, although the two splice variants of Kv3.1, Kv3.1a and Kv3.1b, are differentially targeted to the somatodendritic and axonal membrane, respectively, the lysine-rich ATM is surprisingly common for both splice variants. The ATM not only directly binds to the T1 domain in a Zn2+-dependent manner, but also associates with the ankyrin-repeat domain of ankyrin G. However, the full-length channel proteins of Kv3.1b display stronger association to ankyrin G than those of Kv3.1a, suggesting that the unique splice domain at Kv3.1b C terminus influences ATM binding to T1 and ankyrin G. Because ankyrin G mainly resides at the axon initial segment, we propose that it may function as a barrier for axon-dendrite targeting of Kv3.1 channels. In support of this idea, disrupting ankyrin G function either by over-expressing a dominant-negative mutant or by siRNA knockdown decreases polarized axon-dendrite targeting of both Kv3.1a and Kv3.1b. We conclude that the conditional ATM masked by the T1 domain in Kv3.1a is exposed by the splice domain in Kv3.1b, and is subsequently recognized by ankyrin G to target Kv3.1b into the axon.
Sensory nerves detect an extensive array of somatosensory stimuli, including environmental temperatures. Despite activating only a small cohort of sensory neurons, cold temperatures generate a variety of distinct sensations that range from pleasantly cool to painfully aching, prickling, and burning. Psychophysical and functional data show that cold responses are mediated by both C- and A delta-fibers with separate peripheral receptive zones, each of which likely provides one or more of these distinct cold sensations. With this diversity in the neural basis for cold, it is remarkable that the majority of cold responses in vivo are dependent on the cold and menthol receptor transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8). TRPM8-null mice are deficient in temperature discrimination, detection of noxious cold temperatures, injury-evoked hypersensitivity to cold, and nocifensive responses to cooling compounds. To determine how TRPM8 plays such a critical yet diverse role in cold signaling, we generated mice expressing a genetically encoded axonal tracer in TRPM8 neurons. Based on tracer expression, we show that TRPM8 neurons bear the neurochemical hallmarks of both C- and A delta-fibers, and presumptive nociceptors and non-nociceptors. More strikingly, TRPM8 axons diffusely innervate the skin and oral cavity, terminating in peripheral zones that contain nerve endings mediating distinct perceptions of innocuous cool, noxious cold, and first- and second-cold pain. These results further demonstrate that the peripheral neural circuitry of cold sensing is cellularly and anatomically complex, yet suggests that cold fibers, caused by the diverse neuronal context of TRPM8 expression, use a single molecular sensor to convey a wide range of cold sensations.
It is well known that neuropeptide Y (NPY) increases food intake. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the lateral hypothalamus (LH) are both involved in the acute, hyperphagic effects of NPY. Although it is obvious that increased energy intake may lead to obesity, it is less understood which aspects of feeding behavior are affected and whether one or multiple neural sites mediate the effects of long-term increased NPY signaling. By long-term overexpressing NPY in either the PVN or the LH, we uncovered brain site-specific effects of NPY on meal frequency, meal size, and diurnal feeding patterns. In rats injected with adeno-associated virus-NPY in the PVN, increased food intake resulted from an increase in the amount of meals consumed, whereas in rats injected in the LH, increased food intake was attributable to increased meal size. Interestingly, food intake and body weight gain were only temporarily increased in PVN-injected rats, whereas in LH-injected rats hyperphagia and body weight gain remained for the entire 50 d. Moreover, in LH-NPY rats, but not in PVN-NPY rats, diurnal rhythmicity with regard to food intake and body core temperature was lost. These data clearly show that the NPY system differentially regulates energy intake and energy expenditure in the PVN and LH, which together adjust energy balance.
We used a combined proteomic and functional biochemical approach to determine the overall impact of 17beta-estradiol (E2) on mitochondrial protein expression and function. To elucidate mitochondrial pathways activated by E2 in brain, two-dimensional (2D) gel electrophoresis was conducted to screen the mitoproteome. Ovariectomized adult female rats were treated with a single injection of E2. After 24 h of E2 exposure, mitochondria were purified from brain and 2D analysis and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry protein identification were conducted. Results of proteomic analyses indicated that of the 499 protein spots detected by image analysis, a total of 66 protein spots had a twofold or greater change in expression. Of these, 28 proteins were increased in expression after E2 treatment whereas 38 proteins were decreased in expression relative to control. E2 regulated key metabolic enzymes including pyruvate dehydrogenase, aconitase, and ATP-synthase. To confirm that E2-inducible changes in protein expression translated into functional consequences, we determined the impact of E2 on the enzymatic activity of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. In vivo, E2 treatment enhanced brain mitochondrial efficiency as evidenced by increased respiratory control ratio, elevated cytochrome-c oxidase activity and expression while simultaneously reducing free radical generation in brain. Results of these analyses provide insights into E2 mechanisms of regulating brain mitochondria, which have the potential for sustaining neurological health and prevention of neurodegenerative diseases associated with mitochondrial dysfunction such as Alzheimer's disease.
A unifying principle of sensory system organization is feature extraction by modality-specific neuronal maps in which arrays of neurons show systematically varied response properties and receptive fields. Only beginning to be understood, however, are the mechanisms by which these graded systems are established. In the peripheral auditory system, we have shown previously that the intrinsic firing features of spiral ganglion neurons are influenced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). We now show that is but a part of a coordinated package of neurotrophin actions that also includes effects on presynaptic and postsynaptic proteins, thus encompassing the input, transmission, and output functions of the spiral ganglion neurons. Using immunocytochemical methods, we determined that proteins targeted to opposite ends of the neuron were organized and regulated in a reciprocal manner. AMPA receptor subunits GluR2 and GluR3 were enriched in base neurons compared with their apex counterparts. This distribution pattern was enhanced by exposure to BDNF but reduced by NT-3. SNAP-25 and synaptophysin were distributed and regulated in the mirror image: enriched in the apex, enhanced by NT-3 and reduced by BDNF. Moreover, we used a novel coculture to identify potential endogenous sources of neurotrophins by showing that sensory receptors from different cochlear regions were capable of altering presynaptic and postsynaptic protein levels in these neurons. From these studies, we suggest that BDNF and NT-3, which are systematically distributed in complementary gradients, are responsible for orchestrating a comprehensive set of electrophysiological specializations along the frequency contour of the cochlea.
GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition depends on the maintenance of intracellular Cl- concentration ([Cl-]in) at low levels. In neurons in the developing CNS, [Cl-]in is elevated, E(GABA) is depolarizing, and GABA consequently is excitatory. Depolarizing GABAergic synaptic responses may be recapitulated in various neuropathological conditions, including epilepsy. In the present study, rat hippocampal dentate granule cells were recorded using gramicidin perforated patch techniques at varying times (1-60 d) after an epileptogenic injury, pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (STEP). In normal, non-epileptic animals, these strongly inhibited dentate granule cells act as a gate, regulating hippocampal excitation, controlling seizure initiation and/or propagation. For 2 weeks after STEP, we found that E(GABA) was positively shifted in granule cells. This shift in E(GABA) altered synaptic integration, increased granule cell excitability, and resulted in compromised &quot;gate&quot; function of the dentate gyrus. E(GABA) recovered to control values at longer latencies post-STEP (2-8 weeks), when animals had developed epilepsy. During this period of shifted E(GABA), expression of the Cl- extruding K+/Cl- cotransporter, KCC2 was decreased. Application of the KCC2 blocker, furosemide, to control neurons mimicked E(GABA) shifts evident in granule cells post-STEP. Furthermore, post-STEP and furosemide effects interacted occlusively, both on E(GABA) in granule cells, and on gatekeeper function of the dentate gyrus. This suggests a shared mechanism, reduced KCC2 function. These findings demonstrate that decreased expression of KCC2 persists for weeks after an epileptogenic injury, reducing inhibitory efficacy and enhancing dentate granule cell excitability. This pathophysiological process may constitute a significant mechanism linking injury to the subsequent development of epilepsy.

The intra-hippocampal administration of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) as well as the induction of elevated but physiological levels of IL-1beta within the hippocampus interferes with the formation of long-term memory. There is evidence suggesting that the induction of prostaglandin (PG) formation by IL-1beta is involved in impairments in working and spatial memory following IL-1beta. The present experiments extend these findings by showing that PGs are responsible for memory deficits in contextual fear conditioning that occur following IL-1beta injection into the dorsal hippocampus of Sprague-Dawley rats. Cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition blocked the disruption in contextual fear conditioning produced by IL-1beta and COX inhibition alone also disrupted contextual memory, suggesting an inverted U-shaped relationship between PG levels and memory. In addition to demonstrating the necessity of PGs in IL-1beta-mediated memory deficits, we also show that PGs injected directly into the dorsal hippocampus are sufficient to impair context memory and significantly reduce post-conditioning levels of BDNF within the hippocampus, suggesting a possible mechanism for the memory-impairing effects of PGs.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) is induced in a high proportion of axotomized sensory and motor neurons after sciatic nerve transection. In the present study, we looked at the expression of this factor in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) after axotomy and after other manipulations that induce certain aspects of the cell body response to axotomy. Sympathetic ganglia from intact rats and mice exhibit only a very occasional neuronal nucleus with activating transcription factor 3-like immunoreactivity (ATF3-IR); however, as early as 6 h and as late as 3 weeks postaxotomy, many of the neurons showed intense ATF3-IR. A second population of cells had smaller and generally less intensely stained nuclei, and at least some of these cells were satellite cells. Lesions distal to the SCG induced by administration of 6-hydroxydopamine or unilateral removal of the salivary glands produced increases in ATF3-IR similar to those seen after proximal axotomy, indicating that this response is not strictly dependent on the distance of the lesion from the cell body. Two proposed signals for triggering ATF3 expression were examined: reduction in nerve growth factor (NGF) availability and induction of the cytokine leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). While administration of an antiserum raised against NGF to intact animals induced ATF3-IR, induction of ATF3-IR after axotomy was not reduced in LIF null mutant mice. Since axotomy, 6-hydroxydopamine, and sialectomy are known to decrease the concentration of NGF in the SCG, our data suggest that these decreases in NGF lead to increases in ATF3-IR. Furthermore, since the number of neurons in the SCG expressing ATF3-IR was greater after axotomy than after antiserum against NGF treatment, this raises the possibility that decreased NGF is not the only process regulating ATF3 expression after axotomy.
Subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived adult neurospheres express two ectonucleotidases, nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 2 (NTPDase2) and tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP). Agonists of the nucleotide receptors P2Y(1) and P2Y(2) as well as adenosine augment growth factor-mediated progenitor cell proliferation. NTPDase2 converts ATP and UTP to ADP and UDP, respectively, which are all P2Y receptor agonists. TNAP hydrolyzes nucleoside triphosphates and diphosphates and produces the P1 receptor agonist adenosine. In the SVZ, NTPDase2 is specifically expressed by type B cells. In order to further scrutinize the association of key molecules of the purinergic signaling pathway with neurogenic regions, we analyzed the expression of TNAP at the lateral ventricles of the adult and developing mouse brain. In the adult brain, TNAP was expressed by type B, type A and at least subsets of type C cells of the SVZ and throughout the rostral migratory stream. Almost 100% of the proliferating, Ki-67-positive cells of the adult SVZ stained for TNAP, supporting the notion of a ubiquitous association of TNAP with SVZ progenitors. In contrast, NTPDase2-positive progenitors of the dentate gyrus were TNAP-negative. Essentially all cells of the telencephalic vesicle at embryonic day (E) 14 revealed TNAP activity, including doublecortin-positive neuroblasts. During further embryonic development, enhanced TNAP activity became restricted to cells of the ventricular and SVZ. In contrast to TNAP, NTPDase2 was first expressed in the SVZ perinatally, in association with TNAP-positive SVZ border cells. During later development, NTPDase2-positive cells disappeared from the ventricular surface and began to form sheaths around clusters of subventricular doublecortin-positive cells, apparently transforming into type B cells. Our results identify TNAP and NTPDase2 as novel markers for subsets of progenitors in the adult and developing mouse brain. They further support the notion that signaling via extracellular nucleotides and nucleosides contributes to embryonic and adult neurogenesis.
Regeneration of neuronal circuits cannot be successful without restoration of full function, including recovery of behavioral plasticity, which we have found is delayed after regeneration of specific synapses. Experiments were designed to measure neuronal changes that may underlie recovery of function. Sensitization of the leech withdrawal reflex is a non-associative form of learning that depends on the S-interneuron. Cutting an S-cell axon in Faivre's nerve disrupted the capacity for sensitization. The S-cell axon regenerated its electrical synapse with its homologous cell after 3-4 weeks, but the capacity for sensitization was delayed for an additional 2-3 weeks. In the present experiments another form of non-associative conditioning, dishabituation, was also eliminated by S-cell axotomy; it returned following regeneration. Semi-intact preparations were made for behavioral studies, and chains of ganglia with some skin were used for intracellular recording and skin stimulation. In both preparations there was a similar time-course, during 6 weeks, of a lesion-induced decrease and delayed restoration of both S-cell action potential threshold to depolarizing pulses and S-cell firing in response to test stimuli. However, the ability of sensitizing stimuli to decrease S-cell threshold and enhance S-cell activity in response to test stimuli did not fully return after regeneration, indicating that there were lasting changes in the circuit extending beyond the period necessary for full recovery of behavior. Intracellular recordings from the axotomized S-cell revealed a shift in the usual balance of excitatory and inhibitory input, with inhibition enhanced. These results indicate that loss of behavioral plasticity of reflexive shortening following axotomy in the S-cell chain may be related to reduced S-cell activity, and that additional processes underlie full recovery of sensitization of the whole body shortening reflex.
Intense exercise and sleep deprivation affect the amount of homeostatically regulated slow wave sleep in the subsequent sleep period. Since brain energy metabolism plays a decisive role in the regulation of behavioral states, we determined the concentrations of nucleotides and nucleosides: phosphocreatine, creatine, ATP, ADP, AMP, adenosine, and inosine after moderate and exhaustive treadmill exercise as well as 3 and 5 h of sleep deprivation and sleep in the rat brain using the freeze-clamp technique. High intensity exercise resulted in a significant increase of the sleep-promoting substance adenosine. In contrast, following sleep, inosine and adenosine levels declined considerably, with an accompanied increase of ADP after 3 h and ATP after 5 h. Following 3 h and 5 h sleep deprivation, ADP and ATP did not differ significantly, whereas inosine increased during the 3 and 5-h period. The concentrations of AMP, creatine and phosphocreatine remained unchanged between experimental conditions. The present results are in agreement with findings from other authors and suggest that depletion of cerebral energy stores and accumulation of the sleep promoting substance adenosine after high intensity exercise may play a key role in homeostatic sleep regulation, and that sleep may play an essential role in replenishment of high-energy compounds.
Previous studies showed that the optimization of behavioral performance through extended training depends on a switch from hippocampus-based memory to striatum-based habit. Here we investigate whether the amount of training within one learning session influences the retention of memory for hippocampal versus striatal strategies. Mice were trained to search for a submerged cue-marked platform which remained in the same spatial location in the water-maze for each of three training regimens (4, 12 or 22 trials). Subsequently, they were either tested for retention of memory 1 h or 24 h later on a probe test or killed at different time points over a 7-h period to determine the kinetic of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in both memory systems. During the probe test mice had to choose between a submerged platform located in the same position as during the acquisition phase (spatial solution) and a platform marked by the cue but located in the opposite quadrant of the pool (cue-guided solution). Results showed that the animals first preferred the cue-marked platform, which represents a strategy that was selectively impaired by lesions of the dorsolateral caudate-putamen. With further practice, or context pre-exposure, animals transiently favored the hippocampus-dependent place solution but finally, both strategies became interchangeable and insensitive to either lesion. CREB phosphorylation increased in both memory systems following acquisition but training-dependent changes selectively occurred in the hippocampus wherein biphasic activation was initiated by the four-trial training and blocked by training for 22 trials. These findings indicate that learning in one session consists of three acquisition stages with parallel engagement of multiple memory systems at the beginning of learning. They suggest, however, that, in a later phase, dynamic interplays promote the use of the most adapted brain system depending on practice and this is accompanied by specific patterns of CREB phosphorylation in the hippocampus.
Neural activity during critical periods could fine-tune functional synaptic connections. N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation is critically implicated in this process and blockade leads to disruption of normal circuit formation. This phenomenon has been well investigated in several neural systems including the somatosensory system, but not yet evidenced in the visceral sensory system. Ultrastructural analysis of GABAergic synapses and electrophysiological analysis of inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents of the rat caudal nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) cells revealed that developmental changes in the synaptic organizations were blocked by MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist, when administered at postnatal days 5-8, a presumed critical period for the visceral sensory system. Normal synapse reorganization during postnatal development dictates undifferentiated neonatal caudal NTS neurons in terms of synaptic input patterns measured by electron microscopy and electrophysiology into two cell groups: small and large cells under far stronger excitatory and inhibitory influence, respectively. Blockade by MK-801 during the critical period might leave adult neurons wired in the undifferentiated synaptic networks, possibly preventing synapse elimination and subsequent stabilization of the proper wiring.
Cerebral ischemia can induce both the increase of excitation and the decrease of inhibition, which leads to neuronal excitotoxicity. Since glutamatergic and GABAergic transmissions work by each counterbalancing the function of the other, enhancing GABAergic activity should balance excessive glutamatergic excitation. But the potential mechanisms underlying these effects are obscure. Here, we used two GABA agonists, muscimol and baclofen, and performed immunoblotting, immunoprecipitation and histology analysis to evaluate the neuroprotective effects by stimulating GABA receptors in rat four-vessel occlusion (4-VO) ischemic model, and to investigate the potential mechanism. Our results indicate that whether in global cerebral ischemia in vivo, or in oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) in vitro, coapplication of muscimol with baclofen can protect neurons from neuronal death through down-regulating the function of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors via attenuating the tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2A subunit. We further elucidate that the phosphorylation level of Src kinase and the interaction among Src, post-synaptic density protein 95 and NR2A were also suppressed by coapplication of muscimol with baclofen. Both MK-801, a specific antagonist of NMDA receptors, and chelerythrine, an inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC), could down-regulate the phosphorylation of NR2A via inhibiting the activation of Src and PKC respectively. These results suggest that the modified pattern of dynamic balance between excitation and inhibition by coactivation of the GABA receptors in cerebral ischemia can attenuate the excitatory NMDAR via inhibiting a novel postsynaptic NMDAR/Src-mediated signal amplification, the 'NMDAR-Ca(2+) --&gt; PKC --&gt; Src --&gt; NMDAR-Ca(2+)' cycle.
Early postnatal freeze-lesions to the cortical plate result in malformations resembling human microgyria. Microgyria in primary somatosensory cortex (S1) of rats are associated with a reduced behavioral detection of rapid auditory transitions and the loss of large cells in the thalamic nucleus projecting to primary auditory cortex (A1). Detection of slow transitions in sound is intact in animals with S1 microgyria, suggesting dissociation between responding to slow versus rapid transitions and a possible dissociation between levels of auditory processing affected. We hypothesized that neuronal responses in primary auditory cortex (A1) would be differentially reduced for rapid sound repetitions but not for slow sound sequences in animals with S1 microgyria. We assessed layer IV cortical responses in primary auditory cortex (A1) to single pure-tones and periodic noise bursts (PNB) in rats with and without S1 microgyria. We found that responses to both types of acoustic stimuli were reduced in magnitude in animals with microgyria. Furthermore, spectral resolution was degraded in animals with microgyria. The cortical selectivity and temporal precision were then measured with conventional methods for PNB and tone-stimuli, but no significant changes were observed between microgyric and control animals. Surprisingly, the observed spike rate reduction was similar for rapid and slow temporal modulations of PNB stimuli. These results suggest that acoustic processing in A1 is indeed altered with early perturbations of neighboring cortex. However, the type of deficit does not affect the temporal dynamics of the cortical output. Instead, acoustic processing is altered via a systematic reduction in the driven spike rate output and spectral integration resolution in A1. This study suggests a novel form of plasticity, whereas early postnatal lesions of one sensory cortex can have a functional impact on processing in neighboring sensory cortex.
Isolated thoracic spinal cords of neonatal rats spontaneously generate splanchnic sympathetic nerve discharge (SND) with a quasiperiodic rhythm approximately 1-Hz. Using in vitro nerve-cord preparations that retained T6-T12 spinal segments, we investigated whether the natural firing behavior of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) encoded the SND rhythm and what were the main biophysical and histological determinants of SPN firing. Under extracellular recording conditions, electrical stimulation of splanchnic nerves elicited antidromic responses in 212 SPNs. Among them, 92 SPNs were quiescent; 120 active SPNs had an average firing rate of 0.72+/-0.04 Hz, which was close to the quasiperiodic rhythm of SND. SPNs with rhythmic burst firing were rare. Probability plots of interspike intervals were constructed to extract mathematical features underlying SPN firing. Most active SPNs (88%) had a firing well described by unimodal Gaussian, suggesting a predominantly tonic pattern with normal variations. Biophysical properties of 112 SPNs were measured under whole-cell recording conditions. The charging time constant, tau, is positively correlated with the average firing rate. Histological properties were examined in 45 SPNs with intracellular diffusion of Lucifer Yellow or biocytin. SPNs with pyramidal somata and multipolar dendrites tend to be spontaneously active. In contrast, those with bipolar somata and fewer dendritic branches were quiescent in firing. These observations suggest that activity levels of SPNs are correlated with their capacity for temporal and spatial summation of synaptic inputs. How the seemingly tonic firing of individual SPNs is integrated into whole-nerve SND with quasiperiodic rhythms is discussed.
Mutations in the gene encoding the neural recognition molecule L1 result in hypoplasia of the corticospinal tract and path finding errors of corticospinal axons at the pyramidal decussation. Candidate molecules that have been implicated in L1-dependent guidance of corticospinal axons from the ventral medullary pyramids to the contralateral dorsal columns of the cervical spinal cord include Semaphorin3A and CD24. In the present study, we anterogradely labeled corticospinal axons from the sensorimotor cortex of young postnatal Semaphorin3A- and CD24-deficient mice to elucidate potential functions of both proteins during formation of this long axon projection. Our results indicate that elongation, collateralization, fasciculation and path finding of corticospinal axons in mice proceed normally in the absence of Semaphorin3A or CD24.
mKirre is a novel member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, which is abundant in the developing and adult brain. In the present study, we showed mKirre gene expression in mouse sensory organs during development using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. At embryonic day (E) 11.5, E15.5, and E17.5, we first detected signals for mKirre mRNA in the developing cochleae, retinae, and olfactory neuroepithelia, respectively. After birth, strong signals were observed in these sensory organs. In addition, at this stage, we found its expression in trigeminal ganglion neurons and neuronal populations forming sensory pathways in the olfactory bulb, midbrain, and pons. Furthermore, double-immunofluorescence staining revealed that nephrin-immunoreactivity was overlapping to mKirre-expressing cells in the developing sensory organs. These results suggest that mKirre may be involved in the establishment of the pathway from sensory organs to the brain not only in a homophilic manner but also with its heterophilic interaction to nephrin.
L1 is a cell adhesion molecule associated with axonal outgrowth and fasciculation during spinal cord development and may reiterate its developmental role in adults following injury; L1 is upregulated on certain sprouting and regenerating axons in adults, but it is unclear if L1 expression is necessary for, or contributes to, regrowth of axons. This study asks if L1 is required for small-diameter primary afferents to sprout by conducting unilateral dorsal rhizotomies (six segments; T10-L2) on both wild-type and L1 mutant mice. First we determined that L1 co-localizes substantially with the peptidergic (calcitonin gene-related peptide; CGRP) but minimally with the nonpeptidergic (isolectin B4; IB4) primary afferents in intact wild-type and L1 mutant mice. However, we encountered a complication using IB4 to identify primary afferents post-rhizotomy; we detected extensive abnormal IB4 expression in the dorsal horn and dorsal columns. Much of this aberrant IB4 labeling is associated with fibrous astrocytes and microglia. Five days after dorsal rhizotomy a large decrease in peptidergic and nonpeptidergic afferents is evident on the deafferented side in both wild-type and L1 mutants. Three months after surgery the peptidergic primary afferents sprouted into the center of the denervated dorsal horn in both wild-type and mutant mice, and quantitative analyses confirmed a sprouting density of similar magnitude in both genotypes. In contrast, we did not detect sprouting in the nonpeptidergic primary afferents in either genotype. These results suggest that the absence of L1 neither diminishes nor enhances sprouting of peptidergic small-diameter primary afferent axons following a dorsal rhizotomy.
Electrophysiological recordings and optical imaging with a fast voltage-sensitive dye (di-4-ANNEPS) were used to directly examine the spatiotemporal properties of in vitro corticospinal synapses formed in co-cultures of cerebral cortex and spinal cord slices. Whole cell recordings from spinal cord cells showed both monosynaptic and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in response to stimulation of corticospinal axons. Monosynaptic EPSCs and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were isolated in artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing high concentrations of divalent cations. Optical imaging and extracellular recordings were done simultaneously. Both EPSPs and optically recorded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (optEPSPs) lasted 300-500 ms and were almost always positive. The major component of these long-lasting potentials was blocked by ifenprodil, a specific antagonist of the NR2B subunit-containing N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). The spatial distribution of corticospinal optEPSPs paralleled that of the corticospinal field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs), suggesting that positive fEPSP amplitude is a reliable indicator of the distribution of corticospinal synapses. Corticospinal optEPSPs spread into the ventrolateral region by 6-7 days in vitro (DIV), but were restricted to the dorsomedial area by 11-13 DIV, suggesting synapses were eliminated from the ventrolateral side of the spinal cord. After the recordings were complete, corticospinal fibers were often anterogradely labeled with biocytin to assess the relation between presynaptic fiber distribution and the optical signals (optically-recorded presynaptic fiber volley (opt-prevolley) and optEPSP). The distributions of the opt-prevolleys and optEPSPs correlated well with the distribution of presynaptic fibers, suggesting the opt-prevolley reflects corticospinal fiber activity and that the fibers made synapses relatively evenly along their axons. The NR2B-mediated component of the corticospinal synaptic response declined during the interval between 6 and 7 DIV and 11-13 DIV, suggesting that a shift in the NMDAR subtype from NR2B to something else (perhaps NR2A) may be involved in regulating developmental plasticity in the rat spinal cord and the process of corticospinal synapse elimination.
Activity-dependent re-organizations of central synapses are thought to play important roles in learning and memory. Although the precise mechanisms of how neuronal activities modify synaptic connections remain to be elucidated, the activity-induced neuronal proteins such as Homer1a may contribute to the onset of synaptic remodeling. To further understand the physiological roles of Homer1a, we first examined prolonged effects of neuronal stimulation capable of inducing Homer1a on the distribution of a postsynaptic protein Homer1c by live imaging and immunostaining. We found that glutamate stimulation induced a biphasic change in the distribution of Homer1c, in which the postsynaptic clusters of Homer1c defused initially after 30 min to 1 h, and then reassembled more than the original level after 4-8 h. When other synaptic proteins (postsynaptic density-95 (PSD95), Filamentous actin (F-actin), glutamate receptors, synaptotagmin, synaptophysin and synapsin) were analyzed by immunocytochemical methods, the distribution of these proteins also showed a similar biphasic pattern, suggesting that glutamate stimulation induces a global alteration in synaptic structures. To further dissect the functions of Homer1a in the activity-induced synaptic remodeling, the short hairpin RNA (shRNA) vectors that specifically block the expression of endogenous Homer1a were constructed. When the shRNA of Homer1a was introduced to the cells, the activity-induced changes were almost completely suppressed. The expression of surface glutamate receptor 2 was also inhibited, suggesting that Homer1a may modulate the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Furthermore, we found that Homer1a contributes to the presynaptic remodeling in a retrograde manner. Our data indicate that Homer1a regulates the activity-induced biphasic changes of post- and pre-synaptic sites.
Analgesic effects of delta opioid receptor (DOR) -selective agonists are enhanced during persistent inflammation and arthritis. Although the underlying mechanisms are still unknown, membrane density of DOR was shown to be increased 72 h after induction of inflammation, an effect abolished in mu opioid receptor (MOR) -knockout (KO) mice [Morinville A, Cahill CM, Kieffer B, Collier B, Beaudet A (2004b) Mu-opioid receptor knockout prevents changes in delta-opioid receptor trafficking induced by chronic inflammatory pain. Pain 109:266-273]. In this study, we demonstrated a crucial role of MOR in DOR-mediated antihyperalgesia. Intrathecal administration of the DOR selective agonist deltorphin II failed to induce antihyperalgesic effects in MOR-KO mice, whereas it dose-dependently reversed thermal hyperalgesia in wild-type mice. The antihyperalgesic effects of deltorphin II were blocked by naltrindole but not d-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP) suggesting that this agonist was mainly acting through DOR. SNC80-induced antihyperalgesic effects in MOR-KO mice were also attenuated as compared with littermate controls. In contrast, kappa opioid receptor knockout did not affect deltorphin II-induced antihyperalgesia. As evaluated using mice lacking endogenous opioid peptides, the regulation of DOR's effects was also independent of beta-endorphin, enkephalins, or dynorphin opioids known to be released during persistent inflammation. We therefore conclude that DOR-mediated antihyperalgesia is dependent on MOR expression but that activation of MOR by endogenous opioids is probably not required.
Recent electrophysiological work shows that chronic lithium treatment increases long-term potentiation (LTP) in neurons of the hippocampus, and LTP is thought to be the major neurophysiological basis for the development of learning and memory. This suggests that lithium might enhance learning and memory. Available studies have mainly assessed memory using aversive conditioning paradigms, but very little is available on the effect of lithium on learning. Since lithium may diminish anxiety or negative affect in adult rats, which would hinder aversive learning, the present study used three different positive reinforcement spatial cognitive tasks to determine whether chronic lithium affects learning. Each task differed in complexity, in the type of learning required, and in the reward received. For 4 weeks prior to, and throughout all learning assessments, rats had continual access to lithium chow or to a control chow diet. After 4 weeks' access to their designated chow diet, rats began conditioning in the hole-board spatial discrimination or T-maze delayed alternation tasks in a counterbalanced fashion. They immediately began conditioning in the opposite task once completing the first. This was then followed with social place-preference conditioning, after 24-h isolation from their home-cage social partner. Chronic lithium increased learning in all three paradigms, regardless of the reward received. Indeed, both food and social interaction supported enhanced learning. Thus the learning effect was not merely due to an effect of lithium on food palatability. Importantly, clinically relevant serum lithium levels were evidenced at the time of testing. Lithium also marginally enhanced memory as well. Thus chronic lithium treatment may improve learning and memory in Alzheimer's disease, and do so not only by blocking the formation of beta-amyloid and neurofibrillary tangles as suggested by previous research, but also by enhancing mechanisms involved in basal learning and memory formation, such as hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Netrin-1 is a guidance cue molecule fundamental to the organization of neuronal connectivity during development. Netrin-1 and its receptors, deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC) and UNC-5 homologues (UNC-5), continue to be expressed in the adult brain, although neither their function nor the kinds of events that activate their expression are known. Two lines of evidence suggest a role for netrin-1 in amphetamine-induced dopamine plasticity in the adult. First, DCC is highly expressed by adult dopamine neurons. Second, adult mice with reduced DCC levels do not develop amphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization. To explore the role of netrin-1 in amphetamine-induced plasticity, we examined the effects of sensitizing treatment regimens of amphetamine on DCC and/or UNC-5 protein expression in the adult rat. These treatments produced striking and enduring increases in DCC and UNC-5 expression in the cell body, but not terminal regions, of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. Notably, neuroadaptations in the cell body region of mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurons underlie the development of sensitization to the effects of amphetamine. Furthermore, these localized amphetamine-induced changes were prevented by co-treatment with an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist, a treatment known to block the development of amphetamine-induced sensitization of behavioral activation, dopamine release and motivated behavior. Using immunohistochemistry, we showed that both DCC and UNC-5 receptors are highly expressed by adult mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurons. These results provide the first evidence that repeated exposure to a stimulant drug such as amphetamine affects netrin-1 receptor expression in the adult brain. Taken together, our findings suggest that changes in netrin-1 receptor expression may play a role in the lasting effects of exposure to amphetamine and other stimulant drugs.
The basolateral amygdala complex (BLA) and central amygdala nucleus (CeA) are involved in fear and anxiety. In addition, the BLA contains a high density of corticotropin-releasing factor 1 (CRF(1)) receptors in comparison to the CeA. However, the role of BLA CRF(1) receptors in contextual fear conditioning is poorly understood. In the present study, we first demonstrated in rats that oral administration of DMP696, the selective CRF(1) receptor antagonist, had no significant effects on the acquisition of contextual fear but produced a subsequent impairment in contextual freezing suggesting a role of CRF(1) receptors in the fear memory consolidation process. In addition, oral administration of DMP696 significantly reduced phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (pCREB) in the lateral and basolateral amygdala nuclei, but not in the CeA, during the post-fear conditioning period. We then demonstrated that bilateral microinjections of DMP696 into the BLA produced no significant effects on the acquisition of conditioned fear but reduced contextual freezing in a subsequent drug-free conditioned fear test. Importantly, bilateral microinjections of DMP696 into the BLA at 5 min or 3 h, but not 9 h, after exposure to contextual fear conditioning was also effective in reducing contextual freezing in the conditioned fear test. Finally, microinfusions of either DMP696 into the CeA or a specific corticotropin-releasing factor 2 receptor antagonist in the BLA were shown to have no major effects on disrupting either contextual fear conditioning or performance of contextual freezing in the drug-free conditioned fear test. Collectively, results implicate a role of BLA CRF(1) receptors in activating the fear memory consolidation process, which may involve BLA pCREB-induced synaptic plasticity.
Gene therapy-based overexpression of endogenous seizure-suppressing molecules represents a promising treatment strategy for epilepsy. Viral vector-based overexpression of the neuropeptide galanin has been shown to effectively suppress generalized seizures in various animal models of epilepsy. However, it has not been explored whether such treatment can also prevent the epileptogenesis. Using a recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector, we induced hippocampal galanin overexpression under the neuron specific enolase promoter in rats. Here we report that in animals with galanin overexpression, the duration of electrographic afterdischarges was shortened and initiation of convulsions was delayed at generalized seizure stages. However, the hippocampal kindling development was unchanged. Short-term plasticity of mossy fiber-cornu ammonis (CA) 3 synapses was unaltered, as assessed by paired-pulse and frequency facilitation of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in hippocampal slices, suggesting that despite high transgene galanin expression, overall release probability of glutamate in these synapses was unaffected. These data indicate that hippocampal rAAV-based galanin overexpression is capable of mediating anticonvulsant effects by lowering the seizure susceptibility once generalized seizures are induced, but does not seem to affect kindling development or presynaptic short-term plasticity in mossy fibers.
Neuroinflammatory processes associated with induction of cyclooxygenase (COX) have been implicated in the deleterious events resulting in neurodegeneration. The present study was designed to investigate the impact of acute methamphetamine (MA) administration on COX expression and prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2)) production, and to evaluate the effect of selective COX-2 inhibition using celecoxib in MA-induced degeneration of dopaminergic terminal and cell apoptosis in the striatum. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with either a neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine hydrochloride (5 mg/kg, i.p., every 2 h for four injections) with or without celecoxib (7.5 mg/kg) or vehicle. COX-1 expression was not affected by MA, while both COX-2 protein expression and number of COX-2 positive cells in striatum were significantly reduced 24 h after MA treatment. However, after 72 h, a significant upregulation of COX-2 protein was detected. PGE(2) production was correlated with altered COX-2 levels. NFkappa-B (NFkappa B), a key regulator of COX-2 expression, was activated 72 h after MA administration, and was accompanied by increased Ikappa B (Ikappa B) phosphorylation. Animals receiving MA exhibited an increase in apoptotic cells and notable reductions in dopamine (DA) content (63.9%) in immunoreactivity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and neuron specific microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) in striatum. Administration of celecoxib exacerbated MA-induced DA depletion, and did not affect MA-induced MAP2 damage, apoptosis or proliferation of glial cells. Our findings suggest that COX-2 containing cells are targets of the damage during earlier stages of MA-related neurotoxicity, and that the selective inhibition of COX-2 enzyme is harmful rather than protective. The COX-2 induction appears during the recovery period, and NFkappa B activation may be an important mechanism.
The presence of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) containing processes, projecting from the lateral hypothalamus to the medial nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS), has been reported in the rat. It was hypothesized that MCH acting within the mNTS may modulate the central regulation of cardiovascular function. This hypothesis was tested in urethane-anesthetized, artificially ventilated, adult male Wistar rats. Microinjections (100 nl) of MCH (0.25, 0.5, 0.75, and 1 mM) into the mNTS of anesthetized rats elicited decreases in mean arterial pressure (20.4+/-1.6, 50.7+/-3.3, 35.7+/-2.8 and 30.0+/-2.6 mm Hg, respectively). The decreases in heart rate in response to these concentrations of MCH were 40.0+/-8.7, 90.0+/-13.0, 48.0+/-7.3 and 48.0+/-8.0 beats/min, respectively. Maximum cardiovascular responses were elicited by a 0.5 mM concentration of MCH. Cardiovascular responses to MCH were similar in unanesthetized mid-collicular decerebrate rats. Control microinjections of normal saline (100 nl) did not elicit any cardiovascular response. Ipsilateral or bilateral vagotomy significantly attenuated MCH-induced bradycardia. Prior microinjections of PMC-3881-PI (2 mM; MCH-1 receptor antagonist) into the mNTS blocked the cardiovascular responses to microinjections of MCH. Microinjection of MCH (0.5 mM) into the mNTS decreased efferent greater splanchnic nerve activity. Direct application of MCH (0.5 mM; 4 nl) to barosensitive nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) neurons increased their firing rate. These results indicate that: 1) MCH microinjections into the mNTS activate MCH-1 receptors and excite barosensitive NTS neurons, causing a decrease in efferent sympathetic activity and blood pressure, and 2) MCH-induced bradycardia is mediated via the activation of the vagus nerves.
We have recently reported that most of NG2 glycoprotein expressing glial cells, or NG2 glia, in rat hippocampus persistently express sodium channel currents (I(Na)) during development, but little is known about its function. We report here that hippocampal NG2 glia recorded in either acute slices or freshly isolated preparations from postnatal days (P) 7-21 rats express low density I(Na) (9.5-15.7 pA/pF) that is characterized by a fast activation and rapid inactivation kinetics with a tetrodotoxin (TTX) IC(50) value of 39.3 nM. The I(Na) expression correlated with a approximately 25 mV more depolarized resting membrane potential (RMP) as compared with non-I(Na)-expressing GLAST(+) astrocytes in situ at the same age. In the presence of the sodium channel blocker TTX (0.1 microM), these depolarized RMPs were negatively shifted by an average of 19 mV and 16 mV for I(Na)-expressing glia recordings from in situ and freshly isolated preparations, respectively. The I(Na) expressing glia actually showed a positive RMP (+12 mV) in the absence of potassium conductance that was inhibited to 0 mV by 0.1 microM TTX. Analysis of the I(Na) activation/inactivation curves yields an I(Na) &quot;window current&quot; at -40+/-20 mV, implying a persistent I(Na) component being active around the NG2 glia RMP of approximately -45 mV. According to the constant-field equation analysis, this active I(Na) component leads to a pNa/pK ratio of 0.14 at RMP which is approximately threefold higher than astrocytes (0.05). These results indicate that a TTX sensitive I(Na) component in NG2 glia contributes significantly to the depolarized NG2 glia RMP in the developing brain.
Performance on most sensory tasks improves with practice. When making particularly challenging sensory judgments, perceptual improvements in performance are tightly coupled to the trained task and stimulus configuration. The form of this specificity is believed to provide a strong indication of which neurons are solving the task or encoding the learned stimulus. Here we systematically decouple task- and stimulus-mediated components of trained improvements in perceptual performance and show that neither provides an adequate description of the learning process. Twenty-four human subjects trained on a unique combination of task (three-element alignment or bisection) and stimulus configuration (vertical or horizontal orientation). Before and after training, we measured subjects' performance on all four task-configuration combinations. What we demonstrate for the first time is that learning does actually transfer across both task and configuration provided there is a common spatial axis to the judgment. The critical factor underlying the transfer of learning effects is not the task or stimulus arrangements themselves, but rather the recruitment of commons sets of neurons most informative for making each perceptual judgment.

Our brain continuously creates various representations of the space around us as a function of our on-going behaviour. A recent study on how back space is represented in patients suffering from spatial neglect underscores the distinction between motor and non-motor space.

As the ear has dual functions for audition and balance, the eye has a dual role in detecting light for a wide range of behavioral and physiological functions separate from sight. These responses are driven primarily by stimulation of photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (pRGCs) that are most sensitive to short-wavelength ( approximately 480 nm) blue light and remain functional in the absence of rods and cones. We examined the spectral sensitivity of non-image-forming responses in two profoundly blind subjects lacking functional rods and cones (one male, 56 yr old; one female, 87 yr old). In the male subject, we found that short-wavelength light preferentially suppressed melatonin, reset the circadian pacemaker, and directly enhanced alertness compared to 555 nm exposure, which is the peak sensitivity of the photopic visual system. In an action spectrum for pupillary constriction, the female subject exhibited a peak spectral sensitivity (lambda(max)) of 480 nm, matching that of the pRGCs but not that of the rods and cones. This subject was also able to correctly report a threshold short-wavelength stimulus ( approximately 480 nm) but not other wavelengths. Collectively these data show that pRGCs contribute to both circadian physiology and rudimentary visual awareness in humans and challenge the assumption that rod- and cone-based photoreception mediate all &quot;visual&quot; responses to light.

Migration of cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) from the external germinal cell layer (EGL) to the internal granule cell layer (IGL) within the cerebellar cortex is a crucial developmental process. Antagonists to NMDA receptors impair CGC migration significantly, but studies to determine which subunit subtypes control or affect migration have been controversial. Migrating CGCs transiently express NMDA receptor subunit subtypes NR1a plus NR2B. Grafted NR1-/- subunit knockout cells continue to migrate, indicating that the NR1 subunit is not necessary for migration. In the present study, the functional importance of the NR2B subtype in developing cerebellum was investigated using organotypic slice cultures prepared from postnatal day 8 (P8) rats. Slice cultures were labeled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) during the first 20h and then continuously treated with the NR2B-subtype-specific NMDA antagonist, ifenprodil, or the non-specific NMDA antagonist, APV, for 7 days. Cultures were incubated with fluorescently tagged anti-BrdU IgG and the percent of BrdU-labeled CGCs that migrated from the EGL to the IGL during treatment was analyzed using laser confocal microscopy. Migration into the IGL was significantly impaired by treatment with 0.5 and 1.0 microM ifenprodil. Fewer cells had migrated to the IGL in 1.0 microM ifenprodil than in 0.5 microM ifenprodil; there was no significant difference between the percent impairment caused by 1.0 microM ifenprodil and 50 microM APV. Untreated controls had few, if any, CGCs in the EGL at DIV 8. The percent of CGCs remaining in the EGL following treatment with antagonists significantly increased, indicating impairment of migration. In conclusion, the NR2B subunit appears to be necessary for CGC migration.
The medial preoptic area (MPOA) is a sexually dimorphic structure that plays key roles in gonado-steroidal regulation and thermoregulation. The MPOA may be involved in sex-based differences in nociceptive processing and steroid hormones effect on pain thresholds. Consistent with this, there is evidence that MPOA can produce antinociception or hyperalgesia. MPOA stimulation inhibits spinal cord or trigeminal neuronal responses to noxious stimuli or produces analgesia, yet most of these studies utilized electrical stimulation which antidromically activates periaqueductal gray (PAG) and rostroventromedial medulla (RVM) neurons involved in descending modulation of nociception. Effects of selective activation of MPOA neurons on behavioral indices of antinociception and the site-specificity of such responses are unknown. To address these questions, we examined the influence of MPOA microinjections of d,l homocysteate (DLH) on hindlimb and tail nocifensive reflexes in lightly anesthetized rats. DLH, but not saline, microinjections into several MPOA subregions markedly increased withdrawal response latencies to noxious thermal stimuli. Antinociceptive effects of MPOA activation were abolished by microinjection of lidocaine into PAG. These results suggest that activation of MPOA neurons produces antinociception that is at least partly mediated by projections to PAG.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) mediate short- and long-term depression of synaptic strength by retrograde transsynaptic signaling. Previous studies have suggested that an eCB mobilization or release step in the postsynaptic neuron is involved in this retrograde signaling. However, it is not known whether this release process occurs automatically upon eCB synthesis or whether it is regulated by other synaptic factors. To address this issue, we loaded postsynaptic striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) with the eCBs anandamide (AEA) or 2-arachidonoylglycerol and determined the conditions necessary for presynaptic inhibition. We found that presynaptic depression of glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) induced by postsynaptic eCB loading required a certain level of afferent activation that varied between the different synaptic types. Synaptic depression at excitatory synapses was temperature-dependent and blocked by the eCB membrane transport blockers, VDM11 and UCM707, but did not require activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, l-calcium channels, nitric oxide, voltage-activated Na(+) channels, or intracellular calcium. Application of the CB(1)R antagonist, AM251, after depression was established, reversed the decrease in EPSC, but not in IPSC, amplitude. Direct activation of the CB(1) receptor by WIN 55,212-2 initiated synaptic depression that was independent of afferent stimulation. These findings indicate that retrograde eCB signaling requires a postsynaptic release step involving a transporter or carrier that is activated by afferent stimulation/synaptic activation.
The Na(+)/I(-) symporter (NIS) is a key plasma membrane protein that mediates active I(-) uptake in the thyroid, lactating breast, and other tissues with an electrogenic stoichiometry of 2 Na(+) per I(-). In the thyroid, NIS-mediated I(-) uptake is the first step in the biosynthesis of the iodine-containing thyroid hormones, which are essential early in life for proper CNS development. In the lactating breast, NIS mediates the translocation of I(-) to the milk, thus supplying this essential anion to the nursing newborn. Perchlorate (ClO(4)(-)) is a well known competitive inhibitor of NIS. Exposure to food and water contaminated with ClO(4)(-) is common in the U.S. population, and the public health impact of such exposure is currently being debated. To date, it is still uncertain whether ClO(4)(-) is a NIS blocker or a transported substrate of NIS. Here we show in vitro and in vivo that NIS actively transports ClO(4)(-), including ClO(4)(-) translocation to the milk. A simple mathematical fluxes model accurately predicts the effect of ClO(4)(-) transport on the rate and extent of I(-) accumulation. Strikingly, the Na(+)/ ClO(4)(-) transport stoichiometry is electroneutral, uncovering that NIS translocates different substrates with different stoichiometries. That NIS actively concentrates ClO(4)(-) in maternal milk suggests that exposure of newborns to high levels of ClO(4)(-) may pose a greater health risk than previously acknowledged because ClO(4)(-) would thus directly inhibit the newborns' thyroidal I(-) uptake.
BH3-only proteins couple diverse stress signals to the evolutionarily conserved mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Previously, we reported that the activation of the BH3-only protein p53-up-regulated mediator of apoptosis (Puma) was necessary and sufficient for endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress- and proteasome inhibition-induced apoptosis in neuroblastoma and other cancer cells. Defects in protein quality control have also been suggested to be a key event in ALS, a fatal neurodegenerative condition characterized by motoneuron degeneration. Using the SOD1(G93A) mouse model as well as human post mortem samples from ALS patients, we show evidence for increased ER stress and defects in protein degradation in motoneurons during disease progression. Before symptom onset, we detected a significant up-regulation of Puma in motoneurons of SOD1(G93A) mice. Genetic deletion of puma significantly improved motoneuron survival and delayed disease onset and motor dysfunction in SOD1(G93A) mice. However, it had no significant effect on lifespan, suggesting that other ER stress-related cell-death proteins or other factors, such as excitotoxicity, necrosis, or inflammatory injury, may contribute at later disease stages. Indeed, further experiments using cultured motoneurons revealed that genetic deletion of puma protected motoneurons against ER stress-induced apoptosis but showed no effect against excitotoxic injury. These findings demonstrate that a single BH3-only protein, the ER stress-associated protein Puma, plays an important role during the early stages of chronic neurodegeneration in vivo.
The lifelong addition of neurons to the hippocampus is a remarkable form of structural plasticity, yet the molecular controls over proliferation, neuronal fate determination, survival, and maturation are poorly understood. Expression of Notch1 was found to change dynamically depending on the differentiation state of neural precursor cells. Through the use of inducible gain- and loss-of-function of Notch1 mice we show that this membrane receptor is essential to these distinct processes. We found in vivo that activated Notch1 overexpression induces proliferation, whereas gamma-secretase inhibition or genetic ablation of Notch1 promotes cell cycle exit, indicating that the level of activated Notch1 regulates the magnitude of neurogenesis from postnatal progenitor cells. Abrogation of Notch signaling in vivo or in vitro leads to a transition from neural stem or precursor cells to transit-amplifying cells or neurons. Further, genetic Notch1 manipulation modulates survival and dendritic morphology of newborn granule cells. These results provide evidence for the expansive prevalence of Notch signaling in hippocampal morphogenesis and plasticity, suggesting that Notch1 could be a target of diverse traumatic and environmental modulators of adult neurogenesis.
Although homomeric channels assembled from the alpha9 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit are functional in vitro, electrophysiological, anatomical, and molecular data suggest that native cholinergic olivocochlear function is mediated via heteromeric nAChRs composed of both alpha9 and alpha10 subunits. To gain insight into alpha10 subunit function in vivo, we examined olivo cochlear innervation and function in alpha10 null-mutant mice. Electrophysiological recordings from postnatal (P) days P8-9 inner hair cells revealed ACh-gated currents in alpha10(+/+) and alpha10(+/-) mice, with no detectable responses to ACh in alpha10(-/-) mice. In contrast, a proportion of alpha10(-/-) outer hair cells showed small ACh-evoked currents. In alpha10(-/-) mutant mice, olivocochlear fiber stimulation failed to suppress distortion products, suggesting that the residual alpha9 homomeric nAChRs expressed by outer hair cells are unable to transduce efferent signals in vivo. Finally, alpha10(-/-) mice exhibit both an abnormal olivocochlear morphology and innervation to outer hair cells and a highly disorganized efferent innervation to the inner hair cell region. Our results demonstrate that alpha9(-/-) and alpha10(-/-) mice have overlapping but nonidentical phenotypes. Moreover, alpha10 nAChR subunits are required for normal olivocochlear activity because alpha9 homomeric nAChRs do not support maintenance of normal olivocochlear innervation or function in alpha10(-/-) mutant mice.
We investigated the function of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (Cdk2) in neural progenitor cells during postnatal development. Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (NG2)-expressing progenitor cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) show no significant difference in density and proliferation between Cdk2(-/-) and wild-type mice at perinatal ages and are reduced only in adult Cdk2(-/-) mice. Adult Cdk2(-/-) SVZ cells in culture display decreased self-renewal capacity and enhanced differentiation. Compensatory mechanisms in perinatal Cdk2(-/-) SVZ cells, which persist until postnatal day 15, involve increased Cdk4 expression that results in retinoblastoma protein inactivation. A subsequent decline in Cdk4 activity to wild-type levels in postnatal day 28 Cdk2(-/-) cells coincides with lower NG2+ proliferation and self-renewal capacity similar to adult levels. Cdk4 silencing in perinatal Cdk2(-/-) SVZ cells abolishes Cdk4 up-regulation and reduces cell proliferation and self- renewal to adult levels. Conversely, Cdk4 overexpression in adult SVZ cells restores proliferative capacity to wild-type levels. Thus, although Cdk2 is functionally redundant in perinatal SVZ, it is important for adult progenitor cell proliferation and self-renewal through age-dependent regulation of Cdk4.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and dysregulation of apoptosis are implicated in many diseases such as cancer and neurodegeneration. We investigate here the role of respiratory chain (RC) dysfunction in apoptosis, using mitochondrial DNA mutations as genetic models. Although some mutations eliminate the entire RC, others target specific complexes, resulting in either decreased or complete loss of electron flux, which leads to impaired respiration and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis. Despite these similarities, significant differences in responses to apoptotic stimuli emerge. Cells lacking RC are protected against both mitochondrial- and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced apoptosis. Cells with RC, but unable to generate electron flux, are protected against mitochondrial apoptosis, although they have increased sensitivity to ER stress. Finally, cells with a partial reduction in electron flux have increased apoptosis under both conditions. Our results show that the RC modulates apoptosis in a context-dependent manner independent of ATP production and that apoptotic responses are the result of the interplay between mitochondrial functional state and environmental cues.
Subjective visual experience depends not only on the spatial arrangement of the environment, but also on the temporal pattern of stimulation. For example, flickering and steady light presented in the same location evoke a very different perceptual experience due to their different temporal patterns. Here, we examined whether the availability of processing resources affected the temporal resolution of conscious flicker perception--the ability to distinguish rapid changes in light intensity, detecting visual temporal patterns. Participants detected flicker in a fixated LED that flickered at or around the individually adjusted critical flicker fusion (CFF) threshold while searching for a target letter presented in the periphery either on its own (low perceptual load) or among other letters (high load). Physically identical flickering stimuli were more likely to be perceived as &quot;fused&quot; under high (compared to low) load in the peripheral letter search. Furthermore, psychophysical measures showed a reduction in flicker detection sensitivity under high perceptual load. These results could not be due to criterion or stimulus prioritization differences or to differential likelihood of forgetting the correct response under different load conditions. These findings demonstrate that perceptual load influences conscious perception of temporal patterns.
The present study examined the influence of pharmacological modulations of the locus coeruleus noradrenergic system on odor recognition in the mouse. Mice exposed to a nonrewarded olfactory stimulation (training) were able to memorize this odor and to discriminate it from a new odor in a recall test performed 15 min later. At longer delays (30 or 60 min), the familiar odor was no longer retained, and both stimuli were perceived as new ones. Following a post-training injection of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist dexefaroxan, the familiar odor was still remembered 30 min after training. In contrast, both the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist UK 14304 and the noradrenergic neurotoxin DSP-4 prevented the recognition of the familiar odor 15 min after the first exposure. Noradrenaline release in the olfactory bulb, assessed by measurement of the extracellular noradrenaline metabolite normetanephrine, was increased by 62% following dexefaroxan injection, and was decreased by 38%-44% after treatment with UK 14304 and DSP-4. Performance of mice in the recall test was reduced by a post-training injection of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol or the alpha(1)-antagonist prazosin, thus implicating a role for beta- and alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in the facilitating effects of noradrenaline on short-term olfactory recognition in this model.
Agonists of TRPA1 such as mustard oil and its key component AITC cause pain and neurogenic inflammation in humans and pain behavior in rodents. TRPA1 is activated by numerous reactive compounds making it a sensor for reactive compounds in the body. Failure of AITC, formalin and other reactive compounds to trigger pain behavior in TRPA1 knockout mice, as well as the ability of TRPA1 antisense to alleviate cold hyperalgesia after spinal nerve ligation, suggest that TRPA1 is a potential target for novel analgesic agents. Here, we have characterized CHO cells expressing human and rat TRPA1 driven by an inducible promoter. As reported previously, both human and rat TRPA1 are activated by AITC and inhibited by ruthenium red. We have also characterized noxious cold response of these cell lines and show that noxious cold activates both human and rat TRPA1. Further, we have used CHO cells expressing human TRPA1 to screen a small molecule compound library and discovered that 'trichloro(sulfanyl)ethyl benzamides' (AMG2504, AMG5445, AMG7160 and AMG9090) act as potent antagonists of human TRPA1 activated by AITC and noxious cold. However, trichloro(sulfanyl)ethyl benzamides' (TCEB compounds) displayed differential pharmacology at rat TRPA1. AMG2504 and AMG7160 marginally inhibited rat TRPA1 activation by AITC, whereas AMG5445 and AMG9090 acted as partial agonists. In summary, we conclude that both human and rat TRPA1 channels show similar AITC and noxious cold activation profiles, but TCEB compounds display species-specific differential pharmacology at TRPA1.
Invasiveness, one of the hallmarks of tumor progression, represents the tumor's ability to expand into the host tissue by means of several complex biochemical and biomechanical processes. Since certain aspects of the problem present a striking resemblance with well-known physical mechanisms, such as the mechanical insertion of a solid inclusion in an elastic material specimen (G Eaves 1973 The invasive growth of malignant tumours as a purely mechanical process J. Pathol. 109 233; C Guiot, N Pugno and P P Delsanto 2006 Elastomechanical model of tumor invasion Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 233901) or a water drop impinging on a surface (C Guiot, P P Delsanto and T S Deisboeck 2007 Morphological instability and cancer invasion: a 'splashing water drop' analogy Theor. Biol. Med. Model 4 4), we propose here an analogy between these physical processes and a cancer system's invasive branching into the surrounding tissue. Accounting for its solid and viscous properties, we then arrive, as a unifying model, to an analogy with a granular solid. While our model has been explicitly formulated for multicellular tumor spheroids in vitro, it should also contribute to a better understanding of tumor invasion in vivo.
What appears in this article is nothing more than a series of reflections on psychiatry and neurology based on my own experience as an educator, practitioner and scholar of both disciplines. It is not, therefore, a piece of research work in the usual sense of the word. Such has been my commitment to Revista de Neurologia that I was asked to analyse the current situation of neurology and psychiatry and the possible relations between them, and the editors have accepted this way of studying the matter.

Granule neurons of the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus undergo continuous renewal throughout life. Among cell cycle regulators, cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (Cdk2) is considered as a major regulator of S-phase entry. We used Cdk2-deficient mice to decipher the requirement of Cdk2 for the generation of new neurons in the adult hippocampus. The quantification of cell cycle markers first revealed that the lack of Cdk2 activity does not influence spontaneous or seizure-induced proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPC) in the adult DG. Using bromodeoxyuridine incorporation assays, we showed that the number of mature newborn granule neurons generated de novo was similar in both wild-type (WT) and Cdk2-deficient adult mice. Moreover, the apparent lack of cell output reduction in Cdk2(-/-) mice DG did not result from a reduction in apoptosis of newborn granule cells as analyzed by TUNEL assays. Our results therefore suggest that Cdk2 is dispensable for NPC proliferation, differentiation and survival of adult-born DG granule neurons in vivo. These data emphasize that functional redundancies between Cdks also occur in the adult brain at the level of neural progenitor cell cycle regulation during hippocampal neurogenesis.
Unlike mammals, teleost fish are able to mount an efficient and robust regenerative response following optic nerve injury. Although it is clear that changes in gene expression accompany axonal regeneration, the extent of this genomic response is not known. To identify genes involved in successful nerve regeneration, we analyzed gene expression in zebrafish retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) regenerating their axons following optic nerve injury. Microarray analysis of RNA isolated by laser capture microdissection from uninjured and 3-day post-optic nerve injured RGCs identified 347 up-regulated and 29 down-regulated genes. Quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization were used to verify the change in expression of 19 genes in this set. Gene ontological analysis of the data set suggests regenerating neurons up-regulate genes associated with RGC development. However, not all regeneration-associated genes are expressed in differentiating RGCs indicating the regeneration is not simply a recapitulation of development. Knockdown of six highly induced regeneration-associated genes identified two, KLF6a and KLF7a, that together were necessary for robust RGC axon re-growth. These results implicate KLF6a and KLF7a as important mediators of optic nerve regeneration and suggest that not all induced genes are essential to mount a regenerative response.
Radial glial cells play a critical role in the construction of mammalian brain by functioning as a source of new neurons and by providing a scaffold for radial migration of new neurons to their target locations. Radial glia transform into astrocytes at the end of embryonic development. Strategies to promote functional recovery in the injured adult brain depend on the generation of new neurons and the appropriate guidance of these neurons to where they are needed, two critical functions of radial glia. Thus, the competence to regain radial glial identity in the adult brain is of significance for the ability to promote functional repair via neurogenesis and targeted neuronal migration in the mature brain. Here we show that the in vivo induction of the tyrosine kinase receptor, ErbB2, in mature astrocytes enables a subset of them to regain radial glial identity in the mature cerebral cortex. These new radial glial progenitors are capable of giving rise to new neurons and can support neuronal migration. These studies indicate that ErbB2 signaling critically modulates the functional state of radial glia, and induction of ErbB2 in distinct adult astrocytes can promote radial glial identity in the mature cerebral cortex.
Peripheral demyelinating neuropathy, central dysmyelinating leukodystrophy, Waardenburg syndrome and Hirschsprung disease (PCWH) is a complex neurocristopathy caused by SOX10 mutations. Most PCWH-associated SOX10 mutations result in premature termination codons (PTCs), for which the molecular mechanism has recently been delineated. However, the first mutation reported to cause PCWH was a disruption of the native stop codon that by conceptual translation extends the protein into the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) for an additional 82 residues. In this study, we sought to determine the currently unknown molecular pathology for the SOX10 extension mutation using in vitro functional assays. Despite the wild-type SOX10 coding sequence remaining intact, the extension mutation led to severely diminished transcription and DNA-binding activities. Nevertheless, it showed no dominant-negative interference with wild-type SOX10 in vitro. Within the 82-amino acid tail, an 11-amino acid region (termed the WR domain) was responsible primarily for the deleterious properties of the extension. The WR domain, presumably forming an alpha-helix structure, inhibited SOX10 transcription activities if inserted in the carboxyl-terminal half of the protein. The WR domain can also affect other transcription factors with a graded effect when fused to the carboxyl termini, suggesting that it probably elicits a toxic functional activity. Together, molecular pathology for the SOX10 extension mutation is distinct from that of more common PTC mutations. Failure to properly terminate SOX10 translation causes the generation of a deleterious functional domain that occurs because of translation of the normal 3'-UTR; the mutant fusion protein causes a severe neurological disease.
The preservation of central neurophysiological function was assessed in a 32-year-old woman with hydranencephaly using brainstem auditory evoked responses (BAER), auditory middle latency responses (MLR), cortical auditory evoked responses (CER), strobe electroretinograms (ERG), strobe-flash visual evoked responses (VER) and median and tibial nerve somatosensory evoked responses (SER). The BAER to the right ear stimulation revealed wave peaks I through VII with normal thresholds, morphology and latencies, while the BAER in the left ear was abnormal. The auditory MLR and CER were absent. Grossly normal strobe ERGs were acquired bilaterally with peak waves at 20 and 50 ms. Strobe VERs were poorly defined and abnormal bilaterally. Left and right median nerve SER revealed significant conduction defects in the large fiber sensory system caudal to the thalamus, above the lower pontine level. Bilateral tibial nerve stimulation revealed normal knee popliteal fossa potentials, but distinct conduction defects in the large fiber sensory system rostral to the lower spinal cord. Brainstem electrophysiological measures revealed functional auditory afferent tracts and nuclei, in the absence of cortical influence, suggesting intact unilateral auditory function, which would support clinical observations of behavioral auditory responses in hydranencephaly.
We observed a 42-year-old woman presenting with severe dysphagia secondary to paralysis of the lower cranial nerves and right phrenic nerve involvement, followed by respiratory failure. An EMG confirmed bilateral denervation of the 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th cranial nerves and right phrenic nerve. Videolaryngoscopy showed bilateral vocal fold immobility. Anemia, elevated ESR, microhematuria and C-ANCA (PR-3) antibodies were detected. Brain MRI and CSF were normal. A chest CT showed bilateral, irregular pulmonary lesions. An 18F-FDG total body scan showed diffuse hypermetabolic regions in both pulmonary bases, in the mediastinic region and in the rhinopharynx, raising the suspicion of a neoplastic process. A transthoracic biopsy disclosed nodular granulomatous aggregates with multinucleated giant cells, supporting the diagnosis of Wegener's granulomatosis. Immunosuppressive therapy achieved complete clinical resolution and cleared the pulmonary lesions. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report of Wegener's granulomatosis presenting with neurogenic dysphagia due to lower cranial nerve palsy.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the cerebellum in a temporal-discrimination task without movement production in healthy subjects. Ten healthy subjects underwent a time-perception task with somatosensory stimuli. Two pairs of electrical stimuli: the first considered the reference pair (rp) with a standard interval of 400 ms and the second, the test pair (tp), with variable intervals ranging from 300 to 500 ms, were applied by surface electrodes on the right forearm. Subjects were instructed to compare time intervals of rp and tp and to estimate whether the tp interval was shorter than, equal to, or longer than that of rp. The task was performed in baseline and after 1 Hz rTMS over the right and left cerebellar hemisphere. The right cerebellar rTMS worsened temporal discrimination of cutaneous somatosensory electrical stimuli on the ipsilateral hand. rTMS of the left cerebellar hemisphere did not determine significant changes in the subjects' performance with respect to the baseline. These findings suggest that the cerebellum plays a role in merely perceptive aspects of temporal information processing.

The compelling evidence linking small size at birth with later cardiovascular disease has renewed and amplified scientific and clinical interests into the determinants of fetal growth. It is accepted that genes and nutrition control fetal growth; however, prior to this study, it had been impossible to isolate the effect of increases and decreases in fetal oxygenation on the regulation of prenatal growth. We investigated the role of oxygen in the control of fetal growth in the chicken because in contrast to mammals, the effects on the fetus of changes in oxygenation could be isolated, by assessing them directly without alteration to the maternal or placental physiology or maternal nutrition during development. The data show that incubation at high altitude of fertilized eggs laid by sea level hens markedly restricted fetal growth. Incubation at high altitude of fertilized eggs laid by high altitude hens also restricted fetal growth, but to a lesser extent compared to eggs laid by sea level hens. By contrast, incubation at sea level of fertilized eggs laid by high altitude hens not only restored, but enhanced, fetal growth relative to sea level controls. Incubation at high altitude of sea level eggs with oxygen supplementation completely prevented the high altitude-induced fetal growth restriction. Thus, fetal oxygenation, independent of maternal nutrition during development, has a predominant role in the control of fetal growth. Further, prolonged high altitude residence confers protection against the deleterious effects of hypoxia on fetal growth.
Active synapses can reduce the probability of transmitter release at neighbouring synapses. Depending on whether such heterosynaptic depression is mediated by intersynaptic diffusion of transmitter or by release of gliotransmitters, astrocytes should either hinder or promote the heterosynaptic depression. In the present study we have examined the developmental profile and astrocytic involvement in a transient heterosynaptic depression (tHeSD) in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slice preparation. A short stimulus burst (3 impulses at 50 Hz) to one group of synapses elicited a depression of the field EPSP evoked in another group of synapses that amounted to about 25% 0.5 s after the conditioning burst. This tHeSD was associated with an increase in the paired-pulse ratio of about 30%. The tHeSD was not present in slices from rats younger than 10 postnatal days and developed towards the adult magnitude between postnatal days 10 and 20. The tHeSD was totally prevented by the glia-specific toxin fluoroacetate (FAC), by carbenoxolone, a general blocker of connexin-based channels, and by endothelin, an endogenous peptide that has been shown to block astrocytic connexin-based channels. Antagonists to GABA(B) receptors and group II/III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) abolished the tHeSD whereas antagonists to NMDA- and adenosine A1 receptors, and to group I mGluRs, did not affect the tHeSD. These results suggest that the tHeSD relies on GABA(B) receptors, group II/III mGluRs and on gliotransmitter release from functionally mature astrocytes.
Synapses continuously experience short- and long-lasting activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength. Long-term plasticity refers to persistent alterations in synaptic efficacy, whereas short-term plasticity (STP) reflects the instantaneous and reversible modulation of synaptic strength in response to varying presynaptic stimuli. The hippocampal mossy fibre synapse onto CA3 pyramidal cells is known to exhibit both a presynaptic, NMDA receptor-independent form of long-term potentiation (LTP) and a pronounced form of STP. A detailed description of their exact interdependence is, however, lacking. Here, using electrophysiological and computational techniques, we have developed a descriptive model of transmission dynamics to quantify plasticity at the mossy fibre synapse. STP at this synapse is best described by two facilitatory processes acting on time-scales of a few hundred milliseconds and about 10 s. We find that these distinct types of facilitation are differentially influenced by LTP such that the impact of the fast process is weakened as compared to that of the slow process. This attenuation is reflected by a selective decrease of not only the amplitude but also the time constant of the fast facilitation. We henceforth argue that LTP, involving a modulation of parameters determining both amplitude and time course of STP, serves as a mechanism to adapt the mossy fibre synapse to its temporal input.
Olfactory marker protein (OMP), a phylogenetically conserved protein, is highly, and almost exclusively, expressed in vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). Although OMP is widely used as a marker for ORNs, its function has remained largely elusive. Here we used suction-pipette recordings from isolated ORNs of OMP(-/-) mice to investigate its role in olfactory transduction. Vertebrate olfactory transduction is initiated when odourants bind to receptor proteins to activate an adenylyl cyclase via a G protein-coupled signalling pathway. This leads to an increase in cAMP and the opening of a cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG), non-selective cation channel which depolarizes the cells. Ca(2+) influx through the CNG channel in turn activates a Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channel, causing a Cl(-) efflux and further depolarization. In the absence of OMP, the time-to-transient-peak of the response, the latency to first spike, and the response termination were slowed 2- to 8-fold, indicating its role in regulating olfactory response kinetics and termination. This phenotype persisted in OMP(-/-) ORNs even in low external Ca(2+) solution chosen to prevent Cl(-) channel activation, suggesting OMP acts upstream of Cl(-) channel activation. Furthermore, the response kinetics in cilia are virtually indistinguishable between OMP(-/-) and wild-type ORNs when intracellular cAMP level was elevated by the phospho-diesterase inhibitor, IBMX, suggesting OMP acts upstream of cAMP production. Together, our results suggest a role for OMP in regulating the kinetics and termination of olfactory responses, implicating a novel mechanism for fast and robust response termination to ensure the temporal resolution of the odour stimulus. These observations also help explain the deficits in odour detection threshold and odour quality discrimination seen in the OMP(-/-) mice.

Short-term synaptic depression during repetitive activity is a common property of most synapses. Multiple mechanisms contribute to this rapid depression in neurotransmission including a decrease in vesicle fusion probability, inactivation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels or use-dependent inhibition of release machinery by presynaptic receptors. In addition, synaptic depression can arise from a rapid reduction in the number of vesicles available for release. This reduction can be countered by two sources. One source is replenishment from a set of reserve vesicles. The second source is the reuse of vesicles that have undergone exocytosis and endocytosis. If the synaptic vesicle reuse is fast enough then it can replenish vesicles during a brief burst of action potentials and play a substantial role in regulating the rate of synaptic depression. In the last 5 years, we have examined the impact of synaptic vesicle reuse on neurotransmission using fluorescence imaging of synaptic vesicle trafficking in combination with electrophysiological detection of short-term synaptic plasticity. These studies have revealed that synaptic vesicle reuse shapes the kinetics of short-term synaptic depression in a frequency-dependent manner. In addition, synaptic vesicle recycling helps maintain the level of neurotransmission at steady state. Moreover, our studies showed that synaptic vesicle reuse is a highly plastic process as it varies widely among synapses and can adapt to changes in chronic activity levels.
Previous findings that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in neuropathic pain, mainly through spinal mechanisms, suggest that ROS may be involved in central sensitization. To investigate the possible role of ROS in central sensitization, we examined in rats the effects of ROS scavengers on capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia, which is known to be mediated by central sensitization. We used two different ROS scavengers: phenyl N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) and 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine 1-oxyl (TEMPOL). Intradermal capsaicin injection (20 microg in 20 microl olive oil) into the hind paw produced primary and secondary hyperalgesia. A systemic administration of PBN (100mg/kg, i.p.) or TEMPOL (200mg/kg, i.p.) alleviated capsaicin-induced secondary, but not primary, hyperalgesia. Intrathecal injection of PBN (1mg inof veterinary Surgery/anesthesiology, College of veterinary Medic 50 microl saline) greatly reduced hyperalgesia, whereas intracerebroventricular or intradermal injection of PBN produced only a minor analgesic effect, suggesting that PBN takes effect mainly through the spinal cord. Electrophysiological recordings from wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the dorsal horn showed that intradermal capsaicin enhanced the evoked responses to peripheral stimuli; systemic PBN or TEMPOL restored the responses to normal levels. Removal of ROS thus restored the responsiveness of spinal WDR neurons to normal levels, suggesting that ROS is involved in central sensitization, at least in part by sensitizing WDR neurons.
Subjects at high risk for alcoholism have a greater propensity for externalizing behaviors and brain volume reductions of possible neurodevelopmental origin. Morphometric deficits in the corpus callosum (CC), which might reflect this neurodevelopmental abnormality, have been reported in other externalizing disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, but not in subjects at high risk for alcoholism. The objective of the current study was to evaluate the CC morphometry in subjects at high risk for alcoholism. Magnetic resonance images of the CC in high-risk subjects (n=20) were compared with those of low-risk subjects matched to the high-risk subjects for age, sex, and handedness (n=20). Mid-sagittal areas of the CC, genu, body, isthmus and splenium were measured based on Witelson's method with good inter- and intra-rater reliability. Externalizing behaviors were assessed using the Semi-Structured Assessment for Genetics of Alcoholism-II. Total CC, genu and isthmus areas were significantly smaller in high-risk than low-risk subjects after controlling for age and intracranial area. The total externalizing symptoms score had a significant negative correlation with genu and isthmus areas. Smaller CC areas and their negative association with externalizing behaviors may represent yet another marker of susceptibility to alcoholism in high-risk subjects.
Relationships between neuroticism and neural activation to salient emotional stimuli were examined in three magnetic resonance imaging studies in which participants viewed International Affective Picture System pictures or emotional films. Neuroticism directly correlated with dorsomedial prefrontal cortex activation in response to positive stimuli. Dorsomedial prefrontal cortex correlations may reflect increased self-association in individuals with high neuroticism.

An increase in nucleus accumbens dopamine release appears to mediate the &quot;rewarding&quot; properties of drugs of abuse. Using PC12 cells, it has been shown that chronic ethanol exposure can significantly reduce nicotine-stimulated dopamine release. Here, a novel mechanism of ethanol in regulating presynaptic dopamine release is demonstrated. In neuronal cells, a layer of filamentous actin beneath the cell surface regulates the movement and release of synaptic vesicles. Upon stimulation, there is a protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent breakdown of this actin cytoskeleton, allowing vesicles to move near the nerve terminal membrane for release. Chronic ethanol alters PKC signaling, thus the hypothesis that chronic ethanol inhibits presynaptic actin cytoskeleton breakdown in response to stimulation was tested. PC12 cells were chronically exposed to ethanol and then acutely exposed to multiple forms of stimulation (nicotine, sucrose, potassium, and ionophore). In ethanol-treated cells, dopamine release was inhibited following stimulation by forms of release shown to be PKC-dependent (nicotine, sucrose, and potassium). In contrast, dopamine release was not altered following stimulation by PKC-independent forms of release (ionophore). Actin cytoskeleton breakdown was also inhibited following stimulation with PKC-dependent forms of stimulated release but not by PKC-independent (ionophore) forms. Further, cytochalasin B, an agent which depolymerizes actin, reversed the effects of chronic ethanol on both actin depolymerization and dopamine release. These data suggest that chronic ethanol inhibits presynaptic actin breakdown, likely resulting in decreased neurotransmitter release.
TgS and TgR transgenic mice overexpress different splice variants of acetylcholinesterase and serve as models for genetic disruption of the cholinergic system. Whereas the TgS mouse overexpresses synaptic AChE, the TgR mouse overexpresses the rare readthrough variant whose C-terminal lacks the cysteine residue which permits adherence to the membrane. The two genotypes were compared to the parent strain, FVB/N mice on locomotion, discrimination learning and anxiety behavior following two exposures to the elevated plus maze. Male TgS mice were slower to acquire a simple odor discrimination, failed to habituate to a novel environment but were not impaired on reversal or set shifting compared to the FVB/N or TgR mice. In addition, TgS mice showed less avoidance behavior on the first exposure and but less exploration on the second exposure to the EPM. TgR mice were not impaired on discrimination learning; however, the females showed excessive running in circles in the activity meter. The findings suggest that the effects of overexpression of AChE are unique to different splice variants and may be sex-dependent.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction caused by loss of complex I activity are presumed to be primary events leading to neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. Mitochondrial glutaredoxin (Grx2), a glutathione-dependent thiol disulfide oxidoreductase helps maintain redox homeostasis in the mitochondria. We therefore, examined the constitutive expression of Grx2 in brain and its role in MPTP-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction in the extrapyramidal system. Grx2 is constitutively expressed in both neuron and glia in mouse and human brain including the neurons in human substantia nigra. Grx2 mRNA and protein were transiently upregulated in midbrain and striatum 1 h but not 4 h after a single dose of MPTP. Downregulation of Grx2 using antisense oligonucleotides, in vivo, in mouse brain resulted in partial loss of complex I activity indicating that Grx2 may help maintain complex I function in the mitochondria. Further, overexpression of Grx2 abolished MPP(+)-mediated toxicity in vitro in neuroblastoma cells. Our results demonstrate the probable role of Grx2 in maintenance of the redox milieu in mitochondria and its potential neuroprotective role in preserving mitochondrial integrity in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease.
Selective estrogen receptor (ER) agonists can indicate which receptor subtypes are implicated in neuroprotection. This study investigated the contribution of ERbeta, using the selective agonist diarylpropiolnitrile (DPN), in a rat model of stroke. Lister Hooded rats were ovariectomized and implanted with mini-pumps containing either DPN (8 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) (n=7) or vehicle (n=5). Sensorimotor function was assessed using a neurological score and the spontaneous forelimb use asymmetry (cylinder) test. One week later the animals received a middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and T(2)-weighted MRI at 48 h post-MCAO quantified ischemic damage. Functional recovery was tested for 7 days post-MCAO and brains processed for histological verification of infarct size. The MRI images revealed no significant differences in hemispheric lesion volumes between vehicle- and DPN-treated groups (35.6+/-3.5% and 30.8+/-1.7%, respectively [mean+/-SEM]; Student's unpaired t-test df=10, t=-1.357, p=0.453); this was confirmed histologically at 7 days. MCAO induced significant decline in neurological score performance (from 22 to 11 at 2 h post-MCAO) in the vehicle-treated animals, which was not significantly influenced by DPN. MCAO also induced significant changes in forelimb use in the cylinder test (10% reduction in contralateral, 20% reduction in both, and 30% increase in ipsilateral forelimb use) but this response was not significantly different between groups [F(1,1)=2.929, p=0.118, repeated-measures ANOVA]. In conclusion, pretreatment with the ERbeta agonist DPN did not influence infarct size or sensorimotor function in rats exposed to MCAO.
The right-ear advantage (REA) is typically observed in verbal dichotic listening, indicating a left hemisphere superiority for speech processing. The REA could be thought of as a bottom-up, stimulus-driven laterality effect, caused by the preponderance of the contralateral neural fibers from the right ear to the auditory/speech processing areas in the left temporal lobe. The REA can, however, be modified by explicitly requiring the listeners to focus their attention alternatively on the left or right-ear stimuli, thus either countering or enhancing the bottom-up processes through top-down attentional control. In the present study, we manipulated the strength of the bottom-up REA by inducing an intensity difference between the right-ear and left-ear speech inputs in order to make the REA either weaker (left-ear input&gt;right-ear input) or stronger (left-ear input&lt;right-ear input) and also examined how this manipulation affected the top-down attention modulation effects. Twenty healthy participants listened to dichotic presentations of consonant-vowel syllable pairs with different attention instructions. The results showed that the interaural intensity difference significantly affected the ear advantage in the predicted way. It also interacted with the top-down control effects, attentional control having a stronger effect when attending to the ear that had a weaker sound intensity, as compared to when the intensities were equal.
Multiple PDZ domain scaffold protein Par-3 and phosphoinositides (PIPs) are required for polarity in diverse cell types. We show that the second PDZ domain of Par-3 binds to phosphatidylinositol (PI) lipid membranes with high affinity. We further demonstrate that a large subset of PDZ domains in mammalian genomes are capable of binding to PI lipid membranes, indicating that lipid binding is the second most prevalent interaction mode of PDZ domains known to date. The biochemical and structural basis of Par-3 PDZ2-mediated membrane interaction is characterized in detail. The membrane binding capacity of Par-3 PDZ2 is critical for epithelial cell polarization. Interestingly, the lipid phosphatase PTEN directly binds to the third PDZ domain of Par-3. The concatenation of the PIP-binding PDZ2 and the lipid phosphatase PTEN-binding PDZ3 endows Par-3 as an ideal scaffold protein for integrating PIP signaling events during cellular polarization.
We demonstrate that two key theoretical objects used widely in computational neuroscience, the phase-resetting curve (PRC) from dynamics and the spike triggered average (STA) from statistical analysis, are closely related when neurons fire in a nearly regular manner and the stimulus is sufficiently small. We prove that the STA due to injected noisy current is proportional to the derivative of the PRC. We compare these analytic results with numerical calculations for the Hodgkin-Huxley neuron and we apply the method to neurons in the olfactory bulb of mice. This observation allows us to relate the stimulus-response properties of a neuron to its dynamics, bridging the gap between dynamical and information theoretic approaches to understanding brain computations and facilitating the interpretation of changes in channels and other cellular properties as influencing the representation of stimuli.
Vertebrates harbor abundant lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in their gut microbiota. Alkaline phosphatases can dephosphorylate and detoxify the endotoxin component of LPS. Here, we show that expression of the zebrafish intestinal alkaline phosphatase (Iap), localized to the intestinal lumen brush border, is induced during establishment of the gut microbiota. Iap-deficient zebrafish are hypersensitive to LPS toxicity and exhibit the excessive intestinal neutrophil influx characteristic of wild-type zebrafish exposed to LPS. Both of these Iap mutant phenotypes are dependent on Myd88 and Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor (Tnfr), proteins also involved in LPS sensitivity in mammals. When reared germ-free, the intestines of Iap-deficient zebrafish are devoid of neutrophils. Together, these findings demonstrate that the endogenous microbiota establish the normal homeostatic level of neutrophils in the zebrafish intestine through a process involving Iap, Myd88, and Tnfr. Thus, by preventing inflammatory responses, Iap plays a crucial role in promoting mucosal tolerance to resident gut bacteria.
The search for effective and long-term solutions to the problems caused by salmon lice Lepeophtheirus salmonis (Kryer, 1837) has increasingly included biological/ecological mechanisms to combat infestation. One aspect of this work focuses on the host-associated stimuli that parasites use to locate and discriminate a compatible host. In this study we used electrophysiological recordings made directly from the antennule of adult lice to investigate the chemosensitivity of L. salmonis to putative chemical attractants from fish flesh, prepared by soaking whole fish tissue in seawater. There was a clear physiological response to whole fish extract (WFX) with threshold sensitivity at a dilution of 10 . When WFX was size fractionated, L. salmonis showed the greatest responses to the water-soluble fractions containing compounds between 1 and 10 kDa. The results suggest that the low molecular weight, water-soluble compounds found in salmon flesh may be important in salmon lice host choice.

Neuroprotection against cerebral ischemia conferred by ischemic preconditioning (IPC) requires translocation of epsilon protein kinase C (epsilonPKC). A major goal in our laboratory is to define the cellular targets by which epsilonPKC confers protection. We tested the hypothesis that epsilonPKC targets the mitochondrial K(+)(ATP) channel (mtK(+)(ATP)) after IPC. Our results demonstrated a rapid translocation of epsilonPKC to rat hippocampal mitochondria after IPC. Because in other tissues epsilonPKC targets mtK(+)(ATP) channels, but its presence in brain mitochondria is controversial, we determined the presence of the K(+)(ATP) channel-specific subunits (Kir6.1 and Kir6.2) in mitochondria isolated from rat hippocampus. Next, we determined whether mtK(+)(ATP) channels play a role in the IPC induction. In hippocampal organotypic slice cultures, IPC and lethal ischemia were induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation. Subsequent cell death in the CA1 region was quantified using propidium iodide staining. Treatment with the K(+)(ATP) channel openers diazoxide or pinacidil 48 h prior to lethal ischemia protected hippocampal CA1 neurons, mimicking the induction of neuroprotection conferred by either IPC or epsilonPKC agonist-induced preconditioning. Blockade of mtK(+)(ATP) channels using 5-hydroxydecanoic acid abolished the neuroprotection due to either IPC or epsilonPKC preconditioning. Both ischemic and epsilonPKC agonist-mediated preconditioning resulted in phosphorylation of the mtK(+)(ATP) channel subunit Kir6.2. After IPC, selective inhibition of epsilonPKC activation prevented Kir6.2 phosphorylation, consistent with Kir6.2 as a phosphorylation target of epsilonPKC or its downstream effectors. Our results support the hypothesis that the brain mtK(+)(ATP) channel is an important target of IPC and the signal transduction pathways initiated by epsilonPKC.
Nitric oxide (NO) produces its effects by activating soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). In the present study, we investigated the potential role of sGC in the subnucleus caudalis (Vc) in mediating masseter hypersensitivity under acute inflammatory condition in male Sprague-Dawley rats. First, our Western blot analysis revealed that sGC protein is reliably detected in the Vc. Subsequent immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that neuronal cell bodies in the superficial laminae of the Vc positively stained for sGC. Astrocytes in deeper lamina of the Vc also showed sGC immunoreactivity. We then tested whether intrathecal administration of sGC inhibitors, methylene blue (MB), and ODQ, in the Vc, attenuates masseter hypersensitivity induced by intramuscular injection of capsaicin. Intrathecal MB or ODQ significantly blocked the capsaicin-induced reduction of mechanical threshold to noxious stimulation of the masseter. These data indicate that the NO-sGC pathway in the Vc is involved in mediating orofacial muscle hypersensitivity under acute inflammatory conditions.
Tat protein released from HIV-infected blood-borne leukocytes can contribute to the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and induction of inflammatory responses and can provide entry for HIV into the brain. To mimic this pathology, Tat was injected into the tail vein of C57BL/6 mice. Treatment with Tat markedly upregulated expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and decreased expression of tight junction proteins, occludin and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). These alterations were associated with the disruption of the BBB integrity as quantified by extravasation of Evans blue dye into the brain tissue. In addition, direct treatment of brain microvessels with prostaglandin E(2), a product of COX-2 activity, resulted in decreased expression of both occludin and ZO-1. To determine if upregulation of COX-2 is involved in the disruption of tight junction proteins and BBB integrity, mice were pretreated with rofecoxib, a specific inhibitor of COX-2, prior to Tat treatment. COX-2 inhibition attenuated Tat-induced alterations of occludin expression. However, rofecoxib was ineffective in preventing downregulation of ZO-1 expression and increased BBB permeability. These results suggest only a limited role of COX-2 overexpression in the loss of tight junction integrity and the BBB breakdown in HIV-related brain diseases.
Neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) is a growth factor with potent neuroprotective capacity in ischemic stroke. We recently showed that NRG-1 reduced neuronal death following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) by up to 90% with an extended therapeutic window. Here, we examined the neuroprotective potential of NRG-1 using a permanent MCAO ischemia (pMCAO) rat model. NRG-1 reduced infarction in pMCAO by 50% when administered prior to ischemia. We previously demonstrated using gene expression profiling that pMCAO was associated with an exaggerated excitotoxicity response compared to tMCAO. Therefore, we examined whether co-treatment with an inhibitor of excitotoxicity would augment the effect of NRG-1 following pMCAO. Both NRG-1 and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 similarly reduced infarct size following pMCAO. However, combination treatment with both NRG-1 and MK-801 resulted in greater neuroprotection than either compound alone, including a 75% reduction in cortical infarction compared to control. Consistent with these findings, NRG-1 reduced neuronal death using an in vitro ischemia model and this effect was augmented by MK-801. These results demonstrate the efficacy of NRG-1 in pMCAO rat focal ischemia model. Our findings further indicate the potential clinically relevance of NRG-1 alone or as a combination strategy for treating ischemic stroke.
The constitutively expressed (CC) Homer protein Homer2a/b actively regulates behavioral and neurochemical sensitivity to cocaine in both rats and mice. The present study employed standard immunoblotting techniques to compare the effects of withdrawal from repeated cocaine (7 x 30 mg/kg) upon the protein expression of Homer2a/b with a related CC-Homer protein Homer1b/c, as well as their associated glutamate receptors, within brain regions implicated in cocaine addiction. To determine whether or not the observed cocaine-induced changes in Homer and glutamate receptor expression generalized across mammalian species, immunoblotting was conducted on tissue derived from both male Sprague-Dawley rats and male C57BL/6J mice. In both species, withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration down-regulated Homer1b/c and Homer2a/b within the shell, but not the core, of the nucleus accumbens (NAC), and the reduced Homer levels were accompanied by decreases in mGluR1a, NR2a and NR2b. In the PFC, repeated cocaine up-regulated Homer2a/b, mGluR1 and NR2b expression, without affecting Homer1b/c levels. Cocaine-induced increases in Homer1b/c, Homer2a/b, mGluR1a and NR2a were observed in the hippocampus of both rats and mice, while in dorsal striatum, NR2a levels were elevated but Homer and Group1 mGluR levels were unchanged. Thus, withdrawal from repeated cocaine alters the expression of CC-Homer isoforms and their associated glutamate receptors in a regionally-distinct manner. As CC-Homer proteins, Group1 mGluRs and NMDA receptors actively regulate cocaine-induced neuroplasticity in vivo, these data support the hypothesis that cocaine-induced changes in mGluR-Homer-NMDA signaling pathways may be important neuroadaptations mediating the enduring changes in behavior produced by repeated cocaine experience.
Mutations in PINK1 (PTEN-induced putative kinase 1) are causal for early onset recessive parkinsonism in humans, characterized by damage to the nigrostriatal system. In situ hybridization studies in rodent brains have suggested a predominantly neuronal expression of PINK1 mRNA but immunocytochemistry of human brain tissue has shown PINK1-like immunoreactivity in both neurons and glia. In this study, we assessed the comparative distribution of PINK1 mRNA in human, rat and mouse brain. We observe that in humans PINK1 message is expressed in neurons with very little to no signal in glia and confirms similar findings in rodent tissue. Highest levels of expression were observed in hippocampus, substantia nigra and cerebellar Purkinje cells. We also show that PINK1 mRNA expression is similar in nigral neurons from neurologically normal controls and sporadic Parkinson's disease cases.
Most excitatory synapses in the CNS form on dendritic spines, tiny protrusions from the dendrites of excitatory neurons. As such, spines are likely loci of synaptic plasticity. Spines are dynamic structures, but the functional consequences of dynamic changes in these structures in the mature brain are unclear. Changes in spine density, morphology, and motility have been shown to occur with paradigms that induce synaptic plasticity, as well as altered sensory experience and neuronal activity. These changes potentially lead to an alteration in synaptic connectivity and strength between neuronal partners, affecting the efficacy of synaptic communication. Here, we review the formation and modification of excitatory synapses on dendritic spines as it relates to plasticity in the central nervous system after the initial phase of synaptogenesis. We will also discuss some of the molecular links that have been implicated in both synaptic plasticity and the regulation of spine morphology.
Changes in surface trafficking of AMPA receptors play an important role in synaptic plasticity. Phosphorylation of the C terminus of the AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunit glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) and the binding of GluR2 to the PDZ [postsynaptic density-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1]-domain containing protein, protein interacting with protein kinase C (PICK1), have been proposed to play an important role in NMDA receptor dependent internalization of GluR2. However, the fate of internalized GluR2 after NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation is still unclear. Both recycling and degradation of GluR2 after the activation of NMDAR have been reported. Here, we used a pH-sensitive green fluorescent protein variant, pHluorin, tagged to the N terminus of GluR2 (pH-GluR2) to study the dynamic internalization and recycling of GluR2 after NMDAR activation. Using fluorescence recovery after photobleach (FRAP), we directly demonstrate that internalized pH-GluR2 subunits recycle back to the cell surface after NMDAR activation. We further demonstrate that changing the phosphorylation state of the S880 residue at the C terminus of GluR2 does not affect NMDAR-dependent GluR2 internalization, but alters the recycling of GluR2 after NMDAR activation. In addition, mutation of the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) binding site in the pH-GluR2 slows receptor recycling. Finally, neurons lacking PICK1 display normal NMDAR dependent GluR2 internalization compared with wild-type neurons, but demonstrate accelerated GluR2 recycling after NMDAR activation. These results indicate that phosphorylation of GluR2 S880 and NSF and PICK1 binding to GluR2 dynamically regulate GluR2 recycling.
Inner ear mechanosensory hair cells convert mechanical vibrations into electrical signals via the coordinated interaction of multiple proteins precisely positioned within the sensory hair bundle. Present work identifies the time course for the acquisition and maturation of mechanoelectric transduction (MET) in rat cochlea outer hair cells maintained in organotypic cultures. A spatiotemporal developmental progression was observed morphologically and functionally with basal cochlea maturation preceding apical cochlea by 2-3 d in all measured properties. The fraction of mechanosensitive cells increased rapidly, with a midpoint at postnatal day 0 for basal cells, and correlated with myosin IIIa immunoreactivity. MET current magnitude increased over several days. Adaptation lagged the onset of transduction by a day and matured more slowly, overlapping but preceding the rise in myosin Ic immunoreactivity. Less than approximately 25% of myosin Ic expression was required for the mature adaptation response, suggesting multiple roles for this protein in hair bundle function. Directional sensitivity, lacking in immature responses, developed rapidly and correlated with the pruning of radial links and an increase in tenting of stereociliary tips. Morphological and electrophysiological data support a hypothesis in which key elements arrive independently at the site of MET, with a mature response occurring as membrane tension increases, likely by the increased tensioning of the tip link with the onset of adaptation. Organotypic cultures developed normal, tonotopically specific, MET response properties, suggesting that maturation was not influenced significantly by external factors such as innervation, endolymph, normal mechanical stimulation, or an intact organ of Corti.
The amplitude fluctuations of ongoing oscillations in the electroencephalographic (EEG) signal of the human brain show autocorrelations that decay slowly and remain significant at time scales up to tens of seconds. We call these long-range temporal correlations (LRTC). Abnormal LRTC have been observed in several brain pathologies, but it has remained unknown whether genetic factors influence the temporal correlation structure of ongoing oscillations. We recorded the ongoing EEG during eyes-closed rest in 390 monozygotic and dizygotic twins and investigated the temporal structure of ongoing oscillations in the alpha- and beta-frequency bands using detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA). The strength of LRTC was more highly correlated in monozygotic than in dizygotic twins. Statistical analysis attributed up to approximately 60% of the variance in DFA to genetic factors, indicating a high heritability for the temporal structure of amplitude fluctuations in EEG oscillations. Importantly, the DFA and EEG power were uncorrelated. LRTC in ongoing oscillations are robust, heritable, and independent of power, suggesting that LRTC and oscillation power are governed by distinct biophysical mechanisms and serve different functions in the brain. We propose that the DFA method is an important complement to classical spectral analysis in fundamental and clinical research on ongoing oscillations.
Neuronal firing patterns determine the manner of neurosecretion, the underlying mechanisms of which are poorly understood. Using supraoptic nuclei in brain slices from lactating rats, we examined the involvement of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and filamentous actin (F-actin) in burst generation by oxytocin (OT) neurons. Blocking phosphorylation of ERK1/2 (pERK1/2) decreased miniature EPSCs and blocked OT-evoked bursts, as did intracellularly loading an antibody against pERK1/2. OT (10 pM) increased cytosolic pERK1/2 close to the cell membrane within the first 5 min, subsiding by 30 min, whereas OT elicited pERK1/2 nuclear translocation in closely associated supraoptic astrocytes. The increased pERK1/2 was tightly correlated with spatiotemporal actin dynamics. In OT neurons, OT initially increased F-actin, particularly at membrane subcortical areas, and then decreased it after 30 min. Both polymerization and depolymerization of actin cytoskeleton were associated with bursts, but only polymerization facilitated OT-evoked bursts. Blocking ERK1/2 activation blocked OT-evoked actin polymerization, whereas depolymerizing F-actin increased pERK1/2 expression. These changes were further identified in vivo. In intact animals, suckling increased ERK1/2 activation in the cytosol and membrane subcortical area F-actin formation in OT neurons, whereas it increased F-actin concentration in astrocytic somata. Coimmunoprecipitation showed that suckling increased molecular interactions between pERK1/2 and actin. Finally, two different blockers of ERK1/2 kinase injected intracerebroventricularly reduced suckling-evoked milk ejections. This is the first demonstration that OT mediation of suckling-evoked bursts/milk ejections is via interactions between pERK1/2 and actin cytoskeleton.
Activity-dependent competition shapes corticospinal (CS) axon outgrowth in the spinal cord during development. An important question in neural repair is whether activity can be used to promote outgrowth of CS axons in maturity. After injury, spared CS axons sprout and make new connections, but often not enough to restore function. We propose that electrically stimulating spared axons after injury will enhance sprouting and strengthen connections with spinal motor circuits. To study the effects of activity, we electrically stimulated CS tract axons in the medullary pyramid. To study the effects of injury, one pyramid was lesioned. We studied sparse ipsilateral CS projections of the intact pyramid as a model of the sparse connections preserved after CNS injury. We determined the capacity of CS axons to activate ipsilateral spinal motor circuits and traced their spinal projections. To understand the separate and combined contributions of injury and activity, we examined animals receiving stimulation only, injury only, and injury plus stimulation. Both stimulation and injury alone strengthened CS connectivity and increased outgrowth into the ipsilateral gray matter. Stimulation of spared axons after injury promoted outgrowth that reflected the sum of effects attributable to activity and injury alone. CS terminations were densest within the ventral motor territories of the cord, and connections in these animals were significantly stronger than after injury alone, indicating that activity augments injury-induced plasticity. We demonstrate that activity promotes plasticity in the mature CS system and that the interplay between activity and injury preferentially promotes connections with ventral spinal motor circuits.
Pain hypersensitivity is a cardinal sign of tissue damage, but how molecules from peripheral tissues affect sensory neuron physiology is incompletely understood. Previous studies have shown that activin A increases after peripheral injury and is sufficient to induce acute nociceptive behavior and increase pain peptides in sensory ganglia. This study was designed to test the possibility that the enhanced nociceptive responsiveness associated with activin involved sensitization of transient receptor potential vanilloid I (TRPV1) in primary sensory neurons. Activin receptors were found widely distributed among adult sensory neurons, including those that also express the capsaicin receptor. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording from sensory neurons showed that activin acutely sensitized capsaicin responses and depended on activin receptor kinase activity. Pharmacological studies revealed that the activin sensitization of capsaicin responses required PKCepsilon signaling, but not PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase), ERK (extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase), PKA, PKCalpha/beta, or Src. Furthermore, activin administration caused acute thermal hyperalgesia in wild-type mice, but not in TRPV1-null mice. These data suggest that activin signals through its own receptor, involves PKCepsilon signaling to sensitize the TRPV1 channel, and contributes to acute thermal hyperalgesia.
One of the most remarkable abilities of bilinguals is to produce and/or to perceive a switch from one language to the other without any apparent difficulty. However, several psycholinguistic studies indicate that producing, recognizing, and integrating a linguistic code different from the one in current use may entail a processing cost for the speaker/listener. Up to now, the underlying neural substrates of perceiving language switches are unknown. In the present study, we investigated the neural mechanisms of language switching during auditory perception in bilinguals. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 12 early, highly proficient Italian/French bilinguals, who were more exposed to their second language. Subjects had to listen to narratives containing &quot;switched passages&quot; that could either respect (i.e., regular switches) or violate (i.e., irregular switches) the constituents of sentence structure. The results indicate that switching engages an extensive neural network, including bilateral prefrontal and temporal associative regions. Moreover, a clear dissociation is observed for the types of switches. Regular switches entail a pattern of brain activity closely related to lexical processing, whereas irregular switches engage brain structures involved in syntactic and phonological aspects of language processing. Noteworthy, when switching into the less-exposed language, we observed the selective engagement of subcortical structures and of the anterior cingulate cortex, putatively involved in cognitive and executive control. This suggests that switching into a less-exposed language requires controlled processing resources. This pattern of brain activity may constitute an important neural signature of language dominance in bilinguals.
Synaptic reorganization of the dentate gyrus inner molecular layer (IML) is a pathophysiological process that may facilitate seizures in patients with temporal-lobe epilepsy. Two subtypes of IML neurons were originally described by Ramn y Cajal (1995), but have not been thoroughly studied. We used two-photon imaging, infrared-differential interference contrast microscopy and patch clamp recordings from rat hippocampal slices to define the intrinsic physiology and synaptic targets of spiny, granule-like neurons in the IML, termed semilunar granule cells (SGCs). These neurons resembled dentate granule cells but had axon collaterals in the molecular layer, significantly larger dendritic arborization in the molecular layer, and a more triangular cell body than granule cells. Unlike granule cells, SGCs fired throughout long-duration depolarizing steps and had ramp-like depolarizations during interspike periods. Paired recordings demonstrated that SGCs are glutamatergic and monosynaptically excite both hilar interneurons and mossy cells. Semilunar granule cells appear to represent a distinct excitatory neuron population in the dentate gyrus that may be an important target for mossy fiber sprouting in patients and rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy.
We measured synaptic vesicle mobility using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching of FM 1-43 [N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl) pyridinium dibromide] stained mouse motor nerve terminals obtained from wild-type (WT) and synapsin triple knock-out (TKO) mice at room temperature and physiological temperature. Vesicles were mobile in resting terminals at physiological temperature but virtually immobile at room temperature. Mobility was increased at both temperatures by blocking phosphatases with okadaic acid, decreased at physiological temperature by blocking kinases with staurosporine, and unaffected by disrupting actin filaments with latrunculin A or reducing intracellular calcium concentration with BAPTA-AM. Synapsin TKO mice showed reduced numbers of synaptic vesicles and reduced FM 1-43 staining intensity. Synaptic transmission, however, was indistinguishable from WT, as was synaptic vesicle mobility under all conditions tested. Thus, in TKO mice, and perhaps WT mice, a phospho-protein different from synapsin but otherwise of unknown identity is the primary regulator of synaptic vesicle mobility.
Previous studies indicate that boutons from the same axon exhibit distinct Ca2+ dynamics depending on the postsynaptic targets. Mossy fibers of hippocampal granule cells innervate synaptic targets via morphologically distinct boutons. We investigated mitochondrial involvement in the generation of post-tetanic residual Ca2+ (Ca(res)) at large and small en passant mossy fiber boutons (MFBs). Mitochondria limited the [Ca2+]i build-up during high-frequency stimulation (HFS) at large MFBs, but not at small MFBs. The amount of Ca(res), quantified as a time integral of residual [Ca2+]i, was significantly larger at large MFBs than at small MFBs, and that at large MFBs was substantially attenuated by inhibitors of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter and mitochondrial Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (mitoNCX). In contrast, blockers of mitoNCX had no effect on the Ca(res) at small MFBs. Post-tetanic Ca(res) has been proposed as a mechanism for post-tetanic potentiation (PTP). We examined mitochondrial involvement in PTP at mossy fiber synapses on hilar mossy cells (MF--&gt;MC synapse) and on hilar interneurons (MF--&gt;HI synapse), which are presumably innervated via large and small MFBs, respectively. Consistent with the differential contribution of mitochondria to Ca(res) at large and small MFBs, mitoNCX blockers significantly reduced the PTP at the MF--&gt;MC synapse, but not at the MF--&gt;HI synapse. In contrast, protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors significantly reduced the PTP at MF--&gt;HI synapse, but not at the MF--&gt;MC synapse. These results indicate that mitochondria- and PKC-dependent PTP are expressed at distinct hilar mossy fiber synapses depending on postsynaptic targets.
Ongoing activity of spinal trigeminal neurons is observed under various conditions and suggested to be responsible for ongoing headache. It can be spontaneous, i.e. arising intrinsically from the neuron, or the product of descending influences from other central neurons, or maintained by ongoing afferent input. The aim of the present study was to examine if ongoing activity of neurons in different subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus is driven from peripheral afferent input. Experiments were performed in Wistar rats anesthetized with isoflurane or Nembutal/urethane. Ongoing activity of single wide-dynamic range (WDR) neurons was recorded with carbon fiber glass microelectrodes in two subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus: oral (Sp5O) and caudal (Sp5C). Peripheral receptive fields were evaluated using von Frey filaments. Sp5O neurons received peripheral input from facial areas innervated by the mandibular branch of the trigeminal nerve. Units in Sp5C had receptive fields in the surgically exposed dura mater and in facial areas innervated by the ophthalmic and maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve. Saline or the local anesthetic lidocaine was locally applied onto the exposed dura mater or microinjected into V3 (for Sp5O units) or V1/V2 (for Sp5C units) divisions of the trigeminal ganglion via the infraorbital channel. Local application of lidocaine onto the exposed dura caused mechanical insensitivity of dural receptive fields but not significant decrease in ongoing activity. Microinjection of lidocaine but not saline into the trigeminal ganglion was followed by a substantial decrease in both the receptive field size and the activity of the recorded WDR units. Mechanical insensitivity of receptive fields after trigeminal ganglion blockade was accompanied by the disappearance of ongoing activity. We conclude that the ongoing activity of WDR neurons in the spinal trigeminal nucleus, which may be indicative for processes of sensitization, is driven remotely by ongoing afferent input.
In tottering mice, a point mutation in the gene encoding P-type (Ca(v)2.1) voltage-gated calcium channels results in ataxia, absence epilepsy, and motor dystonia that appear 3-4 weeks postnatally. The aberrant motor behaviors have been linked to cerebellar dysfunction, and adult Purkinje cells (PCs) of tottering mice exhibit calcium-dependent changes in gene transcription suggestive of altered calcium homeostasis. In an attempt to identify early postnatal events important for the development of the behavioral phenotype, we examined calcium channel expression in cerebellar PCs from postnatal days 6-15 (P6-15). Whole cell recording was combined with selective calcium channel antagonists to allow discrimination of the various voltage-activated calcium channels types; early age-dependent differences between tottering and wild-type PCs were found. Wild-type PCs experienced a steady increase in P current density over this period, resulting in a twofold change by P15. In tottering, by contrast, P current density remained unchanged from P6-8 and was only 25% of the wild-type level by P8. A developmental delay in functional expression was implicated in this early deficit, since ensuing gains over the subsequent week brought tottering P current density close to the wild-type level by P15. At this age, tottering PCs also exhibited a 2.2-fold higher L-type calcium current density than that expressed by wild-type PCs. Increases in N current were apparent at some ages, most strikingly within a subset of tottering PCs at P15. Functional R- and T-type calcium current densities were equivalent to wild-type levels at all ages. We conclude that the tottering mutation brings about selective changes in functional calcium channel expression 1 to 2 weeks prior to the appearance of the behavioral deficits, raising the possibility that they represent an early, primary event along the path to motor dysfunction in tottering.
To determine whether Toxoplasma gondii infection could modify biological phenomena associated with brain ischemia, we investigated the effect of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) on neuronal survival, inflammation and redox state in chronically infected mice. Infected animals showed a 40% to 50% decrease of infarct size compared with non-infected littermates 1, 4 and 14 days after MCAO. The resistance of infected mice may be associated with increased basal levels of anti-inflammatory cytokines and/or a marked reduction of the MCAO-related brain induction of two pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma (IFNgamma). In addition, potential anti-inflammatory/neuroprotective factors such as nerve growth factor, suppressor of cytokine signaling-3, superoxide dismutase activity, uncoupling protein-2 and glutathione (GSH) were upregulated in the brain of infected mice. Consistent with a role of GSH in central cytokine regulation, GSH depletion by diethyl maleate inhibited Toxoplasma gondii lesion resistance by increasing the proinflammatory cytokine IFNgamma brain levels. Overall, these findings indicate that chronic toxoplasmosis decisively influences both the inflammatory molecular events and outcome of cerebral ischemia.
Pancreatic innervation is being viewed with increasing interest with respect to pancreatic disease. At the same time, relatively little is currently known about innervation dynamics during development and disease. The present study employs confocal microscopy to analyze the growth and development of sympathetic and sensory neurons and astroglia during pancreatic organogenesis and maturation. Our research reveals that islet innervation is closely linked to the process of islet maturation-neural cell bodies undergo intrapancreatic migration/shuffling in tandem with endocrine cells, and close neuro-endocrine contacts are established quite early in pancreatic development. In addition, we have assayed the effects of large-scale beta-cell loss and repopulation on the maintenance of islet innervation with respect to particular neuron types. We demonstrate that depletion of the beta-cell population in the rat insulin promoter (RIP)-cmyc(ER) mouse line has cell-type-specific effects on postganglionic sympathetic neurons and pancreatic astroglia. This study contributes to a greater understanding of how cooperating physiological systems develop together and coordinate their functions, and also helps to elucidate how permutation of one organ system through stress or disease can specifically affect parallel systems in an organism.
Rearing in darkness slows the time course of the visual cortical critical period, such that at 5 weeks of age normal cats are more plastic than dark-reared cats, while at 20 weeks dark-reared cats are more plastic [Mower GD (1991) The effect of dark rearing on the time course of the critical period in cat visual cortex. Dev Brain Res 58:151-158]. Thus, genes that are important for visual cortical plasticity should show differences in expression between normal and dark-reared visual cortex that are of opposite direction in young versus older animals. Previously, we showed by differential display polymerase chain reaction and northern blotting that mRNA for Munc13-3, a mammalian homologue of the C. elegans uncoordinated (unc) gene, shows such bidirectional regulation in cat visual cortex [Yang CB, Zheng YT, Li GY, Mower GD (2002) Identification of Munc13-3 as a candidate gene for critical period neuroplasticity in visual cortex. J Neurosci 22:8614-8618]. Here, the analysis is extended to Munc13-3 protein in mouse visual cortex, which will provide the basis for gene manipulation analysis. In mice, Munc13-3 protein was elevated 2.3-fold in dark-reared compared with normal visual cortex at 3.5 weeks and 2.0-fold in normal compared with dark-reared visual cortex at 9.5 weeks. Analysis of variance of protein levels showed a significant interaction, indicating that the effect of dark rearing depended on age. This bidirectional regulation was restricted to visual cortex and did not occur in frontal cortex. Bidirectional regulation was also specific to Munc13-3 and was not found for other Munc13 family members. Munc13 proteins serve a central priming function in synaptic vesicle exocytosis at glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses and this work contributes to the growing evidence indicating a role of Munc13 genes in synaptic plasticity.
Using conventional microelectrode recording techniques, we investigated, in the circular muscle of the mouse caecum, the neurotransmitter(s) involved in the neurally-evoked inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) and the existence of possible prejunctional mechanisms controlling neurotransmitter release. Electrical field stimulation with single pulses elicited IJPs, consisting only of a &quot;fast&quot; hyperpolarization, while using train stimuli (30-50 Hz) the initial fast hyperpolarization was followed by a slower hyperpolarization. The fast and the slow component were selectively antagonized by apamin, a blocker of calcium-activated potassium channels, and N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, respectively. Fast IJPs were antagonized also by P2 purinoceptor antagonists, suramin or 4-[[4-formyl-5-hydroxy-6-methyl-3-[(phosphonooxy)methyl]-2-pyridinyl]azo]-1,3-benzenedisulfonic acid tetrasodium salt (PPADS), P2Y purinoceptor desensitization by adenosine 5'-O-2-thiodiphosphate (ADPbetaS). 2'-Deoxy-N(6)-methyl ADP diammonium salt (MRS 2179), P2Y1 purinoceptor antagonist, at the concentration of 1 microM increased the amplitude of the fast IJP, while at the concentration of 10 microM induced a reduction. 8,8'-[Carbonylbis[imino-3,1-phenylenecarbonylimino (4-fluoro-3,1-phenylene) carbonylimino]] bis-1,3,5-naphthalenetrisulfonic acid hexasodium salt (NF 157) and 2,2-dimethyl-propionic acid 3-(2-chloro-6-methylaminopurin-9-yl)-2-(2,2-dimethyl-propionyl-oxymethyl)-propyl ester (MRS 2395), P2Y11 and P2Y12 purinoceptor antagonist, were without any effect. ATP-induced hyperpolarization was affected by apamin and by P2Y purinoceptor desensitization, but not by MRS 2179. 2-(Methylthio)ATP tetrasodium salt hydrate (2-MeSATP), P2Y1 purinoceptor agonist, at a concentration which did not cause changes in the membrane potential, reduced the amplitude of the fast IJPs. This effect was prevented by MRS 2179. Paired nerve stimulation, either using single pulses or train stimuli, did not cause any alteration of the second-evoked IJP. In conclusion, in the circular muscle of the mouse caecum, ATP is responsible for the fast IJP while nitric oxide is responsible for the slow IJP. ATP-mediated response is dependent on ADPbetaS-sensitive P2Y receptors, which are in part P2Y1, but not P2Y11 or P2Y12 receptor subtypes. In addition, the most substantial finding of this study is the functional demonstration that ATP released by nerve stimulation activates P2Y1 receptors, located prejunctionally, limiting its release by motoneurons.
For neurotrophins and also for members of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) family an activity-dependent regulation of synthesis and release has been proposed. Together with the observation that the secretion of neurotransmitters is initiated by neurotrophic factors, it is reasonable to assume that they might act as retrograde modulators enhancing the efficacy and stabilization of synapses. In the present study, we have tested this hypothesis and studied the release and regulation of TGF-beta in vitro using mouse primary hippocampal neurons at embryonic day E16.5 as model. We show that neuronal activity regulates TGF-beta release and TGF-beta expression in vitro. Treatment of the cultures with KCl, 3-veratroylveracevine (veratridine), glutamate or carbamylcholine chloride (carbachol) increased the levels of secreted TGF-beta, as assessed by the MLEC/plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-luciferase-assay, whereas TGF-beta release stimulated by KCl or veratridine was reduced in the presence of tetrodotoxin or 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA). In addition, application of glutamate significantly upregulated expression of TGF-beta2 and TGF-beta3 in the culture. Notably, KCl stimulation caused Smad (composite term from SMA (C. elegans) and MAD=mothers against dpp (Drosophila)) translocation into the nucleus and upregulated TGF-beta inducible early gene (Tieg1) expression, demonstrating that activity-dependent released TGF-beta may exert autocrine actions and thereby activate the TGF-beta-dependent signaling pathway. Together, these results suggest an activity-dependent release and gene transcription of TGF-beta from mouse hippocampal neurons in vitro as well as subsequent autocrine functions of the released TGF-beta within the hippocampal network.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is associated with mutations in the transcriptional repressor gene MeCP2. Although the clinical and neuropathological signs of RTT suggest disrupted synaptic function, the specific role of methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) in postmitotic neurons remains relatively unknown. We examined whether MeCP2 deficiency in central neurons contributes to the neuropathogenesis in RTT. Primary cerebellar granule neuronal cultures from wild-type (WT) and MeCP2-/- mice were exposed to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA-induced excitotoxicity and hypoxic-ischemic insult. The magnitude of cell death in MeCP2-/- cells after excitotoxicity and hypoxia was greater than in the WT littermate control cultures and occurred after shorter exposures that usually, in the WT, would not cause cell death. Pretreatment with the growth factor fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF-1) under conditions at which WT cells showed complete neuroprotection, only partially protected MeCP2-/- cells. To elucidate specifically the effects of MeCP2 knockout (KO) on cell death, we examined two death cascade pathways. MeCP2-/- neurons exposed to 6 h of hypoxia exhibited enhanced activation of the proapoptotic caspase-3 and increased mitochondrial release of apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) compared with WT neurons, which did not show significant changes. However, pretreatment with the caspase inhibitor ZVAD-FMK had little or no effect on AIF release and its subcellular translocation to the nucleus, suggesting caspase-independent AIF release and their independent contribution to hypoxia-induced cell death. Reintroduction of intact MeCP2 gene in MeCP2-/- cells or MeCP2 gene silencing by MeCP2siRNA in WT cells further confirmed the differential sensitivity of the WT and MeCP2-/- cells and suggest a direct role of MeCP2 in cell death. These results clearly demonstrate increased cell death occurred in neurons lacking MeCP2 expression via both caspase- and AIF-dependent apoptotic mechanisms. Our findings suggest a novel, yet unknown, role for MeCP2 in central neurons in the control of neuronal response to cell death.
The heat shock protein 27 kDa (HSP27) is a member of proteins that are highly inducible under various forms of cellular stress. This study describes constitutive HSP27 expression in rat retina and stress-associated expression of HSP27 in an experimental rat glaucoma model. Glaucoma was induced unilaterally using laser photocoagulation of the episcleral and limbal veins. Three and seven days after the elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP), groups of rats were killed. The second laser treatment was performed for those rats killed 14 and 21 days after the first laser treatment. The RGCs were labeled with a retrograde tracer 7 days before kill. The expression of HSP27 was analyzed by Western blotting in retinas of rats killed on day 14 after the first laser treatment. Retinal astrocytes, Mller cells and HSP27-positive cells were visualized using immunohistochemical methods both from retinal whole-mounts and paraffin sections. The total number of retrogradely labeled RGCs decreased by 23.2% after 7 days, 28% after 14 days, and 29.3% after 21 days of elevated IOP when compared with controls. A significant decrease of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactive retinal astrocytes in laser-treated eyes was observed compared with the controls (accounted for 44.9%, 38.2% and 35% of the control values in the 7-day, 14-day and 21-day groups, respectively). The expression of HSP27 in RGCs and retinal astrocytes was also increased in laser-treated eyes when compared with controls in all groups. However, glycinergic and cholinergic cells in the inner nuclear layer and the highest number of RGCs and astrocytes that expressed HSP27 were found in the 14-day group of rats. The constitutive expression of HSP27 was observed only in retinal astrocytes and Mller cells. This study suggests that constitutive HSP27 expression is a cell-type specific phenomenon in the rat retina. However, at the same time, HSP27 might be considered as a marker for neuronal injury in the rat glaucoma model.
Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and Ca(2+)-calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-mediated phosphorylation activate histamine synthesis in nerve endings, but the phosphatases deactivating it had not been studied. In this work we show that the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A)/protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) inhibitor okadaic acid increases histamine synthesis up to twofold in rat cortical miniprisms containing histaminergic nerve endings. This effect was mimicked by the PP2A/PP1 inhibitor calyculin, but not by the inactive analog 1-norokadaone. Other phosphatase inhibitors like endothall (PP2A), cypermethrin and cyclosporin A (protein phosphatase 2B, PP2B) had much lower effects. The effects of okadaic acid appeared to be mediated by an activation of the histamine synthesizing enzyme, histidine decarboxylase. PKA-mediated activation of histamine synthesis decreased the EC(50) and maximal effects of okadaic acid. On the other hand, CaMKII-mediated activation of histamine synthesis decreased okadaic acid maximal effects, but it increased its EC(50). In conclusion, our results indicate that brain histamine synthesis is subjected to regulation by phosphatases PP2A and PP1, and perhaps also PP2B as well as by protein kinases.
Activation of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP(3)Rs) and ryanodine receptors (RyRs) can lead to the release of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores and propagating Ca(2+) waves. Previous studies of these proteins in neurons have focused on their distribution in adult tissue, whereas, recent functional studies have examined neural tissue extracted from prenatal and young postnatal animals. In this study we examined the distribution of InsP(3)R isotypes 1-3 and RyR isotypes 1-3 in rat hippocampus during postnatal maturation, with a focus on InsP(3)R1 because it is most prominent in the hippocampus. InsP(3)R1 was observed in pyramidal cells and granule cells, InsP(3)R2 immunoreactivity was observed in perivascular astrocytes and endothelial cells, and InsP(3)R3 immunoreactivity was detected in axon terminals located in stratum pyramidale of CA1 and microvessels in stratum radiatum. RyR1 immunolabeling was enriched in CA1, RyR2 was most intense in CA3 and the dentate gyrus, and RyR3 immunolabeling was detected in all subfields of the hippocampus, but was most intense in stratum lacunosum-moleculare. During maturation from 2 to 10 weeks of age there was a shift in InsP(3)R1 immunoreactivity from a high density in the proximal apical dendrites to a uniform distribution along the dendrites. Independent of age, InsP(3)R1 immunoreactivity was observed to form clusters within the primary apical dendrite and at dendritic bifurcations of pyramidal neurons. As CA1 pyramidal neurons matured, InsP(3)R1 was often co-localized with the Ca(2+) binding protein calbindin D-28k. In contrast, InsP(3)R1 immunolabel was never co-localized with calbindin D-28k immunopositive interneurons located outside of stratum pyramidale or with parvalbumin, typically found in hippocampal basket cells, suggesting that InsP(3)R1s do not play a role in internal Ca(2+) release in these interneurons. These findings should help to interpret past functional studies and inform future studies examining the characteristics and consequences of InsP(3)R-mediated internal Ca(2+) release and Ca(2+) waves in hippocampal neurons.
mRNA for the exon 9-skipping form of the glutamate transporter excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) 2 (glutamate transporter 1, GLT-1) is known to be expressed in brain and spinal cord, and such expression was initially proposed to be associated with motor neuron disease. Surprisingly, a protein corresponding to the size of this splice variant has not previously been detected when using antibodies against one of the possible carboxyl terminal regions of EAAT2. This has been construed as indicating that little of the exon 9-skipping protein is expressed, or that such protein is not stable. We have now made selective antibodies against the splice site of this form of EAAT2. We show that in the adult rat brain and spinal cord, it is expressed primarily in populations of white matter astrocytes. Astrocytes expressing this splice variant also expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein. Expression was developmentally regulated, being expressed in a small number of astrocytes at postnatal day 7, but strongly expressed by large populations of white matter astrocytes by 25 days postnatum and into adulthood. Only a subset of gray matter astrocytes and radial glia expressed exon 9-skipping EAAT2. We suggest that exon 9-skipping EAAT2 may have a role in regulating extracellular glutamate in white matter tracts, either by interacting with normally spliced EAAT2 and modifying its targeting or transport activity, or by acting as a transporter itself. Conversely, the limited expression in gray matter suggests it is unlikely to be important for modulating synaptic levels of glutamate.
A significant decline in executive system function mediated by the prefrontal cortex (PFC) often occurs with normal aging. In vitro slice studies have shown that layer 2/3 pyramidal cells in the monkey PFC exhibit increased action potential (AP) firing rates which may, in part, contribute to this decline. Given that layer 5 cells also play a role in executive system function, it is important to determine if similar age-related changes occur in these cells. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in in vitro slices prepared from the PFC of young and aged behaviorally characterized rhesus monkeys were employed to answer this question. Basic membrane and repetitive AP firing properties were unaltered with age. Aged cells exhibited significantly decreased single AP amplitude, duration and fall time and increased slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) amplitude, but these changes were not associated with cognitive performance. This study demonstrates that layer 5 pyramidal cells, unlike layer 2/3 pyramidal cells, undergo only modest electrophysiological changes with aging, and that these changes are unlikely to contribute to age-related cognitive decline.
The involvement of estrogen in pain has been investigated in many ways. However the specific role played by estrogen receptors remains elusive. Estrogen receptors alpha and beta mediate different physiological functions. For example, estrogen receptor beta is more closely related to non-reproductive effects than the alpha subtype is. To verify the involvement of estrogen receptor beta on acute and persistent pain as well as on endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms, hotplate and formalin tests were carried out in wild type (WT) and estrogen receptor beta knockout (ERbeta KO) mice of both sexes. Ovariectomies followed by estrogen and progesterone replacement were performed in female groups to insure comparable sex hormone levels. We found that nociceptive responses are lower in ERbeta KO female than in WT female mice during the interphase and early tonic phase II of the formalin test but not during acute and late tonic phases. Moreover, behavioral and spinal (c-Fos) differences were only observed in females. ERbeta KO females had lower c-Fos expression in laminae I-II and IV-V of the spinal cord than WT females. These results suggest that estrogen, through its actions on ERbeta, dampens the efficacy of endogenous pain modulation mechanisms during the interphase and/or inflammation process in the early phase II, triggering an increase in spinal nociceptive neuronal activity. This confirms our previous observations that estrogen specifically influences nociceptive responses during the interphase of the formalin test and demonstrates a role for ERbeta on endogenous pain modulation systems.
Human studies show that the number of teenagers abusing anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) is increasing. During adolescence, brain development is altered by androgen exposure, which suggests that AAS may potentially alter central nervous system (CNS) development. The goal of the present study was to determine whether pubertal AAS exposure increased dendritic spine densities on neurons within the medial amygdala and the dorsal hippocampus. Pubertal gonadally intact male rats received the AAS testosterone propionate (5 mg/kg) or vehicle for 5 days/week for 4 weeks. To determine the long-term implications of pubertal AAS use, another set of males received the same AAS treatment and was then withdrawn from AAS exposure for 4 weeks. Results showed that pubertal AAS exposure significantly increased spine densities on neurons in the anterior medial amygdala, posterodorsal medial amygdala, and the cornu ammonis region 1 (CA1) of the hippocampus compared with gonadally intact control males. Spine densities returned to control levels within the anterior medial amygdala and the posterodorsal medial amygdala 4 weeks after withdrawal. However, spine densities remained significantly elevated after AAS withdrawal in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, suggesting that pubertal AAS exposure may have a long-lasting impact on CA1 hippocampal neuroanatomy. Since pubertal AAS exposure increased spine densities and most excitatory synapses in the CNS occur on dendritic spines, AAS may increase neuronal excitation. It is proposed that this increase in excitation may underlie the behavioral responses seen in pubertal AAS-treated male rats.
Although it has been suggested that presynaptic active zone (AZ) may be preassembled, it is still unclear which entities carry the various proteins to the AZ during synaptogenesis. Here, I propose that aggregates of dense core vesicles (DCV) and small clear vesicles in the axons of young rat hippocampal cultures are carriers containing preformed AZ and synaptic vesicle (SV) components on their way to developing synapses. The aggregates were positively labeled with antibodies against Bassoon and Piccolo (two AZ cytomatrix proteins), VAMP, SV2, synaptotagmin (three SV membrane proteins), and synapsin I (a SV-associated protein). Bassoon and Piccolo labeling were localized at dense material both in the aggregates and at the AZ. In addition to the SV at the synapses, the SV membrane proteins labeled the clear vesicles in the aggregate as well as many other SV-like and pleiomorphic vesicular structures in the axons, and synapsin I labeling was associated with the vesicles in the aggregates. In single sections, these axonal vesicle aggregates were approximately 0.22 by 0.13 microm in average dimensions and contain one to two DCV and five to six small clear vesicles. Serial sections confirmed that the aggregates were not synaptic junctions sectioned en face. Labeling intensities of Bassoon and Piccolo measured from serially sectioned transport aggregates and AZ were within range of each other, suggesting that one or a few aggregates, but not individual DCV, can carry sufficient Bassoon and Piccolo to form an AZ. The present findings provide the first ultrastructural evidence localizing various AZ and SV proteins in a preassembled multi-vesicle transport aggregate that has the potential to quickly form a functional active zone.
In humans, reactive aggression is associated with impulsivity. The purpose of this study is to relate reactive and impulsive aggression in humans with offensive aggression in animals and identify neurobiological correlates associated with certain forms of the behavior. We predicted that individual differences in offensive aggression are associated with individual differences in impulsivity. Adult male hamsters were repeatedly tested for offensive responses and divided into High-Aggression or Low-Aggression groups. They were then trained and tested under a delay-discounting paradigm to assess impulsivity. High-Aggression animals consistently attacked and bit more frequently and faster, and showed highly repetitive behavior, indicated by repeated attacks per contact bout. In addition, these animals engaged in more fragmented and shorter contact bouts. During impulsivity testing, High-Aggression animals preferred immediate smaller rewards over delayed larger rewards. Furthermore, 5-HT and vasopressin (AVP) innervation was compared between the groups. High-Aggression animals showed decreased 5-HT varicosities in several key brain areas involved in aggressive and/or impulsive behavior and decreased AVP fibers in the anterior hypothalamus. Together, these data show a convergence of behavioral phenotypes through individual differences in offensive aggression and impulsivity. As such, this association provides support for an animal model of reactive and impulsive aggression. Furthermore, this behavioral convergence is supported by a concurrent reduction in 5-HT innervation of brain areas controlling aggression and impulsivity, providing a common neural mechanism for this phenotype.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) increases in sensory neurons after inflammation and plays an important role in abnormal pain responses, but how this neuropeptide is regulated is not well understood. Both activin A and nerve growth factor (NGF) increase in skin after inflammation and induce CGRP in neurons in vivo and in vitro. This study was designed to understand how neurons integrate these two signals to regulate the neuropeptide important for inflammatory pain. In adult dorsal root ganglion neurons, NGF but not activin alone produced a dose-dependent increase in CGRP mRNA. When added together with NGF, activin synergistically increased CGRP mRNA, indicating that sensory neurons combine these signals. Studies were then designed to learn if that combination occurred at a common receptor or shared intracellular signals. Studies with activin IB receptor or tyrosine receptor kinase A inhibitors suggested that each ligand required its cognate receptor to stimulate the neuropeptide. Further, activin did not augment NGF-initiated intracellular mitogen-activated protein kinase signals but instead stimulated Smad phosphorylation, suggesting these ligands initiated parallel signals in the cytoplasm. Activin synergy required several NGF intracellular signals to be present. Because activin did not further stimulate, but did require NGF intracellular signals, it appears that activin and NGF converge not in receptor or cytoplasmic signals, but in transcriptional mechanisms to regulate CGRP in rat sensory neurons after inflammation.
Cholinergic neurons of the striatum play a crucial role in controlling output from this region. Their firing is under the control of a relatively limited glutamatergic input, deriving principally from the thalamus. Glutamate transmission is effected via three major subtypes of receptors, including those with affinity for N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and the properties of individual receptors reflect their precise subunit composition. We examined the distribution of NMDA2C and NMDA2D subunits in the rat striatum using immunocytochemistry and show that a population of large neurons is strongly immunoreactive for NMDA2D subunits. From their morphology and ultrastructure, these neurons were presumed to be cholinergic and this was confirmed with double immunofluorescence. We also show that NMDA2C is present in a small number of septal and olfactory cortical neurons but absent from the striatum. Receptors that include NMDA2D subunits are relatively insensitive to magnesium ion block making neurons more likely to fire at more negative membrane potentials. Their localization to cholinergic neurons may enable very precise regulation of firing of these neurons by relatively small glutamatergic inputs.
Perinatal brain injuries often result in irreversible learning disabilities, which manifest in early childhood. These injuries are chiefly ascribable to marked susceptibility of the immature brain to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. No treatments are available. One well-characterized model of perinatal brain injuries consists in injecting the glutamate analog ibotenate into the brain of 5-day-old mice. The resulting excitotoxic lesions resemble the hypoxic-ischemic gray-matter lesions seen in full-term and near-term newborns, as well as the white-matter lesions of preterm newborns. We previously reported that these lesions disrupted odor preference conditioning in newborn mice. The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of the neuroprotector melatonin in preventing learning disabilities in newborn mice with ibotenate-induced brain injury. In postnatal day (P) 6-P7 pups, we tested psychomotor reflexes, spontaneous preference for maternal odors as an index of memory, ultrasonic vocalization responses to stroking as an index of sensitivity to tactile stimuli, and conditioned preference for an odor previously paired with stroking as an index of learning abilities. Without melatonin, conditioning was abolished, whereas spontaneous odor preference, psychomotor reflexes, and sensitivity to tactile stimuli were normal. Thus, abolition of conditioning was not associated with sensorimotor impairments. Histological analysis confirmed the efficacy of melatonin in reducing white-matter lesions induced by ibotenate. Furthermore, treatment with melatonin protected the ability to develop conditioning. Thus, melatonin, which easily crosses the blood-brain barrier and has been proven safe in children, may be effective in preventing learning disabilities caused by perinatal brain injuries in human preterm infants.
The present study was designed to investigate involvement of angiotensin II (Ang II) type 2 receptors (AT2 receptors) in restoration of perivascular nerve innervation injured by topical phenol treatment. Male Wistar rats underwent in vivo topical application of 10% phenol around the superior mesenteric artery. After phenol treatment, animals were subjected to immunohistochemistry of the third branch of small arteries, Western blot analysis of AT2 receptor protein expression in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and studies of mesenteric neurogenic vasoresponsiveness. Ang II (750 ng/kg/day), nerve growth factor (NGF; 20 microg/kg/day) and PD123,319 (AT2 receptor antagonist; 10 mg/kg/day) were intraperitoneally administered for 7 days using osmotic mini-pumps immediately after topical phenol treatment. Losartan (AT1 receptor antagonist) was administered in drinking water (0.025%). Phenol treatment markedly reduced densities of both calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-like immunoreactivity (LI) and neuropeptide Y (NPY)-LI-containing fibers. NGF restored densities of both nerve fibers to the sham control level. Coadministration of Ang II and losartan significantly increased the density of CGRP-LI-fibers but not NPY-LI-fibers compared with saline control. The increase of the density of CGRP-LI-fibers by coadministration of Ang II and losartan was suppressed by adding PD123,319. Coadministration of Ang II and losartan ameliorated reduction of CGRP nerve-mediated vasodilation of perfused mesenteric arteries caused by phenol treatment. The AT2 receptor protein expression detected in DRG was markedly increased by NGF. These results suggest that selective stimulation of AT2 receptors by Ang II facilitates reinnervation of mesenteric perivascular CGRP-containing nerves injured by topical phenol application in the rat.
The role of opioid receptors in modulating respiratory activity was investigated in in vitro brainstem preparations of adult lampreys by bath application of agonists and antagonists. The vagal motor output was used to monitor respiratory activity. Neuronal recordings were also performed to characterize the rostrolateral trigeminal region that has been suggested to be critical for respiratory rhythmogenesis. Microinjections of the micro-opioid receptor agonist [d-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) were also made into this region and at different locations within the brainstem. Bath application of DAMGO (0.5-2 microM) caused marked decreases in respiratory frequency up to complete apnea. Bath application of the delta-opioid receptor agonist [d-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE) at 10-40 microM induced less pronounced depressant respiratory effects, while no changes in respiratory activity were induced by the kappa-opioid receptor agonist trans-(1S,2S)-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl] benzeneacetamide (U50488) at 10-40 microM. Bath application of the opioid receptor antagonists naloxone and naltrindole did not affect baseline respiratory activity, but prevented agonist-induced effects. DAMGO microinjections (1 mM; 0.5-1 nl) at sites rostrolateral to the trigeminal motor nucleus, where respiration-related neuronal activity was recorded, abolished the respiratory rhythm. The results show that opioids may have an important role in the lamprey respiratory network and that micro-opioid receptor activation is the most effective in causing respiratory depression. They also indicate that endogenous opioids are not required for the generation of baseline respiratory activity. Apneic responses induced by DAMGO microinjections support the hypothesis that a specific opioid-sensitive region rostrolateral to the trigeminal motor nucleus, that we have termed the paratrigeminal respiratory group (pTRG), likely has a pivotal role in respiratory rhythmogenesis. Since the lamprey diverged from the main vertebrate line around 450 million years ago, our results also imply that the inhibitory role of opioids on respiration is present at an early stage of vertebrate evolution.
There is a gender-related comorbidity of pain-related and inflammatory bowel diseases with psychiatric diseases. Since the impact of experimental gastrointestinal inflammation on the emotional-affective behavior is little known, we examined whether experimental gastritis modifies anxiety, stress coping and circulating corticosterone in male and female Him:OF1 mice. Gastritis was induced by adding iodoacetamide (0.1%) to the drinking water for at least 7 days. Inflammation was assessed by gastric histology and myeloperoxidase activity, circulating corticosterone determined by enzyme immunoassay, anxiety-related behavior evaluated with the elevated plus maze and stress-induced hyperthermia tests, and depression-like behavior estimated with the tail suspension test. Iodoacetamide-induced gastritis was associated with gastric mucosal surface damage and an increase in gastric myeloperoxidase activity, this increase being significantly larger in female mice than in male mice. The rectal temperature of male mice treated with iodoacetamide was enhanced, whereas that of female mice was diminished. The circulating levels of corticosterone were reduced by 65% in female mice treated with iodoacetamide but did not significantly change in male mice. On the behavioral level, iodoacetamide treatment caused a decrease in nocturnal home-cage activity, drinking and feeding. While depression-related behavior remained unaltered following induction of gastritis, behavioral indices of anxiety were significantly enhanced in female but not male mice. There was no correlation between the estrous cycle and anxiety as well as circulating corticosterone. Radiotracer experiments revealed that iodoacetamide did not readily enter the brain, the blood-brain ratio being 20:1. Collectively, these data show that iodoacetamide treatment causes gastritis in a gender-related manner, its severity being significantly greater in female than in male mice. The induction of gastritis in female mice is associated with a reduction of circulating corticosterone and an enforcement of behavioral indices of anxiety. Gastric inflammation thus has a distinct gender-dependent influence on emotional-affective behavior and its neuroendocrine control.
The present study assessed whether baicalein (5,6,7-trihydroxyflavone), a polyphenolic antioxidant 12/15-lipoxygenase inhibitor would attenuate oxidative cell death in vitro using a mouse hippocampal HT22 cell assay. Moreover, we determined if baicalein would be useful to attenuate behavioral deficits associated with multiple infarct ischemic events in vivo using a rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM). Using HT22 cell in vitro, baicalein was shown to significantly promote cell survival with an estimated dose for 50% cell survival of 2 muM following incubation in the presence of iodoacetic acid (20 muM), an irreversible inhibitor of the glycolytic pathway that results in the free radical production, lipid peroxidation and cell death. Since baicalein was neuroprotective and attenuated iodoacetic acid (IAA) toxicity in vitro, we studied its effects in vivo in an embolic stroke model using behavioral measures as the endpoint. Quantal analysis for each treatment in the embolism model identifies the quantity of microclots (mg) that produce neurologic dysfunction in 50% of a group of animals (P(50)), with intervention considered neuroprotective if it increases the P(50) compared with controls. Baicalein (100 mg/kg, s.c.) injected 5 and 60 min post-embolization significantly (P&lt;0.05) improved behavioral function. The calculated P(50) values were 2.85+/-0.64 mg (n=21) and 2.15+/-0.12 mg (n=14), respectively compared with 1.37+/-0.20 mg (n=23) for the control group. In conclusion, we have shown that baicalein effectively attenuated cell death in vitro using HT22 cells and also significantly reduced behavioral deficits in rabbits when given up to 1 h following an embolic stroke. The results suggest that baicalein, or derivatives of baicalein with multiple pharmacological activities may be useful to develop as novel treatments for acute ischemic stroke.

Intervening with serotonergic neurotransmission can have profound effects on mobility. For instance, the peripheral administration of the 5-HT(2A/C) agonist, 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI), changes the locomotor activity substantially. Locomotor activity is classically linked to the basal ganglia, in which the subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a pivotal role. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the STN modulates DOI-induced hypomobility. Rats were implanted with stimulating electrodes at the level of the STN and were tested in an open field (OF) task in various conditions (stimulation on/off, in combination with DOI treatment). We found that DOI administration (i.p.) reduced the behavioural activity of the animals and that STN HFS reversed these effects. This study provides the first evidence that the therapeutic effect of STN HFS may also be mediated by a 5-HT-dependent mechanism.
The ERK pathway responds to extracellular stimuli and oncogenes by modulating cellular processes, including transcription, adhesion, survival, and proliferation. ERK has diverse substrates that carry out these functions. The processes that are modulated are determined in part by the substrates that ERK phosphorylates. We demonstrate that PEA-15 (phosphoprotein enriched in astrocytes, 15 kDa) targets ERK to RSK2 and thereby enhances RSK2 activation. PEA-15 independently bound ERK and RSK2 and increased ERK association with RSK2 in a concentration-dependent manner. PEA-15 increased RSK2 activity and CREB-mediated transcription, and this process was regulated by phosphorylation of PEA-15. Finally, phorbol ester stimulation of PEA-15-null lymphocytes resulted in impaired RSK2 activation that was rescued by exogenous PEA-15 expression. Therefore, PEA-15 functions as a scaffold to enhance ERK activation of RSK2, and this activity is regulated by phosphorylation. Thus, PEA-15 can integrate signal transduction to provide a specific physiological outcome from activation of the multipotent ERK MAP kinase pathway.
The information flow between distal elements of a protein may rely on allosteric communication trajectories lying along the protein's tertiary or quaternary structure. To unravel the underlying features of energy parsing along allosteric pathways in voltage-gated K(+) channels, high-order thermodynamic coupling analysis was performed. We report that such allosteric trajectories are functionally conserved and delineated by well defined boundaries. Moreover, allosteric trajectories assume a hierarchical organization whereby increasingly stronger layers of cooperative residue interactions act to ensure efficient and cooperative long-range coupling between distal channel regions. Such long-range communication is brought about by a coupling of local and global conformational changes, suggesting that the allosteric trajectory also corresponds to a pathway of physical deformation. Supported by theoretical analyses and analogy to studies analyzing the contribution of long-range residue coupling to protein stability, we propose that such experimentally derived trajectory features are a general property of allosterically regulated proteins.
Trust is a critical social process that helps us to cooperate with others and is present to some degree in all human interaction. However, the underlying brain mechanisms of conditional and unconditional trust in social reciprocal exchange are still obscure. Here, we used hyperfunctional magnetic resonance imaging, in which two strangers interacted online with one another in a sequential reciprocal trust game while their brains were simultaneously scanned. By designing a nonanonymous, alternating multiround game, trust became bidirectional, and we were able to quantify partnership building and maintenance. Using within- and between-brain analyses, an examination of functional brain activity supports the hypothesis that the preferential activation of different neuronal systems implements these two trust strategies. We show that the paracingulate cortex is critically involved in building a trust relationship by inferring another person's intentions to predict subsequent behavior. This more recently evolved brain region can be differently engaged to interact with more primitive neural systems in maintaining conditional and unconditional trust in a partnership. Conditional trust selectively activated the ventral tegmental area, a region linked to the evaluation of expected and realized reward, whereas unconditional trust selectively activated the septal area, a region linked to social attachment behavior. The interplay of these neural systems supports reciprocal exchange that operates beyond the immediate spheres of kinship, one of the distinguishing features of the human species.
Studies of semantic dementia and PET neuroimaging investigations suggest that the anterior temporal lobes (ATL) are a critical substrate for semantic representation. In stark contrast, classical neurological models of comprehension do not include ATL, and likewise functional MRI studies often fail to show activations in the ATL, reinforcing the classical view. Using a novel application of low-frequency, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the ATL, we demonstrate that the behavioral pattern of semantic dementia can be mirrored in neurologically intact participants: Specifically, we show that temporary disruption to neural processing in the ATL produces a selective semantic impairment leading to significant slowing in both picture naming and word comprehension but not to other equally demanding, nonsemantic cognitive tasks.
The mechanisms underlying CNS arousal in response to homeostatic pressures are not known. In this study, we pitted two forces for CNS arousal against each other (circadian influences vs. restricted food availability) and measured the neuronal activation that occurs in a behaviorally defined group of animals that exhibited increased arousal in anticipation of feeding restricted to their normal sleeping time. The number of c-FOS+ neurons was significantly increased only in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH) in these mice, compared with control animals whose feeding was restricted to their normal active and feeding time (P &lt; 0.01). Because the activation of VMH neurons coincides with the earliest signs of behavioral arousal preceding a change in meal time, we infer that VMH activation is involved in the increased arousal in anticipation of food.

The network of starburst amacrine cells plays a fundamental role in the neural circuitry underlying directional selectivity within the retina. Individual sectors of the starburst dendritic field are directionally selective by virtue of a mutually inhibitory relationship between starburst amacrine cells with overlapping dendrites. These features of the starburst amacrine cell network suggest that starburst cells regulate their dendritic overlap to ensure a uniform coverage of the retinal surface. The present study has compared the dendritic morphology of starburst amacrine cells in two different strains of mice that differ in starburst amacrine cell number. The A/J (A) strain contains about one-quarter fewer starburst amacrine cells than does the C57BL/6J (B6) strain, although the mosaics of starburst amacrine cells in both strains are comparably patterned. Dendritic field size, however, does not compensate for the difference in density, the A strain having a slightly smaller dendritic field relative to the B6 strain, yielding a significantly larger dendritic coverage factor for individual cells in the B6 strain. The area of the distal (output) annulus of the dendritic field occupies a comparable proportion of the overall field area in the two strains, but overlapping annuli establish a finer meshwork of co-fasciculating processes in the B6 strain. These results would suggest that the architecture of the dendritic network, rather than the overall size of the dendritic field, is dependent on the density of starburst amacrine cells.
The inhibitory effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurotransmission in the periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) are mediated, at least partly, by metabotropic GABA(B) receptor subtypes whose cellular and subcellular localization is still unknown. We performed immunohistochemical experiments with an antibody against GABA(B) receptor subtype 1a/b (GABA(B)R(1a/b)) by using light and electron microscopy. On light microscopy, GABA(B)R(1a/b) immunoreactivity (IR) was in all columns, defined by cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Neuropil labeling was strongest in the lateral portion of dorsolateral PAG. Labeled neurons, albeit not numerous, were in ventrolateral, dorsal, and medial subdivisions and were sparser in dorsolateral PAG. Labeling was mostly on the soma of PAG neurons. Sometimes GABA(B)R(1a/b) IR spread along proximal dendrites; in these cases bipolar neurons were the most common type. On electron microscopy, GABA(B)R(1a/b) IR was mainly on dendrites (54.92% of labeled elements) and axon terminals (21.90%) making synapses with labeled and unlabeled postsynaptic elements. Presynaptic labeling was also on unmyelinated and myelinated axons (overall 8% of all labeled elements). Postsynaptically, GABA(B)R(1a/b) IR was at extrasynaptic sites on dendritic shafts; spines were always unlabeled. On axon terminals, GABA(B)R(1a/b) IR was on extrasynaptic membranes and sometimes on presynaptic membrane specializations. Of the labeled elements, 13.03% elements were distal astrocytic processes (dAsPs) surrounding both symmetric and asymmetric synapses whose pre- and postsynaptic elements were often labeled. Immunoreactive dAsPs were around the soma and dendrites of both labeled and unlabeled neurons. These findings provide insights into the intrinsic PAG organization and suggest that presynaptic, postsynaptic, and glial GABA(B) receptors may play crucial roles in controlling PAG neuronal activity.
Congenital muscular dystrophies with brain malformations, such as muscle-eye-brain disease, exhibit neural ectopias caused by overmigration of neurons. Such overmigration is evident in protein O-mannose beta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (POMGnT1) knockout mouse, a model of muscle-eye-brain disease, caused by breaches in the pial basement membrane. We hypothesize that breaches in pial basement membrane disrupt the neural-meningeal boundary, resulting in ectopia of meningeal fibroblasts in the cerebral cortex and reactive gliosis. To test this hypothesis, the cerebral cortices of developing and adult POMGnT1 knockout mice were analyzed by immunostaining with cell-specific markers and by electron microscopy. The upper half of the cerebral cortex in the knockout mouse contained increased numbers of fibroblasts closely associated with capillaries. During development of the cerebral cortex in the knockout mice, breaches in pial basement membrane allowed emigration of overmigrated neurons into the developing pia-arachnoid, scattering its mesenchymal cells throughout the diffuse cell zone and resulting in ectopia of mesenchyme-derived fibroblasts in the upper half of the cortex. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunostaining revealed that the upper half of the cerebral cortex in the knockout also contained increased numbers of cells with morphologies typical of reactive astrocytes compared with the wild type. Moreover, most of the GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes were in close contact with ectopic fibroblasts, suggesting that they were induced by the fibroblasts. Collectively, the data support the hypothesis that the cerebral cortex of POMGnT1 knockout mice is characterized by migration defects leading to disruption of the pia-arachnoid, ectopia of fibroblasts in the cortex, and reactive gliosis.
The Mauthner (M-) cell of the goldfish, Carassius auratus, triggers the rapid escape response of the fish in response to various stimuli, including visual and auditory. The large size and accessibility of the M-cell make it an ideal model system for the study of synaptic transmission, membrane properties, and sensory-motor gating. Although physiological recordings have suggested that afferents from all three of the inner ear endorgans (the saccule, lagena, and utricle) synapse directly on the ipsilateral M-cell, the specific contacts and anatomical distributions of these inputs along the M-cell lateral dendrite remain unknown. We traced specific branches of the auditory (VIIIth) nerve from the three otolith organs of the fish inner ear to the M-cell. The goldfish sacculus gives rise to the vast majority of inputs that contact a large portion of the M-cell lateral dendrite, and these inputs vary greatly in size. In contrast to the ubiquitous distribution of saccular inputs, those from the lagena are segregated to distal regions of the M-cell and synapse on the distal dorsal branch of the lateral dendrite. Similarly, inputs from the utricle are also segregated to distal regions, synapsing on the ventral branch of the lateral dendrite. These results demonstrate that nerves from all three endorgans contact the M-cell, with input-specific segregation of synapses along the M-cell lateral dendrite.
Orexin and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) have been implicated in mediating a variety of different behaviors. These include sleep and wakefulness, locomotion, ingestive behaviors, and fight-or-flight response, as well as anxiety- and panic-like behaviors in rodents. Despite such diversity, all these processes require coordinated recruitment of the autonomic and somatomotor efferents. We have previously mapped the locations of presympathetic-premotor neurons (PSPMNs) in the rat brain. These putative dual-function neurons send trans-synaptic projections to somatomotor and sympathetic targets and likely participate in somatomotor-sympathetic integration. A significant portion of these neurons is found within the dorsomedial (DMH) and lateral hypothalamus (LH), areas of the brain that contain MCH- and orexin- synthesizing neurons in the central nervous system. Thus, we hypothesized that hypothalamic PSPMNs utilize MCH or orexin as their neurotransmitter. To test this hypothesis, we identified PSPMNs by using recombinant strains of the pseudorabies virus (PRV) for trans-synaptic tract tracing. PRV-152, a strain that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein, was injected into sympathectomized gastrocnemius muscle, whereas PRV-BaBlu, which expresses beta-galactosidase, was injected into the adrenal gland in the same animals. By using immunofluorescent methods, we determined whether co-infected neurons express MCH or orexin. Our findings demonstrate that PSPMNs synthesizing either MCH or orexin are present within LH, where they form two separate populations. PSPMNs located around the fornix express orexin, whereas those located around the cerebral peduncle are more likely to express MCH. These two clusters of PSPMNs within LH likely play distinct functional roles in autonomic homeostasis and stress coping mechanisms.
Solitary primary cilia project from nearly every cell type in the human body. These organelles are considered to have important sensory and signaling functions. Although primary cilia have been detected throughout the mammalian brain, their functions are unknown. The study of primary cilia in the brain is constrained by the scarcity of specific markers for these organelles. We previously demonstrated that type III adenylyl cyclase (ACIII) is a marker for primary cilia on neonatal hippocampal neurons in vivo and in vitro. We further showed that ACIII localizes to cilia on cultured glial cells. Here, we report that ACIII is a marker for primary cilia throughout many regions of the adult mouse brain. Furthermore, we report that ACIII localizes to primary cilia on choroid plexus cells and some astrocytes in the brain, which to our knowledge is the first report of a marker for visualizing cilia on glia in vivo. Overall, our data indicate that ACIII is a prominent marker of primary cilia in the brain and will provide an important tool to facilitate further investigations into the functions of these organelles.

As kappa agonists have been proposed as treatments for cocaine abuse, the cardiovascular effects of the kappa opioid receptor agonists ethylketocyclazocine (EKC) and enadoline were investigated in conscious squirrel monkeys. Both EKC and enadoline increased heart rate with little effect on blood pressure. This effect appeared to be specific for kappa receptors as the mu opioid agonist morphine did not mimic the effects of the kappa agonists. The opioid antagonist naltrexone, at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg, blocked the effect of EKC. An action at both central and peripheral receptors may be responsible for the heart rate increase following kappa agonist treatment. The ganglionic blocker chlorisondamine partially antagonized the effect of EKC on heart rate, suggesting central involvement, while the peripherally-acting agonist ICI 204,448 ((+/-)-1-[2,3- (Dihydro-7-methyl-1H-inden-4-yl)oxy]-3-[(1-methylethyl)amino]-2-butanol hydrochloride) also increased heart rate, supporting a peripheral site of action. When given in combination with cocaine, EKC produced effects that were sub-additive, suggesting that the kappa agonists may be used safely as cocaine abuse treatments.
D(3) dopamine receptors are expressed by dopamine neurons and are implicated in the modulation of presynaptic dopamine neurotransmission. The mechanisms underlying this modulation remain ill defined. The dopamine transporter, which terminates dopamine transmission via reuptake of released neurotransmitter, is regulated by receptor- and second messenger-linked signaling pathways. Whether D3 receptors regulate dopamine transporter function is unknown. We addressed this issue using a fluorescent imaging technique that permits real time quantification of dopamine transporter function in living single cells. Accumulation of the fluorescent dopamine transporter substrate trans-4-[4-(dimethylamino)styryl]-1-methylpyridinium (ASP(+)) in human embryonic kidney cells expressing human dopamine transporter was saturable and temperature-dependent. In cells co-expressing dopamine transporter and D3 receptors, the D2/D3 agonist quinpirole produced a rapid, concentration-dependent, and pertussis toxin-sensitive increase of ASP(+) uptake. Similar agonist effects were observed in Neuro2A cells and replicated in human embryonic kidney cells using a radioligand uptake assay in which binding to and activation of D3 receptors by [(3)H]dopamine was prevented. D3 receptor stimulation activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase and MAPK. Inhibition of either kinase prevented the quinpirole-induced increase in uptake. D3 receptor activation differentially affected dopamine transporter function and subcellular distribution depending on the duration of agonist exposure. Biotinylation experiments revealed that the rapid increase of uptake was associated with increased cell surface and decreased intracellular expression and increased dopamine transporter exocytosis. In contrast, prolonged agonist exposure reduced uptake and transporter cell surface expression. These results demonstrate that D3 receptors regulate dopamine transporter function and identify a novel mechanism by which D3 receptors regulate extracellular dopamine concentrations.

Synaptic potentials originating at distal dendritic locations are severely attenuated when they reach the soma and, thus, are poor at driving somatic spikes. Nonetheless, distal inputs convey essential information, suggesting that such inputs may be important for compartmentalized dendritic signaling. Here we report a new plasticity rule in which stimulation of distal perforant path inputs to hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons induces long-term potentiation at the CA1 proximal Schaffer collateral synapses when the two inputs are paired at a precise interval. This subthreshold form of heterosynaptic plasticity occurs in the absence of somatic spiking but requires activation of both NMDA receptors and IP(3) receptor-dependent release of Ca(2+) from internal stores. Our results suggest that direct sensory information arriving at distal CA1 synapses through the perforant path provide compartmentalized, instructive signals that assess the saliency of mnemonic information propagated through the hippocampal circuit to proximal synapses.
Our visual system imposes structure onto images that usually contain a diversity of surfaces, contours, and colors. Psychological theories propose that there are multiple steps in this process that occur in hierarchically organized regions of the cortex: early visual areas register basic features, higher areas bind them into objects, and yet higher areas select the objects that are relevant for behavior. Here we test these theories by recording from the primary visual cortex (area V1) of monkeys. We demonstrate that the V1 neurons first register the features (at a latency of 48 ms), then segregate figures from the background (after 57 ms), and finally select relevant figures over irrelevant ones (after 137 ms). We conclude that the psychological processing stages map onto distinct time episodes that unfold in the visual cortex after the presentation of a new stimulus, so that area V1 may contribute to all these processing steps.
The major part of the brain's energy budget ( approximately 60%-80%) is devoted to its communication activities. While inhibition is critical to brain function, relatively little attention has been paid to its metabolic costs. Understanding how inhibitory interneurons contribute to brain energy consumption (brain work) is not only of interest in understanding a fundamental aspect of brain function but also in understanding functional brain imaging techniques which rely on measurements related to blood flow and metabolism. Herein we examine issues relevant to an assessment of the work performed by inhibitory interneurons in the service of brain function.
Some GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) are activated by low transmitter levels present in the extracellular space and generate an uninterrupted conductance referred to as &quot;tonic.&quot; This tonic conductance is highly sensitive to all factors regulating the amount of GABA surrounding the neurons. Only a few GABA(A)Rs with particular subunit combinations are well suited to mediate the tonic conductance. These same receptors constitute important and specific targets for various endogenous and exogenous neuroactive compounds and possible therapeutic targets.
Wnt signaling follows canonical and non-canonical pathways to regulate a variety of processes during cellular homeostasis and development. The large T-antigen (T-Ag) of the human neurotropic JC virus, has been shown to modulate the Wnt-signaling pathway via interaction with beta-catenin, one of the most important components of the canonical Wnt pathway. Here, we have identified an alternative non-canonical pathway that allows T-Ag to recruit Rac1 for stabilizing beta-catenin by inhibiting its ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation. We demonstrate that inhibition of Rac1 by its dominant negative mutant, RacN17, abrogates T-Ag-mediated stabilization of beta-catenin yet exhibits no impact on the transcriptional activity of beta-catenin. Results from immunocytochemistry revealed that together with T-Ag, a pool of beta-catenin appears at the cell surface, particularly at the membrane ruffles where active Rac1 is positioned. Interestingly, cooperativity between T-Ag and beta-catenin leads to activation of Rac1, which in turn, stimulates its association with beta-catenin. These observations unravel the interplay between beta-catenin and Rac1 that is initiated by T-Ag and results in stabilization of beta-catenin and its presence in cell membrane ruffles.

Synapsins (Syns) are synaptic vesicle (SV) phosphoproteins that play a role in neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity by acting at multiple steps of exocytosis. Mutation of SYN genes results in an epileptic phenotype in mouse and man suggesting a role of Syns in the control of network excitability. We have studied the effects of the genetic ablation of the SYN1 gene on inhibitory synaptic transmission in primary hippocampal neurons. Inhibitory neurons lacking SynI showed reduced amplitude of IPSCs evoked by isolated action potentials. The impairment in inhibitory transmission was caused by a decrease in the size of the SV readily releasable pool, rather than by changes in release probability or quantal size. The reduction of the readily releasable pool was caused by a decrease in the number of SVs released by single synaptic boutons in response to the action potential, in the absence of variations in the number of synaptic contacts between couples of monosynaptically connected neurons. The deletion of SYN1 did not affect paired-pulse depression or post-tetanic potentiation, but was associated with a moderate increase of synaptic depression evoked by trains of action potentials, which became apparent at high stimulation frequencies and was accompanied by a slow down of recovery from depression. The decreased size of the SV readily releasable pool, coupled with a decreased SV recycling rate and refilling by the SV reserve pool, may contribute to the epileptic phenotype of SynI knock-out mice.
Age-related changes in the hippocampus increase vulnerability to impaired learning and memory. Our goal is to understand how a genetic vulnerability to cognitive impairment can be modified by aging and sex. Mice with a mutation in the cAMP response element binding (CREB) protein gene (CREB(alphadelta-) deficient mice) have a mild cognitive impairment and show test condition-dependent learning and memory deficits. We tested three ages of CREB(alphadelta-) deficient and wild-type (WT) mice in two Morris water maze (MWM) protocols: four trials per day with a 3-5 min inter-trial interval (ITI) (MWM4) and two trials per day with a 1 min ITI (MWM2). All CREB(alphadelta-) deficient mice performed well in the easier MWM4, except for the aged females that performed poorly. In the harder MWM2, young male and female and middle-aged male CREB(alphadelta-) deficient mice performed well, but aged male and all middle-aged and aged female CREB(alphadelta-) deficient mice were impaired. These results show that mice with a genetic vulnerability to impaired learning and memory exhibit increased vulnerability with age that is most apparent among females. Thus, a genetic predisposition to cognitive impairment may render females more vulnerable than males to such deficits with age.
We investigated using the mice role of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the spinal dorsal horn in herpetic and postherpetic pain, especially allodynia, which was induced by transdermal inoculation of the hind paw with herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1). The virus inoculation induced NOS2 expression in the lumbar dorsal horn of mice with herpetic allodynia, but not postherpetic allodynia. There were no substantial alternations in the expression level of NOS1 at the herpetic and postherpetic stages. Herpetic allodynia was significantly inhibited by i.p. administration of the selective NOS2 inhibitor S-methylisothiourea, but not the selective NOS1 inhibitor 7-nitroindazole. NOS2 expression was observed around HSV-1 antigen-immunoreactive cells. On the other hand, postherpetic allodynia was significantly inhibited by i.p. administration of 7-nitroindazole, but not S-methylisothiourea. The activity of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase, an index of NOS1 activity, significantly increased in the laminae I and II of the lumbar dorsal horn of mice with postherpetic allodynia, but not mice without postherpetic allodynia. The expression level of NOS1 mRNA in the dorsal root ganglia was similar between mice with and without postherpetic allodynia. The results suggest that herpetic and postherpetic allodynia is mediated by nitric oxide in the dorsal horn and that NOS2 and NOS1 are responsible for herpetic and postherpetic allodynia, respectively. It may be worth testing the effects of NOS2 and NOS1 inhibitors on herpetic pain and postherpetic neuralgia in human subjects, respectively.
Recent studies described several changes of endogenous event-related potentials (ERP) and brain rhythm synchronization during memory activation in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To examine whether memory-related EEG parameters may predict cognitive decline in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), we assessed P200 and N200 latencies as well as beta event-related synchronization (ERS) in 16 elderly controls (EC), 29 MCI cases and 10 patients with AD during the successful performance of a pure attentional detection task as compared with a highly working memory demanding two-back task. At 1 year follow-up, 16 MCI patients showed progressive cognitive decline (PMCI) and 13 remained stable (SMCI). Both P200 and N200 latencies in the two-back task were longer in PMCI and AD cases compared with EC and SMCI cases. During the interval 1000 ms to 1700 ms after stimulus, beta ERS at parietal electrodes was of lower amplitude in PMCI and AD compared with EC and SMCI cases. Univariate models showed that P200, N200 and log% beta values were significantly related to the SMCI/PMCI distinction with areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.93, 0.78 and 0.72, respectively. The combination of all three EEG hallmarks was the stronger predictor of MCI deterioration with 90% of correctly classified MCI cases. Our data reveal that PMCI and clinically overt AD share the same pattern of working memory-related EEG activation characterized by increased P200-N200 latencies and decreased beta ERS. They also show that P200 latency during the two-back task may be a simple and promising EEG marker of rapid cognitive decline in MCI.
Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) has antiepileptogenic effects on kindled seizures. In the present study, the role of galanin receptors in the inhibitory effect of LFS on perforant path kindling acquisition was investigated in rats. Animals were kindled by perforant path stimulation in a rapid kindling manner (six stimulations per day). LFS (0.1 ms pulses at 1 Hz, 600 pulses, and 80-150 microA) was applied immediately after termination of each kindling stimulation. M35 (0.5 and 1.0 nM per site), a nonselective galanin receptor antagonist and M871 (1.0 microM per site), a selective galanin receptor type 2 (GalR2) antagonist, were daily microinjected into the dentate gyrus before starting the stimulation protocol. The expression of GalR2 in the dentate gyrus was also investigated using semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Application of LFS significantly retarded the kindling acquisition and delayed the expression of different kindled seizure stages. In addition, LFS significantly reduced the increment of daily afterdischarge duration during kindling development. Intra-dentate gyrus microinjection of both M35 and M871 significantly prevented the inhibitory effects of LFS on kindling parameters. During the focal kindled seizure stages (1-3) M871 had no significant effect. However, during generalized seizure stages (4 and 5), M871 had the same effect as M35. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR also showed that after kindling acquisition, the GalR2 mRNA level decreased in the dentate gyrus but application of LFS prevented this decrease. Obtained results show that activation of galanin receptors by endogenous galanin has a role in mediating the inhibitory effect of LFS on perforant path-kindled seizures. This role is exerted through GalR1 during focal- and through GalR2 during generalized-kindled seizures.
Numerous data from human and animal studies suggest that hippocampal plasticity might be a key element in depression. However, the connection remains loose at best and further data are needed. Human studies are of necessity limited, but animal models can help providing further insight. Unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) is a commonly used model because it mimics depression-like phenotypes satisfactorily. Its rationale is based on the underlying stress-induced difficulties found in many depressed patients. We therefore studied learning and hippocampal neurogenesis in mice from three different inbred strains subjected to UCMS. Learning was assessed in different hippocampus-dependent and independent tasks. The rate of survival of newly generated brain cells was determined in behaviorally-naive animals. Results demonstrated a dramatic reduction of surviving new brain cells in both the hippocampus and the subventricular zone of UCMS-treated animals. This reduction was observed both for neurons and for other cells of the hippocampus. Behavioral data demonstrated an impairment of hippocampus-dependent learning, whereas hippocampus-independent learning was spared. However, the specific results were strongly dependent on strain and sex so that there does not appear to be a direct causative relationship between the deficits in neurogenesis and behavior.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a powerful psychostimulant that increases glutamate (Glu) levels in the mammalian brain and it is currently known that hippocampi are particularly susceptible to METH. Moreover, it is well established that the overactivation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA ionotropic Glu receptors causes excitotoxicity. In the present study, we investigated the effect of acute (30 mg/kg) versus escalating dose (ED) administration of METH on NMDA receptor 1, NMDA receptor 2 and glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) subunit expression in the hippocampus and on memory. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were injected s.c. during six consecutive days with saline (control and acute groups) or with a growing dose of METH (10, 15, 15, 20, 20, 25 mg/kg/day; ED group). On the 7th day, both METH groups were injected with a 'bolus' of 30 mg/kg METH whereas controls received saline. Western blot analysis showed an increase of GluR2 and NR2A expression levels and no alterations on NR1 subunit in the acute group. On the other hand, in the ED group, GluR2 and NR2A expression levels were unaltered and there was a decrease on NR1 levels. Moreover, we did not observe neurodegeneration with both administration paradigms, as assessed by Fluoro-Jade C staining, but we did observe a strong astrogliosis in the acute administration group by using both immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. The impact of METH on working memory was evaluated using the Y maze test and revealed significant mnemonic deficit in the rats acutely treated with the drug. Overall, our results suggest a protection mechanism under conditions of METH administration by decreasing permeability and/or functionality of NMDA and AMPA receptors, which has implications on memory. So, the participation of the glutamatergic system should be considered as an important pharmacological target to design new strategies to prevent or diminish the harmful effect of drug consumption.
Protein phosphorylation serves as a critical biochemical regulator of short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity. Receptor protein tyrosine kinases (RPTKs) including members of the trk, eph and erbB subfamilies have been shown to modulate signaling cascades that influence synaptic function in the central nervous system (CNS). Tyro3 is one of three RPTKs belonging to the &quot;TAM&quot; receptor family, which also includes Axl and Mer. Tyro3 is the most widely expressed of these receptors in the CNS. Despite recent advances suggesting roles for members of this receptor family in the reproductive and immune systems, their functions in the CNS remain largely unexplored. In an effort to elucidate the roles of Tyro3 and its ligand, the protein growth arrest-specific gene6 (Gas6) in the hippocampus and cortex, we performed a detailed study of the localization and signaling of Tyro3 polypeptides in rat hippocampal and cortical neurons. Tyro3 was readily detected in dendrites and in the soma where it was distributed in a punctate pattern. Tyro3 exhibited only a limited level of co-localization with postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), suggesting that while located within dendrites, it was not confined to the postsynaptic compartment. In addition, Tyro3 was also identified in the axons and growth cones of immature neurons. The prominent expression of Tyro3 in dendrites suggested that it may be capable of modulating signaling pathways triggered by synaptic transmission. We have provided evidence in support of this role by demonstrating that Gas6 induced the phosphorylation of Tyro3 in cortical neurons in vitro, resulting in the recruitment of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI(3)K) signaling pathways. As these pathways play critical roles in the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), these findings suggest that Tyro3 signaling may influence synaptic plasticity in the dendritic compartment of hippocampal and cortical neurons.
The pedunculopontine tegmental and cuneiform nuclei are adjacent structures in the mesopontine tegmentum. The pedunculopontine has attracted interest because of its extensive reciprocal connections with corticostriatal systems and possible role in complex behavioral and cognitive processes; the cuneiform is thought to be part of a neural system important for organizing defensive behaviors. Excitotoxic lesions of the pedunculopontine have been shown to affect a variety of complex functions, including learning and attention, but it has been suggested that a consequence of lesions here is the production of an anxiety-like state. We present experiments to clarify the relative role of the pedunculopontine and cuneiform nuclei in anxiety-like states in rats, measured using the elevated plus maze, food neophobia and palatability tests, and by open field behavior. In addition, we measured (through Fos expression) the effect that being on the elevated plus maze had on the pedunculopontine and cuneiform nuclei. Bilateral ibotenate lesions of cuneiform increased anxiety-like responses on the elevated plus maze, food neophobia and open field tests. Bilateral ibotenate lesions of pedunculopontine that spared cuneiform did not produce anxiety-like behavior, but did disinhibit performance in all the tests. Lesions directed at the pedunculopontine produced anxiety-like effects only when there was also significant damage in the cuneiform. The data are discussed in terms of the relationships these nuclei have with different neural systems: pedunculopontine can be understood in terms of its hierarchical relationships with forebrain systems, while cuneiform is understood best in terms of its role in regulating responses to threatening stimuli.
In the adult brain, GABA is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter. Understanding of the behavioral and pharmacological functions of GABA has been advanced by recent studies of mouse lines that possess mutations in various GABA receptor subtypes and associated proteins. Genetically altered mice have become important tools for discerning GABAergic function. Thus detailed knowledge of the anatomical distribution of different GABA(A) subtype receptors in mice is a prerequisite for understanding the neural circuitry underlying changes in normal and drug-induced behaviors seen in mutated mice. In the current study, we used in situ hybridization histochemistry with [(35)S]UTP-labeled riboprobes to examine the regional expression pattern of mRNA transcripts for seven major GABA(A) receptor subunits in adjacent coronal brain sections (alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 3, alpha 5, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2). Our results indicate that many of these GABAergic genes are co-expressed in much of the adult brain including the neocortex, hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus and striatum. However, each gene also shows a unique region-specific distribution pattern, indicative of distinct neuronal circuits that may serve specific physiological and pharmacological functions.
Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT synthesis in the brain, is a candidate for participation in a mechanism mediating the antidepressant effect of selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors such as fluoxetine. Using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and semi-quantitative RT-PCR techniques, we have examined the effects of fluoxetine administration with drinking water (7.5 mg/kg/day) for 2, 4 and 8 weeks on TPH2 mRNA expression in the midbrain part of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and in the brainstem containing the rest of the raphe complex. Fluoxetine treatment for 4 and 8 weeks significantly increased basal TPH2 mRNA levels in the midbrain, an effect that was correlated with the appearance of antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test. A significant induction of TPH2 and 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) mRNAs was detected in the midbrain of untreated rats 24 h after the swim test. In these animals, the swim test also produced a marked decrease in 5-HT metabolite (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)) content in the amygdala. Fluoxetine treatment for 4 and 8, but not for 2 weeks, abolished these swim-induced changes in TPH2 and 5-HTT mRNAs levels in the midbrain and 5-HIAA content in the amygdala. The results of the present study suggest that TPH2 gene expression in the midbrain part of the DRN is implicated in depression and stress response, as well as in the antidepressant fluoxetine action.
The ZnT3 zinc transporter is uniquely expressed in cortical glutamatergic synapses where it organizes zinc release into the synaptic cleft and mediates beta-amyloid deposition in transgenic mice. We studied the association of zinc in plaques in relation to cytoarchitectural zinc localization in the APP/PS1 transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The effects of low dietary zinc for 3 months upon brain pathology were also studied. We determined that synaptic zinc distribution within cortical layers is paralleled by amyloid burden, which is heaviest for both in layers 2-3 and 5. ZnT3 immunoreactivity is prominent in dystrophic neurites within amyloid plaques. Low dietary zinc caused a significant 25% increase in total plaque volume in Alzheimer's mice using stereological measures. The level of oxidized proteins in brain tissue did not changed in animals on a zinc-deficient diet compared with controls. No obvious changes were observed in the autometallographic pattern of zinc-enriched terminals in the neocortex or in the expression levels of zinc transporters, zinc importers or metallothioneins. A small decrease in plasma zinc induced by the low-zinc diet was consistent with the subclinical zinc deficiency that is common in older human populations. While the mechanism remains uncertain, our findings indicate that subclinical zinc deficiency may be a risk factor for Alzheimer's pathology.
Congenital stationary night blindess-2 (incomplete congenital stationary night blindness (iCSNB) or CSNB-2) is a nonprogressive, X-linked retinal disease which can lead to clinical symptoms such as myopia, hyperopia, nystagmus, strabismus, decreased visual acuity, and impaired scotopic vision. These clinical manifestations are linked to mutations found in the CACNA1F gene which encodes for the Ca(v)1.4 voltage-gated calcium channel. To better understand the physiological effects of these mutations, three missense mutants, F742C, G1007R and R1049W, previously shown to be mutated in patients with CSNB-2, were transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) tsA-201 cells and characterized using whole-cell patch clamp. The G1007R mutation is located in transmembrane segment 5 (S5) of domain III and R1049W is located in the extracellular linker between S5 and the P-loop of domain III. Both mutants produced full length proteins that targeted to the membrane but did not support ionic currents. In 20 mM Ba(2+), F742C (S6 domain II) produced a approximately 21 mV hyperpolarizing shift in half activation potential (V(a[1/2])) and a approximately 23 mV hyperpolarizing shift in half inactivation potential (V(h[1/2])). Additionally, F742C displayed slower inactivation kinetics and a smaller whole cell conductance (G(max)). In physiological 2 mM Ca(2+), F742C produced a approximately 19 mV hyperpolarizing shift in V(a[1/2]). These findings suggest that the pathology of CSNB-2 in patients with these missense mutations in the Ca(v)1.4 calcium channel is the result in either a gain of function (F742C) or a loss of function (G1007R, R1049W).
Alpha-secretase (alpha-secretase), cleaves the amyloid precursor protein (APP) within the amyloid-beta (Abeta) sequence, resulting in the release of a secreted fragment of APP (alphaAPPs) and precluding Abeta generation. We investigated the effects of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, huperzine A (Hup A), on APP processing and Abeta generation in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells overexpressing wild-type human APP695. Hup A dose-dependently (0-10 microM) increased alphaAPPs release. Therefore, we evaluated two alpha-secretase candidates, a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) 10 and ADAM17 in Hup A-induced non-amyloidogenic APP metabolism. Hup A enhanced the level of ADAM10, and the inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor-alpha converting enzyme (TACE)/ADAM17 inhibited the Hup A-induced rise in alphaAPPs levels, further suggesting Hup A directed APP metabolism toward the non-amyloidogenic alpha-secretase pathway. Hup A had no effect on Abeta generation in this cell line. The steady-state levels of full-length APP and cell viability were unaffected by Hup A. Alpha-APPs release induced by Hup A treatment was significantly reduced by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists (particularly by an M1 antagonist), protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors, GF109203X and calphostin C, and the mitogen-activated kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors, U0126 and PD98059. Furthermore, Hup A markedly increased the phosphorylation of p44/p42 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase, which was blocked by treatment with U0126 and PD98059. In addition, Hup A inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity by 20% in neuroblastoma cells. Our results indicate that the activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, PKC and MAP kinase may be involved in Hup A-induced alphaAPPs secretion in neuroblastoma cells and suggest multiple pharmacological mechanisms of Hup A regarding the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
The fenestrated microvasculature of the area postrema shows a less restrictive blood-brain barrier than is found in other areas of the CNS. We have studied the expression and relationship of vascular endothelial tight junctional proteins, astrocytes, macrophages, and the extracellular matrix with the extravasation of fluorescently tagged dextrans and sodium fluorescein in the rat area postrema. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) -positive astrocytes were present within the area postrema which was surrounded by a dense zone of highly GFAP-reactive astrocytes. Expression of the tight junction proteins claudin-5, -12 and occludin was absent, although diffuse cytoplasmic claudin-1 immunoreactivity was present. The extracellular matrix of the endothelium showed two non-fused thickened layers of laminin immunoreactivity. CD163 and CD169 immunoreactive perivascular macrophages were located within lacunae between these two laminin layers. Fluorescently tagged dextrans (10-70 kDa) passed from the vasculature but were retained between the inner and outer laminin walls and rapidly sequestered by the perivascular CD163 and CD169 macrophages. Three-kilodalton dextran diffused into the parenchyma, but was retained within the boundary of the area postrema at the interface with the highly reactive GFAP-astrocytes, while sodium fluorescein (0.3 kDa) passed from the area postrema into surrounding CNS areas. Our observations suggest that despite the absence of a tight blood-brain barrier, a size selective barrier restricting the movement of blood solutes into the parenchyma is present in the area postrema. We suggest that the rapid uptake by CD163 and CD169 macrophages together with the non-fused laminin immunoreactive layers of the extracellular matrix plays a size selective role in restricting movement of serum proteins and other blood borne macromolecules over 10 kDa in to the area postrema.
Neurones in the lumbosacral spinal cord are known to play a significant role in ejaculation. In these same areas neurones containing nitric oxide synthase (NOS) have been described. This raised the question as to whether there is a physiological role for nitrous oxide (NO) in the spinal cord in sexual behavior. We first established immunohistochemical localization of NOS positive neurones in the lumbosacral spinal cord. NOS positive neurones were found in several areas of the lumbosacral cord. Namely the intermediolateral column (IML) at L(1)-L(4) and sacral cord; the dorsal gray commissure above the central canal at L(1)-L(2); the ventral gray area of lamina X below the central canal at L(3)-L(4); the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn at all levels. Secondly, we examined the role of NO in the generation of synchronized bursting activity within the vas deferens nerve and associated penile muscles, typical of sexual responses in the male anesthetized rat. NO modulators were applied directly to the spinal cord at T(13)-L(4) via a catheter placed subdurally (intrathecal) and their effect on the genital responses evoked by systemic administration of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) or apomorphine (apo) (both 1 mg/kg) was observed. All responses evoked by PCA (n=4) or apo (n=3) were abolished or reduced (n=1) during intrathecal NOS inhibition using N((G)) nitro-L-Arginine methyl ester (l-NAME, 200 mM, 20-microl). NOS inhibition using l-NAME was reversed with simultaneous intrathecal application of the NO substrate l-arginine (100 mM, 20-microl, n=3). The selective neuronal NOS inhibitor 1-(2-trifluoro-methylphenyl) imidazole (100 mM, 20-microl, TRIM) also abolished all responses evoked by PCA (n=3). There was evidence that the responses within the vas deferens nerve (VDN) after PCA or apo were enhanced following NO donation using sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 1 mM, 20-microl). Furthermore, a PCA-like response within the VDN was evoked following intrathecally applied l-glutamic acid (200 mM, 20-microl) in six of 26 animals and also by intrathecal SNP in two of eight animals. In conclusion the results suggest a significant excitatory role for NO in the bursting pattern of synchronized discharge generated in autonomic and somatic outflows from the lumbosacral cord by neurones governing ejaculation.
Modulation of membrane properties and excitability of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) by dopamine was investigated in rat retinal slices, using whole cell patch clamp techniques. Application of dopamine (10 microM) caused a small depolarization of the membrane potential, a reduction of the input resistance and a decrease in the number of current-evoked action potentials of RGCs, and these effects were blocked by a D1 antagonist (SCH23390, 10 microM), but not by a D2 antagonist (sulpiride, 10 microM). SKF38393 (10 microM), a D1 agonist, but not quinpirole (10 microM), a D2 agonist, mimicked the effects of dopamine on RGCs. Like dopamine, 8-Br-cAMP, a membrane-permeable analog of cAMP, produced similar changes in the membrane properties and the excitability of RGCs. All these results suggest that these effects of dopamine are likely mediated by D1 receptors. Pre-application of KT5720, an inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), blocked the dopamine effects, indicating that the effects were PKA-dependent. Possible involvement of hyperpolarization-activated cation currents (I(h)) in the dopamine effects was tested. Inward currents were induced by voltage steps, with an activation threshold of around -70 mV, in the presence of TTX, Cd(2+), TEA-Cl and 4-AP. These currents, with a reversal potential of -33.2 mV, displayed inward rectification and were blocked by ZD7288, a specific I(h) channel blocker. These results are indicative of the presence of I(h) in rat RGCs. Dopamine increased the amplitude of I(h) and shifted the activation curve of I(h) to a range of more positive potentials. SKF38393 and 8-Br-cAMP increased the amplitude of I(h), which was blocked by KT5720. The dopamine effects were abolished when the preparations were pre-incubated by ZD7288. These data strongly suggest that the dopamine effects on rat RGCs may be, at least in part, mediated by modulation of I(h) through the cAMP- and PKA-dependent pathway.
The primary therapeutic agents used for schizophrenia, antipsychotic drugs, ameliorate psychotic symptoms; however, their chronic effects on cognition (or the physiologic processes of the brain that support cognition) are largely unknown. The purpose of this rodent study was to extend our previous work on this subject by investigating persistent effects (i.e. during a 14 day drug-free washout period) of chronic treatment (i.e. ranging from 45 days to 6 months) with a representative first and second generation antipsychotic. Drug effects on learning and memory and important neurobiological substrates of memory, the neurotrophin, nerve growth factor (NGF) and its receptors, and certain components of the basal forebrain cholinergic system were investigated. Behavioral effects of oral haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg/day), or risperidone (2.5 mg/kg/day) were assessed in an open field, a water maze task, and a radial arm maze procedure and neurochemical effects in brain tissue were subsequently measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). The results indicated that both antipsychotics produced time-dependent and protracted deficits in the performance of a water maze procedure when compared with vehicle-treated controls, while neither drug was associated with significant alterations in radial arm maze performance. Interestingly, haloperidol, but not risperidone, was detectible in the rodent brain in appreciable levels for up to 2 weeks after drug discontinuation. Both antipsychotics were also associated with reduced levels of NGF protein in the basal forebrain and prefrontal cortex and significant (or nearly significant) decreases in phosphorylated tropomyosin-receptor kinase A (TrkA) protein and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (depending on the brain region analyzed). Neither antipsychotic markedly affected TrkA or p75 neurotrophin receptor levels. These data in rats indicate that chronic treatment with either haloperidol or risperidone may be associated with protracted negative effects on cognitive function as well as important neurotrophin and neurotransmitter pathways that support cognition.
The medial prefrontal cortex has been suggested to play a role in drug addiction due to its involvement in the reinstatement of drug seeking. In the present study, the role of the prelimbic cortex in persistent responding maintained by the earned presentations of a drug-paired conditioned reinforcer was studied. Temporary inactivation of the prelimbic, prefrontal cortex of rats had no effect on this persistent response, but did impair its initial acquisition, maintained by the drug-paired conditioned reinforcer. The lesion also impaired re-acquisition of this response after extinction by omission of the contingent conditioned reinforcer. These results suggest that the prelimbic cortex has a selective role in the acquisition, or re-acquisition, of instrumental responses for drug-paired conditioned reinforcers, that may be important in relapse to drug seeking. Anatomical controls with placements in the infralimbic cortex showed longer-lasting impairments in the acquisition of this response, consistent with the suggestion that the prelimbic and infralimbic cortices mediate different aspects of behavior, with the infralimbic being more specialized for habits. The implications of the present findings toward the understanding of drug seeking and relapse behaviors and the separate brain systems that may underlie them are discussed.
The protein product of the fra-2 gene (Fra-2), a fos-family member, can compete with Fos protein for participation in activating protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor complexes and each protein can contribute different transactivational consequences to an AP-1 complex. To date, there is limited characterization of fra-2 mRNA expression in the rat forebrain. We examined basal and restraint-induced mRNA expression (in situ hybridization) of fra-2 in the rat forebrain and compared its temporal-spatial pattern to c-fos. In contrast to the very low basal expression of c-fos, fra-2 basal expression was moderately high throughout cortex and some subcortical structures, including prominent basal expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Restraint-induced fra-2 expression was quantified in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), lateral septum (LS) and PVN. Maximal fra-2 gene induction in the PFC and LS was delayed (60 min) after restraint onset with respect to c-fos (15 min), whereas in the PVN, fra-2 mRNA increased within 15 min of restraint. Additionally we compared c-fos and fra-2 gene expression in rats given shorter or longer restraint durations, but equal total time from stress onset to sample collection, to determine the extent to which the kinetics of gene induction matched that of a hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hormone response. Rats given 45 min recovery after 15 min restraint showed less c-fos expression in the PVN, less fra-2 expression in the prelimbic and infralimbic PFC, and no difference in the LS compared with rats restrained for 60 min. Thus, the expression of both genes was sensitive to stressor duration, but this sensitivity varied with brain region. Differential basal and stress-induced expression patterns of the fra-2 and c-fos genes are likely to have important functional consequences for AP-1 transcription factor dependent regulation of neural plasticity.
An endogenous ligand of central-type benzodiazepine receptors (CBR), the endozepine octadecaneuropeptide (ODN), is a very potent inhibitor of food intake in rodents. Although endozepines have been localized and characterized in the trout hypothalamus, so far, the action of these neuropeptides on feeding behavior has never been investigated in fish. In the present study, we have examined the effect of i.c.v. administration of synthetic rat ODN, its C-terminal octapeptide (OP) and the head-to-tail cyclic analog cyclo(1-8)OP (cOP) on feeding behavior in the goldfish model. i.c.v. injection of graded doses of ODN (2.5-10 pmol/g body weight (BW)) induced a dose-dependent inhibition of food intake, a significant decrease in cumulative food intake during the 60-min period after feeding being observed at doses of 5 and 10 pmol/g BW. The inhibitory effect of a 10 pmol/g BW dose of ODN on food consumption (-39%) was mimicked by an equimolar dose of OP (-42%) and cOP (-53%). The food intake-suppressing activity of ODN (10 pmol/g BW) was not affected by pre-injection of the CBR antagonist flumazenil (200 pmol/g BW). In contrast, the anorexigenic effect of ODN (10 pmol/g BW) was totally suppressed by a selective antagonist of metabotropic endozepine receptors, cyclo(1-8)[dLeu(5)]OP. These data indicate that, in goldfish as in rodents, ODN is a potent inhibitor of food consumption, and that the anorexigenic effect of ODN is not mediated through CBR but through the metabotropic endozepine receptor.
The intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) is a flat thalamic nucleus that responds to retinal illumination, but also to non-photic input from many brain areas. Its only known function is to modulate the circadian rhythm generated by the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Previously, the firing behavior of cells in IGL has been investigated with extra-cellular recordings, but intracellular recordings from morphologically identified mammalian IGL neurons are lacking. We recorded from and labeled IGL cells in rat brain slices to characterize their basic membrane properties and cell morphology. A high fraction of neurons (82.5%) were spontaneously active. The silent cells were identified as neurons by electrophysiological techniques. The spontaneous activity was due to intrinsic membrane properties, and not driven by rhythmic synaptic input. Most spontaneously active cells had a very regular firing pattern with a coefficient of variation of the spike intervals &lt;0.12 in more than 50% of the cells. Rebound depolarization after a hyperpolarizing pulse, usually with one fast action potential on top, was observed in 80% of the cells. The silent neurons had a range of resting membrane potentials and spike thresholds overlapping with the active ones. This suggests that spontaneous activity was controlled by several, yet undetermined factors in addition to membrane potential. Within the IGL we found a broad range of morphologies without apparent categories and no significant correlation with activity. However, the spontaneous, usually regular, spiking and the rebound depolarization of IGL cells is typical a feature that distinguish them from neurons in ventral and from interneurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei.
Phencyclidine (PCP) is a psychotomimetic drug that elicits schizophrenia-like symptoms in healthy individuals, and animals administered PCP are now considered a reliable pharmacological model of schizophrenia. Recent studies have shown that systemically administered PCP produces long-lasting activation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons, and that hyperactivation of mPFC neurons plays a critically important role in the development of PCP-induced behavioral abnormalities. However, the receptors mediating this mPFC activation have not been clearly determined. Here, we examined the effects of local application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), an AMPA/kainate glutamate receptor antagonist, scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, and mecamylamine, a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, on the increase in firing rate of mPFC neurons induced by systemic PCP in anesthetized rats. After tonic activation of mPFC neurons by PCP had been established, CNQX, scopolamine, or mecamylamine was iontophoretically applied or pressure-ejected on the recorded neuron. CNQX suppressed PCP-induced elevation of firing rate to baseline level, though scopolamine and mecamylamine each induced little change in firing rate. These findings suggest that PCP-induced activation of mPFC neurons is mediated primarily via AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors.
In the current research, we assessed the influence of a protein malnutrition schedule from the 14th day of gestation up to 40 days of age (D-rats) on the rewarding properties of morphine in adult rats by means of the conditioned place preference paradigm. Well-nourished animals (C-rats) administered with different doses of morphine (0.75, 1.5, 3, 6, 12 or 24 mg/kg i.p.) exhibited a conditioning place preference with doses of 3 and 6 mg/kg, whereas in D-rats such a conditioning effect was observed with doses of 1.5 and 3 mg/kg. No adverse effects were observed in either C- or D-rats for the higher doses of morphine. In addition, when animals of both groups were pretreated twice a day for 3 days with increasing doses of morphine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg s.c.), only D-rats elicited sensitization to the conditioning effect with the lowest dose of morphine (0.75 mg/kg i.p.). Furthermore, sensitized D-rats showed a selective and significant increase in FosB expression in the nucleus accumbens (core and shell), basolateral amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex, brain areas that are functionally related to the rewarding neural circuit. These results demonstrate that a deficient nutritional status during the perinatal period results in adult subjects having neural alterations, leading to an increased responsiveness to morphine and/or enhanced reinforcement effects, which correlates with an overexpression of FosB in selective brain areas related to the rewarding network.
A neuroprotected state can be acquired by preconditioning brain with a stimulus that is subthreshold for damage (tolerance). Acquisition of tolerance involves coordinate, bi-directional changes to gene expression levels and the re-programmed phenotype is determined by the preconditioning stimulus. While best studied in ischemic brain there is evidence brief seizures can confer tolerance against prolonged seizures (status epilepticus). Presently, we developed a model of epileptic preconditioning in mice and used microarrays to gain insight into the transcriptional phenotype within the target hippocampus at the time tolerance had been acquired. Epileptic tolerance was induced by an episode of non-damaging seizures in adult C57Bl/6 mice using a systemic injection of kainic acid. Neuron and DNA damage-positive cell counts 24 h after status epilepticus induced by intraamygdala microinjection of kainic acid revealed preconditioning given 24 h prior reduced CA3 neuronal death by approximately 45% compared with non-tolerant seizure mice. Microarray analysis of over 39,000 transcripts (Affymetrix 430 2.0 chip) from microdissected CA3 subfields was undertaken at the point at which tolerance was acquired. Results revealed a unique profile of small numbers of equivalently up- and down-regulated genes with biological functions that included transport and localization, ubiquitin metabolism, apoptosis and cell cycle control. Select microarray findings were validated post hoc by real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. The present study defines a paradigm for inducing epileptic preconditioning in mice and first insight into the global transcriptome of the seizure-damage refractory brain.
Several disturbances occurring during aging of humans and rodents alike stem from changes in sensory and motor functions. Using a battery of behavioral tests we have studied alterations in performance with advancing age in female and male rats of some frequently used strains. In parallel, we collected survival and body weight data. The median survival age was similar for female and male Sprague-Dawley rats, inbred female Lewis and outbred male Wistar rats (29-30 months). In contrast, male Fisher 344 had a significantly shorter median life span. During aging there is a gradual decline in locomotor activity and explorative behavior while disturbances of coordination and balance first became evident at more advanced age. In old age, also weight carrying capacity, limb movement and temperature threshold were impaired. While whole body weight continues to increase over the better part of a rats' life span, the behavioral changes in old age associated with a decrease in both total body weight and muscle mass. Dietary restriction increases median life span expectancy; retards the pace of behavioral aging and impedes sarcopenia. Housing in enriched environment did not improve the scoring in the behavioral tests but tended to increase median life span. Finally, there was an agreement between behavioral data collected from longitudinal age-cohorts and those obtained from multiple age-cohorts.
Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) report substantial symptom worsening after exercise. However, the time course over which this develops has not been explored. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the influence of exercise on subjective symptoms and on cognitive function in CFS patients in natural settings using a computerized ecological momentary assessment method, which allowed us to track the effects of exercise within and across days. Subjects were 9 female patients with CFS and 9 healthy women. A watch-type computer was used to collect real-time data on physical and psychological symptoms and cognitive function for 1week before and 2weeks after a maximal exercise test. For each variable, we investigated temporal changes after exercise using multilevel modeling. Following exercise, physical symptoms did get worse but not until a five-day delay in CFS patients. Despite this, there was no difference in the temporal pattern of changes in psychological symptoms or in cognitive function after exercise between CFS patients and controls. In conclusion, physical symptoms worsened after several days delay in patients with CFS following exercise while psychological symptoms or cognitive function did not change after exercise.
Adrenalectomized (adrex) rats adaptively increase NaCl intake to compensate for the uncontrolled loss of Na(+) in urine due to the absence of aldosterone. After a period of NaCl deprivation, they ingest saline avidly but stop drinking before hyponatremia is repaired. The present experiments determined whether pre-systemic signals inhibit further NaCl intake, and whether gastric emptying of Na(+) is modulated according to the concentration of ingested NaCl solution. After overnight deprivation, adrex rats consumed 0.05 M and 0.15 M NaCl at a maximally fast rate ( approximately 1.7 ml/min) and emptied ingested fluid from the stomach at a slower but maximally fast rate ( approximately 1.1 ml/min). When 0.30 M NaCl was consumed instead, fluid intake still was maximally fast but gastric emptying slowed in proportion to concentration so that the emptying of Na(+) was comparable to that observed when 0.15 M NaCl was ingested ( approximately 0.13 meq/min). When 0.50 M NaCl was consumed, intake slowed proportionately so that Na(+) consumption was comparable to that observed when 0.30 M NaCl was ingested ( approximately 0.5 meq/min). NaCl intake appeared to be inhibited both by the concentration of saline emptied from the stomach and by the volume of ingested fluid in the stomach and small intestine. Gastric emptying also slowed proportionately when 0.50 M NaCl was consumed, as if the rats were regulating the delivery of Na(+) to the small intestine. These results suggest that adrex rats can detect the volume and concentration of ingested NaCl solution presystematically and integrate these two variables, and thereby modulate the rates of Na(+) intake and gastric emptying.
Using an acetylcholine-derivatized affinity column, we have purified human alpha4beta2 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) from a stably transfected HEK-293 cell line. Both the quantity and the quality of the purified receptor are suitable for applying biochemical methods to directly study the structure of the alpha4beta2 nAChR. In this first study, the lipid-protein interface of purified and lipid-reconstituted alpha4beta2 nAChRs was directly examined using photoaffinity labeling with the hydrophobic probe 3-(trifluoromethyl)-3-(m-[125I]iodophenyl)diazirine ([125I]TID). [125I]TID photoincorporated into both alpha4 and beta2 subunits, and for each subunit the labeling was initially mapped to fragments containing the M4 and M1-M3 transmembrane segments. For both the alpha4 and beta2 subunits, approximately 60% of the total labeling was localized within fragments that contain the M4 segment, which suggests that the M4 segment has the greatest exposure to lipid. Within M4 segments, [125I]TID labeled homologous amino acids alpha4-Cys582/beta2-Cys445, which are also homologous to the [125I]TID-labeled residues alpha1-Cys418 and beta1-Cys447 in the lipid-exposed face of Torpedo nAChR alpha1M4 and beta1M4, respectively. Within the alpha4M1 segment, [125I]TID labeled residues Cys226 and Cys231, which correspond to the [125I]TID-labeled residues Cys222 and Phe227 at the lipid-exposed face of the Torpedo alpha1M1 segment. In beta2M1, [125I]TID labeled beta2-Cys220, which is homologous to alpha4-Cys226. We conclude from these studies that the alpha4beta2 nAChR can be purified from stably transfected HEK-293 cells in sufficient quantity and purity for structural studies and that the lipid-protein interfaces of the neuronal alpha4beta2 nAChR and the Torpedo nAChR display a high degree of structural homology.
Chimpanzees, like children, actively distract themselves to cope with waiting for a desired but delayed reward. Self-control may thus be a capacity we share with our nonhuman primate relatives.

This article has been withdrawn consistent with Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy). The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause.
We have determined the presence and cellular distribution of intracellular calcium channels, inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) and ryanodine receptors (RyRs) in adult and postnatal (P10) lacrimal gland acinar cells. Western blot analysis of both P10 cultures and adult tissue identified the presence of each IP(3)R and RyR isotypes. The immunocytochemistry analysis showed a differential cellular distribution of these calcium channels where the nuclear envelope, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus membranes represent areas with highest levels of channel expression. This IP(3)R and RyR isotype distribution is confirmed by the immuno-EM results. The findings described in this study are in agreement with published pharmacological data that shows the participation of these channels in the secretion process of the lacrimal gland acinar cells. Furthermore, the differential subcellular distribution between the isoforms could indicate a potential role of these intracellular Ca(2+ )channels on the regulation of specific cellular functions.
Using both scanning confocal and electron microscopic morphometric measurements, we analyzed single dendritic spines of CA1 pyramidal cells in the hippocampi of water maze-trained rats vs. controls. Two days after completion of all training, we observed a memory-specific increase in the number of mushroom spines-all of which make synaptic contacts-but not in the numbers of filopodia or stubby or thin spines, as quantified with double-blind protocols in both scanning confocal and electron microscopic images. This memory-specific increase of mushroom spine number was enhanced by the PKC activator and candidate Alzheimer's disease therapeutic bryostatin, blocked by the PKCalpha-isozyme blocker Ro 31-8220, and accompanied by increases in the number of &quot;perforated&quot; postsynaptic densities, increased numbers of presynaptic vesicles, and the increased occurrence of double-synapse presynaptic boutons associated with the mushroom spines. These and other confocally imaged immunohistochemical results described here involving PKC substrates indicate that individual mushroom spines provide structural storage sites for long-term associative memory and sites for memory-specific synaptogenesis that involve PKC-regulated changes of spine shape, as well as PKC-regulated changes of pre- and postsynaptic ultrastructure.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by elevated expression of an abnormal metabolic brain network that is reduced by clinically effective treatment. We used fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) to determine the basis for motor improvement in 12 PD patients receiving unilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) infusion of an adenoassociated virus vector expressing glutamic acid decarboxylase (AAV-GAD). After gene therapy, we observed significant reductions in thalamic metabolism on the operated side as well as concurrent metabolic increases in ipsilateral motor and premotor cortical regions. Abnormal elevations in the activity of metabolic networks associated with motor and cognitive functioning in PD patients were evident at baseline. The activity of the motor-related network declined after surgery and persisted at 1 year. These network changes correlated with improved clinical disability ratings. By contrast, the activity of the cognition-related network did not change after gene transfer. This suggests that modulation of abnormal network activity underlies the clinical outcome observed after unilateral STN AAV-GAD gene therapy. Network biomarkers may be used as physiological assays in early-phase trials of experimental therapies for PD and other neurodegenerative disease.
A great challenge facing neuroscience is to understand how genes, molecules, cells, circuits, and systems interact to generate social behavior. Fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) offer a powerful model system to address questions of this magnitude. These animals display genetically specified, sexually dimorphic patterns of fighting behavior via sex-specific splicing of the fruitless gene. Here, we show that sexually dimorphic behavioral patterns displayed during aggression are controlled by specific subgroups of neurons expressing male forms of fruitless proteins (Fru(M)). Using the GAL4/UAS system to manipulate transformer expression, we feminized or masculinized different populations of neurons in fly nervous systems. With a panneuronal elav-GAL4 driver, male patterns of fighting behavior were transferred into females and female patterns into males. We screened 60 Gal4 lines that express the yeast transcription factor in different patterns in fly central nervous systems and found five that showed abnormal same-sex courtship behavior. The sexually dimorphic fighting patterns, however, were completely switched only in one and partially switched in a second of these lines. In the other three lines, female patterns of aggression were seen despite a switch in courtship preference. A tight correspondence was seen between Fru(M) expression and how flies fight in several subgroups of neurons usually expressing these proteins: Expression is absent when flies fight like females and present when flies fight like males, thereby beginning a separation between courtship and aggression among these neurons.
The aim was to compare the diagnosis of COPD among smokers according to different international guidelines and to compare the outcome when using slow (SVC) and forced vital capacity (FVC). In order to find current smokers a questionnaire was sent to persons who had been on sick leave for more than two weeks. Those who smoked more than 8 cigarettes per day were invited to perform a spirometry. Totally 3,887 spirometries were performed. In this sample 10.2% fulfilled the NICE COPD-criteria, 14.0% the GOLD COPD-criteria and 21.7% the ERS COPD criteria. The diagnosis according to NICE and GOLD guidelines is based on FVC and in the ERS guidelines the best value of either SVC or FVC is used. Thus, substantially more subjects with COPD were found when the best of either SVC or FVC was used. Forced VC tended to be higher than SVC when lung function was normal and in those with mild obstruction prior to bronchodilatation whereas SVC exceeded FVC after bronchodilatation in those who had severe bronchial obstruction.The diagnosis of COPD is highly depending on which guidelines are used for defining the disease. If FVC and not the best of SVC and FVC is used when defining COPD the diagnosis will be missed in a substantial number of patients.
Ovarian hormones play a role in the use of drugs of abuse in women. In female rats estradiol has been shown to enhance acquisition of cocaine self-administration and behavioral sensitization induced by repeated cocaine treatment. Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of estradiol and/or progesterone on cocaine self-administration and behavioral sensitization to cocaine (10mg/kg; in animals with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions). Five groups of ovariectomized females were tested: (1) oil vehicle; (2) estradiol (E); (3) progesterone (P); (4) estradiol and progesterone given concurrently (EPC); (5) estradiol and progesterone given sequentially (EPS: 3 days of estradiol, 1 day progesterone, 1 day oil). All animals were tested during the dark phase of the light:dark cycle at ZT1600 and ZT2000-2100. Behavioral sensitization results: there was substantial conditioned turning throughout the habituation periods, and all animals exhibited behavioral sensitization with repeated cocaine treatment. Multivariate analysis indicated a significant effect of hormone treatment, time of day and day of testing. When individual groups were compared, however, only at ZT1600 did the E-treated and the EPS-treated animals show a trend (p&lt;0.06) for greater behavioral sensitization to cocaine relative to the oil-treated animals. Self-administration results: all groups showed rapid acquisition of cocaine self-administration at 0.3 mg/kg/infusion, so we did not see an effect of ovarian hormones on acquisition, or a difference between groups tested at ZT1600 versus ZT2100 (p&lt;0.05). There was, however, enhanced total intake of cocaine at 0.75 mg/kg/infusion in the E and the EPS groups. Concurrent administration of progesterone with estradiol counteracted the effect of estradiol on cocaine intake at 0.75 mg/kg/infusion, while progesterone alone did not enhance cocaine self-administration.
Centrally administered neuropeptide Y (NPY) produces anxiolytic and orexigenic effects by interacting with Y1 and Y5 receptors that are colocalized in many brain regions. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that co-expression of Y1 and Y5 receptors results in heterodimerization, altered pharmacological properties and altered desensitization. To accomplish this, the carboxyl-termini of Y1 and Y5 receptors were fused with Renilla luciferase and green fluorescent protein and the proximity of the tagged receptors assessed using bioluminescent resonance energy transfer. Under basal conditions, cotransfection of tagged Y1 receptor and Y5 produced a substantial dimerization signal that was unaffected by the endogenous, nonselective agonists, NPY and peptide YY (PYY). Selective Y5 agonists produced an increase in the dimerization signal while Y5 antagonists also produced a slight but significant increase. In the absence of agonists, selective antagonists decreased dimerization. In functional studies, Y5 agonists produced a greater inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity in Y1/Y5 cells than cells expressing Y5 alone while NPY and PYY exhibited no difference. With PYY stimulation, the Y1 antagonist became inactive and the Y5 antagonist exhibited uncompetitive kinetics in the Y1/Y5 cell line. In confocal microscopy studies, Y1/Y5 co-expression resulted in increased Y5 signaling following PYY stimulation. Addition of both Y1 and Y5 receptor antagonists was required to significantly decrease PYY-induced internalization. Therefore, Y1/Y5 co-expression results in heterodimerization, altered agonist and antagonist responses and reduced internalization rate. These results may account for the complex pharmacology observed when assessing the responses to NPY and analogs in vivo.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) play an important role in glioma infiltration, facilitating cell migration and tumor invasion through their ability to degrade the extracellular matrix. Therefore, the inhibition of MMPs has been suggested to be a promising therapeutic strategy for brain tumors. This study examined the effect of ginsenoside Rh2 on the expression of MMPs in human astroglioma cells. Rh2 inhibited the PMA-induced mRNA expression of MMP-1, -3, -9, and -14, suggesting that Rh2 has a broad-spectrum inhibitory effect on MMPs. The molecular mechanism underlying MMP-9 inhibition was further investigated because MMP-9 plays a major role in the invasiveness of glioma. It was found that Rh2 inhibited the secretion and protein expression of MMP-9 induced by PMA in human astroglioma cells. The Rh2-mediated inhibition of MMP-9 gene expression appears to occur through NF-kappaB and AP-1 because their DNA binding and transcriptional activities were suppressed by the agent. Furthermore, Rh2 significantly repressed the PMA-mediated activation of p38 MAPK, ERK and JNK, which are upstream modulators of NF-kappaB and AP-1. Finally, Rh2 inhibited the in vitro invasiveness of glioma cells, which might be attributed to the broad-spectrum inhibition of MMPs by Rh2. Overall, the strong inhibition of MMP expression by Rh2 might provide a potential therapeutic modality for brain tumors.
To search for functional links between glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) protein monomer-oligomer exchange and membrane dynamics and confinement, we studied urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) receptor (uPAR), a GPI receptor involved in the regulation of cell adhesion, migration, and proliferation. Using a functionally active fluorescent protein-uPAR in live cells, we analyzed the effect that extracellular matrix proteins and uPAR ligands have on uPAR dynamics and dimerization at the cell membrane. Vitronectin directs the recruitment of dimers and slows down the diffusion of the receptors at the basal membrane. The commitment to uPA-plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1-mediated endocytosis and recycling modifies uPAR diffusion and induces an exchange between uPAR monomers and dimers. This exchange is fully reversible. The data demonstrate that cell surface protein assemblies are important in regulating the dynamics and localization of uPAR at the cell membrane and the exchange of monomers and dimers. These results also provide a strong rationale for dynamic studies of GPI-anchored molecules in live cells at steady state and in the absence of cross-linker/clustering agents.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a critical process occurring during embryonic development and in fibrosis and tumor progression. Dissociation of cell-cell contacts and remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton are major events of the EMT. Here, we show that myocardin-related transcription factors (MRTFs; also known as MAL and MKL) are critical mediators of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) 1-induced EMT. In all epithelial cell lines examined here, TGF-beta1 triggers the nuclear translocation of MRTFs. Ectopic expression of constitutive-active MRTF-A induces EMT, whereas dominant-negative MRTF-A or knockdown of MRTF-A and -B prevents the TGF-beta1-induced EMT. MRTFs form complexes with Smad3. Via Smad3, the MRTF-Smad3 complexes bind to a newly identified cis-element GCCG-like motif in the promoter region of Canis familiaris and the human slug gene, which activates slug transcription and thereby dissociation of cell-cell contacts. MRTFs also increase the expression levels of actin cytoskeletal proteins via serum response factor, thereby triggering reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton. Thus, MRTFs are important mediators of TGF-beta1-induced EMT.
Although apoptosis has been extensively studied in developing neurons, the dynamic changes in this pathway after neuronal maturation remain largely unexplored. We show that as neurons mature, cytochrome c- mediated apoptosis progresses from inhibitor of apoptosis protein-dependent to -independent regulation because of a complete loss of Apaf-1 expression. However, after DNA damage, mature neurons resynthesize Apaf-1 through the cell cycle-related E2F1 pathway and restore their apoptotic potential. Surprisingly, we find that E2F1 is sufficient to induce Apaf-1 expression in developing but not mature neurons. Rather, Apaf-1 up-regulation in mature neurons requires both chromatin derepression and E2F1 transcriptional activity. This differential capacity of E2F1 to induce Apaf-1 transcription is because of the association of the Apaf-1 promoter with active chromatin in developing neurons and repressed chromatin in mature neurons. These data specifically illustrate how the apoptotic pathway in mature neurons becomes increasingly restricted by a novel mechanism involving the regulation of chromatin structure.
We have used the R6/2 mice to study cortico-striatal glutamatergic transmission by microdialysis in freely moving mice. Basal extracellular striatal glutamate concentrations were lower in R6/2 mice at 12 weeks of age, but not at 6 weeks of age, when neurological symptoms start to develop. In contrast, K-induced glutamate release was blunted in the striatum of R6/2 mice at both 6 and 12 weeks of age as compared with age-matched controls. We also found a substantial reduction in striatal pro-BDNF (brain derived neurotrophic factor) levels associated with no changes in the mature form of BDNF, as assessed by immunoblotting, in 12-week-old R6/2 mice, suggesting a reduced turnover rate of BDNF in the striatum of these mice. These data support the hypothesis of a cortico-striatal dysfunction in Huntington's disease.
To investigate the temporal aspect of timbre processing, we recorded auditory-evoked neuromagnetic responses to periodic complex sounds, which were matched in all acoustic parameters except for two fundamental frequencies (F0s) and 12 spectral envelopes of vocal and nonvocal categories. Only for nonvocal sounds, a significant difference in N1m latency for F0 was detected in both hemispheres. A significant difference among stimuli was detected in both hemispheres for vocal and linear sounds, whereas only in the right hemisphere for instrumental sounds. Moreover, the results of paired comparison among F0s revealed that not only the vocal sounds but also some of the nonvocal sounds were F0-independent. This latency independence may be attributed to the relatively high power in the higher frequency spectrum.
Rapid interaction of the emotional and attentional networks is critical for adaptive behavior. Here, we examined the effects of emotional stimulation on hemifield attention allocation using event-related potential and behavioral measures. Participants performed a visual-discrimination task on nonemotional targets presented randomly in the left or right hemifield. A brief task-irrelevant emotional (pleasant or unpleasant; 150-ms duration) or neutral picture was presented centrally 350 ms before the next target (150-ms duration). Unpleasant stimuli interfered with the left visual field attention capacity, slowing behavioral responses to attended left field stimuli. In keeping with the behavioral data, event-related potential responses to nonemotional attended left field stimuli were reduced over the right parietal regions when preceded by an unpleasant event. The results provide electrophysiological and behavioral evidence that unpleasant, emotionally arousing stimuli interfere with the right hemisphere-dependent attention capacity.
Sleep deprivation increases the levels of extracellular adenosine and A1 receptor (A1R)mRNA in the cholinergic zone of the basal forebrain, a region involved in sleep homeostasis. To evaluate homeostatic control mechanisms, we examined the sleep deprivation-induced changes in the A1R density in rodent brain using [H]CPFPX receptor autoradiography. We also examined the role of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in transcriptional upregulation of A1R mRNA by use of the inhibitor peptide SN50 to inhibit nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. We found a significant increase in cholinergic basal forebrain A1R density following 24 h of sleep deprivation and evidence that the upregulation of A1R is mediated by NF-kappaB. The A1R increase may be important in sleep homeostasis, since the increase in A1R density would increase the inhibitory effect of given level of adenosine, thus increasing the gain of the homeostat.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV) or hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM) is an adult onset slowly progressive myopathy secondary to mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene that encodes a bifunctional enzyme which catalyzes the rate-limiting step in sialic acid biosynthesis. Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain why patients develop weakness and atrophy, but are most views are obscure and thus are still considered controversial, partly because of the lack of an appropriate model with which these theories could be clarified. In this review, we briefly summarize the progress in DMRV research, and highlight efforts of researchers in generating the animal model for this myopathy.
Mutations in the genes for nuclear envelope proteins of emerin (EMD) and lamin A/C (LMNA) are known to cause Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) and limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD). We compared clinical features of the muscular dystrophy patients associated with mutations in EMD (emerinopathy) and LMNA (laminopathy) in our series. The incidence of laminopathy was slightly higher than that of emerinopathy. The age at onset of the disease in emerinopathy was variable and significantly older than in laminopathy. The initial symptom of emerinopathy was also variable, whereas nearly all laminopathy patients presented initially with muscle weakness. Calf hypertrophy was often seen in laminopathy, underscoring the importance of mutation screening for LMNA in childhood muscular dystrophy with calf hypertrophy. The clinical spectrum of emerinopathy is actually wider than previously known including EDMD, LGMD, conduction defects with minimal muscle/joint involvement, and their intermittent forms. Pathologically, no marked difference was observed between emerinopathy and laminopathy. Increased number and variation in size of myonuclei were detected. More precise observations using electron microscopy is warranted to characterize the detailed nuclear changes in nuclear envelopathy.



Propriospinal myoclonus is an unusual movement disorder. Here we reported a patient with electrophysiological data. The 32-year-old man had spontaneous, intermittent and brief jerks over the trunk, hip and lower limbs muscles for 4 years. The jerks were not sensitive to external stimuli and usually exacerbated whenever the patient felt relaxed, particularly preceding the onset of sleep. Electromyographic (EMG) recordings showed a long duration in each EMG burst (over 200 milliseconds) with a slow propagating pattern initiating from the rectus abdominis muscles. There was no time-locked cortical potential before the spontaneous jerks; however, we found movement-related cortical potential, while the patient was requested to mimic the jerks voluntarily. These results provided evidence to demonstrate that the jerks were not cortical origin and supported the diagnosis of propriospinal myoclonus. A comprehensive clinical evaluation including distinctive electrophysiological findings is important for the diagnosis.







Ellen Grass was a remarkable woman whose efforts on behalf of neurophysiology, epilepsy, and physiological technology contributed importantly to the development of neuroscience in the United States during the middle third of the 20th century. She initially provided an important link between a remarkable group of Harvard physiologists and her husband, Albert, a brilliant engineer whose innovative equipment played a critical role in accelerating advances in neurophysiology and, later, EEG and epilepsy. Mrs. Grass herself observed and personally facilitated much of the clinical and basic neuroscience research during this period, when the modern framework for a scientific understanding of epilepsy and EEG was established. She also supported the development of professional societies relevant to these areas, including ASET, the American EEG Society, the American Epilepsy Society, and the Epilepsy Foundation of America.

Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) is a major cause of acute myocarditis, a serious condition that is refractory to treatment. Myocardial damage results in tissue remodeling that, if too extensive, may contribute to disease. Remodeling is achieved by extracellular proteolysis mediated by the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), and MMP activity is counterbalanced by tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMPs). We show herein that TIMP-1 expression is induced in the myocardium by CVB3 infection. Surprisingly, TIMP-1 knockout mice exhibited a profound attenuation of myocarditis, with increased survival. The amelioration of disease in TIMP-1 knockout mice was not attributable to either an altered T-cell response to the virus or to reduced viral replication. These data led us to propose a novel function for TIMP-1: its highly localized up-regulation might arrest the MMP-dependent migration of inflammatory cells at sites of infection, thereby anatomically focusing the adaptive immune response. The benefits of TIMP-1 blockade in treating viral myocarditis were confirmed by administering, to wild-type animals, TIMP-1-specific siRNA or polyclonal antisera, both of which diminished CVB3-induced myocarditis. These unexpected findings indicate that increased TIMP-1 expression exacerbates, rather than ameliorates, CVB3-induced myocarditis and, thus, that TIMP-1 may represent a target for the treatment of virus-induced heart disease.
IGSF4a/RA175/SynCAM (RA175) and junctional adhesion molecules (Jams) are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily with a PDZ-binding domain at their C termini. Deficiency of Ra175 (Ra175(-/-)) as well as Jam-C deficiency (Jam-C(-/-)) causes the defect of the spermatid differentiation, oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia. Ra175(-/-) elongating spermatids fail to mature further, whereas Jam-C(-/-) round spermatids lose cell polarity, and most of Jam-C(-/-) elongated spermatids are completely lost. RA175 and Jam-C seem to have similar but distinct functional roles during spermatid differentiation. Here we show that the cell polarity protein Par-3 with PDZ domains, a binding partner of Jams, is one of the associated proteins of the cytoplasmic region of RA175 in testis. Par-3 and Jam-C are partly co-localized with RA175 in the elongating and elongated spermatids; their distributions overlapped with that of RA175 on the tips of the dorsal region of the head of the elongating spermatid (steps 9 to 12) in the wild type. In the Ra175(-/-) elongating spermatid, Par-3 was absent, and Jam-C was absent or abnormally localized. The RA175 formed a ternary complex with Jam-C via interaction with Par-3. The lack of the ternary complex in the Ra175(-/-) elongating spermatid may cause the defect of the specialized adhesion structures, resulting in the oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia.
The mechanism by which intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) regulates the permeability of gap junctions composed of connexin43 (Cx43) was investigated in HeLa cells stably transfected with this connexin. Extracellular addition of Ca(2+) in the presence of the Ca(2+) ionophore ionomycin produced a sustained elevation in [Ca(2+)](i) that resulted in an inhibition of the cell-to-cell transfer of the fluorescent dye Alexa fluor 594 (IC(50) of 360 nM Ca(2+)). The Ca(2+) dependency of this inhibition of Cx43 gap junctional permeability is very similar to that described in sheep lens epithelial cell cultures that express the three sheep lens connexins (Cx43, Cx44, and Cx49). The intracellular Ca(2+)-mediated decrease in cell-to-cell dye transfer was prevented by an inhibitor of calmodulin action but not by inhibitors of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II or protein kinase C. In experiments that used HeLa cells transfected with a Cx43 COOH-terminus truncation mutant (Cx43(Delta257)), cell-to-cell coupling was similarly decreased by an elevation of [Ca(2+)](i) (IC(50) of 310 nM Ca(2+)) and similarly prevented by the addition of an inhibitor of calmodulin. These data indicate that physiological concentrations of [Ca(2+)](i) regulate the permeability of Cx43 in a calmodulin-dependent manner that does not require the major portion of the COOH terminus of Cx43.
Our laboratory has previously reported that acetaminophen confers functional cardioprotection following cardiac insult, including ischemia/reperfusion, hypoxia/reoxygenation, and exogenous peroxynitrite administration. In the present study, we further examined the mechanism of acetaminophen-mediated cardioprotection following ischemia/reperfusion injury. Langendorff-perfused guinea pig hearts were exposed to acute treatment with acetaminophen (0.35 mM) or vehicle beginning at 15 min of a 30-min baseline stabilization period. Low-flow global myocardial ischemia was subsequently induced for 30 min followed by 60 min of reperfusion. At the completion of reperfusion, hearts were homogenized and separated into cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions. Mitochondrial swelling and mitochondrial cytochromec release were assessed and found to be significantly and completely reduced in acetaminophen- vs. vehicle-treated hearts following reperfusion. In a separate group of hearts, ventricular myocytes were isolated and subjected to fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Acetaminophen-treated hearts showed a significant decrease in late stage apoptotic myocytes compared with vehicle-treated hearts following injury (58 +/- 1 vs. 81 +/- 5%, respectively). These data, together with electron micrograph analysis, suggest that acetaminophen mediates cardioprotection, in part, via inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore and subsequent apoptotic pathway.
Estradiol exerts many of its actions by coupling with two nuclear estrogen receptor (ER) proteins, ER alpha, and ER beta. While the acute, anorexigenic effect of estradiol appears to involve such a mechanism, the relative contributions of ERalpha and ERbeta are equivocal. To address this problem, food intake was monitored in ovariectomized (OVX) rats following acute administration of a selective ER alpha agonist (4,4',4''-(4-propyl-[1H]-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)trisphenol, PPT; dose range = 0-200 microg), a selective ER beta agonist (2,3-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile, DPN; dose range = 0-600 microg), and a physiological (4 microg) dose of estradiol benzoate (EB). While PPT-treated rats displayed dose-dependent decreases in daily food intake and body weight, neither of these measures was influenced by any dose of DPN. In addition, DPN failed to modulate the anorexigenic effect of PPT when the two ER agonists were coadministered. Meal pattern analysis revealed that the anorexigenic effect of 75 microg PPT (a dose of PPT that produced a similar decrease in daily food intake as 4 microg EB) was mediated by a decrease in meal size, not meal number. Thus, PPT, like EB and endogenous estradiol, decreases food intake by selectively affecting the controls of meal size. The finding that acute administration of 75 microg PPT failed to induce a conditioned taste aversion suggests that the anorexigenic effect of this dose of PPT is not secondary to malaise. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that selective activation of ER alpha decreases food intake, body weight, and meal size in the ovariectomized rat.
In this study, we investigated whether diffusion tensor MRI (DTI) could detect progressive corticospinal tract degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and whether changes in diffusion variables reflected clinical deterioration. Twenty-three ALS patients and 25 healthy volunteers underwent whole brain DTI. Patients and a subset (n = 12) of controls returned for a second scan. Clinical measures of disease severity were assessed in the ALS group. Changes in fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD) were measured along the corticospinal tract using a region of interest approach. Adequate DTI data were available in 11 ALS patients and 11 controls at two time points. FA and MD differed significantly between ALS patients and controls at both time points, but neither changed significantly over time, while global measures of disease severity in patients increased with time. Although we confirmed that DTI detects corticospinal tract damage in ALS, there were no significant changes in diffusion measures over time. The sensitivity of DTI may be improved by advanced data analysis techniques, although the high dropout rate suggests that use of MRI as a biomarker in ALS may be restricted to earlier stages of disease.
Ex-vivo and in-vitro nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy techniques have been used for studying chemical metabolites in surgically resected specimens of human neoplasms, and may provide complementary information to in-vivo whole-body magnetic-resonance spectroscopy (MRS). We describe an ex-vivo NMR in water method for measurement of water-soluble metabolites in unprocessed normal rat brain tissue and human intracranial neoplasms. The NMR spectra obtained using the method described here were comparable to those obtained using high-resolution magic-angle spinning (HRMAS) NMR methods, with good correlation in metabolite concentrations relative to creatine (r2 = 0.7635). Improved spectral resolution and baseline were noted compared to HRMAS, but macromolecule resonances were not detected. Ex-vivo NMR of unprocessed tissue in water is rapid and technically simple to perform, and has the potential to be used for direct assessment of intracranial neoplasms.

Extracts of anterior pituitary (AP) glands were infused i.v. into hypophysectomized male rats followed by sequential sampling of blood for 120 min. Determination of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) concentrations established that FSH from Chinese Meishan males decreased in the circulation of rats more slowly than FSH in extracts of AP from crossbred occidental pigs (P&lt;0.003). Additionally, FSH from AP extracts of castrated males disappeared somewhat more slowly (P&lt;0.06) than FSH from extracts of boars. Evaluation of FSH by bioassay and radioimmunoassay yielded similar concentrations in AP from Meishan and crossbred boars. Serum testosterone concentrations increased with time through 90 min after infusion of AP, but the rate of increase of testosterone was not related to amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) that was administered indicating LH receptor saturation. Unexpectedly, the rate of increase in testosterone was more rapid with AP extracts from boars than with extracts from castrated males. Observations from the current study imply structural alterations of FSH in the AP of Meishan males relative to crossbred males allowing sustained concentrations in the circulation, and this FSH possesses similar activation of the FSH receptor. The amount of LH in the AP extracts saturated the LH receptors of the hypophysectomized male rats, but some factor in extracts of boars differed from those of castrated males.

Gustave Roussy (1874-1948) is remembered as a distinguished French neuropathologist and a leader in the field of oncology. However, his original contribution to the study of hypothalamic functions and neuroendocrinology remains ignored. Among Roussy's discoveries is the first experimental demonstration of the hypothalamic origin of diabetes insipidus and adiposo-genital dystrophy. Also, based on his own histological work, he pioneered the concept of neurosecretion, which was termed by him &quot;neuricrinie&quot;.

This study deals with the possible inhibitory role played by acetyl-l-carnitine (ALC) against methamphetamine (METH)-induced behavioral sensitization. Because valproate (VAL) inhibits the behavioral sensitization exerted by different psychostimulants, we investigated ALC's potential to prevent the amplification of METH-mediated psychomotor effects. We therefore evaluated the locomotor effects of VAL or ALC alone or in combination with METH after acute (day 1) as well as repeated (day 7) drug challenge. Finally, to assess the induction of behavioral sensitization, we also recorded the METH-mediated locomotor response after 7 days of drug suspension (day 15). Results showed that both VAL and ALC prevented the METH-induced sensitization. Another interesting observation was the significantly higher METH-induced hyperactivity at day 15 (after a 7-day drug-free period), indicating that behavioral sensitization developed during the washout period. Results also showed that both the acute and repeated coadministration of METH with either VAL or ALC inhibited METH-induced hyperactivity. We present different hypotheses concerning similar but also peculiar mechanisms that might underlie the preventive action of VAL and ALC. These data add to a growing body of literature that illustrates the potential of ALC in protecting against the insult of dysfunctional mitochondrial metabolism and psychostimulant-mediated neurotoxicity. By demonstrating an in vivo action against one of the most abused drugs, these results raise the possibility of beneficial effects of ALC in abuse behavior.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) causes neuronal degeneration and, at a late stage, creates HIV-associated dementia (HAD) and other neurological abnormalities. Therefore, the need for neuroprotective agents is great. However, therapeutic agents that reduce HIV neurotoxicity are difficult to characterize and develop because rodents are not infected by HIV. This study was undertaken to develop an animal model of HIV neurotoxicity by using the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120). Vehicle or gp120 was injected acutely in the striatum of adult rats. gp120 produced loss of nigrostriatal neurons, as shown both by histochemical analysis of brain sections for apoptosis and biochemical determination of dopamine. The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) delivered by a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector prevented gp120 toxicity. This study's results support the notion that gp120 produces a widespread neurotoxicity similar to that observed in HIV-positive individuals and that BDNF may be a suitable neuroprotective agent for HAD.
The amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) are often thought of as components of a neural circuit that assigns affective significance--or value--to sensory stimuli so as to anticipate future events and adjust behavioral and physiological responses. Much recent work has been aimed at understanding the distinct contributions of the amygdala and OFC to these processes, but a detailed understanding of the physiological mechanisms underlying learning about value remains lacking. To gain insight into these processes, we have focused initially on characterizing the neural signals of the primate amygdala, and more recently of the primate OFC, during appetitive and aversive reinforcement learning procedures. We have employed a classical conditioning procedure whereby monkeys form associations between visual stimuli and rewards or aversive stimuli. After learning these initial associations, we reverse the stimulus-reinforcement contingencies, and monkeys learn these new associations. We have discovered that separate populations of neurons in the amygdala represent the positive and negative value of conditioned visual stimuli. This representation of value updates rapidly upon image value reversal, as fast as monkeys learn, often within a single trial. We suggest that representations of value in the amygdala may change through multiple interrelated mechanisms: some that arise from fairly simple Hebbian processes, and others that may involve gated inputs from other brain areas, such as the OFC.
The present series of three studies aims at investigating the hypothesis that some seemingly normal older persons have deficits in reasoning and decision making due to dysfunction in a neural system which includes the ventromedial prefrontal cortices. This hypothesis is relevant to the comprehensive study of aging, and also addresses the question of why so many older adults fall prey to fraud. To our knowledge, this work represents the first of its kind to begin to identify, from an individual-differences perspective, the behavioral, psychophysiological, and consumer correlates of defective decision making among healthy older adults. Our findings, in a cross-sectional sample of community-dwelling participants, demonstrate that a sizeable subset of older adults (approximately 35-40%) perform disadvantageously on a laboratory measure of decision making that closely mimics everyday life, by the manner in which it factors in reward, punishment, risk, and ambiguity. These same poor decision makers display defective autonomic responses (or somatic markers), reminiscent of that previously established in patients with acquired prefrontal lesions. Finally, we present data demonstrating that poor decision makers are more likely to fall prey to deceptive advertising, suggesting compromise of real-world judgment and decision-making abilities.
The orbitofrontal cortex is strongly connected with limbic areas of the medial temporal lobe that are critically involved in the establishment of declarative memories (entorhinal and perirhinal cortex and the hippocampal region) as well as the amygdala and the hypothalamus that are involved in emotional and motivational states. The present article reviews evidence regarding the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in the processing of novel information, breaches of expectation, and memory. Functional neuroimaging evidence is provided that there is a difference between the anterior and posterior orbitofrontal cortex in such processing. Exposure to novel information gives rise to a selective increase of activity in the granular anterior part of the orbitofrontal cortex (area 11) and this activity increases when subjects attempt to encode this information in memory. If the stimuli violate expectations (e.g., inspection of graffiti-like stimuli in the context of other regular stimuli) or are unpleasant (i.e., exposure to the sounds of car crashes), there is increased response in the posteromedial agranular/dysgranular area 13 of the orbitofrontal region. The anatomic data provide a framework within which to understand these functional neuroimaging findings.
It has been proposed that long-term declarative memories are ultimately stored through interactions between the hippocampal memory system and the neocortical association areas that initially processed the to-be-stored information. One association neocortex, the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is strongly and reciprocally connected with the hippocampal memory system and plays an important role in odor recognition memory in rats. We will report data from two studies: one that examined the firing of neurons in a task dependent on the parahippocampal region (PHR; including the perirhinal, postrhinal, and entrorhinal cortices), and one examined the firing of OFC neurons performing a task that is presumably dependent on the hippocampus. In the first study, we examined the role of OFC neurons in the continuous odor-guided nonmatching to sample task. While the firing of neurons in the PHR and OFC are similar in this task, there are several notable differences that are consistent with the idea that OFC is a high-order association cortex which interacts extensively with the PHR to store declarative memories. In the second study, we characterized the firing patterns of neurons in the OFC rats performing a passive, 8-odor-sequence memory task. Most interesting were neurons that fired selectively in anticipation of specific odors. We found that hippocampal lesions abolished the anticipatory firing in OFC, suggesting that these anticipatory responses (memory) were in fact dependent on the hippocampus, further supporting the view that the OFC interacts with the hippocampal memory system to store long-term, declarative memories.
Clinical accounts of the effects of damage to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) have provided important clues about the functions of this region in humans. Patients with OFC injury can demonstrate relatively isolated difficulties with decision making, and the development of laboratory tasks that captured these difficulties was an important advance. However, much of the work to date has been limited by the use of a single, complex decision-making task and by a narrow focus on risky decisions. A fuller understanding of the neural basis of decision making requires identification of the simpler components that underlie this complex behavior. Here, I review evidence that OFC lesions disrupt reversal learning in humans, as in animals, and show that this deficit in reversal learning is an important mechanism underlying the difficulties of such patients in the Iowa gambling task. Reversal learning, in turn, can be decomposed into simpler processes: a failure to rapidly learn from negative feedback may be the critical difficulty for OFC patients. OFC damage can also affect forms of decision making that do not require trial-by-trial learning. Preference judgment is a simple form of decision making that requires comparing the relative value of options. Humans with OFC lesions are more inconsistent in their choices, even in very simple preference judgment tasks. These results are broadly consistent with the view that OFC is critically involved in representing the relative value of stimuli, but also raise the possibility that this region plays distinct roles in reinforcement learning and value-based judgment.
This chapter aims to address two questions relating to the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in reward-guided choice behavior. First, do PFC neurons encode rewards per se, or are they encoding behavioral sequelae of reward? To address this, we recorded simultaneously from multiple PFC subregions, with the rationale that neuronal selectivity that directly encoded the reward outcome should occur before selectivity that reflected reward-related sequelae. Our results indicate that neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) encode reward information before neurons in the dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC). Furthermore, whereas DLPFC neurons encoded both the upcoming response as well as the expected reward, OFC neurons encoded the reward alone. Our interpretation of these results is that the OFC encodes the reward and passes this information to the DLPFC, which uses it to determine the behavioral response. The second question is whether the encoding is specific to the reward outcome or reflective of a more abstract value signal that could facilitate decision making. We examined this by determining whether the PFC encodes other types of information relevant to decision making, such as probability of success and effort. We found that many PFC neurons encoded at least one of these variables, but neurons in the OFC and the medial PFC (MPFC) encoded combinations of the variables indicative of encoding an abstract value signal. This signal could provide decision making with flexibility and a capacity to deal with novelty, which are two of the hallmark features of prefrontal function. Future research will focus on delineating the differential contributions of the OFC and the MPFC to decision making.
The importance of orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in human behavioral regulation is no longer a matter of dispute, though its precise role remains a matter of ongoing investigation. It is ironic that this revaluation of OFC required a major departure from a historical nadir, during which it was viewed as redundant or &quot;silent cortex,&quot; a situation that prevailed even up to the latter half of the 20th century. The increasing wealth of data from diverse fields within neuroscience now provides an unambiguous testament to the importance of this cortical region in behavioral regulation and cognition in general.
In this chapter, we review evidence implicating the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in drug addiction. We show that the orbital cortex is involved in conditioned reinforcement and is thereby important for the acquisition of cocaine-seeking behavior studied in a way that provides an animal experimental homologue of orbital cortex activation and craving upon exposure of addicts to drug-associated stimuli. We discuss the evidence indicating orbital prefrontal cortex dysfunction in human drug addicts, reviewing both neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies. Finally, we consider animal experimental evidence suggesting that addictive drugs may cause orbital cortex dysfunction and thereby contribute to the transition to drug addiction. Reconciling the observations that even brief periods of drug exposure can lead to long-lasting functional and structural deficits associated with the OFC together with those suggesting interactions between a vulnerable phenotype and chronic drug-self-administration will be an important topic of future research.
This paper will review two avenues of our research in marmosets that have focused on the role of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in amygdala-dependent appetitive behavior. The first demonstrates the important contribution of both the OFC and the amygdala to conditioned reinforcement (CRF). The second reveals the regulatory effects of the OFC on amygdala-dependent autonomic and behavioral arousal in appetitive conditioning. The process of CRF is one way in which an environmental cue can guide emotional behavior. As a consequence of its previous relationship with reward, a cue can take on affective value and reinforce behavior. Lesion studies in marmosets are described that show that CRF is dependent upon both the amygdala and OFC. The synergistic interactions between these structures that have been shown to underlie other aspects of reward processing are then considered with respect to CRF. The results are contrasted with those that show the importance of the OFC in suppressing positive affective responses elicited by the amygdala in response to a conditioned stimulus (CS). Specifically, it will be shown that the OFC is involved in the rapid suppression of conditioned autonomic arousal upon CS withdrawal and in the co-ordination of conditioned autonomic and behavioral responses when adapting to changing reward contingencies. It will be argued that, overall, the OFC plays a critical role in the context-dependent regulation of positive affective responding governed by external cues, in keeping with a role in executive control.
The orbitofrontal cortex is associated with encoding the significance of stimuli within an emotional context, and its connections can be understood in this light. This large cortical region is architectonically heterogeneous, but its connections and functions can be summarized by a broad grouping of areas by cortical type into posterior and anterior sectors. The posterior (limbic) orbitofrontal region is composed of agranular and dysgranular-type cortices and has unique connections with primary olfactory areas and rich connections with high-order sensory association cortices. Posterior orbitofrontal areas are further distinguished by dense and distinct patterns of connections with the amygdala and memory-related anterior temporal lobe structures that may convey signals about emotional import and their memory. The special sets of connections suggest that the posterior orbitofrontal cortex is the primary region for the perception of emotions. In contrast to orbitofrontal areas, posterior medial prefrontal areas in the anterior cingulate are not multi-modal, but have strong connections with auditory association cortices, brain stem vocalization, and autonomic structures, in pathways that may mediate emotional communication and autonomic activation in emotional arousal. Posterior orbitofrontal areas communicate with anterior orbitofrontal areas and, through feedback projections, with lateral prefrontal and other cortices, suggesting a sequence of information processing for emotions. Pathology in orbitofrontal cortex may remove feedback input to sensory cortices, dissociating emotional context from sensory content and impairing the ability to interpret events.
Content differentiation models posit that different areas of the prefrontal cortex perform similar operations but differ in terms of the content that is operated on. For example, it has been suggested that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) perform similar working memory or inhibitory operations, but on different types of content (e.g., reward versus spatial or feature-based versus abstract). In contrast to the above models, process differentiation models posit that different areas of the prefrontal cortex perform fundamentally different operations. Surprisingly, discussions of these dueling models rarely incorporate information about anatomy. The only exception is that advocates of content differentiation models appropriately note that different parts of the prefrontal cortex receive different afferents. Yet, an examination of the anatomy of the OFC and the DLPFC reveal numerous differences in cortical structure and interneuron composition. These structural differences necessitate that the OFC and the DLPFC will have strikingly different computational features. Given such computational differences, strong versions of content differentiation models are untenable. While overarching themes may help explain the operations in both the OFC and the DLPFC, the specific operations performed in the two regions are likely to be both quantitatively and qualitatively different in nature.
Damage to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has long been associated with decision-making deficits. Such deficits are epitomized by impairments in reversal learning. Historically, reversal learning deficits have been linked to a response inhibition function or to the rapid reversal of associative encoding in OFC neurons. However here we will suggest that OFC supports reversal learning not because its encoding is particularly flexible-indeed it actually is not-but rather because output from OFC is critical for flexible associative encoding downstream in basolateral amygdala (ABL). Consistent with this argument, we will show that reversal performance is actually inversely related to the flexibility of associative encoding in OFC (i.e., the better the reversal performance, the less flexible the encoding). Further, we will demonstrate that associative correlates in ABL are more flexible during reversal learning than in OFC, become less flexible after damage to OFC, and are required for the expression of the reversal deficit caused by OFC lesions. We will propose that OFC facilitates associative flexibility in downstream regions, such as ABL, for the same reason that it is critical for outcome-guided behavior in a variety of setting-namely that processing in OFC signals the value of expected outcomes. In addition to their role in guiding behavior, these outcome expectancies permit the rapid recognition of unexpected outcomes, thereby driving new learning.




The centenary of John Bowlby's birth provides a context for considering the policy, research and practice legacies that he left for practitioners working in many different fields supporting couples and families. Part historical, and part forwardlooking, this paper considers the links between attachment in the infant-parent dyad that was at the heart of Bowlby's concern and the nature of the affective ties that bind couples together in adult romantic relationships. An overview of the influence of his theory on family policy and adult attachment research is followed by an appreciation of its significance for the practice of couple psychotherapy. The paper concludes with a comment on the implications of current neuroscience knowledge for therapeutic technique.
Until recently, people with complex communication needs have had no access to professional interpreters. The Swedish Speech Interpretation Service (SSIS) is attempting to address this problem. This qualitative study reports on how 12 persons with aphasia experienced the services of a professional interpreter from the SSIS. The results are presented in two themes: (a) The purpose of using an interpreter, which addresses issues relating to autonomy, privacy, and burden on family members; and (b) perceptions of quality of service, which addresses issues relating to the skills and professionalism of and accessibility to interpreters. Results highlight the ongoing need for the SSIS and its importance to the participants. The professional interpreter as an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) &quot;tool&quot; that could be used to enhance the participation of people with aphasia in the community-at-large, is also discussed; as is whether relatives and other non-professionals or professional interpreters should interpret for people with aphasia.
A short account is given of the development of concepts of soul, mind and brain in order to place in historical context the subject of neuropsychiatry. A selection of primary and secondary historical sources is used to trace development of these concepts. Beginning with the spirits of Animism in the 3rd millennium BC, the Greek invention of the soul and its properties, of thymos (emotion), menos (rage) and nous (intellect) are then traced from the time of Homer, in which the soul does not last the death of the body, to Plato in the 4th century BC who argued that the soul, incorporating the nous (now called mind) is incorporeal and immortal. Plato's pupil, Aristotle, commented on the impossibility of an incorporeal soul interacting with a corporeal body. He instituted a revolution in the concept of mind. This involved pointing out that 'mind' is a manner of speaking about our psychological powers as in thinking and remembering. Given that such powers are not a thing the problem does not arise as to the relation between mind and a corporeal body. These ideas of Plato and Aristotle were held by competing scholars and theologians during the next 2000 years. Plato was favoured by many in the Church who could more readily grasp the concept of an immortal and incorporeal soul within the context of Christian thought. Galen established in the 2nd century AD that psychological capacities are associated with the brain, and argued that the fluid-filled ventricles were the part of the brain involved. This argument stood for over 1500 years until the 17th century when Willis, as a consequence of the new blood perfusion techniques developed by Wren following Harvey, showed that blood did not enter the ventricles but the cortex, thereby transferring interest from the ventricles to the cortex. The hegemony of Plato's ideas was broken about this time by Descartes when he argued that the incorporeal soul does not consist of three parts (thymos, nous and menos) but is solely identical with the mind, which is not just concerned with reasoning but with perception and the senses, indeed identical with consciousness 'taken as everything we are aware of happening within us'. The shadow cast by this concept, necessitating as it does relating the Cartesian mind to the cortex, stretches from the time of Willis, through to the foundation figures of neurophysiology and psychiatry in the early 20th century, namely Sherrington and Kraepelin, and beyond. This history is traced in detail because the Cartesian paradigm provides the main resistance to Kraepelin's argument that mental illness has biological concomitants. It is argued that the modern tendency to equate the mind with the brain does not illuminate the problem that was solved by Aristotle. The mind is not as either Plato of Descartes would have it, nor is it equivalent to the brain, for talk of the mind is a manner of talking about human psychological powers and their exercise, as in 'mind your step' (watch where you are going), 'keep that in mind' (remember it). It is suggested that the history of the concept of mind shows that a human being has a corporeal body and a mind, that is, a range of psychological capacities. It is the role of neuropsychiatry to identify the changes in the corporeal that need to be put aright when these psychological capacities go awry.
Rottlerin has been widely accepted as a specific inhibitor of protein kinase C delta (PKC delta); however, recent data suggest that the specificity of this compound become a question. Herein, we address this issue using a lens organ culture system, as PKC delta might regulate the gap junction permeability in lens. Interestingly, we found that rottlerin induced the degradation of connexin50 more rapidly than that of PKC delta. Furthermore, comparison of rottlerin with a protonophore, carbonylcyanide-4-(trifluoromethoxy)-phenylhydrazone (FCCP) that shares many characteristics with rottlerin, showed that both rottlerin and FCCP dramatically increased lens weight over time. This increase in lens weight was partially reversed by depletion of extracellular calcium with ethyleneglycoltetraacetic acid (EGTA) or by blocking L-type calcium channels with verapamil, suggesting rottlerin may induce calcium influx. Indeed, the rapid degradation of connexin50 (but not PKC delta) induced by rottlerin and FCCP was blocked by EGTA. In addition, rottlerin and FCCP also induced degradation of connexin46, filensin, vimentin and CP49. In order to determine whether this protein degradation is associated with the decrease of ATP due to uncoupling mitochondria by rottlerin, ATP content in lenses with different treatments were examined. The result indicated that EGTA had no effect on lens ATP content. Taken together, these data suggest that rottlerin, like FCCP, induces calcium influx, leading to protein degradation and cleavage in the lens, and that this effect is unrelated to the inhibition of PKC delta. Thus, extreme caution must be taken when considering use of rottlerin as a PKC delta inhibitor.
How can we disentangle the neural basis of phenomenal consciousness from the neural machinery of the cognitive access that underlies reports of phenomenal consciousness? We see the problem in stark form if we ask how we can tell whether representations inside a Fodorian module are phenomenally conscious. The methodology would seem straightforward: Find the neural natural kinds that are the basis of phenomenal consciousness in clear cases--when subjects are completely confident and we have no reason to doubt their authority--and look to see whether those neural natural kinds exist within Fodorian modules. But a puzzle arises: Do we include the machinery underlying reportability within the neural natural kinds of the clear cases? If the answer is &quot;Yes,&quot; then there can be no phenomenally conscious representations in Fodorian modules. But how can we know if the answer is &quot;Yes&quot;? The suggested methodology requires an answer to the question it was supposed to answer! This target article argues for an abstract solution to the problem and exhibits a source of empirical data that is relevant, data that show that in a certain sense phenomenal consciousness overflows cognitive accessibility. I argue that we can find a neural realizer of this overflow if we assume that the neural basis of phenomenal consciousness does not include the neural basis of cognitive accessibility and that this assumption is justified (other things being equal) by the explanations it allows.
The human imagination remains one of the last uncharted terrains of the mind. People often imagine how events might have turned out &quot;if only&quot; something had been different. The &quot;fault lines&quot; of reality, those aspects more readily changed, indicate that counterfactual thoughts are guided by the same principles as rational thoughts. In the past, rationality and imagination have been viewed as opposites. But research has shown that rational thought is more imaginative than cognitive scientists had supposed. In The Rational Imagination, I argue that imaginative thought is more rational than scientists have imagined. People exhibit remarkable similarities in the sorts of things they change in their mental representation of reality when they imagine how the facts could have turned out differently. For example, they tend to imagine alternatives to actions rather than inactions, events within their control rather than those beyond their control, and socially unacceptable events rather than acceptable ones. Their thoughts about how an event might have turned out differently lead them to judge that a strong causal relation exists between an antecedent event and the outcome, and their thoughts about how an event might have turned out the same lead them to judge that a weaker causal relation exists. In a simple temporal sequence, people tend to imagine alternatives to the most recent event. The central claim in the book is that counterfactual thoughts are organised along the same principles as rational thought. The idea that the counterfactual imagination is rational depends on three steps: (1) humans are capable of rational thought; (2) they make inferences by thinking about possibilities; and (3) their counterfactual thoughts rely on thinking about possibilities, just as rational thoughts do. The sorts of possibilities that people envisage explain the mutability of certain aspects of mental representations and the immutability of other aspects.
The role of odors in food memory formation, especially for aversions, has long been considered secondary to taste. However, the importance of odor ingestion in conditioned odor aversion (COA) has recently challenged this assumption (B. M. Slotnick, F. Westbrook, &amp; F. M. C. Darling, 1997). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the respective role of orthonasal and retronasal olfactory experience in COA acquisition, long-term retention, extinction, and spontaneous recovery. To this end, the odor was presented either close to the drinking spout (orthonasal stimulation) or close to and mixed with the drinking water (eliciting both orthonasal and retronasal stimulation). The authors brought evidence that odor ingestion was crucial for COA acquisition, especially when odor presentation and gastric malaise were separated by long delays. On the contrary, once formed, a distal (orthonasal) odor recognition was sufficient for COA to be retrieved. COA was odor specific and long lasting (more than 50 days). Moreover, results brought evidence for a spontaneous recovery of odor aversion tested 57 days after its extinction.
Developmental nicotine exposure has been implicated in the association between maternal smoking and adverse outcomes in offspring. The 3rd trimester of human pregnancy is equivalent to the 1st postnatal week in rodents; both are periods of active brain growth during which nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are transiently upregulated. Chronic neonatal nicotine (CNN; 6 mg/kg/day) from postnatal Days 1 to 7 was given orally to rat pups to evaluate long-term behavioral effects. Males and females were tested as adolescents or as young adults. CNN significantly decreased center time, ambulatory behavior, and rearing in the open-field test and decreased the number of entrances and time spent in the open arm of the elevated plus-maze in both sexes and ages. CNN did not change performance in the T maze or in the water maze in adult males or females. Motor coordination was not altered. In summary, CNN had long-term effects on anxiety-like behavior but did not affect spatial learning and memory functions. This finding is particularly important when evaluating the benefits of nicotine-replacement therapies during human pregnancies, which may improve smoking cessation rates but could result in long-term behavioral consequences.
Neurodevelopmental abnormalities of temporal-limbic structures may underlie both adult psychiatric syndromes and increased addiction vulnerability, leading to high frequencies of &quot;dual diagnosis&quot; disorders. Although the amygdala is implicated in various mental disorders and drug addiction, no studies have explored the impact of early developmental damage to the amygdala on phenotypes relating to mental illness and addictions as co-occurring processes. We tested rats with neonatal amygdala lesions (NAML) vs. SHAM-operated controls in a battery of tests--novel field activity, elevated plus maze (EPM), and social interaction (SI) at baseline and after odor and restraint stress--followed by measures of cocaine sensitization (15 mg/kg vs. saline x 5 days + challenge session 2 weeks later) and remeasurement of SI. NAMLs showed increased novelty-related locomotion, less fear responding in the EPM, and resistance to predator-odor- but not to restraint-induced suppression of SI. NAMLs also had elevated cocaine sensitization profiles, and cocaine history differentially affected subsequent SI in NAMLs compared with SHAMs. NAMLs may provide models for understanding a shared neurobiological basis for and complex interactions among psychiatric symptoms, drug exposure history, and addiction vulnerability.
Clinical and epidemiological studies provide strong data for a relationship between prenatal ethanol exposure and the risk for abuse in adolescent and young adult humans. However, drug-acceptance results in response to fetal exposure have differed by study, age at evaluation, and experimental animal. In the present study, the authors tested whether voluntary ethanol intake was enhanced in both the infantile and adult rat (15 and 90 days of age, respectively), as a consequence of chronic fetal drug experience. Experimental rats were exposed in utero by administering ethanol to a pregnant dam in a liquid diet during gestational Days 6-20. Compared with those for isocaloric pair-fed and ad lib chow control animals, the results for experimental animals demonstrated that fetal exposure significantly increased infantile affinity for ethanol ingestion without affecting intake patterns of an alternative fluid (water). Heightened affinity for ethanol was absent in adulthood. Moreover, the results argue against malnutrition as a principal factor underlying the infantile phenomenon. These data add to a growing literature indicative of heightened early postnatal acceptance patterns resulting from maternal use or abuse of ethanol during pregnancy.
Human fetal ethanol exposure is strongly associated with ethanol avidity during adolescence. Evidence that intrauterine olfactory experience influences chemosensory-guided postnatal behaviors suggests that an altered response to ethanol odor resulting from fetal exposure may contribute to later abuse risk. Using behavioral and neurophysiological methods, the authors tested whether ethanol exposure via the dam's diet resulted in an altered responsiveness to ethanol odor in infant and adult rats. Compared with controls, (a) fetal exposure tuned the neurophysiologic response of the olfactory epithelium to ethanol odor at some expense to its responsiveness to other odorants in infantile rats--this effect was absent in adults; (b) the neural effect in infantile rats was paralleled by an altered behavioral response to ethanol odor that was specific to this odorant--this effect was also absent in adults; and (c) a significant component of the infantile behavioral effect was attributable to ethanol's effect on the olfactory neural modality. These data provide evidence for an important relationship between prenatal ethanol experience and postnatal behavioral responsiveness to the drug that is modulated or determined by olfactory function.
Studies of contextual fear conditioning have found that ethanol administered prior to a conditioning session impairs the conditioned freezing response during a test session the next day. The present experiments examined the effects of ethanol on extinction, the loss of conditioned responding that occurs as the animal learns that a previously conditioned context no longer signals shock. Ethanol (1.5 g/kg) administered prior to single (Experiment 1) or multiple (Experiment 2) extinction sessions impaired extinction. Ethanol administered prior to a test session disrupted the expression of freezing after extinction (Experiments 3-5). There was some evidence that ethanol served as an internal stimulus signaling the operation of conditioning or extinction contingencies (Experiments 4-5). In Experiment 6, postsession injections of 1.5 g/kg ethanol had no effect on extinction with brief (3 min) or long (24 min) exposures to the context, but injections of 3 g/kg after long exposures impaired extinction. Together, these results indicate that ethanol affects extinction by acting on multiple learning and performance processes, including attention, memory encoding, and memory expression.
The performance of conditioned responses (CRs) is diminished when trained subjects are tested in a novel context. This study tested the hypothesis that the flow of contextual information along the disynaptic &quot;ESA&quot; (entorhinal cortex-ventral subiculum-nucleus accumbens) pathway is responsible for context-related modulation of CRs. Rabbits received electrolytic or sham lesions of the ventral subiculum followed by discriminative avoidance conditioning and counterbalanced extinction sessions in the original training context, a novel context, and the original training context with a novel cue. Neuronal activity was recorded simultaneously in the nucleus accumbens, cingulate cortex, and basolateral amygdala. The lesions did not affect the acquisition of avoidance behavior or prevent the reduction of CRs in response to a novel cue. However, the lesions did reduce CR incidence during extinction, and they did eliminate a further novel-context-induced CR reduction found in controls. In addition, lesions disrupted context-dependent neuronal responses in the nucleus accumbens but not in the cingulate cortex or amygdala. These findings are interpreted as supportive of the hypothesis that the ESA pathway mediates contextual modulation of CRs during extinction.
Traditionally, research into the neurobiological mechanisms of age-related memory impairments has focused on single neurotransmitter systems. As normal and abnormal age-related declines in memory function probably involve alterations in more than one system, a more effective approach for elucidating underlying neurobiological changes and resulting impairments may be to evaluate the roles of multiple systems simultaneously. This study evaluated the interaction of the cholinergic and nitric oxide systems in rats on acquisition in the 14-unit T-maze. This task requires learning a series of turns to avoid foot shock, and most likely reflects procedural learning. Administration of scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg) or N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 mg/kg) alone did not impair acquisition, whereas administration of the same doses in combination increased both the latency to complete the maze and number of errors committed. These data suggest that manipulation of learning and memory processes with multiple compounds potentially offers a clinically relevant paradigm for investigating cognitive function in normal and abnormal aging.
Ethanol administration induces both locomotor stimulant and sedative effects depending upon blood ethanol concentrations. Recent studies in rats and mice suggest that acetaldehyde, the first product of ethanol metabolism, might be involved in the expression of both the stimulant and the sedative effects of ethanol. A number of studies have used the drug cyanamide in an attempt to clarify the role of acetaldehyde in the behavioral effects of ethanol. The results of such studies are, however, difficult to interpret because cyanamide is an inhibitor of the enzymes catalase and aldehyde dehydrogenase, two enzymes with opposite effects on brain acetaldehyde concentrations. This study was aimed at clarifying the effects of cyanamide on ethanol-induced locomotor stimulant and sedative effects in Swiss mice. The locomotor stimulant effects of ethanol were measured in standard activity boxes, whereas the sedative effects of ethanol were quantified using the loss of righting reflex procedure. Cyanamide prevented the locomotor stimulant effects of 2 g/kg ethanol, although this was mainly due to a potentiation of the inhibitory effects of ethanol as evidenced by a prolongation of ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex. Additionally, 4-methylpyrazole, an inhibitor of the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase, prevented these effects of cyanamide. It is concluded that in vivo the effects of cyanamide are predominantly due to the inhibition of the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase, rather than to its effects on catalase.
SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) modification is known to have diverse effects on the activity of transcriptional regulators, often through alterations in their localization or interactions with other factors, and in most of the cases is associated with transcriptional repression. The DEAD-box family of RNA helicases includes a large number of proteins that are involved in various cellular processes. Several members are now known to be multifunctional and their activities are thought to be governed by interactions with other partners, which may be regulated by post-translational modifications. In the present paper, we shall briefly review recent evidence indicating that SUMO modification is important in modulating the activity of two DEAD-box proteins, p68 (Ddx5) and DP103 (Ddx20), which are known to be important transcriptional regulators.
Inking by marine molluscs such as sea hares, cuttlefish, squid, and octopuses is a striking behavior that is ideal for neuroecological explorations. While inking is generally thought to be used in active defense against predators, experimental evidence for this view is either scant or lacks mechanistic explanations. Does ink act through the visual or chemical modality? If inking is a chemical defense, how does it function and how does it affect the chemosensory systems of predators? Does it facilitate escape not only by acting directly on predators but also by being an alarm signal for conspecifics? This review examines these issues, within a broader context of passive and active chemical defensive secretions. It focuses on recent work on mechanisms of defense by inking in sea hares (Aplysia) and extends what we have learned about sea hares to other molluscs including the cephalopods.
This paper introduces a model that accounts quantitatively for a phenomenon of perceptual segregation, the simultaneous perception of more than one pitch in a single complex sound. The method is based on a characterization of the time-varying spike probability generated by a model of cochlear responses to sounds. It demonstrates how the autocorrelation theories of pitch perception contain the necessary elements to define a specific measure in the phase space of the simulated auditory nerve probability of firing time series. This measure was motivated in the first instance by the correlation dimension of the attractor; however, it has been modified in several ways in order to increase the neurobiological plausibility. This quantity characterizes each of the cochlear frequency channels and gives rise to a channel clustering criterion. The model computes the clusters and the pitch estimates simultaneously using the same processing mechanisms of delay lines; therefore, it respects the biological constraints in a similar way to temporal theories of pitch. The model successfully explains a wide range of perceptual experiments.
This review presents the fascinating neurobiology underlying the development of the frog optic tectum, the brain structure where the two separate inputs from the two eye are combined into a single, integrated map. In the species Xenopus laevis, binocular visual information has a dramatic impact on axon growth and connectivity, and the formation of binocular connections in this system provides a rich basis for both theoretical and experimental investigations.


The performance of dental or orthopedic implants is closely dependent on surface properties in terms of topography and chemistry. A phosphated carboxymethylcellulose containing one phosphate group for each disaccharide unit was synthesized and used to functionalize titanium oxide surfaces with the aim to improve osseointegration with the host tissue. The modified surfaces were chemically characterized by means of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The investigation of the surface topography was performed by atomic force microscopy measurements before and after the polysaccharide coating. In vitro biological tests using osteoblastlike cells demonstrated that functionalized TiO(2) surfaces modulated cell response, in terms of adhesion, proliferation,and morphology. Phosphated carboxymethylcellulose promoted better cell adhesion and significantly enhanced their proliferation. The morphology of cells was polygonal and more spread on this type of modified surface.These findings suggest that the presence of a phosphate polysaccharide coating promotes osteoblast growth on the surface potentially improving biomaterial osseointegration.

After spinal cord injury neuronal connections are not easily re-established. Success has been hampered by the lack of orientation of neurites inside scar tissue and a lack of neurites crossing out of the site of injury. Oriented scaffolds in biodegradable polymers could be an excellent way to support both the orientation of neurites within the injury site as well as aiding their crossing out of the lesion. To establish the validity of using grooved micro-topography in polycaprolactone in combination with glia we have studied the long-term (3 weeks) orientation of neuronal cells on monolayers of astrocytes on the top of grooved topographies of various dimensions. We find that neurites are significantly aligned by groove/ridge type topographies which are &quot;buried&quot; under a monolayer of astrocytes for up to 3 weeks. This alignment is significantly lower than that of neurites growing directly on the topography, but these neurons do not survive on the poly-l-lysine coated polymer for more than a week. The alignment of neurites on the astrocyte layer to the underlying topography decreases over time, and with groove width. Topographies with 12.5 or 25 microm lateral dimension appear optimal for the long-term alignment and can support myelination. We have shown for the first time that micro-topography can act through an overlaid astrocyte layer and results in aligned neurites in long-term culture and that these can be myelinated by endogenous oligodendrocytes.
Genetically encoded Ca(2+) sensors promise sustained in vivo detection of Ca(2+) signals. However, these sensors are sometimes challenged by inconsistent performance and slow/uncertain kinetic responsiveness. The former challenge may arise because most sensors employ calmodulin (CaM) as the Ca(2+)-sensing module, such that interference via endogenous CaM may result. One class of sensors that could minimize this concern utilizes troponin C as the Ca(2+) sensor. Here, we therefore probed the reliability and kinetics of one representative of this class (cyan fluorescence protein/yellow fluorescent protein-fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) sensor TN-L15) within cardiac ventricular myocytes. These cells furnished a pertinent live-cell test environment, given substantial endogenous CaM levels and fast reproducible Ca(2+) transients for testing sensor kinetics. TN-L15 was virally expressed within myocytes, and Indo-1 acutely loaded to monitor &quot;true&quot; Ca(2+) transients. This configuration permitted independent and simultaneous detection of TN-L15 and Indo-1 signals within individual cells. The relation between TN-L15 FRET responses and Indo-1 Ca(2+) transients appeared reproducible, though FRET signals were delayed compared to Ca(2+) transients. Nonetheless, a three-state mechanism sufficed to map between measured Ca(2+) transients and actual TN-L15 outputs. Overall, reproducibility of TN-L15 dynamics, coupled with algorithmic transforms between FRET and Ca(2+) signals, renders these sensors promising for quantitative estimation of Ca(2+) dynamics in vivo.
Spontaneous spinal epidural haematoma (SSEH) is a rare cause of neurological deficit in the pregnant and post-partum patients. However, SSEH with associated myelitis presenting as quadriplegia and respiratory paralysis in the post-partum period has never been reported. We report the development of acute onset quadriplegia progressing to respiratory arrest in a 24-yr-old woman 2 weeks after normal vaginal delivery. There was no history suggestive of any coagulopathy (inherited or acquired), eclampsia, pre-existing neurological deficit, or iatrogenic manipulations such as spinal/epidural injections. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a posterior epidural haematoma extending from C4-C7 and areas of signal changes in spinal cord from cervicomedullary junction to D5 level (suggestive of demyelination). We highlight this rare cause of quadriplegia; focusing on the altered dynamics of the epidural vasculature in the peripartum period leading to SSEH.

Primary malignant brain tumours (anaplastic glioma and glioblastoma) display heterogenous histopathology and diverse genetic abnormalities. These tumours remain incurable with no significant improvement in median survival times in the last 20 years, despite significant technological advances in surgery and radiotherapy, and mechanistic insights into their aetiology. Recent clinical trials suggest molecular characterization of tumours is essential in guiding both therapy and predicting prognosis. Genetic insight into tumour biology and increasingly proteomic technology has opened new avenues for novel applied clinical research. Protein expression in human malignant glioma and matched normal brain tissues can now be reliably analysed using quantitative proteomic techniques, the most accessible of which is two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE) and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry from which differentially expressed proteins can be identified and characterized. The potential of using differential proteomic profiling in gliomas to identify prognostic markers and to gain insight into tumour biology is currently being investigated. The current status of proteomic technology, its application to gliomas and the utility of such translational studies is reviewed.
Although MRI is the imaging modality of choice for brain tumours, the standard clinical sequences cannot tell us about certain features of brain tumours. Improvements in imaging technology now allow advanced sequences, once used exclusively for research, to be used clinically. Assessment of brain tumours with diffusion weighted MR (a marker of cellularity), diffusion tensor MR (shows integrity of surrounding white matter tracts), perfusion MR (marker of tumour vascularity and angiogenesis), MR spectroscopy (showing tumour metabolism) and functional MR (to identify eloquent cortex) provide information that is complementary to the structural information. These techniques can be used to improve identification of the tumour margin, tumour grading, reducing surgical risk and assessing the response to therapy. It is important for the neurosurgeon to understand what information can be obtained from these sequences, and that they ensure they are used to further develop the assessment and management of brain tumours.




Doublecortin (DCX) is a microtubule-associated protein expressed by migrating neuroblasts and is considered to be a reliable marker of neurogenesis. DCX has been used to study the relation between neurogenesis in adult human brain and neurological and neurodegenerative disease processes in the search for putative therapeutic strategies. Using autopsy and surgically resected tissue from a total of 60 patients, we present evidence that DCX is present in several cellular compartments of differentiated astrocytes in the adult human neocortex. One of these compartments consisted of peripheral processes forming punctate envelopes around mature neuronal cell bodies. Markers of glial activation, such as GFAP and HLA, were not associated with DCX immunoreactivity, however, the presence of cytoarchitectural alterations tended to correlate with reduced DCX staining of astrocytic somata. Interestingly, local Alzheimer pathology that showed no relation with cytoarchitectural abnormalities appeared to correlate negatively with the expression of DCX in the astrocytic somata. In combination with the literature our data support the view that DCX in the adult human neocortex may have a function in glia-to-neuron communication. Furthermore, our results indicate that in the adult human neocortex DCX is neither a reliable nor a selective marker of neurogenesis.
This study examined the contribution of medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures in autobiographical memory. While some investigators have reported a temporal gradient in memory performance, characterized by retrieval difficulties limited to recent periods of life [Squire and Alvarez (Retrograde amnesia and memory consolidation: a neurobiological perspective. Curr Opin Neurobiol 1995; 5: 169-77)], others have suggested that this impairment involves all life-time periods [Nadel and Moscovitch (Memory consolidation, retrograde amnesia and the hippocampal complex. Curr Opin Neurobiol 1997; 7: 217-27)]. In this study, autobiographical memory was assessed in 22 patients who had undergone a left (n = 12) or a right (n = 10) MTL resection for the relief of epileptic seizures and in 22 normal control participants. For this purpose, we used an autobiographical memory task (TEMPau, Piolino et al., 2003) across four time periods covering the subjects' entire lifespan. For each period, an overall autobiographical memory score (AM score) was obtained, from which a strictly episodic score (SE score), characterized by specificity and richness of details, was computed. For all events recalled, Remember responses justified by specificity of factual, spatial and temporal contents (jR responses) were measured using the Remember/Know paradigm. MRI volumetric analyses performed on the medial (i.e. hippocampus, temporopolar, entorhinal, perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices) and lateral temporal (i.e. superior, middle and inferior temporal gyri) lobe structures stated that the resection mainly included MTL structures. AM and SE scores were impaired in patients with right and left MTL resections as compared to normal controls across all time periods, reflecting the patients' particular difficulty in producing specific and detailed memories across all periods. This impairment was associated with poor autonoetic consciousness, revealed by the small number of jR responses across all periods. Results of correlation analysis between MRI volume measures of temporal lobe structures and autobiographical memory scores suggest that the right MTL structures are particularly responsive in reliving the encoding context regardless of remoteness. Our results support the bilateral MTL contribution to episodic autobiographical memory covering the entire lifespan, which is consistent with the multiple trace theory of MTL function [Moscovitch et al. (Functional neuroanatomy of remote episodic, semantic and spatial memory: a unified account based on multiple trace theory. J Anat 2005; 207: 35-66.)].
Myotonia congenita (MC) is the commonest genetic skeletal muscle ion channelopathy. It is caused by mutations in CLCN1 on chromosome 7q35, which alter the function of the major skeletal muscle voltage-gated chloride channel. Dominant and recessive forms of the disease exist. We have undertaken a clinical, genetic and molecular expression study based upon a large cohort of over 300 UK patients. In an initial cohort of 22 families, we sequenced the DNA of the entire coding region of CLCN1 and identified 11 novel and 11 known mutations allowing us to undertake a detailed genotype-phenotype correlation study. Generalized muscle hypertrophy, transient weakness and depressed tendon reflexes occurred more frequently in recessive than dominant MC. Mild cold exacerbation and significant muscle pain were equally common features in dominant and recessive cases. Dominant MC occurred in eight families. We noted that four newly identified dominant mutations clustered in exon 8, which codes for a highly conserved region of predicted interaction between the CLC-1 monomers. Expressed in Xenopus oocytes these mutations showed clear evidence of a dominant-negative effect. Based upon the analysis of mutations in this initial cohort as well as a review of published CLCN1 mutations, we devised an exon hierarchy analysis strategy for genetic screening. We applied this strategy to a second cohort of 303 UK cases with a suspected diagnosis of MC. In 23 individuals, we found two mutations and in 86 individuals we identified a single mutation. Interestingly, 40 of the cases with a single mutation had dominant exon 8 mutations. In total 48 individuals (from 34 families) in cohort 1 and 2 were found to harbour dominant mutations (37% of mutation positive individuals, 30% of mutation positive families). In total, we have identified 23 new disease causing mutations in MC, confirming the high degree of genetic heterogeneity associated with this disease. The DNA-based strategy we have devised achieved a genetic diagnosis in 36% of individuals referred to our centre. Based on these results, we propose that exon 8 of CLCN1 is a hot-spot for dominant mutations. Our molecular expression studies of the new exon 8 mutations indicate that this region of the chloride channel has an important role in dominant negative interactions between the two chloride channel monomers. Accurate genetic counselling in MC should be based not only upon clinical features and the inheritance pattern but also on molecular genetic analysis and ideally functional expression data.
Induced hypothermia is proposed as a treatment for acute ischaemic stroke, but there have been too few clinical trials involving too few patients to draw any conclusions about the therapeutic benefit of cooling. Animal studies of induced hypothermia in focal cerebral ischaemia have tested cooling throughout a wide range of target temperatures, durations and intervals between stroke onset and the initiation of hypothermia. These studies, therefore, provide an opportunity to evaluate the effectiveness of different treatment strategies in animal models to inform the design of future clinical trials. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the evidence for efficacy of hypothermia in animal models of ischaemic stroke, and identified 101 publications reporting the effect of hypothermia on infarct size or functional outcome, including data from a total of 3353 animals. Overall, hypothermia reduced infarct size by 44% [95% confidence interval (CI), 40-47%]. Efficacy was highest with cooling to lower temperatures (&lt; or =31 degrees C), where treatment was started before or at the onset of ischaemia and in temporary rather than permanent ischaemia models. However, a substantial reduction in infarct volume was also observed with cooling to 35 degrees C (30%; 95% CI, 21-39%), with initiation of treatment between 90 and 180 min (37%; 95% CI, 28-46%) and in permanent ischaemia models (37%; 95% CI, 30-43%). The effects of hypothermia on functional outcome were broadly similar. We conclude that in animal models of focal cerebral ischaemia, hypothermia improves outcome by about one-third under conditions that may be achievable for large numbers of patients with ischaemic stroke. Large randomized clinical trials testing the effect of hypothermia in patients with acute ischaemic stroke are warranted.
In this review, we report on studies that have assessed the effects of exogenous and endogenous increases in stress hormones on human cognitive performance. We first describe the history of the studies on the effects of using exogenous stress hormones such as glucocorticoids as anti-inflammatory medications on human cognition and mental health. Here, we summarize the cases that led to the diagnosis of glucocorticoid-induced 'steroid psychosis' in human populations and which demonstrated that these stress hormones could thus cross the blood-brain barrier and access the brain where they could influence cognition and mental health. We then summarize studies that assessed the effects of the exogenous administration of glucocorticoids on cognitive performance supported by the hippocampus, the frontal lobes and amygdala. In the second section of the paper, we summarize the effects of the endogenous release of glucocorticoids induced by exposure to a stressful situation on human cognition and we further dissociate the effects of emotion from those of stress on human learning and memory. Finally, in the last section of the paper, we discuss the potential impact that the environmental context to which we expose participants when assessing their memory could have on their reactivity to stress and subsequent cognitive performance. In order to make our point, we discuss the field of memory and aging and we suggest that some of the 'age-related memory impairments' observed in the literature could be partly due to increased stress reactivity in older adults to the environmental context of testing. We also discuss the inverse negative correlations reported between hippocampal volume and memory for young and older adults and suggest that these inverse correlations could be partly due to the effects of contextual stress in young and older adults, as a function of age-related differences in hippocampal volume.
Several lines of evidence support a role for pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) in the regulation of energy balance. In the present study, we have used fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to investigate in detail the cellular localization and chemical content of PACAP mRNA- and peptide-containing neuronal cell bodies in the mediobasal hypothalamus of the rat. PACAP mRNA-containing cell bodies were demonstrated in high numbers in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH) and in lower numbers in the arcuate nucleus (Arc). In colchicine-treated rats, PACAP immunoreactivity was demonstrated in many cell bodies of the VMH and several cell bodies of the ARC. Double-labeling revealed that PACAP immunoreactivity was present in approximately 20% of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in the ventrolateral Arc as shown by presence of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), but not in agouti-related peptide (AgRP)-containing neurons in the ventromedial aspect of the Arc. PACAP immunoreactivity was also colocalized with the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT; a marker for cholinergic neurons) in Arc POMC neurons. Brainstem POMC neurons in the commissural part of the solitary tract nucleus were devoid of PACAP immunoreactivity. However, several VAChT-positive neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve were also PACAP immunoreactive, whereas VAChT-positive neurons of the motor nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve were PACAP-negative. The results show presence of PACAP with alpha-MSH in a subpopulation of hypothalamic POMC neurons and point further to the neurochemical heterogeneity of hypothalamic, but not brainstem, POMC neurons.
Recent findings indicate that the perceptual processing of fearful expressions in the face can already be initiated around 100-120 ms after stimulus presentation, demonstrating that emotional information of a face can be encoded before the identity of the face is fully recognized. At present it is not clear whether fear signals from body expressions may be encoded equally as rapid. To answer this question we investigated the early temporal dynamics of perceiving fearful body expression by measuring EEG. Participants viewed images of whole body actions presented either in a neutral or a fearful version. We observed an early emotion effect on the P1 peak latency around 112 ms post stimulus onset hitherto only found for facial expressions. Also consistent with the majority of facial expression studies, the N170 component elicited by perceiving bodies proved not to be sensitive for the expressed fear. In line with previous work, its vertex positive counterpart, the VPP, did show a condition-specific influence for fearful body expression. Our results indicate that the information provided by fearful body expression is already encoded in the early stages of visual processing, and suggest that similar early processing mechanisms are involved in the perception of fear in faces and bodies.
Methamphetamine intoxication has long-term consequences on dopaminergic function and corticostriatal-mediated behaviors in humans and other animals. In order to determine the potential impact on timing and temporal memory, we examined methamphetamine dose regimens that have been linked to neurotoxicity in adult (8 months) male rats. Rats that were given repetitive, high-dose methamphetamine (3.0 mg/kg ip x 4 injections/2 h) or saline injections were trained on a 2-s vs 8-s bisection procedure using auditory and visual signal durations. Following the high-dose regimen, baseline timing performance was reestablished prior to the rats' receiving reversal training in which the spatial/temporal mapping of the anchor durations (2 s and 8 s) to response options (left or right lever) was reversed. Low-dose methamphetamine (0.5 mg/kg ip) or saline injections were subsequently used to evaluate the effectiveness of the neurotoxic doses in terms of modifying the horizontal leftward shifts associated with increases in clock speed. Overall, the results indicate that MAP intoxication leads to reduced auditory/visual differences in clock speed, deficits in reversal learning, distortions in temporal memory, and lowered dopaminergic regulation of clock speed consistent with damage to prefrontal cortex and corticostriatal circuitry.
Choline supplementation of the maternal diet has a long-term facilitative effect on timing and temporal memory of the offspring. To further delineate the impact of early nutritional status on interval timing, we examined effects of prenatal choline supplementation on the temporal sensitivity of adult (6 months) male rats. Rats that were given sufficient choline in their chow (CON: 1.1 g/kg) or supplemental choline added to their drinking water (SUP: 3.5 g/kg) during embryonic days (ED) 12-17 were trained with a peak-interval procedure that was shifted among 75%, 50%, and 25% probabilities of reinforcement with transitions from 18 s--&gt;36 s--&gt;72 s temporal criteria. Prenatal choline supplementation systematically sharpened interval timing functions by reducing the associative/non-temporal response enhancing effects of reinforcement probability on the Start response threshold, thereby reducing non-scalar sources of variance in the left-hand portion of the Gaussian-shaped response functions. No effect was observed for the Stop response threshold as a function of any of these manipulations. In addition, independence of peak time and peak rate was demonstrated as a function of reinforcement probability for both prenatal choline-supplemented and control rats. Overall, these results suggest that prenatal choline supplementation facilitates timing by reducing impulsive responding early in the interval, thereby improving the superimposition of peak functions for different temporal criteria.
The mesolimbic dopaminergic (ML-DA) system has been recognized for its central role in motivated behaviors, various types of reward, and, more recently, in cognitive processes. Functional theories have emphasized DA's involvement in the orchestration of goal-directed behaviors and in the promotion and reinforcement of learning. The affective neuroethological perspective presented here views the ML-DA system in terms of its ability to activate an instinctual emotional appetitive state (SEEKING) evolved to induce organisms to search for all varieties of life-supporting stimuli and to avoid harms. A description of the anatomical framework in which the ML system is embedded is followed by the argument that the SEEKING disposition emerges through functional integration of ventral basal ganglia (BG) into thalamocortical activities. Filtering cortical and limbic input that spreads into BG, DA transmission promotes the &quot;release&quot; of neural activity patterns that induce active SEEKING behaviors when expressed at the motor level. Reverberation of these patterns constitutes a neurodynamic process for the inclusion of cognitive and perceptual representations within the extended networks of the SEEKING urge. In this way, the SEEKING disposition influences attention, incentive salience, associative learning, and anticipatory predictions. In our view, the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse are, in part, caused by the activation of the SEEKING disposition, ranging from appetitive drive to persistent craving depending on the intensity of the affect. The implications of such a view for understanding addiction are considered, with particular emphasis on factors predisposing individuals to develop compulsive drug seeking behaviors.
We studied the distribution and coexpression of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGluT1, VGluT2), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and calretinin (CR, calcium-binding protein) in rat entorhinal cortex, using immunofluorescence staining and multichannel confocal laser scanning microscopy. Images were computer processed and subjected to automated 3D object recognition, colocalization analysis and 3D reconstruction. Since the VGluTs (in contrast to CR and GAD) occurred in fibers and axon terminals only, we focused our attention on these neuronal processes. An intense, punctate VGluT1-staining occurred everywhere in the entorhinal cortex. Our computer program resolved these punctae as small 3D objects. Also VGluT2 showed a punctate immunostaining pattern, yet with half the number of 3D objects per tissue volume compared with VGluT1, and with statistically significantly larger 3D objects. Both VGluTs were distributed homogeneously across cortical layers, with in MEA VGluT1 slightly more densely distributed than in LEA. The distribution pattern and the size distribution of GAD 3D objects resembled that of VGluT2. CR-immunopositive fibers were abundant in all cortical layers. In double-stained sections we noted ample colocalization of CR and VGluT2, whereas coexpression of CR and VGluT1 was nearly absent. Also in triple-staining experiments (VGluT2, GAD and CR combined) we noted coexpression of VGluT2 and CR and, in addition, frequent coexpression of GAD and CR. Modest colocalization occurred of VGluT2 and GAD, and incidental colocalization of all three markers. We conclude that the CR-containing axon terminals in the entorhinal cortex belong to at least two subpopulations of CR-neurons: a glutamatergic excitatory and a GABAergic inhibitory.
The frontal pole (FP), which largely overlaps with Brodmann's area (BA) 10, is the rostral-most part of the hominid cerebral cortex, and plays a critical role in complex aspects of human cognition. The existing conventions suggested for MRI-based parcellation of this important frontal subdivision have limited cytoarchitectonic meaning with regard to the demarcation of the FP from adjacent prefrontal subdivisions. In this paper, we propose the coronal section containing the anterior termination of the olfactory sulcus (ATOS) as an easy-to-identify landmark for FP parcellation that largely overlaps with the cytoarchitectonic distinction between BA 10 and the more posterior cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of the PFC. Manual segmentation-based parcellation of the FP using the proposed landmark in 20 healthy volunteers yielded highly reliable (standardized item alpha = 0.92) volumetric estimates [right FP volume = 8.421 cm3 (SE = 0.773, range 3.107-15.741); left FP volume = 8.039 cm3 (SE = 0.708, range 2.234-12.956)]. The volumetric measurements of right FP generated in the present study were comparable to those reported in a prior study of BA 10 using histological sections and stereological techniques (Semendeferi et al. In: Am J Phys Anthropol 114:224-241, 2001). Therefore, in the absence of a naturally occurring sulcal boundary, the proposed method for parcellation of the FP can provide unbiased volume estimations for studies of healthy and disordered populations of subjects.
Transient global ischemia (ISC) in rats and humans causes selective and delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 sector. It is clear from rodent studies that hyperthermia aggravates, whereas hypothermia lessens, this injury. In this study we sought to relate core (Tc) and brain (Tb) temperature, measured via telemetry probes, after ISC produced in rats by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion combined with systemic hypotension (2-VO model). We also tested whether spontaneous postischemic temperature fluctuations occurred and whether they were related to cell death as previous studies indicate. We report that Tc and Tb readings are similar and are highly correlated before and after 10 min of 2-VO ISC. In the second experiment, rats were subjected to 8, 9, or 10 min of 2-VO ISC. Despite a range in CA1 injury among these animals, there was no evidence of post-ISC hyperthermia, contrary to earlier work, and neither temperature nor the physiological variables measured during ISC (e.g., glucose) predicted injury. Our findings suggest that, under the present conditions, 2-VO rats do not experience postoperative hyperthermia, which can be adequately measured with Tc telemetry probes.

Resveratrol is a phytoalexin produced by many plants, and the skin of red grapes is particularly rich in resveratrol which accounts for the &quot;French Paradox&quot;. Besides its protection of the cardiovascular system, it can affect the processes underlying all three stages of carcinogenesis, involving tumor initiation, promotion and progression. It has also been shown to suppress angiogenesis and metastasis. The anti-carcinogenic effects of resveratrol appear to be closely associated with its capacity to interact with multiple molecular targets involved in cancer development, while minimizing toxicity in normal tissues as tested. By reviewing many in vitro and in vivo studies, also considering both the supporting and challenging evidences, we are provided with a theory in support of the use of resveratrol in human cancer chemoprevention, in combination with either chemotherapeutic drugs or cytotoxic factors for the highly efficient treatment of drug refractory tumor cells. Anti-carcinogenic potential for cancer chemoprevention and anticancer therapy, which is one of the pleiotropic effects of resveratrol, is so called a new enlightenment of French Paradox.
We have previously demonstrated a role for the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in store-operated calcium entry (SOCE) in human platelets and interpreted this as evidence for a de novo conformational coupling step in SOCE activation involving the type II IP(3) receptor and the platelet hTRPC1-containing store-operated channel (SOC). Here, we present evidence challenging this model. The actin polymerization inhibitors cytochalasin D or latrunculin A significantly reduced Ca2+ but not Mn2+ or Na+ entry into thapsigargin (TG)-treated platelets. Jasplakinolide, which induces actin polymerization, also inhibited Ca2+ but not Mn2+ or Na+ entry. However, an anti-hTRPC1 antibody inhibited TG-evoked entry of all three cations, indicating that they all permeate an hTRPC1-containing store-operated channel (SOC). These results indicate that the reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton is not involved in SOC activation. The inhibitors of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX), KB-R7943 or SN-6, caused a dose-dependent inhibition of Ca2+ but not Mn2+ or Na+ entry into TG-treated platelets. The effects of the NCX inhibitors were not additive with those of actin polymerization inhibitors, suggesting a common point of action. These results indicate a role for two Ca2+ permeable pathways activated following Ca2+ store depletion in human platelets: A Ca2+-permeable, hTRPC1-containing SOC and reverse Na+/Ca2+ exchange, which is activated following Na+ entry through the SOC and requires a functional actin cytoskeleton.
The specific role played by NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3, the three isoforms of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX), has been explored during hypoxic conditions in BHK cells stably transfected with each of these isoforms. Six major findings emerged from the present study: (1) all the three isoforms were highly expressed on the plasma membranes of BHK cells; (2) under physiological conditions, the three NCX isoforms showed similar functional activity; (3) hypoxia plus reoxygenation induced a lower increase of [Ca2+]i in BHK-NCX3-transfected cells than in BHK-NCX1- and BHK-NCX2-transfected cells; (4) NCX3-transfected cells were more resistant to chemical hypoxia plus reoxygenation than NCX1- and NCX2-transfected cells. Interestingly, such augmented resistance was eliminated by CBDMD (10 microM), an inhibitor of NCX and by the specific silencing of the NCX3 isoform; (5) chemical hypoxia plus reoxygenation produced a loss of mitochondrial membrane potential in NCX1- and NCX2-transfected cells, but not in NCX3-transfected cells; (6) the forward mode of operation in NCX3-transfected cells was not affected by ATP depletion, as it occurred in NCX1- and NCX2-transfected cells. Altogether, these results indicate that the brain specifically expressed NCX3 isoform more significantly contributes to the maintenance of [Ca2+]i homeostasis during experimental conditions mimicking ischemia, thereby preventing mitochondrial delta psi collapses and cell death.
Animal studies have revealed brain regions that control homeostatic feeding, but the rampant overeating contributing to the obesity epidemic suggests the participation of &quot;nonhomeostatic&quot; control centers. Recent papers by Batterham et al. (2007) and Farooqi et al. (2007) link peptide YY(3-36) and leptin to the activation of nonhomeostatic brain regions.
In this study, we have evaluated neuroprotective effect of an immunosuppressant immunophilin ligand, FK506, in the sciatic nerve injury model in rats. FK506 was injected to the sciatic nerve transected 3-month-old female Wistar rats (2 mg/kg/day starting 1 day prior to sciatic nerve injury up to 7 day post operation). Equal number of sciatic nerve transected animals served as injured untreated controls. The contralateral side served as respective control. L4-L5 region of the spinal cord was removed on day 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28, post operation and then processed for cryo-sectioning and paraffin sectioning. The cryocut sections were used for immunohistochemistry for localizing all microglia (using anti-Iba-1) and MHC-II expressing microglia (with OX-6). The physical dissector method was applied on Nissl stained paraffin sections for absolute motor neuron counting in the L4-L5 region of spinal cord. FK506 treated animals presented 88.7% neuronal survival while the injured alone had 79.12%, which is significantly less than the treated animals. FK506 caused early proliferation of microglia at 1 and 3 days post operation. FK506 also significantly restricted transformation of these cells in to phagocytes. Colocalization of activated microglia by anti-Iba-1 and OX-6 antibodies, confirms that the MHC-II expressing cells in injured spinal cord are none other than microglial cells and MHC-II expressing cells are significantly less in treated as compared to untreated injured animals. We propose that immunosuppression is one of the main mechanisms by which FK506 protects the central neurons following peripheral injury.
We studied the localization of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in the goldfish outer plexiform layer by light-and electron-microscopical immunohistochemistry. The mGluR1alpha antibody labeled putative ON-type bipolar cell dendrites and horizontal cell processes in both rod spherules and cone triads. Immunolabeling for mGluR2/3 was absent in the rod synaptic complex but was found at horizontal cell dendrites directly opposing the cone synaptic ribbon. The mGluR5 antibody labeled Mller cell processes wrapping rod terminals and horizontal cell somata. The mGluR7 antibody labeled mainly horizontal cell dendrites invaginating rods and cones and some putative bipolar cell dendrites in the cone synaptic complex. The finding of abundant expression of various mGluRs in bipolar and horizontal cell dendrites suggests multiple sites of glutamatergic modulation in the outer retina.

Neuroimaging methods have been widely used in headache and migraine research. They have provided invaluable information on brain perfusion, metabolism and structure during and outside of migraine attacks, contributing to an improved understanding of the pathophysiology of the disorder. Human models of migraine attacks are indispensable tools in pathophysiological and therapeutic research. This review of neuroimaging methods and the attack-provoking nitroglycerin test is part an initiative by a task force within the EUROHEAD project (EU Strep LSHM-CT-2004-5044837-Workpackage 9) with the objective of critically evaluating neurophysiological tests used in migraine. The first part, presented in a companion paper, is devoted to electrophysiological methods, this second part to neuroimaging methods such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography and voxel-based morphometry, as well as the nitroglycerin test. For each of these methods, we summarize the results, analyse the methodological limitations and propose recommendations for improved methodology and standardization of research protocols.
Neurophysiological testing has become a valuable tool for investigating brain excitability and nociceptive systems in headache disorders. Previous reviews have suggested that most neurophysiological tests have limited value for headache diagnosis, but a vast potential for exploring the pathophysiology of headaches, the central effects of certain pharmacological treatments and phenotype-genotype correlations. Many protocols, however, lack standardization. This meta-analytical review of neurophysiological methods in migraine was initiated by a task force within the EUROHEAD project (EU Strep LSHM-CT-2004-5044837-Workpackage 9). Most of the neurophysiological approaches that have been used in headache patients are reviewed, i.e. evoked potentials, nociception-specific blink reflex, single-fibre electromyography, neuroimaging methods (functional MRI, PET, and voxel-based morphometry) and the nitroglycerin attack-provoking test. For each of them, we summarize the results, analyse the methodological limitations and propose recommendations for improved methodology and standardization of research protocols. The first part is devoted to electrophysiological methods, the second to neuroimaging techniques and the NTG test.

The brain computes spatial relationships as necessary to achieve behavioral goals. Loss of this spatial cognitive ability after damage to posterior parietal cortex may contribute to constructional apraxia, a syndrome in which a patient's ability to reproduce spatial relationships between the parts of an object is disrupted. To explore neural correlates of object-relative spatial representation, we recorded neural activity in parietal area 7a of monkeys performing an object construction task. We found that neurons were activated as a function of the spatial relationship between a task-critical coordinate and a reference object. Individual neurons exhibited an object-relative spatial preference, such that different neural populations were activated when the spatial coordinate was located to the left or right of the reference object. In each case, the representation was robust to translation of the reference object, and neurons maintained their object-relative preference when the position of the object varied relative to the angle of gaze and viewer-centered frames of reference. This provides evidence that the activity of a subpopulation of parietal neurons active in the construction task represented relative position as referenced to an object and not absolute position with respect to the viewer.
Sensory information originating in individual whisker follicles ascends through focused projections to the brainstem, then to the ventral posteromedial nucleus (VPM) of the thalamus, and finally into barrels of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1). By contrast, the posteromedial complex (PoM) of the thalamus receives more diffuse sensory projections from the brainstem and projects to the interbarrel septa of S1. Both VPM and PoM receive abundant corticothalamic projections from S1. Using a thalamocortical slice preparation, we characterized differences in intrinsic neuronal properties and in responses to corticothalamic feedback in neurons of VPM and PoM. Due to the plane of the slice, the majority of our observed responses came from activation of layer VI because most or all of the layer V axons terminating in PoM are cut. We found that VPM neurons exhibit higher firing rates than PoM neurons when stimulated with injected current. Stimulation of corticothalamic fibers evoked monosynaptic excitation, disynaptic inhibition, or a combination of the two in both nuclei. A few differences in the feedback responses emerged: purely excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in VPM were smaller and facilitated more than those in PoM, and only the EPSPs in VPM had a strong NMDA component. For both nuclei, some of the feedback responses were purely disynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) from the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). This was due to EPSP failures within VPM and PoM combined with greater reliability of S1-originating synapses onto TRN. These findings suggest that despite the exclusively excitatory nature of corticothalamic fibers, activation of cortex can trigger excitation or inhibition in thalamic relay neurons.
The present study tests the hypothesis that a critical window for cortical development coincides with the period of neural stem cell proliferation (during the first 6 weeks of gestation), specifically, gastrulation (on embryonic day [E] 19 and E20). Pregnant female macaques were exposed to ethanol 1 day/week for 6 or 24 weeks such that it included E19 or E20 or a time before or after the time of gastrulation. Total forebrain size was increased in macaques exposed to ethanol on E19 or E20. Thus, various features of the gray and white matter of the paracentral lobule of adolescent offspring were examined. Ethanol exposure affected the gray matter, for example, the 1.63 billion neurons in somatosensory cortex of controls (areas 3a and 3b) was 32% lower in ethanol-exposed monkeys, but neither duration nor timing of the episodic exposure had a differential effect. In contrast, the timing of the exposure during the third week critically affected the amount of white matter (the mass of myelopil, but not cell number). Therefore, fetal exposure to ethanol unveils a normal programming mechanism wherein neural stem cells appear to be a target and a critical window for forebrain development concurs with gastrulation.
Normal aging is associated with neuronal loss in the dopaminergic midbrain (substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, SN/VTA), a region that has recently been implicated in processing novel stimuli as part of a mesolimbic network including the hippocampus. Here, we quantified age-related structural degeneration of the mesolimbic system using magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) and correlated it with mesolimbic hemodynamic responses (HRs) to stimulus novelty. Twenty-one healthy older adults between 55 and 77 years performed a visual oddball paradigm allowing to distinguish mesolimbic HRs to novelty from rareness, negative emotional valence, and targetness using functional magnetic resonance imaging. The HRs in the right SN/VTA and the right hippocampus to novelty were positively correlated both with the SN/VTA MTR and hippocampus MTR but not amygdala MTR. However, the HR of the amygdala to negative emotional valence correlated with the amygdala MTR but not with the MTR in SN/VTA or the hippocampus. The results establish a structure-function relationship in support of a hippocampal-SN/VTA loop of mesolimbic novelty processing by showing that the hemodynamic activation in SN/VTA and hippocampus for novelty is selectively affected by age-related degeneration of these structures.
Pantomime of tool use is a frequently used test for apraxia. For basic cognitive neuroscience, pantomime of tool use is of interest because it constitutes a link between instrumental and communicative manual actions. We used lesion subtraction analysis to determine the locations specifically associated with defective pantomime of tool use in patients with left-brain damage and aphasia. Subtraction of lesions of patients with normal pantomime from those with defective pantomime yielded a maximum difference in the inferior frontal gyrus and adjacent portions of the insula and precentral gyrus. This result remained essentially the same when possible confounding influences of impaired language comprehension and of lesion size were controlled by selecting patients equated on these measures and when only patients with preserved imitation of gestures were considered. By contrast, parietal lesions did not have a specific impact on pantomime. We speculate that the vulnerability of pantomime to lesions of left inferior frontal cortex is due to the high demands on selection of a very restrained range of features out of the many features that may come to mind when imagining the actual use of the tool.
Damage to parietal cortex impairs visuospatial judgments. However, it is currently unknown how this damage may affect or indeed be caused by functional changes in remote but interconnected brain regions. Here, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the parietal cortices during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while participants were solving visuospatial tasks. This allowed us to observe both the behavioral and the neural effects of transient parietal activity disruption in the active healthy human brain. Our results show that right, but not left, parietal TMS impairs visuospatial judgment, induces neural activity changes in a specific right-hemispheric network of frontoparietal regions, and shows significant correlations between the induced behavioral impairment and neural activity changes in both the directly stimulated parietal and remote ipsilateral frontal brain regions. The revealed right-hemispheric neural network effect of parietal TMS represents the same brain areas that are functionally connected during the execution of visuospatial judgments. This corroborates the notion that visuospatial deficits following parietal damage are brought about by a perturbation of activity across a specific frontoparietal network, rather than the lesioned parietal site alone. Our experiments furthermore show how concurrent fMRI and magnetic brain stimulation during active task execution hold the potential to identify and visualize networks of brain areas that are functionally related to specific cognitive processes.
Exon 2 of the Bcl-x gene undergoes alternative splicing in which the Bcl-xS splice variant promotes apoptosis in contrast to the anti-apoptotic splice variant Bcl-xL. In this study, the regulation of the alternative splicing of pre-mRNA of Bcl-x was examined in response to emetine. Treatment of different types of cancer cells with emetine dihydrochloride downregulated the level of Bcl-xL mRNA with a concomitant increase in the mRNA level of Bcl-xS in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Pretreatment with calyculin A, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), blocked emetine-induced alternative splicing in contrast to okadaic acid, a specific inhibitor of PP2A in cells, demonstrating a PP1-mediated mechanism. Our finding on the regulation of RNA splicing of members of the Bcl-2 family in response to emetine presents a potential target for cancer treatment.
Preclinical pharmacology studies conducted with experimental medicines currently focus on assessments of drug effects attributed to a drug's putative mechanism of action. The high failure rate of medicines in clinical trials, however, underscores that the information gathered from these studies is insufficient for forecasting drug effect profiles actually observed in patients. Improving drug effect predictions and increasing success rates of new medicines in clinical trials are some of the key challenges currently faced by the pharmaceutical industry. Addressing these challenges requires development of new methods for capturing and comparing &quot;system-wide&quot; structure-effect information for medicines at the cellular and organism levels. The current investigation describes a strategy for moving in this direction by using six different descriptor sets for examining the relationship between molecular structure and broad effect information of 1064 medicines at the cellular and the organism level. To compare broad drug effect information between different medicines, information spectra for each of the 1064 medicines were created, and the similarity between information spectra was determined through hierarchical clustering. The structure-effect relationships ascertained through these comparisons indicate that information spectra similarity obtained through preclinical ligand binding experiments using a model proteome provide useful estimates for the broad drug effect profiles of these 1064 medicines in organisms. This premise is illustrated using the ligand binding profiles of selected medicines in the dataset as biomarkers for forecasting system-wide effect observations of medicines that were not included in the incipient 1064-medicine analysis.



Paroxysmal autonomic instability with dystonia, an under-recognized and poorly understood phenomenon of episodic central dysautonomia is associated with various cerebral insults. Treatment options include benzodiazepines, opioids, and gabapentin. Using an illustrative case, we discuss presentation, pathomechanisms, and management of this condition.


1. Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) is an essential cofactor that maintains the normal function of endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase. Restenosis is a key complication after transluminal angioplasty. Guanosine 5'-triphosphate-cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) is the first rate-limiting enzyme for de novo BH(4) synthesis. However, the role of GTPCH in restenosis is not fully understood. The present study tested the hypothesis that endothelial-targeted GTPCH overexpression retards neointimal formation, a hallmark of restenosis, in mouse carotid artery. 2. Transluminal wire injury was induced in the left carotid arteries of adult male wild-type C57BL/6 (WT) and endothelial GTPCH transgenic (Tg-GCH) mice. Re-endothelialization was confirmed with in vivo Evans blue staining. Endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations were measured using isometric tension recording. Morphological analysis was performed 2 and 4 weeks after carotid injury to assess neointimal formation. Fluorescence-based high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used to determine GTPCH activity and BH(4) levels. Basal NO release following carotid injury was assessed by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester-induced vascular contraction. 3. The endothelium was completely removed upon transluminal wire injury and full re-endothelialization was achieved at Day 10. Endothelium-dependent relaxation was impaired 10 days and 4 weeks after carotid injury, whereas endothelium-independent relaxation remained unaffected. Morphological analysis revealed that the endothelial-specific overexpression of GTPCH reduced neointimal formation and medial hypertrophy 2 and 4 weeks after carotid injury. Both arterial GTPCH enzyme activity and BH(4) levels were significantly elevated in Tg-GCH mice compared with WT mice and basal NO release of the injured carotid artery tended to increase in Tg-GCH mice. 4. These findings suggest that the endothelial overexpression of GTPCH increased endothelial BH(4) synthesis and played a preventive role in neointimal formation induced by endothelium denudation.




Reciprocal interactions between glia and neurons are essential for many critical functions in brain health and disease. Microglial cells, the brain resident macrophages, and astrocytes, the most prevalent type of cell in brain, are actively involved in the control of neuronal activities both in developing and adult organisms. At the same time, neurons influence glial functions, through direct cell-to-cell interactions as well as the release of soluble mediators. Among signals from neurons that may have an active role in controlling glial activation are two major neurotransmitters: acetylcholine and noradrenaline. Several studies indicate that microglia and astrocytes express adrenergic receptors, whose activation influences the release of pro-inflammatory mediators, controlling the extent of glial reactivity. Acetylcholine receptors are also expressed by glial cells. In particular, microglial cells express the nicotinic receptor alpha7 and its activation attenuates the pro-inflammatory response of microglial cultures, suggesting that acetylcholine may control brain inflammation, in analogy to what demonstrated in peripheral tissues. Deficiencies of noradrenergic and cholinergic systems are linked to important neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) and it has been suggested that in addition to impairing neuron-to-neuron transmission, noradrenergic and cholinergic hypofunction may contribute to dysregulation of the normal neuron-glia interaction, abnormal glial reaction and, eventually, neurodegeneration. A deeper knowledge of role of cholinergic and noradrenergic systems in controlling neuron-glia interactions may offer new venues for disease treatments.

Executive control requires controlling the initiation of movements, judging the consequences of actions, and adjusting performance accordingly. We have investigated the role of different areas in the frontal lobe in executive control expressed by macaque monkeys performing a saccade stop signal task. Certain neurons in the frontal eye field respond to visual stimuli, and others control the production of saccadic eye movements. Neurons in the supplementary eye field do not control directly the initiation of saccades but, instead, signal the production of errors, the anticipation and delivery of reinforcement, and the presence of response conflict. Neurons in the anterior cingulate cortex signal the production of errors and the anticipation and delivery of reinforcement, but not the presence of response conflict. Intracranial local field potentials in the anterior cingulate cortex of monkeys indicate that these medial frontal signals can contribute to event-related potentials related to performance monitoring. Electrical stimulation of the supplementary eye field improves performance in the task by elevating saccade latency. An interactive race model shows how interacting units produce behavior that can be described as the outcome of a race between independent processes and how conflict between gaze-holding and gaze-shifting neurons can be used to adjust performance.
The growing attention being given to medial frontal cortex (MFC) in cognitive neuroscience studies has fostered a number of theoretical and paradigmatic perspectives that diverge in important ways. This has led to a great deal of research fractionation, with investigators studying domains and issues in MFC function that sometimes bear (at least at the surface) little relation to the questions addressed by others studying thesame brain region. The present issue of Cognitive, Affective, &amp; Behavioral Neuroscience presents articles inspired by aconference bringing togetherviews from across this diversity of research, highlighting both the richness and vibrancy of the field and the challenges to be faced in terms of integration, synthesis, and precision among the theoretical accounts. The present article presents a brief introduction, overview, and road map to the field and to the special issue devoted to MFC function.

An important issue in contemporary cognitive neuroscience concerns the role of motor production processes in perceptual and conceptual analysis. To address this issue, we studied the performance of a large group of unilateral stroke patients across a range of tasks using the same set of common manipulable objects. All patients (n = 37) were tested for their ability to demonstrate the use of the objects, recognize the objects, recognize the corresponding object-associated pantomimes, and imitate those same pantomimes. At the group level we observed reliable correlations between object use and pantomime recognition, object use and object recognition, and pantomime imitation and pantomime recognition. At the single-case level, we document that the ability to recognize actions and objects dissociates from the ability to use those same objects. These data are problematic for the hypothesis that motor processes are constitutively involved in the recognition of actions and objects and frame new questions about the inferences that are merited by recent findings in cognitive neuroscience.
Phillips-Silver and Trainor (Phillips-Silver, J., Trainor, L.J., (2005). Feeling the beat: movement influences infants' rhythm perception. Science, 308, 1430) demonstrated an early cross-modal interaction between body movement and auditory encoding of musical rhythm in infants. Here we show that the way adults move their bodies to music influences their auditory perception of the rhythm structure. We trained adults, while listening to an ambiguous rhythm with no accented beats, to bounce by bending their knees to interpret the rhythm either as a march or as a waltz. At test, adults identified as similar an auditory version of the rhythm pattern with accented strong beats that matched their previous bouncing experience in comparison with a version whose accents did not match. In subsequent experiments we showed that this effect does not depend on visual information, but that movement of the body is critical. Parallel results from adults and infants suggest that the movement-sound interaction develops early and is fundamental to music processing throughout life.
Language is generally viewed as conveying information through symbols whose form is arbitrarily related to their meaning. This arbitrary relation is often assumed to also characterize the mental representations underlying language comprehension. We explore the idea that visuo-spatial information can be analogically conveyed through acoustic properties of speech and that such information is integrated into an analog perceptual representation as a natural part of comprehension. Listeners heard sentences describing objects, spoken at varying speaking rates. After each sentence, participants saw a picture of an object and judged whether it had been mentioned in the sentence. Participants were faster to recognize the object when motion implied by speaking rate matched the motion implied by the picture. Results suggest that visuo-spatial referential information can be analogically conveyed and represented.
Human-computer interactions (HCI) have become an important area of research and development in computer science and psychology. Appropriate use of computers could be of primary importance for communication and education of those subjects which could not move, speak, see or hear properly. The aim of our study was to develop a reliable, low-cost and easy-to-use HCI based on electrooculography signal analysis, to allow physically impaired patients to control a computer as assisted communication. Twenty healthy subjects served as volunteers: eye movements were captured by means of four electrodes and a two-channel amplifier. The output signal was then transmitted to an &quot;Analog to Digital&quot; (AD) converter, which digitized the signal of the amplifier at a rate of 500 Hz, before being sent to a laptop. We designed and coded a specific software, which analyzed the input signal to give an interpretation of eye movements. By means of a single ocular movement (up, down, left and right) the subjects were then able to move a cursor over a screen keyboard, passing from one letter to another; a double eye blink was then necessary to select and write the active letter. After a brief training session, all the subjects were able to confidently control the cursor and write words using only ocular movements and blinking. For each subject we presented three series of randomized words: mean time required to enter a single character was about 8.5s, while input errors were very limited (less than 1 per 250 characters). Our results confirm those obtained in previous studies: eye-movement interface can be used to properly control computer functions and to assist communication of movement-impaired patients.
Dysgenesis of the corpus callosum has been recognized as a marker for aberrant development of the central nervous system. It has been suggested that developmental defects of the corpus callosum may be more frequently encountered in patients with inborn errors of metabolism. The objectives of the present study were to determine the prevalence of developmental defects of the corpus callosum in patients attending a genetics-metabolic disorders clinic, to describe the spectrum of abnormalities in brain development in patients with confirmed inborn errors of metabolism and abnormalities of the corpus callosum as ascertained by neuroimaging and/or postmortem studies. Nineteen patients (10 males, 9 females) with confirmed metabolic diagnoses were identified by systematic search of the genetics clinic database. All 19 (100%) expressed variable degrees of hypoplasia, complete or partial agenesis (ACC). Abnormalities of head size were noted in 17/19 (89.5%). The majority 12/17 (70.5%) were associated with microcephaly, while macrocrania was noted in 5/17 (29.5%). Associated central nervous system (CNS) anomalies included abnormalities in ventricular morphology in 18/19 (94.7%), ventriculomegaly in 11/19 (63.1%), increased extraxial cerebrospinal fluid space in 11/19 (57.9%), changes in the gray matter (neuronal migration defects, porencephaly) in 9/19 (47.3%), white matter changes in 12/19 (63.1%) and abnormalities of the posterior fossa and hindbrain in 12/19 (63.1%). In patients with inborn errors of metabolism, dysgenesis of the corpus callosum serves as a marker for other developmental defects within the nervous system. We discuss here potential mechanisms by which metabolic defects affect diverse biochemical pathways, altering key neurobiological processes (e.g. defective cell membrane formation, cellular bioenergetics and cell-to-cell signaling), that eventually lead to structural abnormalities in the developing nervous system.
One aspect of Alzheimer's disease is the existence of dystrophic neurites in and near Amyloid  (A) plaques. In previous work, we have shown that Nogo-66 Receptor (NgR)regulates axonal sprouting and regeneration in the adult central nervous system. Therefore, we have investigated whether the NgR pathway titrates the dystrophic neurite response in Alzheimer's disease. Unexpectedly, we found a direct interaction between APP and NgR that alters A processing upstream of a downstream dystrophic response to A peptide deposition. We examined the effect of NgR on A accumulation in vivo. Deletion of NgR expression increases A plaque deposition in transgenic mice, while excess soluble NgR treatment reduces A plaque deposition in mice. The potential mechanistic bases for NgR modification of the Alzheimer's disease are discussed [corrected].
Confronting the efficacy of a regenerative therapeutic is the degenerative environment that is characterized by neuronal loss, physical plague and glial scar barriers and inflammation. But perhaps more fundamental from a regenerative perspective, are changes in the biochemical milieu of steroid and peptide growth factors, cytokines and neurotransmitter systems. Data from multiple levels of analysis indicate that gonadal steroid hormones and their metabolites can promote neural health whereas their decline or absence are associated with decline in neural health and increased risk of neurodegenerative disease including Alzheimer's. Among the steroids in decline, is allopregnanolone (APbeta, a neurosteroid metabolite of progesterone, which was found to be reduced in the serum [1,2] and plasma [3] and brain of aged vs. young subjects [4]. Further, Alzheimer disease (AD) victims showed an even further reduction in plasma and brain levels of APalpha relative to age-matched neurologically normal controls [1,4,5]. Our earlier work has shown that APalpha is a neurogenic agent for rodent hippocampal neural progenitors and for human neural progenitor cells derived from the cerebral cortex[6]. Our ongoing research seeks to determine the neurogenic potential of APalpha in the triple transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (3xTgAD) as AD related pathology progresses from imperceptible to mild to severe. Initial analyses suggest that neurogenic potential changes with age in nontransgenic mice and that the neurogenic profile differs between non-transgenic and 3xTgAD mice. Comparative analyses indicate that APalpha modifies neurogenesis in both nontransgenic and 3xTgAD mice. Preliminary data suggest that APalpha may modify Alzheimer's pathology progression. Together the data indicate that APalpha may maintain the regenerative ability of the brain and modify progression of AD related pathology. Challenges for efficacy of regenerative agents within a degenerative milieu are discussed.
The importance of microtubules in mitosis makes them a superb target for a group of highly successful, chemically diverse anticancer drugs. Knowledge of the mechanistic differences among the many drugs of this class is vital to understanding their tissue and cell specificity, the development of resistance, the design of novel improved drugs, optimal scheduling of treatment, and potential synergistic combinations. This overview covers microtubule assembly dynamics, the exquisite regulation of microtubule dynamics in cells by endogenous regulators, the important role of microtubule dynamics in mitosis, the diversity and number of microtubule-targeted drugs undergoing clinical development, the antimitotic mechanisms of microtubule-targeted drugs with emphasis on suppression of microtubule dynamics by vinblastine and taxol, the role of drug uptake and retention in the efficacy of microtubule-targeted drugs, and the anti-angiogenic and vascular-disrupting mechanisms of microtubule targeted drugs. In view of the success of this class of drugs, it has been argued that microtubules represent the single best cancer target identified to date, and it seems likely that drugs in this class will continue to remain an important chemotherapeutic class of drugs even as more selective chemotherapeutic approaches are developed.
Longstanding diabetes mellitus targets kidney, retina, and blood vessels, but its impact upon the nervous system is another important source of disability. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy is a serious complication of inadequately treated diabetes leading to sensory loss, intractable neuropathic pain, loss of distal leg muscles, and impairment of balance and gait. Diabetes has been implicated as a cause of brain atrophy, white matter abnormalities, and cognitive impairment and a risk factor for dementia. Recent studies have incriminated advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and their receptor (RAGE) in the pathogenesis of diabetic nervous system complications. The availability of RAGE knockout mice and a competitive decoy for AGEs, soluble RAGE (sRAGE), has advanced our knowledge of the RAGE-mediated signalling pathways within the nervous system. They also provide hope for a future novel intervention for the prevention of diabetes-associated neurological complications. This review will discuss current knowledge of diabetes- and RAGE-mediated neurodegeneration, involving the distal-most level of epidermal nerve fibers in skin, major peripheral nerve trunks, dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord, and brain.
HMGB1/Amphoterin is a ubiquitous, highly conserved DNA-binding protein that can be also released to the extracellular space by various cell types. Extracellular HMGB1 regulates migratory responses of several cell types through binding to RAGE that communicates with the cytoskeleton to regulate cell motility. HMGB1-induced cell signalling has been associated with mechanisms of several diseases, including cancer, sepsis, rheumatoid arthritis, stroke and atherosclerosis. This article reviews the evidence linking the functional roles of HMGB1 to RAGE signalling. Furthermore, we discuss the molecular and cellular mechanisms that may explain the roles of HMGB1/RAGE in diverse disease processes.
Synergisms between pharmacological agents and endogenous neurotransmitters are familiar and frequent. The present review describes the experimental evidence for interactions between neuropharmacological compounds and the classes of weak magnetic fields that might be encountered in our daily environments. Whereas drugs mediate their effects through specific spatial (molecular) structures, magnetic fields mediate their effects through specific temporal patterns. Very weak (microT range) physiologically-patterned magnetic fields synergistically interact with drugs to strongly potentiate effects that have classically involved opiate, cholinergic, dopaminergic, serotonergic, and nitric oxide pathways. The combinations of the appropriately patterned magnetic fields and specific drugs can evoke changes that are several times larger than those evoked by the drugs alone. These novel synergisms provide a challenge for a future within an electromagnetic, technological world. They may also reveal fundamental, common physical mechanisms by which magnetic fields and chemical reactions affect the organism from the level of fundamental particles to the entire living system.
Different classes of neurons in the CNS utilize endogenous cannabinoids as retrograde messengers to shape afferent activity in a short- and long-lasting fashion. Transient suppression of excitation and inhibition as well as long-term depression or potentiation in many brain regions require endocannabinoids to be released by the postsynaptic neurons and activate presynaptic CB1 receptors. Memory consolidation and/or extinction and habit forming have been suggested as the potential behavioral consequences of endocannabinoid-mediated synaptic modulation. HOWEVER, ENDOCANNABINOIDS HAVE A DUAL ROLE: beyond a physiological modulation of synaptic functions, they have been demonstrated to participate in the mechanisms of neuronal protection under circumstances involving excessive excitatory drive, glutamate excitotoxicity, hypoxia-ischemia, which are key features of several neurodegenerative disorders. In this framework, the recent discovery that the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol is released by midbrain dopaminergic neurons, under both physiological synaptic activity to modulate afferent inputs and pathological conditions such as ischemia, is particularly interesting for the possible implication of these molecules in brain functions and dysfunctions. Since dopamine dysfunctions underlie diverse neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, psychoses, and drug addiction, the importance of better understanding the correlation between an unbalanced endocannabinoid signal and the dopamine system is even greater. Additionally, we will review the evidence of the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, where neuroprotective actions of cannabinoid-acting compounds may prove beneficial.The modulation of the endocannabinoid system by pharmacological agents is a valuable target in protection of dopamine neurons against functional abnormalities as well as against their neurodegeneration.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) play a pivotal role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system under normal conditions. They also are involved in numerous pathological processes such as inflammation, degenerative disorders, and cancer, making them attractive targets for drug development. The majority of CAMs are signal transducing receptors. CAM-induced intracellular signalling is triggered via homophilic (CAM-CAM) and heterophilic (CAM - other counter-receptors) interactions, which both can be targeted pharmacologically. We here describe the progress in the CAM pharmacology focusing on cadherins and CAMs of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily, such as NCAM and L1. Structural basis of CAM-mediated cell adhesion and CAM-induced signalling are outlined. Different pharmacological approaches to study functions of CAMs are presented including the use of specific antibodies, recombinant proteins, and synthetic peptides. We also discuss how unravelling of the 3D structure of CAMs provides novel pharmacological tools for dissection of CAM-induced signalling pathways and offers therapeutic opportunities for a range of neurological disorders.
Field potential recordings from motor cortex show oscillations in the beta-band (approximately 20 Hz), which are coherent with similar oscillations in the activity of contralateral contracting muscles. Recent findings have revised concepts of how this activity might be generated in the cortex, suggesting it could achieve useful computation. Other evidence shows that these oscillations engage not just motor structures, but also return from muscle to the central nervous system via feedback afferent pathways. Somatosensory cortex has strong beta-band oscillations, which are synchronised with those in motor cortex, allowing oscillatory sensory reafference to be interpreted in the context of the oscillatory motor command which produced it.

Learning and memory and navigation literatures emphasize interactions between multiple memory systems: a flexible, planning-based system and a rigid, cached-value system. This has profound implications for decision-making. Recent conceptualizations of flexible decision-making employ prospection and projection arising from a network involving the hippocampus. Recent recordings from rodent hippocampus in decision-making situations have found transient forward-shifted representations. Evaluation of that prediction and subsequent action-selection probably occurs downstream (e.g. in orbitofrontal cortex, in ventral and dorsomedial striatum). Classically, striatum has been identified as a crucial component of the less-flexible, incremental system. Current evidence, however, suggests that striatum is involved in both flexible and stimulus-response decision-making, with dorsolateral striatum involved in stimulus-response strategies and ventral and dorsomedial striatum involved in goal-directed strategies.
The crucial role of dopamine (DA) in movement control is illustrated by the spectrum of motor disorders caused by either a deficiency or a hyperactivity of dopaminergic transmission in the basal ganglia. The degeneration of nigrostriatal DA neurons in Parkinson's disease causes poverty and slowness of movement. These symptoms are greatly improved by pharmacological DA replacement with L-3,4-dihydroxy-phenylalanine (L-DOPA), which however causes excessive involuntary movements in a majority of patients. L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (abnormal involuntary movements) provides a topic of investigation at the interface between clinical and basic neuroscience. In this article, we review recent studies in rodent models, which have uncovered two principal alterations at the basis of the movement disorder, namely, an abnormal pre-synaptic handling of exogenous L-DOPA, and a hyper-reactive post-synaptic response to DA. Dysregulated nigrostriatal DA transmission causes secondary alterations in a variety of non-dopaminergic transmitter systems, the manipulation of which modulates dyskinesia through mechanisms that are presently unclear. Further research on L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia will contribute to a deeper understanding of the functional interplay between neurotransmitters and neuromodulators in the motor circuits of the basal ganglia.
The skilled use of the hand for grasping and manipulation of objects is a fundamental feature of the primate motor system. Grasping movements involve transforming the visual information about an object into a motor command appropriate for the coordinated activation of hand and finger muscles. The cerebral cortex and its descending projections to the spinal cord are known to play a crucial role for the control of grasp. Recent studies in non-human primates have provided some striking new insights into the respective contribution of the parietal and frontal motor cortical areas to the control of grasp. Also, new approaches allowed investigating the coupling of grasp-related activity in different cortical areas for the control of the descending motor command.
Self-localization requires that information from several sensory modalities and knowledge domains be integrated in order to identify an environment and determine current location and heading. This integration occurs by the convergence of highly processed sensory information onto neural systems in entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. Entorhinal neurons combine angular and linear self-motion information to generate an oriented metric signal that is then 'attached' to each environment using information about landmarks and context. Neurons in hippocampus use this signal to determine the animal's unique position within a particular environment. Elucidating this process illuminates not only spatial processing but also, more generally, how the brain builds knowledge representations from inputs carrying heterogeneous sensory and semantic content.
The olfactory system of Drosophila resembles that of vertebrates in its overall anatomical organization, but is considerably reduced in terms of cell number, making it an ideal model system to investigate odor processing in a brain [Vosshall LB, Stocker RF: Molecular architecture of smell and taste in Drosophila. Annu Rev Neurosci 2007, 30:505-533]. Recent studies have greatly increased our knowledge about odor representation at different levels of integration, from olfactory receptors to 'higher brain centers'. In addition, Drosophila represents a favourite model system to study the neuronal basis of olfactory learning and memory, and considerable progress during the last years has been made in localizing the structures mediating olfactory learning and memory [Davis RL: Olfactory memory formation in Drosophila: from molecular to systems neuroscience. Annu Rev Neurosci 2005, 28:275-302; Gerber B, Tanimoto H, Heisenberg M: An engram found? Evaluating the evidence from fruit flies. Curr Opin Neurobiol 2004, 14:737-744; Keene AC, Waddell S: Drosophila olfactory memory: single genes to complex neural circuits. Nat Rev Neurosci 2007, 8:341-354]. This review summarizes recent progress in analyzing olfactory processing and olfactory learning in Drosophila.
Converging data suggest that abnormal synchronised oscillatory activity in the basal ganglia may contribute to bradykinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease. This synchrony preferentially occurs over 10-30 Hz, the so-called beta band. Correlative evidence has been supplemented by experiments in which direct stimulation of the basal ganglia in the beta band slows movement. Yet questions remain regarding the small scale of the latter effects and whether synchrony is an early or even obligatory feature of parkinsonism. Nevertheless, the principle that abnormally synchronised activity in the beta band can disrupt the function finds a precedent in the syndrome of cortical myoclonus. Here, pathologically synchronised discharges of pyramidal neurons are transmitted to the healthy spinal cord. The result is the synchronous discharge of motor units leading to rhythmic jerking.



Leptin, a hormone produced by adipocytes, provides signals to specific regions of the hypothalamus to control energy homeostasis. However, the past decade of research has not only revealed that leptin receptors are widely expressed in the CNS, but has also identified numerous additional functions for this hormone in the brain. In particular, there is evidence that leptin influences neuronal excitability via the activation as well as trafficking of specific potassium channels in several brain regions. Leptin-induced alterations in neuronal excitability have been implicated in the regulation of food intake, reward behaviour and anti-convulsant effects. A number of studies have also identified a role for leptin in cognitive processes that involve activation of leptin receptors in limbic structures, such as the hippocampus. Indeed, leptin influences hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, and more recently leptin has been shown to have anti-depressant properties. Characterisation of these novel actions of leptin is providing valuable insights into the role of this hormone in the regulation of diverse neuronal functions in health and disease.
Understanding systems for approach and avoidance is basic for behavioral neuroscience. Research on the neural organization and functions of the dorsal striatum in movement disorders, such as Huntington's and Parkinson's Disease, can inform the study of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in motivational disorders, such as addiction and depression. We propose opposing roles for dopamine (DA) and acetylcholine (ACh) in the NAc in the control of GABA output systems for approach and avoidance. Contrary to DA, which fosters approach, ACh release is a correlate or cause of meal satiation, conditioned taste aversion and aversive brain stimulation. ACh may also counteract excessive DA-mediated approach behavior as revealed during withdrawal from drugs of abuse or sugar when the animal enters an ACh-mediated state of anxiety and behavioral depression. This review summarizes evidence that ACh is important in the inhibition of behavior when extracellular DA is high and the generation of an anxious or depressed state when DA is relatively low.
The escalating obesity/diabetes epidemic is an important health-care issue that has crucial socio-economic ramifications. The complications of diabetes/obesity phenotypes extend to the central nervous system (CNS), including the hippocampus, a brain region that is particularly vulnerable to hyperglycemia and insulin resistance. Deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity observed in diabetes ultimately have deleterious consequences upon cognitive function. For example, recent studies using brain imaging technologies have identified cerebral atrophy in diabetic patients, suggesting that the neuroanatomical changes observed in experimental models of diabetes may accurately reflect what is occurring in the clinical setting. Deficits in insulin receptor (IR) signaling and impairments in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function also contribute to the neurological complications of diabetes phenotypes. The pathophysiological similarities between diabetes and stress-related mood disorders suggest that common mechanistic mediators may be involved in the etiology and progression of the neurological complications of these disorders. When combined with the accumulating evidence from pre-clinical models, these data support the hypothesis that a long-term consequence of diabetes/obesity phenotypes is accelerated brain aging that results in neuropsychological deficits and increased vulnerability to co-morbidities such as depressive illness.
Body image is the way a person's body feels to them. Growing evidence shows that body image can be distorted in people with pain, particularly chronic pain. Most data relate to people with deafferentation via amputation or neural injury, but deafferentation is neither sufficient nor necessary for distorted body image or pain. In this review, we examine the literature relating to body image distortion in people with pain, and we discuss three themes: 1) evidence of distorted body image in people with pain; 2) evidence of distortion of the neural representations of body image held in primary sensory and primary motor cortex; and 3) clinical findings that correlate with distorted body image, distorted neural representation, or both. We then review the emerging evidence regarding therapeutic approaches to distorted body image in people with painful disease.
Although the use of stem cells in cell-replacement therapies by transplantation is obvious, another equally important and interesting application of stem cells is to use them in disease modeling. Disease models serve as a platform to dissect the biochemical mechanisms of normal phenotypes and the processes which go awry during disease conditions. Particularly in complex, multigenic diseases, molecular studies lead to a greater understanding of the disease, and perhaps more targeted approaches for therapies. Stem cells provide an ideal in vitro system in which to study events related to development at the molecular and cellular level. Neural stem cells have been used as excellent models to study the mechanisms of differentiation of cells of the central nervous system. These studies may be particularly relevant to diseases of complex etiology such as psychiatric illnesses, neurodegenerative diseases and brain tumors. Stem cell-derived systems are also being developed to create models of cardiovascular disease. The application of stem cells to the study of cardiovascular illnesses, and vertebrate heart development, is discussed.
The Xenopus adult limb has very limited regeneration ability, and only a simple cartilaginous spike structure without digits is formed after limb amputation. We found that expression of Shh and its downstream genes is absent from the regenerating blastema of the Xenopus froglet limb. Moreover, we found that a limb enhancer region of the Shh gene is highly methylated in the froglet, although the sequence is hypomethylated in the Xenopus tadpole, which has complete limb regeneration ability. These findings, together with the fact that the promoter region of Shh is hardly methylated in Xenopus, suggest that regenerative failure (deficiency in repatterning) in the Xenopus adult limb is associated with methylation status of the enhancer region of Shh and that a target-specific epigenetic regulation is involved in gene re-activation for repatterning during the Xenopus limb regeneration process. Because the methylation level of the enhancer region was low in other amphibians that have Shh expression in the blastemas, a low methylation status may be the basic condition under which transcriptional regulation of Shh expression can progress during the limb regeneration process. These findings provide the first evidence for a relationship between epigenetic regulation and pattern formation during organ regeneration in vertebrates.
Newborn neurons elaborate an axon that undertakes a complicated journey to find its ultimate target in the brain or periphery. Although major progress in the study of this process has been made by analysis of dissociated neurons in vitro, one would like to observe and manipulate axonal outgrowth and pathfinding as it occurs in situ, as fasciculated nerves growing within the tissue itself. Here, we present a simple technique to do this, through cultivation of embryonic mouse slices expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) specifically in newborn neurons. This system allows for imaging of outgrowth of peripheral nerves into structures such as the developing limb. We demonstrate a reproduction of normal innervation patterns by spinal nerves derived from spinal cord motor neurons and sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia. The slices can be manipulated pharmacologically as well as genetically, by crossing the EGFP-expressing line with lines containing targeted mutations in genes of interest.
A better understanding of the signals regulating embryonic neural stem cells is clearly an important goal. However, many studies on neural stem cell biology are conducted on the slowly-dividing cells found in the adult CNS, where specialized microenvironments or niches maintain the stem cells throughout life. By contrast, the embryonic VZ is a transient structure that does not fulfill the criteria conventionally used to define niches. In this review we will examine whether, despite these differences, the signals found in other adult stem cell niches are present in the VZ. Using the similarities and differences we observe, we will re-consider whether the location of embryonic stem cell populations such as the VZ can be thought of as niches. Finally, we will ask how these lessons from the niche inform our understanding of neurodevelopmental diseases and cancers of the CNS.
Fluorescent semiconductor nanocrystal quantum dots (QDs) are a class of multifunctional inorganic fluorophores that hold great promise for clinical applications and biomedical research. Because no methods currently exist for directed QD-labeling of mammalian cells in the nervous system in vivo, we developed novel in utero electroporation and ultrasound-guided in vivo delivery techniques to efficiently and directly label neural stem and progenitor cells (NSPCs) of the developing mammalian central nervous system with QDs. Our initial safety and proof of concept studies of one and two-cell QD-labeled mouse embryos reveal that QDs are compatible with early mammalian embryonic development. Our in vivo experiments further show that in utero labeled NSPCs continue to develop in an apparent normal manner. These studies reveal that QDs can be effectively used to label mammalian NSPCs in vivo and will be useful for studies of in vivo fate mapping, cellular migration, and NSPC differentiation during mammalian development.
The olfactory system is responsible for capturing and processing odorant information, which significantly influences a variety of behaviors in animals. The vertebrate olfactory system consists of several neuronal components including the olfactory epithelium, olfactory bulb and olfactory cortex, which originate from distinct embryonic tissues. The transcription factor Pax6 is strongly expressed in the embryonic and postnatal olfactory systems, and regulates neuronal specification, migration and differentiation. Here we review classical and recent studies focusing on the role of Pax6 in the developing olfactory system, and highlight the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the highly coordinated developmental processes of the vertebrate olfactory system.
Sex differences in the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) brain are robust and include differences in morphology (song control nuclei in males are significantly larger) and behavior (only males sing courtship songs). In zebra finches, hormonal manipulations during development fail to reverse sex differences in song nuclei size and suggest that the classical model of sexual differentiation is incomplete for birds. Coactivators act to initiate transcriptional activity of steroid receptors, and may help explain why hormonal manipulations alone are not sufficient to demasculinize the male zebra finch brain. The present study investigated the expression and localization of L7/SPA (an estrogen receptor coactivator) mRNA and protein expression across the development of zebra finch song nuclei from males and females collected on P1 (song nuclei not yet formed), P10 (posthatch day 10, song nuclei formed), P30 (30 days posthatch, sexually immature but song nuclei formed and birds learning to sing), and adult birds (older than 65 days and sexually mature). Northern blot analysis showed a significant sex difference in P1 and adult L7/SPA mRNA expression while Western blot analysis also showed enhanced expression in the male brain at all age points. Both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that L7/SPA mRNA and protein were located in the song nuclei as well as expressed globally. Elevated coactivator expression may be a possible mechanism controlling the development of male song control nuclei, and coactivators such as L7/SPA may be important regulators of the masculinizing effects of estradiol on brain sexual differentiation.
The conserved DCC ligand-receptor pair Netrin and Frazzled (Fra) has a well-established role in axon guidance. However, the specific sequence motifs required for orchestrating downstream signaling events are not well understood. Evidence from vertebrates suggests that P3 is important for transducing Netrin-mediated turning and outgrowth, whereas in C. elegans it was shown that the P1 and P2 conserved sequence motifs are required for a gain-of-function outgrowth response. Here, we demonstrate that Drosophila fra mutant embryos exhibit guidance defects in a specific subset of commissural axons and these defects can be rescued cell-autonomously by expressing wild-type Fra exclusively in these neurons. Furthermore, structure-function studies indicate that the conserved P3 motif (but not P1 or P2) is required for growth cone attraction at the Drosophila midline. Surprisingly, in contrast to vertebrate DCC, P3 does not mediate receptor self-association, and self-association is not sufficient to promote Fra-dependent attraction. We also show that in contrast to previous findings, the cytoplasmic domain of Fra is not required for axonal localization and that neuronal expression of a truncated Fra receptor lacking the entire cytoplasmic domain (Fra delta C) results in dose-dependent defects in commissural axon guidance. These findings represent the first systematic dissection of the cytoplasmic domains required for Fra-mediated axon attraction in the context of full-length receptors in an intact organism and provide important insights into attractive axon guidance at the midline.

Impulsivity is predominant among users of several drugs of abuse including alcohol, cocaine, and amphetamines, and it is considered a risk factor for later development of alcohol and substance abuse and dependence. However, there is little consensus on how impulsivity should be defined and measured, and there are few studies on the relationship between separate dimensions of impulsivity and substance dependence. We used a multidimensional measure of impulsivity (the UPPS scale) to examine differences between 36 individuals with substance dependence (ISD) and 36 drug-free controls on the dimensions of urgency, lack of premeditation, lack of perseverance, and sensation seeking. In addition, we examined which dimensions of impulsivity better predicted addiction-related problems as measured with the addiction severity index. Results revealed that ISD show high scores on dimensions of urgency, lack of perseverance, and lack of premeditation (effect sizes ranging from 1.10 to 1.96), but not on sensation seeking. Among the different impulsivity dimensions, urgency was the best predictor of severity of medical, employment, alcohol, drug, family/social, legal and psychiatric problems in ISD, explaining 13-48% of the total variance of these indices. Furthermore, urgency scores alone correctly classified 83% of the participants in the ISD group. Urgency is characterized by a tendency to act impulsively in response to negative emotional states. Thus, our results could have important implications for novel treatment approaches for substance dependence focused on emotional regulation.
Face validity in animal models of alcohol abuse and dependence is often at odds with robust demonstrations of ethanol-seeking. This study determined the relative influence of ethanol and a flavorant in maintaining ethanol intake in a nonhuman primate model of &quot;cocktail&quot; drinking. Four-year-old male monkeys were maintained on a 6% ethanol/6% Tang solution made available in daily (M-F) 1-h sessions. Experiments determined the effect of (1) a second daily access session, (2) concurrent presentation of the Tang vehicle, (3) sequential presentation of the vehicle in the first daily session and the ethanol solution in the second session, (4) altering the Tang concentration, (5) altering the ethanol concentration, and (6) removal of the flavorant. Mean daily intake (2.7+/-0.2 g/kg/day) was stable over 7 months. Simultaneous availability of a large, but not a low-moderate, volume of the vehicle reduced ethanol intake by about 50%. Decreasing the concentration of Tang in the first daily session reduced ethanol intake, whereas intake of the standard solution was increased in the second session. Ethanol consumption was decreased by only 27% when the flavorant was removed. In summary, alterations that reduced intake in the first daily session resulted in compensatory increases in ethanol intake in the second session, suggesting that animals sought a specific level of ethanol intake per day. It is concluded that models with excellent face validity (flavored beverages) can produce reliable ethanol intake in patterns that are highly consistent with ethanol-seeking behavior.
Through the rapid progress in neuropharmacology it seems to become possible to effectively improve our cognitive capacities and emotional states by easily applicable means. Moreover, deep-brain stimulation may allow an effective therapeutic option for those neurological and psychiatric diseases which still can not be sufficiently treated by pharmacological measures. So far, however, both the benefit and the harm of these techniques are only insufficiently understood by neuroscience and detailed ethical analyses are still missing. In this article ethical criteria and most recent empirical evidence are systematically brought together for the first time. This analysis shows that it is irrelevant for an ethical evaluation whether a drug or a brain-machine interface is categorized as &quot;enhancement&quot; or &quot;treatment&quot; or whether it changes &quot;human nature&quot;. The only decisive criteria are whether the intervention (1.) benefits the patient, (2.) does not harm the patient and (3.) is desired by the patient. However, current empirical data in both fields, neuropharmacology and deep-brain stimulation are still too sparse to adequately evaluate these criteria. Moreover, the focus in both fields has been strongly misled by neglecting the distinction between &quot;benefit&quot; and &quot;efficacy&quot;: In past years research and clinical practice have only focused on physiological effects, but not on the actual benefit to the patient.
In the present review, first we present the anatomical connections used by the mammalian biological clock to enforce its endogenous rhythmicity on the rest of the body, especially the energy homeostatic systems. Subsequently, we present a number of physiological experiments investigating the functional significance of this neuroanatomical substrate. Together, this overview of experimental data, for a major part derived from our own experiments, reveals a highly specialized organization of connections between the endogenous pacemaker and both the presympathetic and pre-parasympathetic hypothalamic systems, providing the biological clock with a unique opportunity to modulate the balance of sympathetic/parasympathetic inputs to peripheral organs. We hypothesize that a well-balanced autonomic nervous input, differentiated according to the time of day and the body compartment, is an important companion to withstand the progressive burden of the current 24/7 society on our health and well-being.
Daily rhythmicity, including timing of wakefulness and hormone secretion, is mainly controlled by a master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. The SCN clockwork involves various clock genes, with specific temporal patterns of expression that are similar in nocturnal and diurnal species (e.g. the clock gene Per1 in the SCN peaks at midday in both categories). Timing of sensitivity to light is roughly similar, during nighttime, in diurnal and nocturnal species. Molecular mechanisms of photic resetting are also comparable in both species categories. By contrast, in animals housed in constant light, exposure to darkness can reset the SCN clock, mostly during the resting period, i.e. at opposite circadian times between diurnal and nocturnal species. Nonphotic stimuli, such as scheduled voluntary exercise, food shortage, exogenous melatonin, or serotonergic receptor activation, are also capable of shifting the master clock and/or modulating photic synchronization. Comparison between day- and night-active species allows classifications of nonphotic cues in two, arousal-independent and arousal-dependent, families of factors. Arousal-independent factors, such as melatonin (always secreted during nighttime, independently of daily activity pattern) or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), have shifting effects at the same circadian times in both nocturnal and diurnal rodents. By contrast, arousal-dependent factors, such as serotonin (its cerebral levels follow activity pattern), induce phase shifts only during resting and have opposite modulating effects on photic resetting between diurnal and nocturnal species. Contrary to light and arousal-independent nonphotic cues, arousal-dependent nonphotic stimuli provide synchronizing feedback signals to the SCN clock in circadian antiphase between nocturnal and diurnal animals.
Circadian rhythms in physiology and behavior are regulated by a master clock resident in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, and dysfunctions in the circadian system can lead to serious health effects. This paper reviews the organization of the SCN as the brain clock, how it regulates gonadal hormone secretion, and how androgens modulate aspects of circadian behavior known to be regulated by the SCN. We show that androgen receptors are restricted to a core SCN region that receives photic input as well as afferents from arousal systems in the brain. We suggest that androgens modulate circadian behavior directly via actions on the SCN and that both androgens and estrogens modulate circadian rhythms through an indirect route, by affecting overall activity and arousal levels. Thus, this system has multiple levels of regulation; the SCN regulates circadian rhythms in gonadal hormone secretion, and hormones feed back to influence SCN functions.
The visible burrow system (VBS) is a model used to study chronic social stress in colony-housed rats. A hierarchy develops among the males resulting in dominant (DOM) and subordinate (SUB) animals. Hierarchy-associated changes in body weight, body composition, behavior, and neuroendocrine measures have been observed. After 14 d of VBS housing, SUB animals have decreased body weight, elevated corticosterone, and decreased testosterone (T), compared with DOM animals and controls, placing SUB animals in an ideal endocrine state to regain lost body weight as adipose tissue. It is hypothesized that maintaining constant androgen concentrations in SUB males during stress will prevent body weight loss by maintaining more lean body mass. To test this, animals were gonadectomized and implanted with SILASTIC implants containing T, 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or cholesterol. Implants maintained constant physiological levels of T. Standard intact, T, and DHT implant colonies formed hierarchies, whereas cholesterol colonies did not. Androgen manipulations significantly altered offensive and defensive behaviors only on the first day of VBS housing. After VBS stress, intact, T, and DHT SUB animals weighed less and lost more adipose and lean tissue than DOM and control males, whereas DOM animals primarily lost adipose tissue. However, on recovery, DHT SUB animals maintained more lean tissue than intact SUB animals. Oral glucose tolerance tests revealed that glucose clears faster in stressed T-implanted males that have increased adipose tissue. Overall, these data suggest that constant androgen concentrations in SUB animals do not prevent weight loss and changes in body composition during stress but do so during recovery.
The time of day influences the magnitude of ACTH and corticosterone responses to hypoglycemia. However, little is known about the mechanisms that impart these time-of-day differences on neuroendocrine CRH neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH). Rats received 0-3 U/kg insulin (or 0.9% saline) to achieve a range of glucose nadir concentrations. Brains were processed to identify phosphorylated ERK1/2 (phospho-ERK1/2)-immunoreactive cells in the PVH and hindbrain and CRH heteronuclear RNA in the PVH. Hypoglycemia did not stimulate ACTH and corticosterone responses in animals unless a glucose concentration of approximately 3.15 mM or below was reached. Critically the glycemic thresholds required to stimulate ACTH and corticosterone release in the morning and night were indistinguishable. Yet glucose concentrations below the estimated glycemic threshold correlated with a greater increase in corticosterone, ACTH, and phospho-ERK1/2-immunoreactive neurons in the PVH at night, compared with morning. In these same animals, the number of phospho-ERK1/2-immunoreactive neurons in the medial part of the nucleus of the solitary tract was unchanged at both times of day. These data collectively support a model whereby changes in forebrain mechanisms alter the sensitivity of neuroendocrine CRH to the hypoglycemia-related information conveyed by ascending catecholaminergic afferents. Circadian clock-driven processes together with glucose-sensing elements in the forebrain would seem to be strong contenders for mediating these effects.
In mammals, adrenal medulla chromaffin cells constitute a fundamental component of the sympathetic nervous system outflow, producing most of the circulating adrenaline. We recently found that the rhesus monkey adrenal gland expresses several genes in a 24-h rhythmic pattern, including TH (the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis) and Atf5 (a transcription factor involved in apoptosis and neural cell differentiation) together with the core-clock genes. To examine whether these core-clock genes play a role in adrenal circadian function, we exposed rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells to a serum shock and found that it triggered rhythmic oscillation of the clock genes rBmal1, rPer1, rRev-erbalpha, and rCry1 and induced the circadian expression of Atf5 but not TH. Furthermore, we found that the CLOCK/brain and muscle Arnt-like protein-1 (BMAL1) heterodimer could regulate Atf5 expression by binding to an E-box motif and repressing activity of its promoter. The physiological relevance of this interaction was evident in Bmal1 -/- mice, in which blunted circadian rhythm of Atf5 mRNA was observed in the liver, together with significantly higher expression levels in both liver and adrenal glands. Although we found no compelling evidence for rhythmic expression of TH in chromaffin cells being regulated by an intrinsic molecular clock mechanism, the Atf5 results raise the possibility that other aspects of chromaffin cell physiology, such as cell survival and cell differentiation, may well be intrinsically regulated.


Patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) are common in tertiary epilepsy centers, emergency departments, and neurological practices. Psychiatric discussion of patients with PNES has emphasized the role of trauma and dissociation. Personality disorder has been considered, but its extensive implications for neurological management have not been fully appreciated. We propose that the most difficult aspects of management stem not from the convulsive episodes, but from the personality disorder that frequently accompanies them. Although it is not the neurologist's role to treat personality disorder, the conduct of the physician-patient relationship can have potent consequences for good or ill on the outcome. We present a brief guide to current concepts of personality disorder; discuss the literature concerning its association with PNES, and offer practical guidelines for the conduct of the neurologist-patient relationship. This perspective offers resolutions to longstanding controversies, including how to communicate the diagnosis, discontinuing medication, and ongoing neurological contact.
The goal of this report is to review all aspects of sleepwalking (SW), also known as somnambulism. Various factors seem to initiate SW, especially drugs, stress, and sleep deprivation. As an etiology, heredity is important, but other conditions include thyrotoxicosis, stress, and herpes simplex encephalitis. Psychological characteristics of sleepwalkers often include aggression, anxiety, panic disorder, and hysteria. Polysomnographic characteristics emphasize abnormal deep sleep associated with arousal and slow wave sleep fragmentation. In the differential diagnosis, the EEG is important to properly identify a seizure disorder, rather than SW. Associated disorders are Tourette's syndrome, sleep-disordered breathing, and migraine. Various kinds of treatment are discussed, as are legal considerations, especially murder during sleepwalking.
The aim of this study was to identify the attentional processes specifically affected in children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BCECTS). The impact of several factors - laterality of discharges, age-at-onset and duration of epilepsy, and medication - on these cognitive functions was also studied. A group of 29 children with BCECTS was evaluated using standardized tests performed in routine clinical practice and specifically designed to assess executive and attentional functions. This group obtained mean scores significantly lower than normative means specifically for tasks involving attention control processes, i.e. cognitive flexibility and inhibitory processes. Neither the epilepsy-related factors that we studied nor the medication appeared to influence performance of these tasks. These data suggest an impact of BCECTS on attentional processes, the most affected being attention control processes that develop late.
Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) is often comorbid with other psychiatric disorders in childhood. Its association with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and conduct disorder has been well studied. Recent studies suggest that children with ODD have substantial comorbidity with anxiety and depressive (internalizing) disorders, as well. Identifying the pattern of internalizing comorbidity with ODD in childhood and adolescence and how this varies across age and gender may help to identify mechanisms of such comorbidity. This systematic review presents evidence on the association of internalizing disorders with ODD across childhood and adolescence. Data from cross-sectional and longitudinal studies in clinic, community and epidemiologic samples are considered separately. Findings suggest that while internalizing comorbidity with ODD is present at all ages, the degree of comorbidity may vary over time in particular groups of children. Girls and boys appear to have different patterns of ODD comorbidity with either anxiety or depression, as well as ages of onset of ODD, however more large studies are required. Children with ODD in early life require further study as they may be a subgroup at increased risk for anxiety and affective disorders. This could have important implications for the treatment of these ODD children and the prevention of sequential comorbidity.

There are a few studies with conflicting results on the effects of opioids on the functioning of immune system. This study was performed to investigate the in vitro production of interferon-gamma and interleukin-10 after antigenic stimulation of cells using whole blood from opioid addicts. Blood samples were taken from 20 chronically opioid-addicted persons, who voluntarily enrolled for detoxification (10 opium and 10 heroin addicts). Blood samples were also taken from 10 healthy individuals with no history of drug abuse as the control. Cell culture was performed in a whole blood culture assay. Diluted blood samples were stimulated with phytohemagglutinin or with lipopolysaccharide and the supernatants were collected to measure cytokine production. The results demonstrated a significant decrease in interferon-gamma production and an increase in interleukin-10 secretion in heroin addicts, relative to the control group (35.9+/-26.3 versus 110.2+/-60.3 pg/mL, p&lt;0.01 and 71.8+/-28.4 versus 17.1+/-13.5 pg/mL, p&lt;0.01, respectively), however the changes in these values in opium addicts were not significant compared to healthy individuals. The results could suggest that opioid addiction leads to a shift in the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance of peripheral CD4+ cells towards the Th2 response, and opioid addicts demonstrate reduced mitogenic responsiveness of lymphocytes relative to healthy individuals.
Functional ageing processes are characterized by a loss of performance capabilities regarding coordination, flexibility, strength, speed, and endurance. The effects of ageing processes on the cardiovascular system and skeletal muscle are the foci of attention. After age 30, the maximum aerobic dynamic performance capacity decreases by an average of 8% per decade. The causes are mainly a reduction in the maximum cardiac output and decreases in capillarization and in the skeletal muscle mass. An improvement in the maximum oxygen uptake by 18% and in the aerobic-anaerobic threshold by 22% was achieved in untrained men aged 55-70 years, in a 12-week-long bicycle ergometer-training programme. The strength of the skeletal muscle decreases particularly after 50-60 years of age. The main cause is the reduction in the number of motor units and muscle fibres. Further, modifications of the endothelial function and the development of sarcopenia are of particular importance in ageing processes. General aerobic dynamic training can improve the endothelial function in old age and thus help prevent cardiovascular diseases. Strength training is most appropriate for the prevention of sarcopenia. Imaging techniques over the last 20 years have provided new findings on the influence and the significance of physical activity on the brain. We call this new interdisciplinary area 'Exercise Neuroscience'. Demands on coordination and aerobic dynamic endurance are suitable in counteracting age-related neuronal cellular loss, synapsis hypotrophy, and in improving neurogenesis and capillarization. Adjusted physical activity is thus capable of counteracting age-related changes and performance loss not only in the cardiovascular system but also in the brain.
Dietary carbohydrates are a group of chemically defined substances with a range of physical and physiological properties and health benefits. As with other macronutrients, the primary classification of dietary carbohydrate is based on chemistry, that is character of individual monomers, degree of polymerization (DP) and type of linkage (alpha or beta), as agreed at the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Health Organization Expert Consultation in 1997. This divides carbohydrates into three main groups, sugars (DP 1-2), oligosaccharides (short-chain carbohydrates) (DP 3-9) and polysaccharides (DP&gt; or =10). Within this classification, a number of terms are used such as mono- and disaccharides, polyols, oligosaccharides, starch, modified starch, non-starch polysaccharides, total carbohydrate, sugars, etc. While effects of carbohydrates are ultimately related to their primary chemistry, they are modified by their physical properties. These include water solubility, hydration, gel formation, crystalline state, association with other molecules such as protein, lipid and divalent cations and aggregation into complex structures in cell walls and other specialized plant tissues. A classification based on chemistry is essential for a system of measurement, predication of properties and estimation of intakes, but does not allow a simple translation into nutritional effects since each class of carbohydrate has overlapping physiological properties and effects on health. This dichotomy has led to the use of a number of terms to describe carbohydrate in foods, for example intrinsic and extrinsic sugars, prebiotic, resistant starch, dietary fibre, available and unavailable carbohydrate, complex carbohydrate, glycaemic and whole grain. This paper reviews these terms and suggests that some are more useful than others. A clearer understanding of what is meant by any particular word used to describe carbohydrate is essential to progress in translating the growing knowledge of the physiological properties of carbohydrate into public health messages.
To evaluate prevalence of use and prescribing patterns of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in Italian general practice. Primary care data were obtained from the Health Search Database, a longitudinal observational database implemented by the Italian College of General Practitioners (GPs). We selected 465 061 subjects registered by the end of 2005 in the lists of 320 GPs, homogeneously distributed throughout Italy. Prevalence of AED use was assessed in the entire sample and by drug type, age group, year and main geographic area (north, centre and south/islands). Overall, 24 383 subjects (5.2%) received at least one AED prescription in the study period. Prevalence of AED use (with 95% confidence interval) increased progressively from 7.1 (6.9-7.3) in 2000 to 11.8 (11.5-12.1) in 2005 for old AEDs and from 1.1 (1.0-1.2) to 12.2 (11.9-12.5) for new AEDs. Carbamazepine, phenobarbital and valproic acid were the most common AEDs until 2003, when gabapentin became first. There were no differences in prescribing patterns in the three main geographic areas. Newer AEDs were mostly used in patients aged 65 years and older. The more widespread use of newer AEDs was for mood disorders or pain. Older AED currently remain first line drugs for epileptic disorders. An increasing use of AEDs has been recently observed over a 6-year period in Italian general practice, mostly explained by newer compounds used for conditions other than epilepsy.
Previous work suggests the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic system may be dynamically regulated during emotional learning. In the current study we examined training-induced changes in the expression of GABA(A)-related genes and the binding of GABA receptor radioligands in the amygdala after the acquisition and extinction of Pavlovian fear. Using in situ hybridization, we examined the expression pattern changes of mRNAs for GABAergic markers in the lateral, basolateral and central subdivisions of the amygdala in C57Bl/6J mice. These markers included GABA-synthesizing enzymes (GAD67 and GAD65), major GABA(A) receptor subunits (alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, beta2 and gamma2) and the expression of mRNAs that are involved in a variety of GABA-related intracellular processes, including GABA transporter-1 (GAT1), GABA(A) receptor-associated protein and the GABA(A) clustering protein, gephyrin. With fear conditioning, we found decreased mRNA levels of alpha1, alpha5 and GAD67, as well as deceased benzodiazepine binding in the amygdala. Fear extinction induced an increase in mRNA levels of alpha2, beta2, GAD67 and gephyrin, as well as a decrease in GAT1. Together, these findings indicate that the acquisition of fear induced a downregulation of mRNA markers related to a decrease in amygdala GABAergic function, whereas the acquisition of fear extinction produced an upregulation of GABAergic markers related to enhanced GABAergic transmission.
In natural visual environments, we use attention to select between relevant and irrelevant stimuli that are presented simultaneously. Our attention to objects in our visual field is largely controlled endogenously, but is also affected exogenously through the influence of novel stimuli and events. The study of endogenous and exogenous attention as separate mechanisms has been possible in behavioral and functional imaging studies, where multiple stimuli can be presented continuously and simultaneously. It has also been possible in electroencephalogram studies using the steady-state visual-evoked potential (SSVEP); however, it has not been possible in conventional event-related potential (ERP) studies, which are hampered by the need to present suddenly onsetting stimuli in isolation. This is unfortunate as the ERP technique allows for the analysis of human physiology with much greater temporal resolution than functional magnetic resonance imaging or the SSVEP. While ERP studies of endogenous attention have been widely reported, these experiments have a serious limitation in that the suddenly onsetting stimuli, used to elicit the ERP, inevitably have an exogenous, attention-grabbing effect. Recently we have shown that it is possible to derive separate event-related responses to concurrent, continuously presented stimuli using the VESPA (visual-evoked spread spectrum analysis) technique. In this study we employed an experimental paradigm based on this method, in which two pairs of diagonally opposite, non-contiguous disc-segment stimuli were presented, one pair to be ignored and the other to be attended. VESPA responses derived for each pair showed a strong modulation at 90-100 ms (during the visual P1 component), demonstrating the utility of the method for isolating endogenous visuo-spatial attention effects.
Depression is associated with abnormal neuronal plasticity. AMPA receptors mediate transmission and plasticity at excitatory synapses in a manner which is positively regulated by phosphorylation at Ser831-GluR1, a CaMKII/PKC site, and Ser845-GluR1, a PKA site. Treatment with the selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine increases P-Ser845-GluR1 but not P-Ser831-GluR1. Here, it was found that treatment with another antidepressant, tianeptine, increased P-Ser831-GluR1 in the frontal cortex and the CA3 region of hippocampus and P-Ser845-GluR1 in the CA3 region of hippocampus. A receptorome profile detected no affinity for tianeptine at any monaminergic receptors or transporters, confirming an atypical profile for this compound. Behavioural analyses showed that mice bearing point mutations at both Ser831- and Ser845-GluR1, treated with saline, exhibited increased latency to enter the centre of an open field and increased immobility in the tail-suspension test compared to their wild-type counterparts. Chronic tianeptine treatment increased open-field locomotion and reduced immobility in wild-type mice but not in phosphomutant GluR1 mice. P-Ser133-CREB was reduced in the CA3 region of hippocampus in phosphomutant mice, and tianeptine decreased P-Ser133-CREB in this region in wild-type, but not in phosphomutant, mice. Tianeptine increased P-Ser133-CREB in the CA1 region in wild-type mice but not in phosphomutant GluR1 mice. There were higher basal P-Ser133-CREB and c-fos levels in frontal and cingulate cortex in phosphomutant GluR1 mice; these changes in level were counteracted by tianeptine in a GluR1-independent manner. Using phosphorylation assays and phosphomutant GluR1 mice, this study provides evidence that AMPA receptor phosphorylation mediates certain explorative and antidepressant-like actions under basal conditions and following tianeptine treatment.
We demonstrate that X chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) counteracts oxidative stress in two essentially different disease-related models of brain injury, hypoxia-ischemia and irradiation, as judged by lower expression of nitrotyrosine (5-fold) and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (10-fold) in XIAP-overexpressing compared with wild-type mice. XIAP overexpression induced up-regulation of at least three antioxidants residing in mitochondria, superoxide dismutase 2, thioredoxin 2 and lysine oxoglutarate reductase. Cytochrome c release from mitochondria was reduced in XIAP-overexpressing mice. Hence, in addition to blocking caspases, XIAP can regulate reactive oxygen species in the brain, at least partly through up-regulation of mitochondrial antioxidants. XIAP-induced prevention of oxidative stress was not secondary to tissue protection because although XIAP overexpression provides tissue protection after hypoxia-ischemia, it does not prevent tissue loss after irradiation. This is a previously unknown role of XIAP and may provide the basis for development of novel protective strategies for both acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases, where oxidative stress is an integral component of the injury mechanisms involved.
Rats were trained on a delayed matching to position (DMTP) task that embedded either a differential outcomes procedure (DOP) or a non-differential outcomes procedure (NOP). The DOP, via Pavlovian conditioning (stimulus-outcome associations), results in the use of unique reward expectancies that facilitate learning and memory performance above subjects trained with a NOP that requires subjects to retain cue information for accurate choice behavior (stimulus-response associations). This enhancement in learning and/or memory produced by the DOP is called the differential outcomes effect (DOE). After being trained on the DMTP task, rats were implanted with two cannulae aimed at the basolateral amygdala (BLA) nuclei. Rats trained with the DOP, relative to those trained with the NOP, displayed enhanced short-term memory (STM) performance under vehicle conditions (i.e. the DOE). However, injections of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) agonist muscimol into the BLA dose-dependently (0.0625 and 0.125 microg) impaired STM performance only in DOP-trained rats. These results support the role of the BLA in the use of established reward expectancies during a short-term working memory task. Despite the fact that extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinases (ERK/MAPK) have been shown to be necessary for amygdala-dependent long-term potentiation and some forms of long-term and STM, inhibition of the ERK/MAPK signaling cascade by U0126 (2.0 or 4.0 microg) in the BLA was not critical for updating the STM of either spatial information or reward expectation.
In rodents, stress suppresses adult neurogenesis. This is thought to involve activation of glucocorticoid receptors in the brain. In the present study, we therefore questioned whether glucocorticoid receptor blockade by mifepristone can normalize the effects of chronic stress on adult neurogenesis. Rats received mifepristone on the last 4 days of a 21-day chronic unpredictable and inescapable stress regimen. Neurogenesis was analysed by stereological quantification of adult-generated cell survival (bromodeoxyuridine), young neuronal survival (doublecortin) and cell proliferation (Ki-67). The results show that only 4 days of mifepristone treatment normalized the stress-induced reductions in neurogenesis. Importantly, mifepristone by itself had no effect on neurogenesis. We conclude that, contrary to other compounds interfering with the effects of chronic stress on neurogenesis, like antidepressants, the normalizing effects of mifepristone on neurogenesis are rapid and particularly potent in a high stress environment. This neurogenic action of mifepristone could potentially contribute to its clinical mechanism of action.
Motor cortex (MC) injury impairs skilled reaching in rats, but success scores are eventually restored to approximate preoperative levels. The improvement is attributed to compensatory strategies, such as substituting trunk rotations for the chronically lost rotatory movement of the forelimb, that occur during transport and withdrawal. The present study examined the contributions of the rostral motor cortex (RMC) and the caudal motor cortex (CMC) to skilled reaching performance. The study also examined the role of the ipsilateral and the contralateral hemispheres in supporting the spontaneous recovery. Rats were trained to reach for single food pellets, and their recovery from partial or complete MC injury was documented with quantitative scores and movement element measures in three experiments: (1) devascularization of the CMC, or the RMC, or both, in the hemisphere contralateral to the reaching paw; (2) additional lesions to the CMC and RMC injuries such that the conjoint damage amounted to an MC lesion; and (3) MC lesion followed by damage in the neocortex lateral to the injury or in the opposite MC. The results showed that the CMC made the main contribution to skilled reaching performance, and that there was a lesser contribution by the RMC. MC damage was exacerbated by additional damage to the ipsilateral neocortex as compared to the contralateral neocortex. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that the involvement of the neocortical areas in skilled reaching performance and its recovery is proportional to the region from which corticospinal projections originate.
The ventral spinal cord consists of interneuron groups arising from distinct, genetically defined, progenitor domains along the dorsoventral axis. Many of these interneuron groups settle in the ventral spinal cord which, in mammals, contains the central pattern generator for locomotion. In order to better understand the locomotor networks, we have used different transgenic mice for anatomical characterization of one of these interneuron groups, called V2 interneurons. Neurons in this group are either V2a interneurons marked by the postmitotic expression of the transcription factor Chx10, or V2b interneurons which express the transcription factors Gata2 and Gata3. We found that all V2a and most V2b interneurons were ipsilaterally projecting in embryos as well as in newborns. V2a interneurons were for the most part glutamatergic while V2b interneurons were mainly GABAergic or glycinergic. Furthermore, we demonstrated that a large proportion of V2 interneurons expressed the axon guidance molecule EphA4, a molecule previously shown to be important for correct organization of locomotor networks. We also showed that V2 interneurons and motor neurons alone did not account for all EphA4-expressing neurons in the spinal cord. Together, these findings enable a better interpretation of neural networks underlying locomotion, and open up the search for as yet unknown components of the mammalian central pattern generator.
A key challenge in Parkinson's disease research is to understand mechanisms underlying selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons mediated by genetic factors such as alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn). The present study examined whether dopamine (DA)-dependent oxidative stress underlies alpha-Syn-mediated neurodegeneration using Drosophila primary neuronal cultures. Green fluorescent protein (GFP) was used to identify live dopaminergic neurons in primary cultures prepared on a marked photoetched coverslip, which allowed us to repeatedly access preidentified dopaminergic neurons at different time points in a non-invasive manner. This live tracking of GFP-marked dopaminergic neurons revealed age-dependent neurodegeneration mediated by a mutant human alpha-Syn (A30P). Degeneration was rescued when alpha-Syn neuronal cultures were incubated with 1 mm glutathione from Day 3 after culturing. Furthermore, depletion of cytoplasmic DA by 100 microm alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine completely rescued the early stage of alpha-Syn-mediated dopaminergic cell loss, demonstrating that DA plays a major role in oxidative stress-dependent neurodegeneration mediated by alpha-Syn. In contrast, overexpression of a Drosophila tyrosine hydroxylase gene (dTH1) alone caused DA neurodegeneration by enhanced DA synthesis in the cytoplasm. Age-dependent dopaminergic cell loss was comparable in alpha-Syn vs dTH1-overexpressed neuronal cultures, indicating that increased DA levels in the cytoplasm is a critical change downstream of mutant alpha-Syn function. Finally, overexpression of a Drosophila vesicular monoamine transporter rescued alpha-Syn-mediated neurodegeneration through enhanced sequestration of cytoplasmic DA into synaptic vesicles, further indicating that a main cause of selective neurodegeneration is alpha-Syn-induced disruption of DA homeostasis. All of these results demonstrate that elevated cytoplasmic DA is a main factor underlying the early stage of alpha-Syn-mediated neurodegeneration.
Several causal missense mutations in protein kinase C gamma (gamma PKC) gene have been found in spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously demonstrated that mutant gamma PKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to two types of aggregation, cytoplasmic dot-like and perinuclear massive aggregation, and causes cell death in Chinese hamster ovary cells. Long-term time-lapse imaging revealed that firstly accumulated dot-like aggregation of mutant gamma PKC-green fluorescent protein (GFP) gradually formed perinuclear massive aggregations, followed by cell death. However, it remains unclear how aggregate formation of mutant gamma PKC causes cell death. In the present study, we examined whether these mutant aggregations affect the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and endoplasmic reticular (ER) stress. Two mutant gamma PKC-GFPs (S119P and G128D) were strongly ubiquitinated, and dot-like aggregations of these mutants were ubiquitin-positive and colocalized with proteasome 20S. Furthermore, proteasome activity in cells with aggregates, especially massive ones, was significantly decreased. Aggregate formation of mutant gamma PKC-GFP induced phosphorylation of PERK (PKR-like ER kinase) and nuclear expression of CHOP (C/EBP homologous protein), hallmarks of ER stress and subsequently activated caspase-3. These results indicate that aggregate formation of mutant gamma PKC found in SCA14 impairs UPS and induces ER stress, leading to apoptotic cell death.
Amphetamines (methamphetamine and d-amphetamine) are dopaminergic and noradrenergic agonists and are highly addictive drugs with neurotoxic effect on the brain. In human subjects, it has also been observed that amphetamine causes psychosis resembling positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Neurotrophins are molecules involved in neuronal survival and plasticity and protect neurons against (BDNF) are the most abundant neurotrophins in the central nervous system (CNS) and are important survival factors for cholinergic and dopaminergic neurons. Interestingly, it has been proposed that deficits in the production or utilization of neurotrophins participate in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. In this study in order to investigate the mechanism of amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and further elucidate the role of neurotrophins in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia we administered intraperitoneally d-amphetamine for 8 days to rats and measured the levels of neurotrophins NGF and BDNF in selected brain regions by ELISA. Amphetamine reduced NGF levels in the hippocampus, occipital cortex and hypothalamus and of BDNF in the occipital cortex and hypothalamus. Thus the present data indicate that chronic amphetamine can reduce the levels of NGF and BDNF in selected brain regions. This reduction may account for some of the effects of amphetamine in the CNS neurons and provides evidences for the role of neurotrophins in schizophrenia.
Preliminary findings support the potential of yoga as a complementary treatment of depressed patients who are taking anti-depressant medications but who are only in partial remission. The purpose of this article is to present further data on the intervention, focusing on individual differences in psychological, emotional and biological processes affecting treatment outcome. Twenty-seven women and 10 men were enrolled in the study, of whom 17 completed the intervention and pre- and post-intervention assessment data. The intervention consisted of 20 classes led by senior Iyengar yoga teachers, in three courses of 20 yoga classes each. All participants were diagnosed with unipolar major depression in partial remission. Psychological and biological characteristics were assessed pre- and post-intervention, and participants rated their mood states before and after each class. Significant reductions were shown for depression, anger, anxiety, neurotic symptoms and low frequency heart rate variability in the 17 completers. Eleven out of these completers achieved remission levels post-intervention. Participants who remitted differed from the non-remitters at intake on several traits and on physiological measures indicative of a greater capacity for emotional regulation. Moods improved from before to after the yoga classes. Yoga appears to be a promising intervention for depression; it is cost-effective and easy to implement. It produces many beneficial emotional, psychological and biological effects, as supported by observations in this study. The physiological methods are especially useful as they provide objective markers of the processes and effectiveness of treatment. These observations may help guide further clinical application of yoga in depression and other mental health disorders, and future research on the processes and mechanisms.
Our previous study has reported that electroacupuncture (EA) at low frequency of 2 Hz had greater and more prolonged analgesic effects on mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia than that EA at high frequency of 100 Hz in rats with neuropathic pain. However, how EA at different frequencies produces distinct analgesic effects on neuropathic pain is unclear. Neuronal plastic changes in spinal cord might contribute to the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. In the present study, we investigated changes of spinal synaptic plasticity in the development of neuropathic pain and its modulation by EA in rats with neuropathic pain. Field potentials of spinal dorsal horn neurons were recorded extracellularly in sham-operated rats and in rats with spinal nerve ligation (SNL). We found for the first time that the threshold for inducing long-term potentiation (LTP) of C-fiber-evoked potentials in dorsal horn was significantly lower in SNL rats than that in sham-operated rats. The threshold for evoking the C-fiber-evoked field potentials was also significantly lower, and the amplitude of the field potentials was higher in SNL rats as compared with those in the control rats. EA at low frequency of 2 Hz applied on acupoints ST 36 and SP 6, which was effective in treatment of neuropathic pain, induced long-term depression (LTD) of the C-fiber-evoked potentials in SNL rats. This effect could be blocked by N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 and by opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. In contrast, EA at high frequency of 100 Hz, which was not effective in treatment of neuropathic pain, induced LTP in SNL rats but LTD in sham-operated rats. Unlike the 2 Hz EA-induced LTD in SNL rats, the 100 Hz EA-induced LTD in sham-operated rats was dependent on the endogenous GABAergic and serotonergic inhibitory system. Results from our present study suggest that (1) hyperexcitability in the spinal nociceptive synaptic transmission may occur after nerve injury, which may contribute to the development of neuropathic pain; (2) EA at low or high frequency has a different effect on modulating spinal synaptic plasticities in rats with neuropathic pain. The different modulation on spinal LTD or LTP by low- or high-frequency EA may be a potential mechanism of different analgesic effects of EA on neuropathic pain. LTD of synaptic strength in the spinal dorsal horn in SNL rats may contribute to the long-lasting analgesic effects of EA at 2 Hz.
Time-of-day-dependent variation in neuronal ischemia is well documented. Whether this results from changes in time-of-day variation in susceptibility or from other causative factors remains unclear. We hypothesize that hippocampal cells exhibit variation in activation of cell death predictive markers in response to ischemia induced at different times-of-day. Changes in hippocampal circadian clock gene rhythmicity may also be associated with ischemia. Transient global ischemia was induced in rats at three times of day and animals were sacrificed 24 h later. Hippocampal caspase-3, -8 and -9 transcripts and active proteins and calbindin protein were measured in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In a second study, 24-h rhythms of circadian regulatory transcripts were determined in hippocampus after global ischemia. Caspase-3, -8 and -9 transcripts and active protein levels were increased substantially when ischemia occurred in early night (ZT14); smaller changes were observed in late night (ZT20, or day ZT6). Calbindin levels decreased following ischemia, especially at ZT14. Ischemia shifted the rhythm of the Per1 transcript; peak expression occurred 6 h earlier following ischemia. Rhythms of Cry1 and Bmal1 were not altered. Greater induction of caspases and decline of calbindin when ischemia was performed at ZT14 than at ZT20 or ZT6 support the concept of increased hippocampal susceptibility to ischemia at ZT14. Alteration of the Per1 transcript suggests a potential role for the circadian clock in this process. Notably, ZT14 represents the beginning of the rats' nocturnal period of activity, corresponding to the time when humans experience the greatest neuronal ischemic damage from stroke.
Prolonged hypothermia effectively treats global cerebral ischemic injury in animal models as well as in cardiac arrest victims. Furthermore, clinical trials, based upon encouraging animal findings, are underway to assess efficacy in ischemic stroke. Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a more devastating stroke, but one that shares mechanisms of injury with ischemia. Accordingly, ICH may be amenable to hypothermia treatment. In this study we tested whether selective brain hypothermia improves outcome after an ICH in rats created by infusing 100 microL of autologous whole blood into the striatum. Striatal hypothermia ( approximately 32 degrees C) was induced with a novel method (implanted cooling coil) that does not cause systemic cooling, thereby providing a safer and potentially more effective treatment for stroke than systemic hypothermia. Edema occurred for 4 days after ICH, but it peaked at 3 days ( approximately 5%). At this time it was significantly reduced (to approximately 2%) by cooling starting 1 h after ICH (3 day duration). Next, we determined whether 1 and 12 h delayed cooling treatments (4 day duration) would lessen functional impairment and lesion size. Untreated (normothermic) ICH resulted in significant forelimb use asymmetry, as well as deficits in walking and skilled reaching. These deficits were unaffected by hypothermia, as was the volume of tissue lost ( approximately 20 mm(3)) at 1 month. Thus, attenuated edema did not result in behavioral or histological benefit. In conclusion, while additional research with alternative cooling protocols and ICH models are required, these findings suggest that while hypothermia lessens edema, it will not be directly neuroprotective after ICH.
Considerable progress has been made in recent years towards better understanding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a dementing neurodegenerative disorder that affects &gt; 10 million individuals in the US and Europe combined. Recent studies suggest that alterations in the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP), resulting in the accumulation of amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) and the formation of oligomers leads to synaptic damage and neurodegeneration. Therefore, strategies for treatment development have been focused on reducing Abeta accumulation using, among other approaches, antiaggregation molecules, regulators of the APP proteolysis and processing, reducing APP production (e.g., small-interfering RNA), and increasing Abeta clearance with antibodies, apolipoprotein E and Abeta-degrading enzymes (e.g., neprilysin). The main focus of this review is on novel treatments for AD with a special emphasis on delivering neuroprotective and antiamyloidogenic molecules by gene therapy and by promoting neurogenesis.
MicroRNAs are a recently discovered class of small non-coding RNAs that play a key role in post-transcriptional gene regulation during development and disease. MicroRNAs are abundant in the nervous system and have already been shown to have an important function during neuronal patterning and cell specification. It is now becoming increasingly evident that they are also essential for synaptic development and that they might contribute to the etiology of neuronal diseases characterized by synaptic dysfunction. This review focuses on the recent examples that describe a function of microRNAs in synapse formation and plasticity, and discusses how the microRNA pathway might be exploited to treat neurologic diseases.
Gene therapy involves the transfer and expression of a therapeutic gene into a target tissue, and essentially represents an intervention that alters the instruction set of a cell having a dominant effect on the cell phenotype. Gene therapy techniques may provide a realistic therapeutic option for CNS disorders that are difficult to treat with conventional drugs, such as for drug-resistant focal epilepsies. Preclinical studies using a selection of 'therapeutic' genes delivered into the rodent brain showed significant reduction of seizures and inhibition of epileptogenesis, thus establishing the proof-of-principle evidence of the potential applicability of this technology to human epilepsy. The promising potential of gene therapy for the treatment of CNS pathologies still requires further investigation to improve the efficacy and the safety of this approach using clinically relevant experimental models. The recent advances in refining gene therapy tools and in methods of gene delivery make this innovative approach a definite possibility for therapeutic intervention.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Although a subject of intense research, the etiology of PD remains poorly understood. Over the last decade, the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has emerged as a compelling player in PD pathogenesis. Disruption of the UPS, which normally identifies and degrades intracellular proteins, is thought to promote the toxic accumulation of proteins detrimental to neuronal survival, thereby contributing to their demise. Support for this came from a broad range of studies, including genetics, gene profiling and post-mortem analysis, as well as in vitro and in vivo modeling. Notably, various cellular and animal models of PD based on direct disruption of UPS function reproduce the salient features of PD. However, several gaps remain in our current knowledge regarding the precise role of UPS dysfunction in the pathogenesis of the disease. Current thoughts regarding their relationship are reviewed here and some major unresolved questions, the clarification of which would considerably advance our understanding of the implicated role of the UPS in PD pathogenesis, are discussed.

Cancer has long been viewed as a heterogeneous population of cells. While the great majority of cells that make up tumors are destined to differentiate, albeit aberrantly, and eventually stop dividing, only a minority population of cells, termed cancer stem cells, possess extensive self-renewal capability and can recapitulate tumor pathophysiology in an immune-compromised animal model. Tumor-initiating cells have been identified and isolated in a variety of cancers of the blood, breast, central nervous system, pancreas, skin, head and neck, colon, and prostate. In this review we present scientific evidence supporting the cancer stem cell model of tumor progression, and discuss the experimental and therapeutic implications. The concept of cancer stem cells may have profound implications for our understanding of tumor biology and for the design of novel treatments targeted toward these cells. Current therapeutic strategies include targeting the cancer stem cell as well as its microenvironmental niche. We present an interesting, novel strategy that takes into account the reactive oxygen species status in cancer stem cells and how it might serve as a method for eradicating these cells in tumor growth.
Several studies have demonstrated that the mammalian retina contains an autonomous circadian clock. Dopaminergic and other inner retinal neurons express many of the clock genes, whereas some of these genes seem to be absent from the photoreceptors. This observation has led to the suggestion that in mammalian retina the circadian pacemaker driving retinal rhythms is located in the inner nuclear layer. However, other evidence points to the photoreceptor layer as the site of the mammalian retinal clock. The goal of the present study was to demonstrate the presence of a functional circadian clock in photoreceptors. First, using laser capture microdissection and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, we investigated which of the clock genes are expressed in rat photoreceptors. We then prepared photoreceptor layer cultures from the retina to test whether these isolated cultures were viable and could drive circadian rhythms. Our data indicated that Per1, Per3, Cry1, Cry2, Clock, Bmal1, Rev-erb alpha, and Rora RNAs were present in the photoreceptors, whereas we were unable to amplify mRNA for Per2 and Npas2. Photoreceptor layers obtained from Period1-luciferase rats expressed a robust circadian rhythm in bioluminescence and melatonin synthesis. These results demonstrate that mammalian photoreceptors contain the circadian pacemaker driving rhythmic melatonin synthesis.
The mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM) is a member of a high-mobility group (HMG) family represented mostly by nuclear proteins. Although nuclear localization of TFAM has been demonstrated in some tumors and after treatment of tumor cells with anticancer drugs, the significance of these observations has not been fully elucidated. Here we report that both TFAM overexpression and impairment of its mitochondrial targeting can result in nuclear accumulation of the protein. Both M1 and M7 methionines of human TFAM (hTFAM) can be used for translation initiation with almost equal efficiency resulting in two polypeptides. The shorter polypeptide, however, is not located in the nucleus, despite truncation in the mitochondrial targeting sequence, and both isoforms are targeted to mitochondria with similar efficiency. We further demonstrate that nuclear TFAM confers significant cytoprotection against the chemotherapeutic drugs etoposide, camptothecin, and cisplatin. Three regions of hTFAM [HMG-like domain 1 (HMG1) and HMG-like domain 2 (HMG2), as well as the tail region] can effect nuclear accumulation of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fusions. The HMG1 domain contains a bipartite nuclear localization sequence whose identity is supported by site-directed mutagenesis. However, this bipartite nuclear localization sequence is weak, and both N-terminal and C-terminal flanking sequences enhance the nuclear targeting of EGFP. Finally, several mutations in the HMG1 domain increased the mitochondrial targeting of the EGFP fusions, suggesting that the mitochondrial targeting sequence of hTFAM may extend beyond the cleavable presequence.
Akt (also known as protein kinase B) plays an integral role in many intracellular signaling pathways activated by a diverse array of extracellular signals that target several different classes of membrane-bound receptors. Akt plays a particularly prominent part in signaling networks that result in the modulation of cellular proliferation, apoptosis and survival. Thus, the overexpression of Akt subtypes has been measured in a number of cancer types, and dominant-negative forms of Akt can trigger apoptosis and reduce the survival of cancer cells. G protein-coupled receptors act as cell-surface detectors for a diverse spectrum of biological signals and are able to activate or inhibit Akt via several direct and indirect means. In this review, we shall document how G protein-coupled receptors are able to control Akt activity and examine the resulting biochemical and physiological changes, with particular emphasis on cellular proliferation, apoptosis and survival.
Purinergic signalling plays a major role in intercellular communication between neurons and glial cells. Glial cells express metabotropic receptors for ATP and adenosine, the latter being activated after ATP cleavage through extracellular ecto-ATPase activity. Ionotropic receptors for extracellular ATP, so called P2X receptors, might contribute to neuron-glia signalling. However, experimental evidence for the presence of these receptors in glial cells is less convincing so far. In a previous study, immunohistochemistry was used to identify P2X(1-4,6,7) receptor protein in S100beta-positive hippocampal glial cells. Applying patch clamp and fast application techniques, here we challenged the question of the functional expression of these receptors. Time correlated membrane currents served as test criterion for receptor function, since P2X receptor activation leads to the opening of unspecific cation channels in a millisecond time scale. Agonists were applied via short pressure puffs, with a fast concentration clamp method and through UV flash triggered photolysis of caged ATP. Two types of murine hippocampal macroglial cells, both labelled by the expression of green fluorescence protein driven by the human glial fibrillary acid protein promoter, were analysed in acute brain slices and in freshly dissociated cell suspensions. Surprisingly, ATP or related agonists completely failed to activate currents. Additionally, changes in spontaneously occurring glial postsynaptic currents were never observed. These results have been verified using rat and human hippocampal tissue as well as investigating cells from P2X7 knock out mice. It is concluded that in acute preparations, astroglial cells of the hippocampal CA1 subfield do not express functional P2X receptors.

We previously demonstrated in pigs with acute liver failure (ALF) that albumin dialysis using the molecular adsorbents recirculating system (MARS) attenuated a rise in intracranial pressure (ICP). This was independent of changes in arterial ammonia, cerebral blood flow and inflammation, allowing alternative hypotheses to be tested. The aims of the present study were to determine whether changes in cerebral extracellular ammonia, lactate, glutamine, glutamate, and energy metabolites were associated with the beneficial effects of MARS on ICP. Three randomized groups [sham, ALF (induced by portacaval anastomosis and hepatic artery ligation), and ALF+MARS] were studied over a 6-hour period with a 4-hour MARS treatment given beginning 2 hours after devascularization. Using cerebral microdialysis, the ALF-induced increase in extracellular brain ammonia, lactate, and glutamate was significantly attenuated in the ALF+MARS group as well as the increases in extracellular lactate/pyruvate and lactate/glucose ratios. The percent change in extracellular brain ammonia correlated with the percent change in ICP (r(2) = 0.511). Increases in brain lactate dehydrogenase activity and mitochondrial complex activity for complex IV were found in ALF compared with those in the sham, which was unaffected by MARS treatment. Brain oxygen consumption did not differ among the study groups. Conclusion: The observation that brain oxygen consumption and mitochondrial complex enzyme activity changed in parallel in both ALF- and MARS-treated animals indicates that the attenuation of increased extracellular brain ammonia (and extracellular brain glutamate) in the MARS-treated animals reduces energy demand and increases supply, resulting in attenuation of increased extracellular brain lactate. The mechanism of how MARS reduces extracellular brain ammonia requires further investigation.
Fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF1), a member of the FGF family of growth factors, is localized in cholinergic neurons where it has trophic activity. We recently reported that cholinergic neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNV) contain little FGF1, raising the possibility that FGF1 is not localized to parasympathetic preganglionic cholinergic neurons. To clarify this issue, we investigated the co-localization of FGF1 with cholinergic neuron markers in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EWN), salivatory nucleus, DMNV, and sacral parasympathetic nucleus by double immunofluorescence using antibodies to FGF1 and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The neurons in the EWN were devoid of FGF1. In the salivatory nucleus, 13% of ChAT-positive neurons were also positive for FGF1. In the DMNV, only 8% of ChAT-positive neurons contained FGF1, and in the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, 18% of ChAT-positive neurons were FGF1-positive. We also confirmed that a large number of ChAT-positive motor neurons in the oculomotor nucleus, facial nucleus, hypoglossal nucleus, and spinal motor neurons contained FGF1. The results confirmed that parasympathetic preganglionic neurons are largely devoid of FGF1, which is a unique feature among cholinergic neurons.
Food deprivation triggers a constellation of physiological and behavioral changes including increases in peripherally-produced ghrelin and centrally-produced agouti-related protein (AgRP). Upon refeeding, food intake is increased in most species, however hamsters primarily increase food hoarding. Food deprivation-induced increases in food hoarding by Siberian hamsters are mimicked by peripheral ghrelin and central AgRP injections. Because food deprivation stimulates ghrelin as well as AgRP synthesis/release, food deprivation-induced increases in hoarding may be mediated by melanocortin 3 or 4 receptor (MC3/4-R) antagonism via AgRP, the MC3/4-R inverse agonist. Therefore, we asked: Can a MC3/4-R agonist block food deprivation- or ghrelin-induced increases in foraging, food hoarding and food intake? This was accomplished by injecting melanotan II (MTII), a synthetic MC3/4-R agonist, into the 3rd ventricle in food deprived, fed or peripheral ghrelin injected hamsters and housed in a running wheel-based food delivery foraging system. Three foraging conditions were used: a) no running wheel access, non-contingent food, b) running wheel access, non-contingent food or c) a foraging requirement for food (10 revolutions/pellet). Food deprivation was a more potent stimulator of foraging and hoarding than ghrelin. Concurrent injections of MTII completely blocked food deprivation- and ghrelin-induced increases in food intake and attenuated, but did not always completely block, food deprivation- and ghrelin-induced increases in food hoarding. Collectively, these data suggest that the MC3/4-R are involved in ghrelin- and food deprivation-induced increases in food intake, but other neurochemical systems, such as previously demonstrated with neuropeptide Y, also are involved in increases in food hoarding as well as foraging.
Testosterone is commonly thought to drive male sexual interest, but little experimental evidence demonstrates a direct relationship between natural variation in testosterone and sexual interest in healthy young men. This study measured young men's testosterone levels and their interest in visual sexual stimuli across three test sessions within 1 month. Fifteen men aged 23-28 viewed pictures of couples engaged in sexually explicit activity. Each session included a unique set of 72 pictures depicting heterosexual oral sex or intercourse presented in randomized order. Participants controlled how long they viewed each picture, with viewing time indicating sexual interest. Men's testosterone (T) levels were assayed from blood spots obtained prior to viewing the pictures. Overall, T and viewing time were positively correlated; however, the strength of this relationship varied by test session. T was marginally correlated with viewing time during the first session (r=0.43) and not significantly correlated with viewing time on the second session (r=0.16). During the final test session, when habituation might influence male interest in the stimuli, T was strongly correlated with viewing time (r=0.80). Thus, the current study demonstrates a direct but context dependent relationship between testosterone and sexual interest in healthy young males.
Cognitive neuroscience relies on two sets of techniques to map the neural networks underlying cognition in humans: recordings of either regional metabolic changes (fMRI or PET) or fluctuations in the neural electromagnetic fields (EEG and MEG). Despite major advances in the last few years, an explicit linkage between the two is still missing and the neuroimaging community faces two complementary but unrelated sets of functional descriptions of the human brain. Such an explicit framework, linking the two approaches in potentially complex cognitive tasks and in a variety of brain regions would permit to combine them into fine spatio-temporally-grained human brain mapping procedures. We combined fMRI and intra-cranial EEG recordings of the same epileptic patients during a semantic decision task and found a close spatial correspondence between regions of fMRI activations and recording sites showing EEG energy modulations in the gamma range (&gt;40 Hz). Our findings further support previous findings that gamma band modulations co-localize with BOLD variations and also indicate that fMRI may be used as a constraint to improve source reconstruction of gamma band EEG responses.
The roots and rhizomes of Acorus calamus (Family: Araceae) have been used in the ancient systems of medicine for the treatment of various neurological disorders. Of the various methods used for inducing experimental epileptic models, the intracortical administration of ferric chloride (FeCl(3)) into sensorimotor cortex induces recurrent seizures and epileptic discharge similar to human post-traumatic epilepsy through the generation of free radicals. The present study focuses on the effect of Acorus calamus on the behavioral, electroencephalographic, and antioxidant changes in FeCl(3)-induced rat epileptogenesis. Topical administration of FeCl(3) (5 microL; 100 mM) into the sensorimotor cortex of rats showed an increase in the wet dog shake behavior, spike wave discharges together with an significant increase in antioxidant enzyme activity, such as superoxide dismutase and catalase, resulting in an increase in the level of lipid peroxidation in cerebral cortex. Pretreatment with Acorus calamus (200 mg/kg b.w., p.o. for 14 days) and also diazepam (DZ, 20 mg/kg b.w., i.p.) decreased the WDS behavior, spike wave discharges with single isolated positive waves, and a significant decrease in activity of superoxide dismutase and level of lipid peroxidation was observed in cerebral cortex with respect to those observed in FeCl(3)-induced epileptic group. Data presented in this study clearly show that Acorus calamus possesses the ability for preventing the development of FeCl(3)-induced epileptogenesis by modulating antioxidant enzymes, which in turn exhibit the potentiality of Acorus calamus to be developed as an effective anti-epileptic drug.

Mutations in Alsin are associated with chronic juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS2), juvenile primary lateral sclerosis and infantile-onset ascending spastic paralysis. The primary pathology and pathogenic mechanism of the disease remain largely unknown. Here we show that alsin-deficient mice have motor impairment and degenerative pathology in the distal corticospinal tracts without apparent motor neuron pathology. Our data suggest that ALS2 is predominantly a distal axonopathy, rather than a neuronopathy in the central nervous system of the mouse model, implying that alsin plays an important role in maintaining the integrity of the corticospinal axons.
Previous research from our laboratory demonstrated that administration of single doses (120, 240, 360 mg) of standardised Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) had linear, dose-dependent, positive effects on the speed of performing attention tasks in comparison to placebo. However, whilst the lowest dose, which is typical of a recommended daily dose, had no effect on the speed of attention task performance it did engender mild improvements in secondary memory performance. The current study presents a reanalysis of data from three methodologically identical studies that each included a treatment of 120 mg GBE and matched placebo. All three studies were of a multiple dose, placebo-controlled, double-blind, balanced-crossover design, employing four or five treatment arms in total. Across the studies 78 healthy young participants received 120 mg GBE and placebo in randomly counterbalanced order, separated by a wash-out period of at least 7 days. On each study day participants' performance on the Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) computerised cognitive assessment battery was measured immediately prior to dosing and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 hr following treatment, with scores collapsed into the six measures (speed of attention, accuracy of attention, secondary memory, working memory, speed of memory, quality of memory) which have previously been derived by factor analysis of the data from CDR subtests. The results showed that 120 mg of Ginkgo engendered a significant improvement on the 'quality of memory' factor that was most evident at 1 and 4 hr post-dose, but had a negative effect on performance on the 'speed of attention' factor that was most evident at 1 and 6 hr post-dose. The current study confirmed the previous observation of modestly improved memory performance following 120 mg of GBE, but suggests that acute administration of this typical daily dose may have a detrimental effect on the speed of attention task performance which is opposite to that seen previously following higher doses.



Inbred strains of mice are useful model systems for studying the interactions of genetic and environmental contributions during neurodevelopmental stages. We recently reported an inbred strain, BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR), which, as compared to the commonly used C57BL/6J (B6) strain, displays lower social interactions as juveniles, lower social approach in adult ages, and higher levels of repetitive self-grooming throughout developmental stages. The present study investigated whether the early postnatal maternal environment contributes substantially to the unusually low expression of social behaviors and high self-grooming in BTBR as compared to B6. Within 24h of birth, entire litters of pups were cross-fostered to either a dam of the same strain or a dam of the opposite strain. Control litters were left with their own mothers. Offspring were tested for juvenile play at postnatal day 21+/-1, for sociability at 8 weeks of age in an automated three-chambered social approach test, and for self-grooming at 9-11 weeks of age. Results indicate that deficits in play behaviors in juvenile BTBR pups were not rescued by a B6 maternal environment. Similarly, a BTBR maternal environment did not induce play deficits in B6 pups. Cross-fostering had no effect on sociability scores in adults. The high self-grooming in BTBR and low self-grooming in B6 were not affected by maternal environment. These findings favor a genetic interpretation of the unusual social behaviors and self-grooming traits of BTBR, and support the use of the BTBR inbred strain as a mouse model to study genetic mechanism of autism.


Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) can result in protein sequence polymorphisms (PSPs) when codon translations are altered. Both top-down and bottom-up proteomics strategies can identify PSPs, but only if databases and software are used with this in mind. A 14319 Da protein from human saliva was characterized using the top-down approach on a hybrid linear ion-trap Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometer equipped for both collisionally-activated (CAD) and electron-capture (ECD) dissociation. Sequence tags identified the protein as Cystatin SN, and defined the N-terminal signal peptide cleavage site, as well as two disulfide bonds, in agreement with previous studies. The mass of the intact protein (&lt; 5 ppm error) deviated from that calculated from the published gene sequence by 16.031 Da, and, based on CAD and ECD fragment ion assignments, it was concluded that the isoform of the protein analyzed carried a PSP at residue 11 such that the Pro translated from the genome was in fact Leu/Ile. An independently determined SNP (rs2070856) subsequently confirmed the genetic basis of the mass spectral interpretation and defined the residue as Leu. In another example, the PRP3 protein with mass 10,999 Da was found to be an isomeric/isobaric mixture of the reported sequence with PSPs D4N or D50N (rs1049112). Both CAD and ECD datasets support two phosphorylation sites at residues Ser8 and Ser22, rather than Ser17. In the context of discovery proteomics, previously undefined PSPs and PTMs will only be detected if the logic of data processing strategies considers their presence in an unbiased fashion.
The biological presence and regulatory function of the plant alkaloid morphine in relatively simple and complex integrated animal systems has previously been shown. The pivotal role of dopamine as a chemical intermediate in the morphine biosynthetic pathway in plants establishes a functional basis for its expansion into an essential role as the progenitor catecholamine signaling molecule. In invertebrate neural systems, dopamine serves as the preeminent catecholamine signaling molecule, with the emergence and limited utilization of norepinephrine and its biosynthetic enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase in newly defined adaptational chemical circuits required by a rapidly expanding set of physiological demands. In vertebrates, epinephrine emerges as the major end of the catecholamine synthetic pathway consistent with a newly incorporated regulatory modification, i.e. N-methylation of norepinephrine. Given the striking similarities between the enzymatic steps in the morphine biosynthetic pathway and those driving the evolutionary adaptation of catecholamine chemical species to accommodate an expansion of interactive but distinct signaling systems, we surmise that the evolutionary emergence of catecholamine systems required conservation and selective 'retrofit' of specific enzyme activities, i.e. catechol O-methyl transferase and phenylethanol-amine N-methyl transferase, drawn from cellular morphine expression. This hypothesis is further supported by the critical recruitment of enzymatically synthesized tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) both as an essential cofactor for tyrosine hydroxylase-mediated dopamine production and as a secondary electron donor for nitric oxide synthase-mediated nitric oxide (NO) production. The establishment of a reciprocal regulatory linkage between NO and catecholaminergic processes, as mediated by BH4, subserves a pivotal capacity to promote autocrine and paracrine regulation of signaling molecules. In summary, ongoing development and adaptation of catecholamine signaling pathways in animals appear to be related to their mobile lifestyle associated with complex feeding, sexual and protective processes, which also generate free radicals, thus requiring morphinergic signaling coupling to NO release.
The role of alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptor desensitization in the delayed onset of antidepressant efficacy of selective norepinephrine (NE) reuptake inhibitors is unclear. Using the alpha(2)-antagonist yohimbine, we showed previously that chronic treatment with desipramine (DMI) did not alter autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of NE release in the cortex. However, yohimbine may have non-selective effects that could confound this interpretation. Thus, using microdialysis, we measured acute effects of the highly selective alpha(2)-antagonist atipamezole on NE release in the prefrontal cortex following chronic DMI treatment, after 0-8 d washout. Atipamezole induced a similar elevation of extracellular NE in all treatment groups, indicating no change in autoreceptor function. Further, the effect was most rapid in DMI-treated rats with 0- and 2-d washout, suggesting that autoreceptor-mediated inhibition was most prominent when NE levels were highest. This provides further evidence that autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of NE neurotransmission remains functional after chronic DMI treatment, arguing against the hypothesis that desensitization of alpha(2)-autoreceptors accounts for the delayed onset of action of selective NE reuptake inhibitors.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram (R,S-citalopram) is a racemic compound of two enantiomers. On the basis of in-vitro studies, inhibition of the human serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is achieved by the S-enantiomer (S-citalopram or escitalopram). The aim of the present PET study was to compare 5-HTT occupancy after single equimolar doses (with respect to S-enantiomer) in humans in vivo using R,S-citalopram (20 mg) and S-citalopram (10 mg) using PET and the radioligand [(11)C]MADAM. The design was a single-dose, double-blind, two-way crossover study in eight healthy male subjects. The 5-HTT binding potential at baseline and after single doses of study drugs was used to calculate 5-HTT occupancy in seven brain regions. Serum concentrations of the study drugs were determined in order to calculate the apparent inhibition constant (K(i),(app)), a secondary parameter of interest for the comparison. In all brain regions examined, occupancy was numerically higher after treatment with R,S-citalopram [66+/-19% to 78+/-17% (mean+/-s.d.) depending on the region] than after S-citalopram (59+/-15% to 69+/-13%; overall comparison: F=14.8, d.f.=1, 90, p&lt;0.001). In line with this the apparent inhibition constant was significantly lower for R,S-citalopram than for S-citalopram (overall comparison: F=6.7, d.f.=1, 90, p&lt;0.05). The small but significant difference in occupancy and K(i),(app) found between R,S-citalopram and S-citalopram suggests that not only S-citalopram but also R-citalopram to some degree occupies the 5-HTT in the human brain in vivo.
There is evidence for neurodevelopment disturbances in schizophrenia. In rats, a neonatal basolateral amygdala lesion induces behavioural features in adults reminiscent of the symptomatology of schizophrenia. Dopamine plays a key role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, and cannabis use has been implicated in the risk for developing schizophrenia. The effects of an excitotoxic, bilateral basolateral amygdala lesion on postnatal days 7 or 21 were compared when the rats were adult. The behavioural response to a novelty challenge and the level of dopamine receptors and cannabinoid receptors in the brain using in-vitro autoradiography was determined. In brain tissue punches concentrations of monoamines and metabolites were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. The neonatal lesion, but not the later lesion induced behavioural hyperactivity and biochemical effects. The neonatal lesion reduced the density of dopamine D2-like, but not D3-, and less markely D1-like receptors and increased dopamine turnover. These effects were observed in the mesolimbic, but not in the striatal regions. In contrast, density of cannabinoid receptors was increased in the striatal, but not the mesolimbic regions of these animals. Noradrenergic neurotransmission was reduced in both regions. The present findings contribute to the idea that the neonatal basolateral amygdala lesion induces features in adults reminiscent of the neurodevelopmental disturbances in schizophrenia, with a focus on the amygdala-prefrontal cortex-nucleus accumbens circuit.
The repair of subcutaneous tendon ruptures can be stimulated by a single application of one of several growth factors [e.g. platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) like growth differentiation factor (GDF)-5, -6, -7] or by a thrombocyte concentrate (PRP). The response to these measures is dependent on the mechanical microenvironment, which is crucial for repair. So far, almost all research has been limited to rodent models, mostly using the rat Achilles tendon. Ruptured human Achilles tendons appear to be mechanically loaded in spite of immobilisation. This suggests that the mechanical microenvironment might be favourable for the clinical use of growth factors or platelets for this indication. New methods to quantitate human Achilles tendon repair have been developed.
Summary: This report describes a unique case of triplication of the terminal left vertebral artery, forming the basilar artery in a 75-year-old male. CT angiography of cranio-cervical vessels also demonstrated the right vertebral artery originating from the right common carotid and an aberrant right subclavian artery.To the best of our knowledge this is the first report of a variation of this nature. The embryology and the clinical importance are discussed.

The sonar beam of an echolocating bat forms a spatial window restricting the echo information returned from the environment. Investigating the shape and orientation of the sonar beam produced by a bat as it flies and performs various behavioral tasks may yield insight into the operation of its sonar system. This paper presents recordings of vertical and horizontal cross sections of the sonar beam produced by Eptesicus fuscus (big brown bats) as they fly and pursue prey in a laboratory flight room. In the horizontal plane the sonar beam consists of one large lobe and in the vertical plane the beam consists of two lobes of comparable size oriented frontally and ventrally. In level flight, the bat directs its beam such that the ventral lobe is pointed forward and down toward the ground ahead of its flight path. The bat may utilize the downward directed lobe to measure altitude without the need for vertical head movements.
A recent study [Smith and Patterson, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 118, 3177-3186 (2005)] demonstrated that both the glottal-pulse rate (GPR) and the vocal-tract length (VTL) of vowel sounds have a large effect on the perceived sex and age (or size) of a speaker. The vowels for all of the &quot;different&quot; speakers in that study were synthesized from recordings of the sustained vowels of one, adult male speaker. This paper presents a follow-up study in which a range of vowels were synthesized from recordings of four different speakers--an adult man, an adult woman, a young boy, and a young girl--to determine whether the sex and age of the original speaker would have an effect upon listeners' judgments of whether a vowel was spoken by a man, woman, boy, or girl, after they were equated for GPR and VTL. The sustained vowels of the four speakers were scaled to produce the same combinations of GPR and VTL, which covered the entire range normally encountered in every day life. The results show that listeners readily distinguish children from adults based on their sustained vowels but that they struggle to distinguish the sex of the speaker.


Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and dystrophic neurites represent dense cytoplasmic accumulations of abnormal polymers in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). These polymers are referred to as paired helical filaments (PHFs) whose main structural core is composed of tau protein. Tau processing has been associated with hyperphosphorylation and truncation that results in PHF assembly. Both molecular events appear to cause conformational change of tau molecules [11,17,32]. In this regard, in a previous work focused on the analysis of patterns of immunolabeling in pre-tangle cells, we found that regional changes precede the structural modifications in tau [32]. In the present study, we further analyzed the early stages of tau processing in pre-tangle cells by using a variety of immunological markers of specific N-terminus phosphorylation tau sites. We used AT100, TG-3, AT8, pT231, Alz-50, Tau-C3 and 423 antibodies that recognize different abnormal tau epitopes in AD brains. These antibodies were combined and analyzed using a confocal microscope. Our results indicate that the early stages of abnormal tau processing are characterized by a sequential appearance of specific phospho-dependent epitope. The cascade of appearance of the antibodies is: pT231 --&gt; TG-3 --&gt; AT8 --&gt;AT100 --&gt; Alz-50. In addition; truncation at Asp-421 of the C-terminus of tau protein, as detected by Tau-C3, is also an early molecular event in tau protein aggregation prior to PHF formation in AD.
Enhancers of KCNQ channels are known to be effective in chronic pain models. To discover novel enhancers of KCNQ channels, the authors developed a medium-throughput electrophysiological assay by using the IonWorks platform. Screening of 20 CHO-K1 clones stably expressing KCNQ2/3 was performed on the IonWorks HT until the best clone (judged from seal rate, current level, and stability) was obtained. The KCNQ2/3 current amplitude in the cells was found to increase from 60 +/- 15 pA to 473 +/- 80 pA (at -10 mV), and the expression rate was increased by 56% when the cells were incubated at 27 degrees C overnight. The clone used for compound screening had a seal rate of greater than 90% and an overall success rate of greater than 70%. The voltage step protocol (hold cells at -80 mV and depolarize to -10 mV for 1 s) was designed to provide moderate current but still allow for pharmacological current enhancement. EC(50)s were generated from 8-point concentration-response curves with a control compound on each plate using compounds that were also tested with conventional patch clamp. The authors found that there was a very good correlation (R(2) &gt; 0.9) between the 2 assays, thus demonstrating the highly predictive nature of the IonWorks assay.
Complement component C4 mediates C3-dependent tissue damage after systemic ischemia-reperfusion injury. Activation of C3 also contributes to the pathogenesis of experimental and human traumatic brain injury (TBI); however, few data exist regarding the specific pathways (classic, alternative, and lectin) involved. Using complement knockout mice and a controlled cortical impact (CCI) model, we tested the hypothesis that the classic pathway mediates secondary damage after TBI. After CCI, C4c and C3d immunostaining were detected in cortical vascular endothelial cells in wild-type (WT) mice; however, C4c and C3d immunostaining were also detected in C1q(-/-) mice, and C3d immunostaining was detected in C4(-/-) mice. After CCI, WT and C1q(-/-) mice had similar motor deficits, Morris water maze performance, and brain lesion size. Naive C4(-/-) and WT mice did not differ in baseline motor performance, but C4(-/-) mice had reduced postinjury motor deficits (days 1 to 7, P&lt;0.05) and decreased brain tissue damage (days 14 and 35, P&lt;0.05) versus WT. Reconstitution of C4(-/-) mice with human C4 (hC4) reversed their protection against postinjury motor deficits (P&lt;0.05 versus vehicle), but administration of hC4 did not impair postinjury motor performance (versus vehicle) in WT mice. The protective effects of C4(-/-) were functionally distinct from the classic pathway and terminal complement, as C1q(-/-) and C3(-/-) mice had postinjury tissue damage and motor dysfunction similar to WT. Thus, C4 contributes to motor deficits and brain tissue damage after CCI by mechanism(s) fundamentally different from those involved in experimental systemic ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Aging is associated with cerebrovascular dysregulation, which may underlie the increased susceptibility to ischemic stroke and vascular cognitive impairment occurring in the elder individuals. Although it has long been known that oxidative stress is responsible for the cerebrovascular dysfunction, the enzymatic system(s) generating the reactive oxygen species (ROS) have not been identified. In this study, we investigated whether the superoxide-producing enzyme NADPH oxidase is involved in alterations of neurovascular regulation induced by aging. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was recorded by laser-Doppler flowmetry in anesthetized C57BL/6 mice equipped with a cranial window (age=3, 12, and 24 months). In 12-month-old mice, the CBF increases evoked by whisker stimulation or by the endothelium-dependent vasodilators acetylcholine and bradykinin were attenuated by 42, 36, and 53%, respectively (P&lt;0.05). In contrast, responses to the nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-D-penicillamine or adenosine were not attenuated (P&gt;0.05). These cerebrovascular effects were associated with increased production of ROS in neurons and cerebral blood vessels, assessed by hydroethidine microfluorography. The cerebrovascular impairment present in 12-month-old mice was reversed by the ROS scavenger Mn (III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride or by the NADPH oxidase peptide inhibitor gp91ds-tat, and was not observed in mice lacking the Nox2 subunit of NADPH oxidase. These findings establish Nox2 as a critical source of the neurovascular oxidative stress mediating the deleterious cerebrovascular effects associated with increasing age.

Cholesterol ester storage disease is a rare autosomal recessive storage disorder resulting from lysosomal acid lipase deficiency. Two siblings manifested with hepatosplenomegaly, ptosis, and bilateral external ophthalmoplegia. Evaluation revealed hyperlipidemia and bilateral adrenal calcifications. Leukocyte acid lipase levels were significantly low in both the patients, compared with controls, suggesting a diagnosis of cholesterol ester storage disease. Ptosis and external ophthalmoplegia have hitherto not been reported in cholesterol ester storage disease.

Williams-Beuren syndrome (WBS), a neurodevelopmental genetic disorder whose manifestations include visuospatial impairment, provides a unique model to link genetically determined loss of neural cell populations at different levels of the nervous system with neural circuits and visual behavior. Given that several of the genes deleted in WBS are also involved in eye development and the differentiation of retinal layers, we examined the retinal phenotype in WBS patients and its functional relation to global motion perception. We discovered a low-level visual phenotype characterized by decreased retinal thickness, abnormal optic disk concavity, and impaired visual responses in WBS patients compared with age-matched controls by using electrophysiology, confocal and coherence in vivo imaging with cellular resolution, and psychophysics. These mechanisms of impairment are related to the magnocellular pathway, which is involved in the detection of temporal changes in the visual scene. Low-level magnocellular performance did not predict high-level deficits in the integration of motion and 3D information at higher levels, thereby demonstrating independent mechanisms of dysfunction in WBS that will require remediation strategies different from those used in other visuospatial disorders. These findings challenge neurodevelopmental theories that explain cortical deficits based on low-level magnocellular impairment, such as regarding dyslexia.
There is recent compelling evidence that gliomas arise from neural stem cells residing in the lining of the lateral ventricles, known as the subventricular zone, that have undergone malignant transformation. This article reviews the operative elements, including cytoskeletal proteins, tumor suppressor genes, cell adhesion molecules, growth factors, transcription factors and developmental pathways that link the subventricular zone to gliomagenesis. It is hoped that with an improved understanding of the putative source of gliomas, new therapeutic strategies will be developed against such deadly tumors.

Sea hares such as Aplysia californica, gastropod molluscs lacking a protective shell, can release a purple cloud of chemicals when vigorously attacked by predators. This active chemical defense is composed of two glandular secretions, ink and opaline, both of which contain an array of compounds. This secretion defends sea hares against predators such as California spiny lobsters Panulirus interruptus via multiple mechanisms, one of which is phagomimicry, in which secretions containing feeding chemicals attract and distract predators toward the secretion and away from the sea hare. We show here that ink and opaline are highly acidic, both having a pH of approximately 5. We examined if the acidity of ink and opaline affects their phagomimetic properties. We tested behavioral and electrophysiological responses of chemoreceptor neurons in the olfactory and gustatory organs of P. interruptus, to ink and opaline of A. californica within their natural range of pH values, from approximately 5 to 8. Both behavioral and electrophysiological responses to ink and opaline were enhanced at low pH, and low pH alone accounted for most of this effect. Our data suggest that acidity enhances the phagomimetic chemical defense of sea hares.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus, typically with periodic, high frequency pulse trains, has proven to be an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we use a biophysically-based model of spiking cells in the basal ganglia (Terman et al., Journal of Neuroscience, 22, 2963-2976, 2002; Rubin and Terman, Journal of Computational Neuroscience, 16, 211-235, 2004) to provide computational evidence that alternative temporal patterns of DBS inputs might be equally effective as the standard high-frequency waveforms, but require lower amplitudes. Within this model, DBS performance is assessed in two ways. First, we determine the extent to which DBS causes Gpi (globus pallidus pars interna) synaptic outputs, which are burstlike and synchronized in the unstimulated Parkinsonian state, to cease their pathological modulation of simulated thalamocortical cells. Second, we evaluate how DBS affects the GPi cells' auto- and cross-correlograms. In both cases, a nonlinear closed-loop learning algorithm identifies effective DBS inputs that are optimized to have minimal strength. The network dynamics that result differ from the regular, entrained firing which some previous studies have associated with conventional high-frequency DBS. This type of optimized solution is also found with heterogeneity in both the intrinsic network dynamics and the strength of DBS inputs received at various cells. Such alternative DBS inputs could potentially be identified, guided by the model-free learning algorithm, in experimental or eventual clinical settings.

When stung by the parasitoid wasp Ampulex compressa, cockroaches Periplaneta americana enter a hypokinetic state that is characterized by little, if any, spontaneous locomotor activity. In the present study we investigate the effect of an octopamine receptor agonist and an antagonist on the locomotor behavior of stung and control cockroaches. We show that in cockroaches stung by a wasp the octopamine receptor agonist chlordimeform induces a significant increase in spontaneous walking. In good agreement, in control individuals an octopamine receptor antagonist significantly reduces walking activity. Adipokinetic hormone I (AKH-I) promotes spontaneous walking in controls but does not do so in stung individuals, which suggests that the venom effect is most probably not mediated by AKH-I. Dopamine receptor agonists or antagonists had no significant effect on the spontaneous walking of stung or control cockroaches, respectively. The effect of the octopamine receptor agonist was maximal when injected into the brain, suggesting that the wasp venom interferes with octopaminergic modulation of walking initiation in central structures of the cockroach brain.
Naked mole-rats are fossorial African rodents that live in large, eusocial groups. Adult subordinate female mole-rats are reproductively suppressed by the dominant breeding female in their colonies. As a result, subordinate females remain reproductively quiescent for their entire lives unless they are removed from the suppressive presence of the dominant female. This makes subordinate female mole-rats a tractable model for studying phenotypic plasticity. We measured skeletal growth of subordinate, suppressed females as they changed reproductive status. After housing subordinate female mole-rats separately from their home colonies, these animals experienced a growth surge that dramatically increased their body mass and length. After removal from reproductive suppression, females showed an 82% increase in body mass and a 37% increase in the length of their lumbar spines. The lumbar vertebrae were the only skeletal structures that exhibited this puberty-like growth. After colony separation, body mass and lumbar vertebrae growth rates peaked and remained elevated for several weeks before returning to control levels--suggestive of a puberty-like 'growth spurt'. Although previous studies have characterized pregnancy-induced lumbar spine elongation in female mole-rats, we demonstrate a significant change in the body morphology of female mole-rats after removal from reproductive suppression but before the first pregnancy.
In a variable foreperiod (FP) paradigm, reaction times (RTs) decrease as a function of FP on trial n (FP effect) but increase with FP on trial n - 1 (sequential effects). These phenomena have traditionally been ascribed to different strategic preparation processes. According to an alternative explanation, common conditioning laws underlie both effects. The present study aims to disentangle these opposite views using a developmental perspective. In Experiment 1A, 4- to 11-year-old children and a control group of adults performed a simple RT task with variable FPs (1, 3, and 5 s). Furthermore, 12 4- to 5-year-old children were retested after 14 months (Experiment 1B). In Experiment 2, a narrower pool of participants (4, 5, and 6 years old) performed a variable FP paradigm with different FPs (1, 2, and 3 s). The results consistently suggest different ontogenetic time courses for the two effects: The sequential effects are already present in the youngest group (4-5 years old), whereas the FP effect appears gradually some years later. These findings are not fully compatible with previous views. A dual-process account is proposed to explain the data.


This paper argues that mechanisms underlying consciousness and qualia are likely to arise from the information processing that takes place within the detailed micro-structure of the cerebral cortex. It looks at two key issues: how any information processing system can recognize its own activity; and secondly, how this behavior could lead to the subjective experience of qualia. In particular, it explores the pattern processing capabilities of attractor networks, and the way that they can attribute meaning to their input patterns and goes on to show how these capabilities can lead to self-recognition. The paper suggests that although feedforward processing of information can be effective without attractor behavior, when such behavior is initiated, it would lead to self-recognition in those networks involved. It also argues that attentional mechanisms are likely to play a key role in enabling attractor behavior to take place. The paper explores the ability of attractor networks to generate representations of the meaning they assign to input patterns. It goes on to show how the way that they interpret representations of their own activity could give rise to qualia. The paper includes an examination of some limited neurobiological evidence that supports the theory outlined.


Mutations inactivating the STS gene cause X-linked ichthyosis (XLI), whereas null mutations in the FLG gene cause ichthyosis vulgaris. Two brothers presented with XLI. One had a typical fine scaling, and the other was much more severely affected. Both patients carried STS missense mutation T165I. Furthermore, the more severely affected patient also carried heterozygous FLG mutation R501X, which was absent from his mildly affected brother. These data suggest that disrupting epidermal differentiation via different pathways can increase phenotypic severity. Owing to the high population frequency of FLG mutations, filaggrin is a possible genetic modifier in other genodermatoses.
Little is known about the uptake or metabolism of essential fatty acids (EFAs) in various mammalian organs. Thus, the distribution of deuterated alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) and linoleic acid (18:2n-6) and their metabolites was studied using a stable isotope tracer technique. Rats were orally administered a single dose of a mixture (20 mg each) of ethyl D5-18:3n-3 and D5-18:2n-6, and 25 tissues per animal were analyzed for D5-labeled PUFAs at 4, 8, 24, 96, 168, 240, 360, and 600 h after dosing. Plasma, stomach, and spleen contained the highest concentrations of labeled precursors at the earliest time points, whereas other internal organs and red blood cells reached their maximal concentrations at 8 h. The time-course data were consistent with liver metabolism of EFAs, but local metabolism in other tissues could not be ruled out. Brain, spinal cord, heart, testis, and eye accumulated docosahexaenoic acid with time, whereas skin accumulated mainly 20:4n-6. On average, approximately 16-18% of the D5-18:3n-3 and D5-18:2n-6 initial dosage was eventually accumulated in tissues, principally in adipose, skin, and muscle. Approximately 6.0% of D5-18:3n-3 and 2.6% of D5-18:2n-6 were elongated/desaturated and stored, mainly in muscle, adipose, and the carcass. The remaining 78% of both precursors was apparently catabolized or excreted.

Adult neurogenesis is a characteristic feature of the olfactory pathways of decapod crustaceans. In crayfish and clawed lobsters, adult-born neurons are the progeny of precursor cells with glial characteristics located in a neurogenic niche on the ventral surface of the brain. The daughters of these precursor cells migrate during S and G(2 )stages of the cell cycle along glial fibers to lateral (cluster 10) and medial (cluster 9) proliferation zones. Here, they divide (M phase) producing offspring that differentiate into olfactory interneurons. The complete lineage of cells producing neurons in these animals, therefore, is arranged along the migratory stream according to cell cycle stage. We have exploited this model to examine the influence of environmental and endogenous factors on adult neurogenesis. We find that increased levels of serotonin upregulate neuronal production, as does maintaining animals in an enriched (versus deprived) environment or augmenting their diet with omega-3 fatty acids; increased levels of nitric oxide, on the other hand, decrease the rate of neurogenesis. The features of the neurogenic niche and migratory streams, and the fact that these continue to function in vitro, provide opportunities unavailable in other organisms to explore the sequence of cellular and molecular events leading to the production of new neurons in adult brains.
This article reviews aspects of the literature on neuroscience, psychiatry, and cognitive and evolutionary psychology to illustrate how primitive brain mechanisms that evolved to assess environmental threats underlie psychiatric disorders, and how beliefs can affect psychiatric symptoms through these brain systems. Psychiatric theories are discussed that (a) link psychiatric disorders to threat assessment and (b) explain how the normal functioning of threat assessment systems can become pathological. Three brain structures that are consistently implicated in psychiatric symptomology also are involved in threat assessment and self-defense: the prefrontal cortex, the basal ganglia, and parts of the so-called limbic system. We propose that as these structures evolved over time they formed what we refer to as evolutionary threat assessment systems, which detect and assess potential threats of harm. Drawing on various psychological and psychiatric theories we propose how beliefs about the world can moderate psychiatric symptoms through their influence on evolutionary threat assessment systems.
Triple probe microdialysis was employed to investigate whether striatal NR2A and NR2B subunit containing NMDA receptors regulate the activity of striato-pallidal and striato-nigral projection neurons. Probes were implanted in the striatum, ipsilateral globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata. Intrastriatal perfusion with the NR2A subunit selective antagonist (R)-[(S)-1-(4-bromo-phenyl)-ethylamino]-(2,3-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoxalin-5-yl)-methyl]-phosphonic acid (NVP-AAM077) reduced pallidal GABA and increased nigral glutamate (GLU) release whereas perfusion with the NR2B subunit selective antagonist (R-(R*,S*)-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidinepropanol (Ro 25-6981) reduced nigral GABA and elevated striatal and pallidal GLU release. To confirm that changes in GABA levels were because of blockade of (GLUergic-driven) tonic activity of striatofugal neurons, tetrodotoxin was perfused in the striatum. Tetrodotoxin reduced both pallidal and nigral GABA release without changing GLU levels. To investigate whether striatal NR2A and NR2B subunits were also involved in phasic activation of striatofugal neurons, NVP-AAM077 and Ro 25-6981 were challenged against a NMDA concentration able to evoke GABA release in the three areas. Both antagonists prevented the NMDA-induced striatal GABA release. NVP-AAM077 also prevented the NMDA-induced surge in GABA release in the globus pallidus, whereas Ro 25-6981 attenuated it in the substantia nigra. We conclude that striatal NMDA receptors containing NR2A and NR2B subunits preferentially regulate the striato-pallidal and striato-nigral projection neurons, respectively.
Changes in distribution and expression of retinoid receptors may be part of a spinal cord protective response to acute injury and to chronic degeneration. In this study, we have combined RNA and protein expression analysis to characterize the expression profile of retinoid receptors in the lumbar spinal cord of the superoxide dismutase 1 G93A mutant rat model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a fatal neurodegenerative disorder causing extensive motor neuron loss. We also report a nonsignificant change in RNA expression of binding proteins and metabolizing enzymes for retinol and retinoic acid in the mutant rat spinal cord at end-stage disease. Only retinoid X receptor beta (RXRbeta), and to a lesser extent retinoic acid receptor beta and alpha (RARbeta/alpha) were reliably detected in lumbar spinal cord at an early pre-symptomatic phase and throughout the disease progression. The expression of RXRbeta in lamina II neurons in the dorsal horn of transgenic and wild type (WT) animals was associated with extensive astrocyte staining in end-stage lumbar spinal cord from transgenic rats. RARbeta and RARalpha diffuse staining of large motor neurons in the pre-symptomatic transgenic and in the WT lumbar cord appear to decline in end-stage disease, when a selective and strong gamma motor neuron RARalpha staining becomes evident. As gliosis and motor neuron loss are key pathogenic features in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the selective expression of retinoid receptors in astrocytes and motor neurons may provide further clues to the role of retinoid signalling in neurodegeneration and suggest new treatment strategies based on retinoid-modulating agents.
Novel biomarkers for multiple sclerosis (MS) could improve diagnosis and provide clues to pathogenesis. In this study surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry was used to analyze protein expression in CSF from 46 MS patients, 46 healthy siblings to the patients, and 50 unrelated healthy controls. Twenty-four proteins in the mass range 2-10 kDa were expressed at significantly different levels (p &lt; 0.01) in a robust manner when comparing the three groups. Identities of three proteins were determined using biochemical purification followed by tandem mass spectrometric analysis. Immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed the identities for two peptides derived from chromogranin B (m/z 6252) and from secretogranin II (m/z 3679). These peptides were all decreased in MS when compared with siblings or controls. Radioimmunoassays specific for each peptide confirmed these differences. The lowered concentrations did not correlate to the axonal damage marker neurofilament light protein and may thus reflect functional changes rather than neurodegeneration. Further studies will investigate the involvement of these peptides in MS pathogenesis.
Hyperphosphorylated tau aggregates are the core constituent of neurofibrillary tangles. Recent research has shown a division between the presence of tangles, neurodegeneration and subsequent memory impairment, raising the possibility that an earlier pre-aggregated form of tau may be toxic. To gain further insight into the relationship between abnormal forms of tau, we have analyzed pathological changes in tau during tauopathy development in tangle-forming transgenic mice. In addition, we have quantified changes in the endogenous levels of a panel of protein kinases. We show progressive increases in aggregated tau and disease-specific conformational change, with hyperphosphorylation occurring in an age-dependent manner at specific sites. There were significant correlations between specific phosphorylation changes and amounts of aggregated tau and and abnormal tau conformations. Of the protein kinases tested, we found increases in phosphorylated (activated) p38 and the cyclin-dependent kinase-5 neuronal activators, p35 and p25, with aging, in the htau line, but not in non-tangle-forming control mice. Changes in tau kinases correlated with the amount of tau present in abnormal conformations and with insoluble tau in htau mice. These data suggest that cdk5 and p38 may be associated with pathological changes in wild-type human tau during the progressive development of tauopathy.
The association of temporal lobe epilepsy with depression and other neuropsychiatric disorders has been known since the early beginnings of neurology and psychiatry. However, only recently have in vivo and ex vivo techniques such as Positron Emission Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy in combination with refined animal models and behavioral tests made it possible to identify an emerging pattern of common pathophysiological mechanisms. We now have growing evidence that in both disorders altered interaction of serotonergic and noradrenergic neurons with glutamatergic systems is associated with abnormal neuronal circuits and hyperexcitability. Neuronal hyperexcitability can possibly evoke seizure activity as well as disturbed emotions. Moreover, decreased synaptic levels of neurotransmitters and high glucocorticoid levels influence intracellular signaling pathways such as cAMP, causing disturbances of brain-derived and other neurotrophic factors. These may be associated with hippocampal atrophy seen on Magnetic Resonance Imaging and memory impairment as well as altered fear processing and transient hypertrophy of the amygdala. Positron Emission Tomography studies additionally suggest hypometabolism of glucose in temporal and frontal lobes. Last, but not least, in temporal lobe epilepsy and depression astrocytes play a role that reaches far beyond their involvement in hippocampal sclerosis and ultimately, therapeutic regulation of glial-neuronal interactions may be a target for future research. All these mechanisms are strongly intertwined and probably bidirectional such that the structural and functional alterations from one disease increase the risk for developing the other. This review provides an integrative update of the most relevant experimental and clinical data on temporal lobe epilepsy and its association with depression.
The temporal relationship between cerebral electro-physiological activities, higher brain functions and brain energy metabolism is reviewed. The duration of action potentials and transmission through glutamate and GABA are most often less than 5 ms. Subjects may perform complex psycho-physiological tasks within 50 to 200 ms, and perception of conscious experience requires 0.5 to 2 s. Activation of cerebral oxygen consumption starts after at least 100 ms and increases of local blood flow become maximal after about 1 s. Current imaging technologies are unable to detect rapid physiological brain functions. We introduce the concepts of potential and metabolic brain energy to distinguish trans-membrane gradients of ions or neurotransmitters and the capacity to generate energy from intra- or extra-cerebral substrates, respectively. Higher brain functions, such as memory retrieval, speaking, consciousness and self-consciousness are so fast that their execution depends primarily on fast neurotransmission (in the millisecond range) and action-potentials. In other words: brain functioning requires primarily maximal potential energy. Metabolic brain energy is necessary to restore and maintain the potential energy.
Alterations in brain serotonin levels are implicated in major depression and are regulated by tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2). To study its regulation, we measured TPH2 RNA by quantitative RT-PCR in differentiated serotonergic rat raphe RN46A and GH4C1 pituitary cells, which express TPH2. Upon calcium mobilization using KCl (40 mmol/L), TPH2 RNA was rapidly (1 h) and strongly (&gt; 10-fold) induced in differentiated RN46A cells, but not in GH4C1 cells. This effect was blocked by actinomycin D, implicating transcriptional activation. Similarly, calcium ionophore ionomycin induced TPH2 RNA by threefold in RN46A cells. To address the promoter sites involved, the transcription start site was identified and a series of TATA-containing TPH2 promoter-luciferase constructs were analyzed. In differentiated RN46A cells, the TPH2 promoter was induced 2.5-fold by ionomycin, similar to its action on TPH2 RNA. By contrast, ionomycin had no effect on TPH2 promoter activity in GH4C1 cells or TPH2-negative L6 myoblasts. Ionomycin sensitivity was localized to within 88 bp of the start site, containing putative CCATT-enhancer binding protein element, activator protein-1 and -2 (AP-1, AP-2) elements. These results are the first to identify calcium-mediated regulation of the proximal TPH2 promoter as critical for cell-specific TPH2 expression.
Although oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD) has been widely used as a model of ischemic brain damage, the mechanisms underlying acute neuronal death in this model are not yet well understood. We used OGD in acute hippocampal slices to investigate the roles of reactive oxygen species and of the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in neuronal death. In particular, we tested the neuroprotective effects of two synthetic superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics, EUK-189 and EUK-207. Acute hippocampal slices prepared from 2-month-old or postnatal day 10 rats were exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation for 2 h followed by 2.5 h reoxygenation. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in the medium and propidium iodide (PI) uptake were used to evaluate cell viability. EUK-189 or EUK-207 applied during the OGD and reoxygenation periods decreased LDH release and PI uptake in slices from 2-month-old rats. EUK-189 or EUK-207 also partly blocked OGD-induced ATP depletion and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) dephosphorylation, and completely eliminated reactive oxygen species generation. The MEK inhibitor U0126 applied together with EUK-189 or EUK-207 completely blocked ERK1/2 activation, but had no effect on their protective effects against OGD-induced LDH release. U0126 alone had no effect on OGD-induced LDH release. EUK-207 had no effect on OGD-induced p38 or c-Jun N-terminal kinase dephosphorylation, and when the p38 inhibitor SB203580 was applied together with EUK-207, it had no effect on the protective effects of EUK-207. SB203580 alone had no effect on OGD-induced LDH release either. In slices from p10 rats, OGD also induced high-LDH release that was partly reversed by EUK-207; however, neither OGD nor EUK-207 produced significant changes in ERK1/2 and p38 phosphorylation. OGD-induced spectrin degradation was not modified by EUK-189 or EUK-207 in slices from p10 or 2-month-old rats, suggesting that their protective effects was not mediated through inhibition of calpain activation. Thus, both EUK-189 and EUK-207 provide neuroprotection in acute ischemic conditions, and this effect is related to elimination of free radical formation and partial reversal of ATP depletion, but not mediated by the activation or inhibition of the MEK/ERK or p38 pathways, or inhibition of calpain activation.
Basal neurons of the vomeronasal organ of the mouse express a superfamily of about 120 pheromone receptors, named V2Rs, that are grouped in four families, A, B, C, and D, according to sequence homology. Family-A, -B, and -D V2Rs are expressed as one receptor gene per cell, but we previously reported their co-expression with family-C V2Rs. Here, we show that basal neurons can be further grouped according to the combinatorial expression of different V2Rs. Altogether, these findings suggest that in each basal neuron a transcriptional program is active for expressing a combination of two compatible receptors and for excluding, at the same time, the expression of all other V2Rs. Further analyses revealed non-random combinations of co-expression between family-C V2Rs and genes of the class Ib major histocompatibility complex. Thus, each basal neuron of the vomeronasal organ represents a highly qualified sensory unit for detecting very specific combinations of pheromonal cues.
Normal brain development requires coordinated regulation of several processes including proliferation, differentiation, and cell death. Multiple factors from endogenous and exogenous sources interact to elicit positive as well as negative regulation of these processes. In particular, the perinatal rat brain is highly vulnerable to specific developmental insults that produce later cognitive abnormalities. We used this model to examine the developmental effects of an exogenous factor of great concern, methylmercury (MeHg). Seven-day-old rats received a single injection of MeHg (5 microg/gbw). MeHg inhibited DNA synthesis by 44% and reduced levels of cyclins D1, D3, and E at 24 h in the hippocampus, but not the cerebellum. Toxicity was associated acutely with caspase-dependent programmed cell death. MeHg exposure led to reductions in hippocampal size (21%) and cell numbers 2 weeks later, especially in the granule cell layer (16%) and hilus (50%) of the dentate gyrus defined stereologically, suggesting that neurons might be particularly vulnerable. Consistent with this, perinatal exposure led to profound deficits in juvenile hippocampal-dependent learning during training on a spatial navigation task. In aggregate, these studies indicate that exposure to one dose of MeHg during the perinatal period acutely induces apoptotic cell death, which results in later deficits in hippocampal structure and function.
We have used microarrays to comprehensively describe the transcriptomes of the supraoptic nucleus (SON), the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and the neurointermediate lobe of adult male Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, as well as the PVN of Wistar rats. Comparison of these gene lists has enabled us to identify surprisingly large differences in hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal system gene expression patterns in these three strains. We have also shown that different transcript populations are enriched in the PVN and the SON of SD and WKY rats. The transcriptome differences catalogued here may be molecular substrates for the neuro-humoral phenotypic differences exhibited by different strains of rats.
The extensively innervated intestinal mucosa encompasses a vast surface exposed to an array of potentially infectious microorganisms. We investigated the role of enteric nerves in modulating intracellular internalization of a multidrug-resistant Salmonella typhimurium DT104 field isolate in mucosa-submucosa sheets from the porcine ileum, a biomedical model for the human intestine. The effects of transmural electrical stimulation and drugs on intracellular internalization of Salmonella over 90 min was determined by a gentamicin-resistance assay relative to untreated tissues from the same animal serving as controls. The actin inhibitor cytochalasin D reduced internalization of Salmonella, and the mucus-disrupting agent dithiothreitol decreased its mucosal adherence. Transmural electrical stimulation increased, and neuronal conduction blockers saxitoxin and lidocaine decreased Salmonella internalization in stimulated and unstimulated tissues. Furthermore, the alpha-adrenergic/imidazoline receptor ligand phentolamine and the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist tropisetron decreased internalization in stimulated tissues. Based on these findings, enteric neural activity appears to modulate interactions between the intestinal mucosa and pathogenic bacteria.
Cognitive impairment remains a major complication of advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection despite the widespread use of anti-retroviral therapy. Diagnosis is made by exclusion making biomarkers of great potential use. Thus, we used an integrated proteomics platform to assess cerebrospinal fluid protein profiles from 50 HIV-1 seropositive Hispanic women. Nine of 38 proteins identified were unique in those patients with cognitive impairment (CI). These proteins were linked to cell signaling, structural function, and antioxidant activities. This work highlights, in a preliminary manner, the utility of proteomic profiling for biomarker discovery for HIV-1 associated cognitive dysfunction.
The NADPH oxidase-dependent formation of reactive oxygen species (&quot;oxygen radicals&quot;) by phagocytic cells constitutes an important part of the innate immune defence against microorganisms. Recent studies in animal models imply that a deficient function of the NADPH oxidase may be linked to the development of autoimmunity, but a link between oxygen radical production and severity of autoimmune disease in humans has not been established. We have examined the oxygen radical production in peripheral blood leukocytes from patients with the Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS). Leukocytes from GBS patients in a stationary phase 1-5 years after their acute episode were activated by the formyl peptide receptor (FPR) ligand formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (fMLF) or the closely related formyl peptide like receptor 1 (FPRL1) ligand Trp-Lys-Tyr-Met-Val-Met-NH2 (WKYMVM). The patients were dichotomized according to severity by 1) the requirement of intensive care unit treatment and 2) the ability to walk independently after 3 months. Our data show that the amount of superoxide release following challenge with either of the two agonists fMLF and WKYMVM was significantly lower in patients requiring intensive care unit treatment or unable to walk after 3 months. Results obtained with the global activator phorbol myristate acetate, as well as with fMLF in TNF alpha-primed leukocytes, suggested that the deficiency of oxygen radical production in patients with severe GBS was the result of a specific deficiency of radical production in response to FPR/FPRL1 ligands rather than an inherent deficiency of NADPH oxidase function.
IL7 is a nonredundant cytokine, essential for T cell survival and development in humans. We genotyped nine tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), representing all parts of the IL7 gene, in 1,210 Swedish multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and 1,234 healthy controls. None of the SNPs showed a significantly different distribution in MS, and haplotype analysis also failed to reveal differences between patients and controls. We conclude that the IL7 gene is very unlikely to influence the genetic susceptibility to MS in this population.

Oral anticoagulant treatment for secondary prevention after cerebral ischaemia of presumed arterial origin is associated with a higher bleeding rate than cardioembolic stroke. This discrepancy is only partly explained by known bleeding risk factors. Haemostatic genetic variants and AB0 blood group may be involved. We performed a nested casecontrol study in patients with cerebral ischaemia of presumed arterial origin on anticoagulant treatment (International Normalized Ratio between 3.0-4.5). All 34 cases with non-fatal haemorrhage (10 intracranial and 24 extracranial) and 68 control patients on anticoagulant treatment without such a bleeding were selected from the SPIRIT study. AB0 blood group and 11 haemostatic genetic variants were investigated. The Thr312Ala variant of the alpha fibrinogen gene was associated with a decreased bleeding risk (odds ratio (OR) 0.3 for Ala/Ala and Thr/Ala versus Thr/Thr genotype; 95% CI 0.1-0.8). Factor V Leiden was associated with an increased bleeding risk (OR 11.6; 95% CI 1.3-103). The APOE2 allele (OR 0.5; 95% CI 0.2-1.7) and the Tyr204Phe variant in the factor XIII subunit A (OR 2.1; 0.9-5) had nonsignificant relationships with bleeding risk. AB0 blood group and 7 other genetic variants in coagulation factors II and XIII, vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, beta fibrinogen and apolipoprotein E were not related with the risk of haemorrhage. The Ala312Thr variant in the alpha fibrinogen gene is associated with a decreased and factor V Leiden with an increased bleeding risk in patients on anticoagulant treatment after cerebral ischaemia of presumed arterial origin.




After a low brainstem stroke, a 73-year-old man experienced episodes of 90 degrees tilting of the visual environment in the sagittal plane evoked or terminated by voluntarily changing his head position. The episodes ceased 10 days after the stroke. This provocation by head position supports the idea that pathologic visual-vestibular interaction is at the basis of the room tilt illusion.
Oligodendrocytes are vulnerable to CNS injury and disease. Because oligodendrocytes myelinate CNS axons, their death leads to demyelination and impaired axon conductance, which in turn contribute to neurologic deficits. Replacing oligodendrocytes requires proliferation and differentiation of endogenous NG2+ progenitor cells, a process that can be potently influenced by activated macrophages, which are present in most CNS pathologies. To examine the relationship between oligodendrocyte generation and macrophage activation in vivo, we compared the extent of oligodendrocyte loss and NG2 cell proliferation and differentiation after intraspinal microinjection of lipopolysaccharide (a Toll-like receptor-4 agonist) or zymosan (Toll-like receptor-2 agonist) in rats. Controls included injecting vehicle (sterile PBS; negative control) or lysolecithin (positive control for NG2 cell proliferation and oligodendrocyte differentiation). By 14 days postinjection, lipopolysaccharide injection sites displayed a sigficant rise in NG2 cell proliferation and oligodendrocyte differentiation, which exceeded that in vehicle and lysolecithin injections. Additionally, upregulated ciliary neurotrophic factor expression was present in lipopolysaccharide lesions. In contrast, zymosan-activated macrophages produced complete oligodendrocyte loss without stimulating NG2 cell proliferation, oligodendrocyte replacement, or ciliary neurotrophic factor expression. Zymosan also evoked a delayed lesion expansion and primary demyelination of intact myelinated axons around the lesions. These results clearly delineate the dichotomous potential of macrophage activation for influencing NG2 cell proliferation and oligodendrocyte differentiation. Because endogenous Toll-like receptor ligands are often present in injured CNS tissue, these results shed light on possible mechanisms that restrict oligodendrocyte replacement to specific domains of CNS trauma or disease sites.
In a dynamic environment, animals need to update information about the rewards expected from their alternative actions continually to make optimal choices for its survival. Because the reward resulting from a given action can be substantially delayed, the process of linking a reward to its causative action would be facilitated by memory signals related to the animal's previous actions. Although the ventral striatum has been proposed to play a key role in updating the information about the rewards expected from specific actions, it is not known whether the signals related to previous actions exist in the ventral striatum. In the present study, we recorded neuronal ensemble activity in the rat ventral striatum during a visual discrimination task and investigated whether neuronal activity in the ventral striatum encoded signals related to animal's previous actions. The results show that many neurons modulated their activity according to the animal's goal choice in the previous trial, indicating that memory signals for previous actions are available in the ventral striatum. In contrast, few neurons conveyed signals on impending goal choice of the animal, suggesting the absence of decision signals in the ventral striatum. Memory signals for previous actions might contribute to the process of updating the estimates of rewards expected from alternative actions in the ventral striatum.
Neurons in posterior parietal cortex (PPC) may serve both proprioceptive and exteroceptive functions during prehension, signaling hand actions and object properties. To assess these roles, we used digital video recordings to analyze responses of 83 hand-manipulation neurons in area 5 as monkeys grasped and lifted objects that differed in shape (round and rectangular), size (large and small spheres), and location (identical rectangular blocks placed lateral and medial to the shoulder). The task contained seven stages -- approach, contact, grasp, lift, hold, lower, relax -- plus a pretrial interval. The four test objects evoked similar spike trains and mean rate profiles that rose significantly above baseline from approach through lift, with peak activity at contact. Although representation by the spike train of specific hand actions was stronger than distinctions between grasped objects, 34% of these neurons showed statistically significant effects of object properties or hand postures on firing rates. Somatosensory input from the hand played an important role as firing rates diverged most prominently on contact as grasp was secured. The small sphere -- grasped with the most flexed hand posture -- evoked the highest firing rates in 43% of the population. Twenty-one percent distinguished spheres that differed in size and weight, and 14% discriminated spheres from rectangular blocks. Location in the workspace modulated response amplitude as objects placed across the midline evoked higher firing rates than positions lateral to the shoulder. We conclude that area 5 neurons, like those in area AIP, integrate object features, hand actions, and grasp postures during prehension.
Intelligent behavior depends on the ability to suppress inappropriate actions and resolve interference between competing responses. Recent clinical and neuroimaging evidence has demonstrated the involvement of prefrontal, parietal, and premotor areas during behaviors that emphasize conflict and inhibition. It remains unclear, however, whether discrete subregions within this network are crucial for overseeing more specific inhibitory demands. Here we probed the functional specialization of human prefrontal cortex by combining repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) with integrated behavioral measures of response inhibition (stop-signal task) and response competition (flanker task). Participants undertook a combined stop-signal/flanker task after rTMS of the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) or dorsal premotor cortex (dPM) in each hemisphere. Stimulation of the right IFG impaired stop-signal inhibition under conditions of heightened response competition but did not influence the ability to suppress a competing response. In contrast, stimulation of the right dPM facilitated execution but had no effect on inhibition. Neither of these results was observed during rTMS of corresponding left-hemisphere regions. Overall, our findings are consistent with existing evidence that the right IFG is crucial for inhibitory control. The observed double dissociation of neurodisruptive effects between the right IFG and right dPM further implies that response inhibition and execution rely on distinct neural processes despite activating a common cortical network.
Somatic sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia are necessary for a large part of our mechanosensory experience. However, we only have a good knowledge of the molecules required for mechanotransduction in simple invertebrates such as the nematode Caenorhabiditis elegans. In C. elegans, a number of so-called mec genes have been isolated that are required for the transduction of body touch. One such gene, mec-2 codes for an integral membrane protein of the stomatin family, a large group of genes with a stomatin homology domain. Using stomatin null mutant mice, we have tested the hypothesis that the founding member of this family, stomatin might play a role in the transduction of mechanical stimuli by primary sensory neurons. We used the in vitro mouse skin nerve preparation to record from a large population of low- and high-threshold mechanoreceptors with myelinated A-fiber (n = 553) and unmyelinated C-fiber (n = 157) axons. One subtype of mechanoreceptor, the d-hair receptor, which is a rapidly adapting mechanoreceptor, had reduced sensitivity to mechanical stimulation in the absence of stomatin. Other cutaneous mechanoreceptors, including nociceptive C-fibers were not affected by the absence of a functional stomatin protein. Patch-clamp analysis of presumptive D-hair receptor mechanoreceptive neurons, which were identified by a characteristic rosette morphology in culture, showed no change in membrane excitability in the absence of the stomatin protein. We conclude that stomatin is required for normal mechanotransduction in a subpopulation of vertebrate sensory neurons.
Auditory function in the mammalian inner ear is optimized by collaboration of two classes of sensory cells known as inner and outer hair cells. Outer hair cells amplify and tune sound stimuli that are transduced and transmitted by inner hair cells. Although they subserve distinct functions, they share a number of common properties. Here we compare the properties of mechanotransduction and adaptation recorded from inner and outer hair cells of the postnatal mouse cochlea. Rapid outer hair bundle deflections of about 0.5 micron evoked average maximal transduction currents of about 325 pA, whereas inner hair bundle deflections of about 0.9 micron were required to evoke average maximal currents of about 310 pA. The similar amplitude was surprising given the difference in the number of stereocilia, 81 for outer hair cells and 48 for inner hair cells, but may be reconciled by the difference in single-channel conductance. Step deflections of inner and outer hair bundles evoked adaptation that had two components: a fast component that consisted of about 60% of the response occurred over the first few milliseconds and a slow component that consisted of about 40% of the response followed over the subsequent 20-50 ms. The rate of the slow component in both inner and outer hair cells was similar to the rate of slow adaptation in vestibular hair cells. The rate of the fast component was similar to that of auditory hair cells in other organisms and several properties were consistent with a model that proposes calcium-dependent release of tension allows transduction channel closure.
Learning and memory are critically dependent on basal forebrain cholinergic (BFC) neuron excitability, which is modulated profoundly by leak K(+) channels. Many neuromodulators closing leak K(+) channels have been reported, whereas their endogenous opener remained unknown. We here demonstrate that nitric oxide (NO) can be the endogenous opener of leak K(+) channels in the presumed BFC neurons. Bath application of 1 mM S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), an NO donor, induced a long-lasting hyperpolarization, which was often interrupted by a transient depolarization. Soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitors prevented SNAP from inducing hyperpolarization but allowed SNAP to cause depolarization, whereas bath application of 0.2 mM 8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclomonophosphate (8-Br-cGMP) induced a similar long-lasting hyperpolarization alone. These observations indicate that the SNAP-induced hyperpolarization and depolarization are mediated by the cGMP-dependent and -independent processes, respectively. When examined with the ramp command pulse applied at -70 mV under the voltage-clamp condition, 8-Br-cGMP application induced the outward current that reversed at K(+) equilibrium potential (E(K)) and displayed Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz rectification, indicating the involvement of voltage-independent K(+) current. By contrast, SNAP application in the presumed BFC neurons either dialyzed with the GTP-free internal solution or in the presence of 10 muM Rp-8-bromo-beta-phenyl-1,N(2)-ethenoguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate sodium salt, a protein kinase G (PKG) inhibitor, induced the inward current that reversed at potentials much more negative than E(K) and close to the reversal potential of Na(+)-K(+) pump current. These observations strongly suggest that NO activates leak K(+) channels through cGMP-PKG-dependent pathway to markedly decrease the excitability in BFC neurons, while NO simultaneously causes depolarization by the inhibition of Na(+)-K(+) pump through ATP depletion.
Activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is likely to provide a mechanism for learning and memory. Cortical synaptic responses that are strengthened within a fixed synaptic modification range after 5 days of motor skill learning are driven near the top of their range, leaving only limited room for additional synaptic strengthening. If synaptic strengthening is a requisite step for acquiring new skills, near saturation of long-term potentiation (LTP) should impede further learning or the LTP mechanism should recover after single-task learning. Here we show that the initial learning-induced synaptic enhancement is sustained even long after training has been discontinued and that the synaptic modification range shifts upward. This range shift places increased baseline synaptic efficacy back within the middle of its operating range, allowing prelearning levels of LTP and long-term depression. Persistent synaptic strengthening might be a substrate for long-term retention in motor cortex, whereas the shift in synaptic modification range ensures the availability for new synaptic strengthening.
Although it is known that visual imagery is accompanied by activity in visual cortical areas, including primary visual cortex, whether olfactory imagery exists remains controversial. Here we asked whether cue-dependent olfactory imagery was similarly accompanied by activity in olfactory cortex, and in particular whether hedonic-specific patterns of activity evident in olfactory perception would also be present during olfactory imagery. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure activity in subjects who alternated between smelling and imagining pleasant and unpleasant odors. Activity induced by imagining odors mimicked that induced by perceiving real odorants, not only in the particular brain regions activated, but also in its hedonic-specific pattern. For both real and imagined odors, unpleasant stimuli induced greater activity than pleasant stimuli in the left frontal portion of piriform cortex and left insula. These findings combine with findings from other modalities to suggest activation of primary sensory cortical structures during mental imagery of sensory events.
Rhythmically active motor circuits are influenced by neuronally released and circulating hormone modulators, but there are few systems in which the influence of a peptide hormone modulator on a neuronally modulated motor circuit has been determined. We performed such an analysis in the isolated crab stomatogastric nervous system by assessing the influence of the hormone crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP) on the gastric mill (chewing) rhythm elicited by identified modulatory projection neurons. The gastric mill circuit is located in the stomatogastric ganglion. In situ, this ganglion is located within the ophthalmic artery and thus is in the path of circulating hormones such as CCAP. Focally-applied CCAP directly excited some gastric mill neurons, including the gastric mill central pattern generator neurons LG and Int1, but it did not elicit a sustained gastric mill rhythm. At concentrations as low as 10(-10) M, however, CCAP did influence gastric mill rhythms elicited by coactivating the projection neurons MCN1 and CPN2 and by selectively stimulating MCN1. In both cases, CCAP slowed this rhythm by selectively prolonging the protraction phase, although its influence on the MCN1-elicited rhythm was limited to those with relatively brief cycle periods. Interestingly, CCAP also reduced the threshold MCN1 firing frequency for activating the gastric mill rhythm. Last, the gastric mill neurons that exhibited altered activity during these CCAP-influenced rhythms did not correspond completely to the set of CCAP-responsive neurons. These results highlight the ability of hormonal modulation to enhance the flexibility provided by the neuronal modulation of rhythmically active motor circuits.
In the context of motor program generation in Aplysia, we characterize several functional aspects of intraneuronal compartmentalization in an interganglionic interneuron, CBI-5/6. CBI-5/6 was shown previously to have a cerebral compartment (CC) that includes a soma that does not generate full-size action potentials and a buccal compartment (BC) that does. We find that the synaptic connections made by the BC of CBI-5/6 in the buccal ganglion counter the activity of protraction-phase neurons and reinforce the activity of retraction-phase neurons. In buccal motor programs, the BC of CBI-5/6 fires phasically, and its premature activation can phase advance protraction termination and retraction initiation. Thus the BC of CBI-5/6 can act as an element of the central pattern generator (CPG). During protraction, the CC of CBI-5/6 receives direct excitatory inputs from the CPG elements, B34 and B63, and during retraction, it receives antidromically propagating action potentials that originate in the BC of CBI-5/6. Consequently, in its CC, CBI-5/6 receives depolarizing inputs during both protraction and retraction, and these depolarizations can be transmitted via electrical coupling to other neurons. In contrast, in its BC, CBI-5/6 uses spike-dependent synaptic transmission. Thus the CPG directly and differentially controls the program phases in which the two compartments of CBI-5/6 may transmit information to its targets.
Mammalian central pattern generators (CPGs) producing rhythmic movements exhibit extremely robust and flexible behavior. Network architectures that enable these features are not well understood. Here we studied organization of the brain stem respiratory CPG. By sequential rostral to caudal transections through the pontine-medullary respiratory network within an in situ perfused rat brain stem-spinal cord preparation, we showed that network dynamics reorganized and new rhythmogenic mechanisms emerged. The normal three-phase respiratory rhythm transformed to a two-phase and then to a one-phase rhythm as the network was reduced. Expression of the three-phase rhythm required the presence of the pons, generation of the two-phase rhythm depended on the integrity of Btzinger and pre-Btzinger complexes and interactions between them, and the one-phase rhythm was generated within the pre-Btzinger complex. Transformation from the three-phase to a two-phase pattern also occurred in intact preparations when chloride-mediated synaptic inhibition was reduced. In contrast to the three-phase and two-phase rhythms, the one-phase rhythm was abolished by blockade of persistent sodium current (I(NaP)). A model of the respiratory network was developed to reproduce and explain these observations. The model incorporated interacting populations of respiratory neurons within spatially organized brain stem compartments. Our simulations reproduced the respiratory patterns recorded from intact and sequentially reduced preparations. Our results suggest that the three-phase and two-phase rhythms involve inhibitory network interactions, whereas the one-phase rhythm depends on I(NaP). We conclude that the respiratory network has rhythmogenic capabilities at multiple levels of network organization, allowing expression of motor patterns specific for various physiological and pathophysiological respiratory behaviors.
Complex natural sounds (e.g., animal vocalizations or speech) can be characterized by specific spectrotemporal patterns the components of which change in both frequency (FM) and amplitude (AM). The neural coding of AM and FM has been widely studied in humans and animals but typically with either pure AM or pure FM stimuli. The neural mechanisms employed to perceptually unify AM and FM acoustic features remain unclear. Using stimuli with simultaneous sinusoidal AM (at rate f(AM) = 37 Hz) and FM (with varying rates f(FM)), magnetoencephalography (MEG) is used to investigate the elicited auditory steady-state response (aSSR) at relevant frequencies (f(AM), f(FM), f(AM) + f(FM)). Previous work demonstrated that for sounds with slower FM dynamics (f(FM) &lt; 5 Hz), the phase of the aSSR at f(AM) tracked the FM; in other words, AM and FM features were co-tracked and co-represented by &quot;phase modulation&quot; encoding. This study explores the neural coding mechanism for stimuli with faster FM dynamics (&lt; or =30 Hz), demonstrating that at faster rates (f(FM) &gt; 5 Hz), there is a transition from pure phase modulation encoding to a single-upper-sideband (SSB) response (at frequency f(AM) + f(FM)) pattern. We propose that this unexpected SSB response can be explained by the additional involvement of subsidiary AM encoding responses simultaneously to, and in quadrature with, the ongoing phase modulation. These results, using MEG to reveal a possible neural encoding of specific acoustic properties, demonstrate more generally that physiological tests of encoding hypotheses can be performed noninvasively on human subjects, complementing invasive, single-unit recordings in animals.
This study compares the performance of a newly developed gaze (eye-in-space) measurement technique based on double magnetic induction (DMI) by a custom-made gold-plated copper ring on the eye with the classical scleral search coil (SSC) technique to record two-dimensional (2D) head-unrestrained gaze shifts. We tested both systems simultaneously during head-free saccades toward light-emitting diodes (LEDs) within the entire oculomotor range (+/-35 deg). The absence of irritating lead wires in the case of the DMI method leads to a higher guarantee of success (no coil breakage) and to less irritation on the subject's eye, which results in a longer and more comfortable measurement time. Correlations between DMI and SSC signals for horizontal and vertical eye position, velocity, and acceleration were close to 1.0. The difference between the SSC signal and the DMI signal remains within a few degrees. In our current setup the resolution was about 0.3 deg for the DMI method versus 0.2 deg for the SSC technique. The DMI method is an especially good alternative in the case of patient and laboratory animal gaze control studies where breakage of the SSC lead wires is particularly cumbersome.
We previously reported that the kinematics of reaching movements reflect the superimposition of two separate control mechanisms specifying the hand's spatial trajectory and its final equilibrium position. We now asked whether the brain maintains separate representations of the spatial goals for planning hand trajectory and final position. One group of subjects learned a 30 degrees visuomotor rotation about the hand's starting point while performing a movement reversal task (&quot;slicing&quot;) in which they reversed direction at one target and terminated movement at another. This task required accuracy in acquiring a target mid-movement. A second group adapted while moving to -- and stabilizing at -- a single target (&quot;reaching&quot;). This task required accuracy in specifying an intended final position. We examined how learning in the two tasks generalized both to movements made from untrained initial positions and to movements directed toward untrained targets. Shifting initial hand position had differential effects on the location of reversals and final positions: Trajectory directions remained unchanged and reversal locations were displaced in slicing whereas final positions of both reaches and slices were relatively unchanged. Generalization across directions in slicing was consistent with a hand-centered representation of desired reversal point as demonstrated previously for this task whereas the distributions of final positions were consistent with an eye-centered representation as found previously in studies of pointing in three-dimensional space. Our findings indicate that the intended trajectory and final position are represented in different coordinate frames, reconciling previous conflicting claims of hand-centered (vectorial) and eye-centered representations in reach planning.
Neurofibromatosis is a difficult condition to treat and usually involves multiple surgeries throughout a patient's lifetime. Cutaneous and plexiform fibromas, caf-au-lait spots, and optic gliomas are common findings in this hereditary condition. Diagnosis is made through physical examination, magnetic resonance imaging, and family history. The patient described in this article presented with weakness and numbness in her extremities due to spinal cord compression. Continued research on this condition is needed to halt progression and search for a cure. Nurses play a key role in helping patients adjust to this lifetime burden.
Characterization of neural promoter/enhancers is essential for understanding gene regulation during brain development and provides useful genetic tools. However, it relies on the use of transgenic mice. We report a method for the rapid in vivo analysis of neural promoter/enhancers in the developing mouse brain and its application in the isolation of the doublecortin (DCX) promoter/enhancer for genetic labeling of young neurons. In the present study, we demonstrated that reporter genes introduced into the developing mouse cerebral cortex by in utero electroporation can achieve promoter/enhancer-specific patterns of expression. We used the in utero electroporation system to isolate a genomic fragment of the doublecortin gene that can direct reporter expression faithful to doublecortin in young neurons of the cerebral cortex. Finally, we showed that the DCX promoter identified via electroporation could reproduce doublecortin expression in the entire central nervous system in DCX-DsRed-express transgenic mice. The results of our study provide a convenient, reliable, and rapid method for in vivo analysis of neural promoter/enhancers in the developing mouse brain.
Although cleaved caspase-3 is known to be involved in apoptotic cell death mechanisms in neurons, it can also be involved in a nonapoptotic role in astrocytes after postnatal excitotoxic injury. Here we evaluate participation of upstream pathways activating caspase-3 in neurons and glial cells, by studying the intrinsic pathway via caspase-9, the extrinsic pathway via caspase-8, and activation of the p53-dependent pathway. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was injected intracortically in 9-day-old postnatal rats, which were sacrificed at several survival times between 4 hr postlesion (pl) and 7 days pl. We analyzed temporal and spatial expression of caspase-8, caspase-9, and p53 and correlation with neuronal and glial markers and caspase-3 activation. Caspase-9 was significantly activated at 10 hpl, strongly correlating with caspase-3. It was present mainly in damaged cortical and hippocampal neurons but was also seen in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in layer VI and corpus callosum (cc). Caspase-8 showed a diminished correlation with caspase-3. It was present in cortical neurons at 10-72 hpl, showing layer specificity, and also in astroglial and microglial nuclei, mainly in layer VI and cc. p53 Expression increased at 10-72 hpl but did not correlate with caspase-3. p53 Was seen in neurons of the degenerating cortex and in some astrocytes and microglial cells of layer VI and cc. In conclusion, after neonatal excitotoxicity, mainly the mitochondrial intrinsic pathway mediates neuronal caspase-3 and cell death. In astrocytes, caspase-3 is not widely correlated with caspase-8, caspase-9, or p53, except in layer VI-cc astrocytes, where activation of upstream cascades occurs.

Spinal glioblastomas multiforme (GBMs) are rare lesions of the central nervous system with a prognosis as poor as that of their intracranial counterpart. The authors present a case of a 50-year-old man with a GBM of the spinal cord treated with surgical removal of the mass and cordectomy after the onset of paraplegia. Six years later, the patient developed hepatitis C and received interferon therapy. Six months after the start of interferon therapy, magnetic resonance imaging revealed a right cerebellar mass pathologically consistent with a GBM. Despite aggressive treatment, the patient died 1 month later. Although intracranial dissemination of spinal GBMs has been reported, this case illustrates the longest reported interval between the occurrence of a spinal GBM and its intracranial dissemination. Thus, cordectomy should be considered as a reasonable alternative in patients with complete loss of neurological function at and below the level where they harbor a malignant spinal cord astrocytoma.


Neuregulin-1 is a pleiotropic endogenous growth factor that is neuroprotective in experimental models of cerebral ischemia. We tested the hypothesis that pretreatment with neuregulin-1 would be similarly protective after traumatic brain injury in mice. Mice were administered neuregulin-1 or equal amounts of vehicle intravenously immediately before controlled cortical impact. Injured mice were subjected to motor and cognitive testing, and brain tissue loss was quantitated at 4 weeks. Compared to vehicle, pretreatment with neuregulin-1 had no effect on brain tissue loss, motor function, or acquisition of a spatial learning task. However, neuregulin-1 treated mice showed improved retention of spatial memory versus vehicle-treated mice in subsequent probe trials (p&lt;0.05). These proof-of-principle data suggest that neuregulin-1 may improve some functional outcomes after brain trauma. Further studies are therefore warranted to more carefully explore molecular mechanisms, dose-responses, and relationships between morphological outcome and long-term recovery.


The human TP53 gene is well known as a tumour suppressor. Less well appreciated are the potential roles of p53 in regulating postnatal development and the cell-type specific effects of p53. In this issue of the Journal of Pathology, Lozano and colleagues show that p53 has the ability to block progenitor cell expansion in haematopoiesis and spermatogenesis but not in specific epithelial tissues. These data challenge the view that p53 acts equally in all cell types and have important implications for the applicability of p53 therapeutics in the treatment of human cancers.
Repeated injections of nicotine can produce an increase in locomotor activity and the expression of immediate-early gene, c-fos, in the central dopaminergic areas. Many studies have shown that Coptidis Rhizoma (CR) and its main alkaloid compound, berberine (BER), have a suppressive effect on the central nervous system. We examined the influence of CR or BER on repeated nicotine-induced locomotor activity in rats and the change of c-Fos expression in the brain by using immunohistochemistry. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given CR and BER before repeated injections of nicotine hydrochloride (0.4 mg kg(-1), s.c.) twice daily for 7 days. After 3 days withdrawal, rats received a challenge injection of nicotine. Pretreatment with CR (100 mg kg(-1), i.p.) and BER (100 mg kg(-1), i.p.) significantly inhibited the nicotine-induced locomotor activity and expression of c-Fos in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. These results suggest that CR and BER may produce inhibitory effects of nicotine on behavioural sensitization by possibly reducing postsynaptic neuronal activation in the central dopaminergic systems.
Unlike other M1 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonists, xanomeline demonstrates a unique mode of binding to the receptor. It not only binds reversibly to the receptor's conventional orthosteric site but also binds persistently at a secondary binding domain(s) on the M1 receptor. This results in persistent activation of the receptor even after extensive washout, and allosteric modulation of the orthosteric site. In the current study, we investigated how the effects of very brief exposure (1 min) of intact Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing M1 receptors to xanomeline followed by washout change with time. Pretreatment with xanomeline for 1 min resulted in a concentration-dependent wash-resistant inhibition of [3H]N-methylscopolamine (NMS) binding, with a lower potency than that observed in the continuous presence of xanomeline in the binding assay medium. This effect was associated with wash-resistant receptor activation. Incubation of pretreated and washed cells in control medium for 24 h transformed the monophasic xanomeline wash-resistant binding curve to one that exhibits two distinct potencies. This was the result of the appearance of a new very high-potency binding component without a change in the low-potency state. The delayed effects of persistently bound xanomeline are mainly due to reduction of the maximal binding of [3H]NMS without a change in its affinity. These treatment conditions also reversed persistent receptor activation by xanomeline. Our results imply that brief exposure to xanomeline followed by washing and prolonged waiting may result in delayed receptor desensitization accompanied by internalization or down-regulation.
The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system mediates stress responses. Extrahypothalamic CRF1 receptor activation has anxiogenic-like properties, but anxiety-related functions of CRF2 receptors remain unclear. The present study determined the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of a CRF2 agonist, urocortin 3, on behavior of male Wistar rats in the shock-probe, social interaction, and defensive withdrawal tests of anxiety-like behavior. Equimolar doses of stressin1-A, a novel CRF1 agonist, were administered to separate rats. The effects of pyrazolo[1,5-a]-1,3,5-triazin-4-amine,8-[4-(bromo)-2-chlorophenyl]-N, N-bis(2-methoxyethyl)-2,7-dimethyl-(9Cl) (MJL-1-109-2), a CRF1 antagonist, on behavior in the shock-probe test also were studied. Stressin1-A increased anxiety-like behavior in the social interaction and shock-probe tests. Stressin1-A elicited behavioral activation and defensive burying at lower doses (0.04 nmol), but it increased freezing, grooming, and mounting at 25-fold higher (1-nmol) doses. Conversely, systemic administration of MJL-1-109-2 (10 mg/kg) had anxiolytic-like effects in the shock-probe test. Unlike stressin1-A or MJL-1-109-2, i.c.v. urocortin 3 infusion did not alter anxiety-like behavior in the shock-probe test across a range of doses that reduced locomotion and rearing and increased grooming. Urocortin 3 also did not decrease social interaction, but it decreased anxiety-like behavior in the defensive withdrawal test at a 2-nmol dose. Thus, i.c.v. administration of CRF1 and CRF2 agonists produced differential, but not opposite, effects on anxiety-like behavior. Urocortin 3 (i.c.v.) did not consistently decrease or increase anxiety-like behavior, the latter unlike effects seen previously after local microinjection of CRF2 agonists into the septum or raphe. With increasing CRF1 activation, however, the behavioral expression of anxiety qualitatively changes from &quot;coping&quot; to &quot;noncoping&quot; and offensive, agonistic behaviors.

Long-term depression (LTD) of excitatory transmission at cerebellar parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses is a form of synaptic plasticity crucial for cerebellar motor learning. Around the postsynaptic membrane of these synapses, B-type gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABABR), a Gi/o protein-coupled receptor for the inhibitory transmitter GABA is concentrated and closely associated with type-1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1) whose signalling is a key factor for inducing LTD. We found that in cultured Purkinje cells, GABABR activation enhanced LTD of a glutamate-evoked current (LTDglu), increasing the magnitude of depression. It has been reported that parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses receive a micromolar level of GABA spilled over from the synaptic terminals of the neighbouring GABAergic interneurons. This level of GABA was able to enhance LTDglu. Our pharmacological analyses revealed that the betagamma subunits but not the alpha subunit of Gi/o protein mediated GABABR-mediated LTDglu enhancement. Gi/o protein activation was sufficient to enhance LTDglu. In this respect, LTDglu enhancement is clearly distinguished from the previously reported GABABR-mediated augmentation of an mGluR1-coupled slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. Baclofen application for only the induction period of LTDglu was sufficient to enhance LTDglu, suggesting that GABABR signalling may modulate mechanisms underlying LTDglu induction. Baclofen augmented mGluR1-coupled Ca2+ release from the intracellular stores in a Gi/o protein-dependent manner. Therefore, GABABR-mediated LTDglu enhancement is likely to result from augmentation of mGluR1 signalling. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of GABABR reduced the magnitude of LTD at parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapses in cerebellar slices. These findings demonstrate a novel mechanism that would facilitate cerebellar motor learning.
Changed vascular functions have been reported in several pathological conditions, such as chronic regional pain syndrome, obstructive vascular disease, and inflammation. Our previous experiments also showed that electrical stimulation of the lumbar sympathetic trunk (sympathetic stimulation: SS), which normally induces a decrease in blood flow (BF), caused a BF increase in about half of the measured sites in rats persistently inflamed with complete Freund's Adjuvant (AI rats). We also showed that the BF-increase response was only partially suppressed by the alpha1 antagonist at a higher dosage, suggesting the involvement of nonadrenergic mechanisms. We hypothesize that nonadrenergic mechanisms mediating vasodilatation might involve a vasodilating neuropeptide such as substance P (SP) that is released from sympathetic nerve terminals. In this experiment, we conducted an examination using an NK-1 receptor antagonist to determine whether SP plays any role in changed response to SS in AI rats, and also an immunohistochemical examination of whether SP is expressed in the lumbar sympathetic nerve ganglia (SG) of AI rats. The administration of an NK-1 receptor antagonist, CP-96,345, significantly reduced the BF-increase response to SS in AI rats, but its inactive enantiomer, CP-96,344, had no effect. Immunohistochemistry for SP revealed that SP-ir positive SG neurons (mean 13 neurons/rat) were found in 5 of 8 AI rats, whereas only one neuron was stained in 8 control rats. These results suggest that NK-1 receptor activation is involved in the BF-increase response to SS, and that this activation is in part mediated by SP from lumbar SG that was synthesized de novo in inflamed animals.
Children of mentally ill parents have increased rates of psychopathology and reduced adaptive functioning. However, there are very few studies examining the subjective experiences of those children and their opinions concerning their previous contact with psychiatric services. This study followed up a group of children of former psychiatric inpatients by sending them a questionnaire asking about their experiences. Thirty-six individuals responded. Answers were analysed qualitatively by using manifest content analysis. Participants reported negative experiences and lack of information and support from psychiatric care. They had wanted more explanations and more support for themselves. Quantitative data are used to establish the significance of the results.
There are very few magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies in anorexia nervosa and none of them with young adolescent patients. We studied 12 anorexia nervosa (DSM-IV) patients aged 11-17 consecutively admitted to an Eating Disorders Unit. An evaluation with laboratory data, psychopathological scales, magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) and a neuropsychological battery was carried out at admission and after 7 months' follow-up and weight recovery. Psychopathological and neuropsychological and MRS examinations were also performed in 12 control subjects. In the MRS study at the frontal gray matter, the anorexic group had a significantly lower N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) (p = .002), glutamate/glutamine (Glx) (p = .010) and myo-Inositol (mI) (p = .022) than the control group. The NAA correlated positive and significantly with triiodothyronin (Rho = .64) and the estimate level of intelligence measured with the vocabulary subtest of the WISC-R (Rho=.64). There were also positive correlations with body mass index (Rho = .47) and with attention measured with the coding subtest of the WISC-R (Rho=.51) and negative with loss of weight (Rho = -.51) but they were not statistically significant. At follow-up, there was an increase in body mass index (p=.002), triiodothyronin (p = .005), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (p = .017) and a decrease in cortisol (p = .005). In the MRS a significant increase (p = .013) in NAA was observed. The conclusion would be that NAA, Glx and mI are low in the frontal gray matter of adolescents with anorexia nervosa and specially NAA correlates with some nutritional and cognitive parameters. These alterations seem to be reversible in young patients.


Medulloblastoma is the most common embryonal tumour in children. Patients with medulloblastoma are currently staged as average-risk or poor-risk on the basis of clinical findings. With current multimodality therapy, nearly 90% of children with average-risk, non-disseminated medulloblastoma have 5-year event-free survival, and those with high-risk disease have a 60-65% survival rate; however, the outcome for younger children, particularly infants, is worse. Children who survive medulloblastoma are at risk of long-term sequelae related to the neurological effects of the tumour, surgery, or radiotherapy, and the additive effects of chemotherapy. Molecular biology has changed our understanding of medulloblastoma and has implications for diagnostic stratification and treatment. As newer biological agents are translated from the lab to the bedside, clinicians need to understand the fundamental signalling pathways that are targeted during therapy. Greater understanding of the molecular biology of medulloblastoma is needed so that more children can be cured or have an improved quality of life.


Many studies have examined the preclinical efficacy of Mg2+ therapy in models of traumatic brain injury. However, more of these studies have examined sensorimotor and motor performance than cognitive performance following injury. The present paper reviews the use of Mg2+ therapy to facilitate cognitive recovery in several models of cortical injury in the rodent. The first study examined the ability of daily injections of MgCl2 (1 or 2 mmol) to impair acquisition of a reference memory task in the Morris Water Maze. Additional studies examined the ability of MgCl2 to improve cognitive function following bilateral anterior medial cortex ablations, bilateral frontal cortex contusions, and unilateral frontal contusions. The results from these studies indicate that MgCl2 therapy is biologically active and readily crosses the blood-brain barrier because daily injections of MgCl2 impaired learning of a reference memory task in intact rats. Mg2+ therapy for brain injury revealed that administration of post-injury MgCl2 effectively improved recovery of cognitive deficits following injury. These results suggest that Mg2+ therapy is effective in facilitating cognitive recovery of function following brain injury; however, there are task and dose-dependent aspects to this recovery.
In this paper, we provide a semi-parametric test for the hypothesis that the spectra of two stationary point processes (SPPs) are the same. The estimates of the second-order spectral density functions of the SPPs are obtained by using two different approaches: (a) by smoothing the modified periodogram statistics using a moving average weighting scheme, (b) by employing the Welch's method on the modified periodogram statistics. The test is based on the likelihood ratio function under two alternative hypotheses. The first alternative hypothesis suggests that the ratio of the spectra is a constant (there is a shift to the power) while the second one adopts a quadratic model for the logarithmic ratio of the spectra. A comparison with a log-linear model indicates coincidence in the results. This is explained by using an illustrative example from the field of neurophysiology. It is shown that the information transferred to the spinal cord by the sensory axons, closely related with the complex physiological system called muscle spindle, under the influence of two different stimuli can be separated in two parts. The first part corresponds to the range of frequencies 0-19 Hz while the second to the range of frequencies 19-100 Hz. However, the dependence on the frequency in both parts is of a quadratic form.

Biochemical, molecular and pharmacological evidence for two unique six-transmembrane helical (TMH) domain opiate receptors expressed from the micro opioid receptor (MOR) gene have been shown. Designated micro3 and micro4 receptors, both protein species are Class A rhodopsin-like members of the superfamily of G-protein coupled receptors but are selectively tailored to mediate the cellular regulatory effects of endogenous morphine and related morphinan alkaloids via stimulation of nitric oxide (NO) production and release. Both micro3 and micro4 receptors lack an amino acid sequence of approximately 90 amino acids that constitute the extracellular N-terminal and TMH1 domains and part of the first intracellular loop of the micro1 receptor, but retain the empirically defined ligand binding pocket distributed across conserved TMH2, TMH3, and TMH7 domains of the micro1 sequence. Additionally, the receptor proteins are terminated by unique intracellular C-terminal amino acid sequences that serve as putative coupling or docking domains required for constitutive NO synthase activation. Because the recognition profile of micro3 and micro4 receptors is restricted to rigid benzylisoquinoline alkaloids typified by morphine and its extended family of chemical congeners, it is hypothesized that conformational stabilization provided by interaction of extended extracellular N-terminal protein domains and the extracellular loops is required for binding of endogenous opioid peptides as well as synthetic flexible opiate alkaloids.
It is generally assumed that neuronal cell death is minimal in liver failure and is insufficient to account for the neuropsychiatric symptoms characteristic of hepatic encephalopathy. However, contrary to this assumption, neuronal cell damage and death are well documented in liver failure patients, taking the form of several distinct clinical entities namely acquired (non-Wilsonian) hepatocerebral degeneration, cirrhosis-related Parkinsonism, post-shunt myelopathy and cerebellar degeneration. In addition, there is evidence to suggest that liver failure contributes to the severity of neuronal loss in Wernicke's encephalopathy. The long-standing nature of the thalamic and cerebellar lesions, over 80% of which are missed by routine clinical evaluation, together with the probability that they are nutritional in origin, underscores the need for careful nutritional management (adequate dietary protein, Vitamin B(1)) in liver failure patients. Mechanisms identified with the potential to cause neuronal cell death in liver failure include NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, lactic acidosis, oxidative/nitrosative stress and the presence of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The extent of neuronal damage in liver failure may be attenuated by compensatory mechanisms that include down-regulation of NMDA receptors, hypothermia and the presence of neuroprotective steroids such as allopregnanolone. These findings suggest that some of the purported &quot;sequelae&quot; of liver transplantation (gait ataxia, memory loss, confusion) could reflect preexisting neuropathology.
Both acute and chronic liver failure induce cerebral complications known as hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and thought to selectively involve brain astrocytes. Alterations of astrocytic-neuronal cross talk occurs affecting brain function. In acute liver failure, astrocyte undergo swelling, which results in increased intracranial pressure and may lead to brain herniation. In chronic liver failure, Alzheimer-type II astrocytosis is a characteristic change. Neurosteroids (NS) synthesized in the brain mainly by astrocytes independent of peripheral steroidal sources (adrenals and gonads) are suggested to play a role in HE. NS bind and modulate different types of membrane receptors. Effects on the gamma amino butyric acid (GABA)-A receptor complex are the most extensively studied. For example, the NS tetrahydroprogesterone (allopregnanolone), and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) are potent positive allosteric modulators of GABA-A receptors. As a consequence of modulation of these receptors, NS are well-known to modulate inhibitory neurotransmission in the central nervous system. Some NS bind to intracellular receptors, and in this way may also regulate gene expression. In HE, it has been well documented that neurotransmission and gene expression alterations occur during the progression of the disease. This review summarizes findings of relevance for the involvement of NS in human and experimental HE.
Metabolic alterations in the brain underly many of the mechanisms leading to acute and chronic Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE). Controversy exists about the role of glutamine accumulation as a causal factor in HE. Glutamine formation contributes to detoxify ammonia, whereby anaplerotic mechanisms in the astrocytes have to be sufficient to replenish Krebs cycle intermediates. The application of ex vivo high-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy permits direct measurements of metabolites and different metabolic pathways. Ex vivo (13)C-NMR studies in experimental animal models of acute and chronic HE have provided new insights. In an experimental rat model of ALF, (13)C isotopomer analysis of glucose metabolism showed that alterations of glucose flux through astrocytic pyruvate carboxylase might be linked to the pathogenesis of ALF as a limited anaplerotic flux in the brain, but not in the muscle, correlates with the development of brain edema. Moreover, (13)C-NMR data from a rat model of mild HE demonstrated relative differences in the pathway of glucose through pyruvate carboxylase in thalamus compared to frontal cortex, which might explain the vulnerability of this brain region compared to thalamus. These findings further support that glutamine accumulation might be not the primary cause of neurological symptoms in HE, and show that anaplerotic mechanisms could be essential for ammonia detoxification in HE.
We report our experience with the removal of ventral intradural spinal tumors through a posterior approach with the assistance of an endoscope. The endoscope allowed us to remove the tumor with minimal retraction of the spinal cord and to inspect for involvement of structures that were difficult to visualize with the microscope. Moreover, it obviated the use of a more involved anterior approach. This is the second report of the utilization of the endoscope for removal of intradural spinal cord tumors. Our data are discussed in the context of prior reported morphometric studies involving the spinal cord and expand the indications for the endoscope.
Interleukin-8 (IL-8/CXCL8) is a chemokine that increases endothelial permeability during early stages of angiogenesis. However, the mechanisms involved in IL-8/CXCL8-induced permeability are poorly understood. Here, we show that permeability induced by this chemokine requires the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2/fetal liver kinase 1/KDR). IL-8/CXCL8 stimulates VEGFR2 phosphorylation in a VEGF-independent manner, suggesting VEGFR2 transactivation. We investigated the possible contribution of physical interactions between VEGFR2 and the IL-8/CXCL8 receptors leading to VEGFR2 transactivation. Both IL-8 receptors interact with VEGFR2 after IL-8/CXCL8 treatment, and the time course of complex formation is comparable with that of VEGFR2 phosphorylation. Src kinases are involved upstream of receptor complex formation and VEGFR2 transactivation during IL-8/CXCL8-induced permeability. An inhibitor of Src kinases blocked IL-8/CXCL8-induced VEGFR2 phosphorylation, receptor complex formation, and endothelial permeability. Furthermore, inhibition of the VEGFR abolishes RhoA activation by IL-8/CXCL8, and gap formation, suggesting a mechanism whereby VEGFR2 transactivation mediates IL-8/CXCL8-induced permeability. This study points to VEGFR2 transactivation as an important signaling pathway used by chemokines such as IL-8/CXCL8, and it may lead to the development of new therapies that can be used in conditions involving increases in endothelial permeability or angiogenesis, particularly in pathological situations associated with both IL-8/CXCL8 and VEGF.
The molecular mechanisms involved in the maturation of secretory granules, organelles that store hormones and neuropeptides, are poorly understood. As granule content proteins are processed, the composition of granule membranes changes, yielding constitutive-like secretion of immature content proteins and producing secretagogue-responsive mature granules. Constitutive-like secretion was not previously recognized as a process subject to regulation. We show that Kalirin and Trio, homologous Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs), which interact with a secretory granule resident protein, modulate cargo secretion from immature granules. Some of the Kalirin and Trio isoforms expressed in neuroendocrine cells colocalize with immature granules. Overexpression of their N-terminal GEF domain (GEF1) enhances secretion from immature granules, depleting cells of secretory cargo in the absence of secretagogue. This response requires GEF1 activity and is mimicked by Kalirin/Trio substrates Rac1 and RhoG. Accordingly, selective pharmacological inhibition of endogenous GEF1 activity decreases secretagogue-independent release of hormone precursors, accumulating product peptide in mature secretory granules. Kalirin/Trio modulation of cargo secretion from immature granules provides secretory cells with an extra layer of control over the sets of peptides released. Control of this step enhances the range of physiological responses that can be elicited, whereas lack of control could have pathological consequences.
Axonal transport of mitochondria is critical for proper neuronal function. However, little is known about the extracellular signals that regulate this process. In the present study, we show that the neuromodulator serotonin (5-HT) greatly enhances mitochondrial movement in the axons of rat hippocampal neurons in vitro. Administration of a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist inhibited mitochondrial movement, whereas addition of fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, promoted mitochondrial movement. 5-HT receptors are known to activate the Akt/Protein kinase B pathway. Consistent with this, directional mitochondrial movement was almost completely blocked by a specific Akt inhibitor. Moreover, an inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3beta), a kinase whose activity is blocked by Akt-mediated phosphorylation, promoted mitochondrial movement. These findings show that 5-HT1A receptor activation stimulates mitochondrial movement in hippocampal neurons by inhibiting GSK3beta activity via Akt. Our findings suggest that 5-HT may mediate the redistribution of energy sources within responsive neurons, a possibility that has significant implications for understanding the global biological effects of this important neuromodulator.
In vertebrates, spinal commissural axons project along a transverse path toward and across the floor plate (FP). Post-crossing commissural axons alter their responsiveness to FP-associated guidance cues and turn to project longitudinally in a fasciculated manner prior to extending away from the midline. The upregulation of the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 on crossed commissural axon segments has been proposed to facilitate pathfinding on the contralateral side of the FP. To explore this possibility in vivo, we used Math1 regulatory sequences to target L1 to commissural axons before they cross the ventral midline. L1 mis-expression did not alter the distribution of commissural axon-associated markers or the ventral extension of commissural axons toward the midline. However, commissural axons often stalled or inappropriately projected into the longitudinal plane at the ipsilateral FP margin. These observations suggest that L1-mediated pathfinding decisions are normally delayed until axons have crossed the ventral midline (VM).
Calcium plays a key role during growth cone collapse. Recently, it has been proposed that low- and high-amplitude rises in [Ca(2+)](i) result in the activation of the neurite outgrowth inhibiting proteins calcineurin and calpain, respectively. However, it remains unknown if and how these mechanisms are modulated by specific guidance cues. Here we report that the inhibitory cue Semaphorin 5B induces growth cone collapse by promoting the influx of extracellular Ca(2+). The resulting rise in [Ca(2+)](i) is characterized by a low-amplitude increase followed by a marked secondary rise, suggesting the potential involvement of both calcineurin and calpain. In support of this, inhibition of either effector attenuated Sema5B-induced collapse, a result that was augmented by the simultaneous inhibition of both targets. Furthermore, we provide evidence that Sema5B induces calpain-mediated cleavage of calcineurin. We thus show for the first time that ligand-induced growth cone collapse can activate both calcineurin- and calpain-mediated pathways concurrently.
It is well documented that the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway plays a pivotal role in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced unilateral lesion in the nigrostriatal system. Our recent studies have shown that mixed-lineage kinase 3 (MLK3) and apoptosis-inducing kinase 1 (ASK1) are all involved in neuronal cell death induced by ischemia, which is mediated by the MLK3/c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3) and ASK1/JNK signaling pathway. To investigate whether these pathways are correlated with 6-OHDA-induced lesion as well, we examined the phosphorylation of MLK3, ASK1, and JNK3 in 6-OHDA rats. The results showed that both MLK3 and ASK1 could activate JNK3 and then subsequently enhance the neuronal death through its downstream pathways (i.e., nuclear and non-nuclear pathway). K252a have wide-range effects including Trk inhibition, MLK3 inhibition, and activation of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase signaling pathways through interactions with distinct targets and is a well known neuroprotective compound. We found that K252a could protect dopaminergic neurons against cell program death induced by 6-OHDA lesion, and the phenotypes of 6-OHDA rat model treated with K252a were partial rescued. The inhibition of K252a on the activation of MLK3/JNK3 and ASK1/JNK3 provided a link between 6-OHDA lesion and stress-activated kinases. It suggested that both proapoptotic MLK3/JNK3 and ASK1/JNK3 cascade may play an important role in dopaminergic neuronal death in 6-OHDA insult. Thus, the JNK3 signaling may eventually emerge as a prime target for novel therapeutic approaches to treatment of Parkinson disease, and K252a may serve as a potential and important neuroprotectant in therapeutic aspect in Parkinson disease.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal muscle disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. Transplantation of autologous myogenic cells genetically corrected ex vivo is a possible treatment for this disorder. In order to test the regenerative efficiency of freshly isolated satellite cells, we purified quiescent satellite cells from limb muscles of 8-12-week-old green fluorescent protein-transgenic (GFP-Tg) mice using SM/C-2.6 (a recently developed monoclonal antibody) and flow cytometry. Freshly isolated satellite cells were shown to participate in muscle regeneration more efficiently than satellite cell-derived myoblasts passaged in vitro do, when transplanted into tibialis anterior (TA) muscles of 8-12-week-old cardiotoxin-injected C57BL/6 mice and 5-week-old dystrophin-deficient mdx mice, and analyzed at 4 weeks after injection. Importantly, expansion of freshly isolated satellite cells in vitro without passaging had no detrimental effects on their regenerative capacity. Therefore we directly isolated satellite cells from 5-week-old mdx mice using SM/C-2.6 antibody and cultured them with lentiviral vectors expressing micro-dystrophin CS1. The transduced cells were injected into TA muscles of 5-week-old mdx mice. At 4 weeks after transplantation, the grafted cells efficiently contributed to regeneration of mdx dystrophic muscles and expressed micro-dystrophin at the sarcolemma. These results suggest that there is potential for lentiviral vector-mediated ex vivo gene therapy for DMD.
We sought to explore the phenomenon of disproportionate antecollis in multiple system atrophy (MSA) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The etiology is much debated and the main issue is whether it represents a primary myopathy or is secondary to the underlying motor disorder. The clinical, electrophysiological, and biopsy data of MSA or PD patients with antecollis were reviewed. We reviewed 16 patients (7 MSA and 9 PD) who developed antecollis during the course of their disease. The interval between onset of motor symptoms and of antecollis was shorter in the MSA group (4.6 +/- 1.7 years vs. 10.5 +/- 7.0 years). In 6 patients, the antecollis developed subacutely, and in 2 the abnormal neck flexion was initially an off-period phenomenon. Two additional patients also showed some dopa-responsiveness. Clinically, the antecollis was characterized by a forward flexion and anterior shift of the neck, with prominent cervical paraspinal and levator scapulae muscles, usually without weakness of residual neck extension. Electromyography of cervical paraspinal muscles showed mixed myopathic, normal, and neurogenic units, without early recruitment. Cervical paraspinal muscle biopsy in 2 patients disclosed fibrosis and nonspecific myopathic changes. We suggest that, in the context of MSA or PD, the initiating event in antecollis could be a disproportionately increased tone in anterior neck muscles that leads to secondary fibrotic and myopathic changes. However, a primary but yet unexplained neck extensor myopathy still remains the alternative possibility and longitudinal studies are necessary to settle this issue.
We conducted a case-control study to determine the prevalence of the LRRK2 Gly2385Arg variant in patients with Parkinson's disease in Han population in mainland China. Heterozygous LRRK2 Gly2385Arg variant was identified in 14 of 235 patients with Parkinson's disease (5.69%), but not in 214 unrelated healthy controls. Multivariate analysis indicated the frequency of Gly2385Arg variant in the female patients with early age at onset is higher than their male counterparts. The founder haplotype analysis showed the variant carriers shared the same founder. Clinically, the LRRK2 Gly2385Arg carriers presented with classical Parkinson's disease symptoms. Our study indicates that the LRRK2 Gly2385Arg variant is a potential ethnic-specific genetic risk factor of Parkinson's disease within Chinese Han ethnicity.
The objective of this study was to develop a new patient-reported outcome measure for patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) and to test its psychometric properties. There were three stages. First, a pool of potential scale items was generated from in-depth patient interviews. Second, these items were administered, in the form of a questionnaire, to a sample of people with MSA and traditional psychometric methods used to develop a rating scale satisfying standard criteria for reliability and validity. Third, the psychometric properties of the rating scale were examined in a second sample. In stage one, a pool of 105 items was generated from 20 patient interviews. In stage two, a scale with three subscales (motor, 14 items; nonmotor, 12 items; emotional/social functioning, 14 items), satisfying standard criteria for reliability and validity, was developed from the response data of 317 patients with MSA (response rate 71%). In stage three, the scale was examined in 286 people with MSA. Missing data were low, scores in both subscales were evenly distributed, and floor and ceiling effects were small. Reliability was high (Cronbach's alpha 0.83-0.93; test-retest ICC 0.88-0.92). Validity was supported by the interscale correlations (r = 0.47-0.59), known group differences, and the magnitude and pattern of correlations with four other rating scales, disease severity, and disease duration. In conclusion, the patient-rated MSA health-related Quality of life scale (MSA-QoL) may be a suitable patient-reported scale for use in clinical trials and studies in MSA.
Topographical or compartmental involvement of the putamen and caudate nucleus has not been fully elucidated in multiple system atrophy predominantly presenting with Parkinsonism (MSA-P). We carried out immunohistochemical studies using antibodies to calbindin (CALB) and calcineurin (CaN) as neurochemical markers for striatal medium spiny neurons. We found that in the caudal and dorsolateral putamen, the area most affected in MSA-P, the medium spiny neurons positive for CALB were severely depleted, while CaN-positive neurons were relatively spared in a mosaic pattern. In the dorsal caudate nucleus, an area less affected in MSA, residual CALB-positive neurons exhibited a compartmentalized distribution that corresponded with the striosomal arrangement visualized by Met-enkephalin immunostaining. Our findings suggest that there is a compartmental difference in the susceptibility of striatal medium spiny neurons to neurodegeneration in MSA-P.
A significant number of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) experience sialorrhea. This problem can cause social embarrassment, and because saliva pools in the mouth, may lead to aspiration pneumonia. Sialorrhea in PD is thought to be caused by impaired or infrequent swallowing, rather than hypersecretion. Oral medications, botulinum toxin injections, surgical interventions, radiotherapy, speech therapy, and trials of devices may be used to treat sialorrhea in PD, but few controlled trials have been published. This article reviews current knowledge regarding the frequency, etiology, assessment, and treatment of sialorrhea in PD.
Threshold electrotonus involves tracking the changes in axonal excitability produced by subthreshold polarizing currents and is the only technique that allows insight into the function of internodal conductances in human subjects in vivo. There is often an abrupt transient reversal of the threshold change as excitability increases in response to conditioning depolarizing currents (S1 phase). In recordings from motor axons, it has been recently demonstrated that this notch or inflection is due to activation of low-threshold axons. We report that a notch is frequently seen in sensory recordings (in 33 of 50 healthy subjects) using the standard threshold electrotonus protocol. When large, the notch can distort subsequent phases of threshold electrotonus and could complicate quantitative measurements and modeling studies.


Interactions between stem cells and their surrounding microenvironment, or niche, are critical for the establishment and maintenance of stem-cell properties. The adult Drosophila testis contains a morphologically discrete stem-cell niche, the 'hub'. The small cluster of non-dividing, somatic hub cells at the anterior tip of the fly testis is contacted by the germline stem cells (GSCs), which retain their stem-cell character through the direct association with the hub. Here we show that integrin-mediated adhesion is important for maintaining the correct position of embryonic hub cells during gonad morphogenesis. The misplaced hub in integrin-deficient embryos directs the orientation of cell divisions in the presumptive GSCs, a hallmark of the active germline stem-cell niche. A decrease in integrin-mediated adhesion in adult testes, which resulted in a loss of the hub and the stem-cell population, revealed the importance of hub-cell anchoring. Finally, we show that an extracellular matrix (ECM) is present around the gonad during late embryogenesis and that this ECM is defective in integrin-deficient gonads. On the basis of our data, we propose that integrins are required for the attachment of the hub cells to the ECM, which is essential for maintaining the stem-cell niche.
The microtubule-associated protein tau (encoded by MAPT) and several tau kinases have been implicated in neurodegeneration, but only MAPT has a proven role in disease. We identified mutations in the gene encoding tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) as the cause of spinocerebellar ataxia type 11. Affected brain tissue showed substantial cerebellar degeneration and tau deposition. These data suggest that TTBK2 is important in the tau cascade and in spinocerebellar degeneration.
It is widely assumed that genetic differences in gene expression underpin much of the difference among individuals and many of the quantitative traits of interest to geneticists. Despite this, there has been little work on genetic variability in human gene expression and almost none in the human brain, because tools for assessing this genetic variability have not been available. Now, with whole-genome SNP genotyping arrays and whole-transcriptome expression arrays, such experiments have become feasible. We have carried out whole-genome genotyping and expression analysis on a series of 193 neuropathologically normal human brain samples using the Affymetrix GeneChip Human Mapping 500K Array Set and Illumina HumanRefseq-8 Expression BeadChip platforms. Here we present data showing that 58% of the transcriptome is cortically expressed in at least 5% of our samples and that of these cortically expressed transcripts, 21% have expression profiles that correlate with their genotype. These genetic-expression effects should be useful in determining the underlying biology of associations with common diseases of the human brain and in guiding the analysis of the genomic regions involved in the control of normal gene expression.
The mechanisms underlying the precise targeting of tectal layers by ingrowing retinal axons are largely unknown. In zebrafish, individual axons choose one of four retinorecipient layers upon entering the tectum and remain restricted to this layer, despite continual remodeling and shifting of their terminal arbors. In dragnet mutants, by contrast, a large fraction of retinal axons aberrantly trespass between layers or form terminal arbors that span two layers. The dragnet gene, drg, encodes collagen IV(alpha5) (Col4a5), a basement membrane component lining the surface of the tectum. Heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) are normally associated with the tectal basement membrane but are dispersed in the dragnet mutant tectum. Zebrafish boxer (extl3) mutants, which are deficient in HSPG synthesis, show laminar targeting defects similar to those in dragnet. Our results show that the collagen IV sheet anchors secreted factors at the surface of the tectum, which serve as guidance cues for retinal axons.
Agonists of GABA(B) receptors exert a bi-directional effect on the activity of dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area, which can be explained by the fact that coupling between GABA(B) receptors and G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels is significantly weaker in DA neurons than in GABA neurons. Thus, low concentrations of agonists preferentially inhibit GABA neurons and thereby disinhibit DA neurons. This disinhibition might confer reinforcing properties on addictive GABA(B) receptor agonists such as gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) and its derivatives. Here we show that, in DA neurons of mice, the low coupling efficiency reflects the selective expression of heteromeric GIRK2/3 channels and is dynamically modulated by a member of the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) protein family. Moreover, repetitive exposure to GHB increases the GABA(B) receptor-GIRK channel coupling efficiency through downregulation of RGS2. Finally, oral self-administration of GHB at a concentration that is normally rewarding becomes aversive after chronic exposure. On the basis of these results, we propose a mechanism that might underlie tolerance to GHB.
Reciprocal questions often frame studies of the evolution of developmental mechanisms. How can species share similar developmental genetic toolkits but still generate diverse life forms? Conversely, how can similar forms develop from different toolkits? Genomics bridges the gap between evolutionary and developmental biology, and can help answer these evo-devo questions in several ways. First, it informs us about historical relationships, thus orienting the direction of evolutionary diversification. Second, genomics lists all toolkit components, thereby revealing contraction and expansion of the genome and suggesting mechanisms for evolution of both developmental functions and genome architecture. Finally, comparative genomics helps us to identify conserved non-coding elements and their relationship to genome architecture and development.
Charles Darwin appreciated the conceptual difficulty in accepting that an organ as wonderful as the vertebrate eye could have evolved through natural selection. He reasoned that if appropriate gradations could be found that were useful to the animal and were inherited, then the apparent difficulty would be overcome. Here, we review a wide range of findings that capture glimpses of the gradations that appear to have occurred during eye evolution, and provide a scenario for the unseen steps that have led to the emergence of the vertebrate eye.
Over the past decade, there has been an explosion in the number of membrane transport proteins that have been shown to be sensitive to the abundance of phosphoinositides in the plasma membrane. These proteins include voltage-gated potassium and calcium channels, ion channels that mediate sensory and nociceptive responses, epithelial transport proteins and ionic exchangers. Each of the regulatory lipids is also under multifaceted regulatory control. Phosphoinositide modulation of membrane proteins in neurons often has a dramatic effect on neuronal excitability and synaptic transmitter release. The repertoire of lipid signalling mechanisms that regulate membrane proteins is intriguingly complex and provides a rich array of topics for neuroscience research.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO, Devic syndrome) is a rare demyelinating disease of the central nervous system which mostly follows a relapsing course. Key features of this disorder include unilateral or bilateral optic neuritis and longitudinally extensive myelitis (&gt; or = three segments). Brain lesions are rarely present at onset. They may however evolve during the course of disease but usually remain asymptomatic. The histopathology of NMO is suggestive of an underlying humoral autoimmune pathomechanism and indicates that NMO is a distinct entity rather than a variant of multiple sclerosis. The recent detection of NMO-specific serum autoantibodies against the water channel aquaporin-4 (Aqp4) is of significant diagnostic relevance and classifies NMO as the first inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the CNS with a defined autoantigen. More recent therapeutic strategies such as plasma exchange or pharmacological B-cell depletion are expected to improve long-term prognosis of NMO.
Recent developments in multi-electrode recordings enable the simultaneous measurement of the spiking activity of many neurons. Analysis of such multineuronal data is one of the key challenge in computational neuroscience today. In this work, we develop a multivariate point-process model in which the observed activity of a network of neurons depends on three terms: (1) the experimentally-controlled stimulus; (2) the spiking history of the observed neurons; and (3) a hidden term that corresponds, for example, to common input from an unobserved population of neurons that is presynaptic to two or more cells in the observed population. We consider two models for the network firing-rates, one of which is computationally and analytically tractable but can lead to unrealistically high firing-rates, while the other with reasonable firing-rates imposes a greater computational burden. We develop an expectation-maximization algorithm for fitting the parameters of both the models. For the analytically tractable model the expectation step is based on a continuous-time implementation of the extended Kalman smoother, and the maximization step involves two concave maximization problems which may be solved in parallel. The other model that we consider necessitates the use of Monte Carlo methods for the expectation as well as maximization step. We discuss the trade-off involved in choosing between the two models and the associated methods. The techniques developed allow us to solve a variety of inference problems in a straightforward, computationally efficient fashion; for example, we may use the model to predict network activity given an arbitrary stimulus, infer a neuron's ring rate given the stimulus and the activity of the other observed neurons, and perform optimal stimulus decoding and prediction. We present several detailed simulation studies which explore the strengths and limitations of our approach.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most prominent cause of dementia in the elderly. To determine changes in the AD brain that may mediate the transition into dementia, the gene expression of approximately 10,000 full-length genes was compared in mild/moderate dementia cases to non-demented controls that exhibited high AD pathology. Including this latter group distinguishes this work from previous studies in that it allows analysis of early cognitive loss. Compared to non-demented high-pathology controls, the hippocampus of AD cases with mild/moderate dementia had increased gene expression of the inflammatory molecule major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II, as assessed with microarray analysis. MHC II protein levels were also increased and inversely correlated with cognitive ability. Interestingly, the mild/moderate AD dementia cases also exhibited decreased number of T cells in the hippocampus and the cortex compared to controls. In conclusion, transition into AD dementia correlates with increased MHC II(+) microglia-mediated immunity and is paradoxically paralleled by a decrease in T cell number, suggesting immune dysfunction.
Despite numerous studies showing neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects of estrogen in animal models, the long-term effects of estrogen use on brain morphology in older women are not known. Thus, we compared ventricular, cerebrospinal fluid, white matter, and grey matter volumes estimated from magnetic resonance images of postmenopausal women with more than 20 years exposure to unopposed estrogen, women who were not on estrogen, and young healthy women. Estrogen users had significantly smaller ventricles and greater white matter volumes than non-users, but hormone exposure did not affect grey matter volumes. Young healthy women had significantly smaller ventricles, less cerebrospinal fluid and more grey matter than both groups of older women. However, they had comparable white matter volumes to older women on estrogen. These findings suggest that long-term estrogen protects against white matter loss in aging. This adds to findings from other studies suggesting estrogen is neuroprotective of the hippocampus and other regions in older women.
Structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed on 21 healthy elderly controls, 14 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 15 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) to investigate changes in fMRI activation in relation to underlying structural atrophy. The fMRI paradigm consisted of associative encoding of novel picture-word pairs. Structural analysis of the brain was performed using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and hippocampal volumetry. Compared to controls, the MCI subjects exhibited increased fMRI responses in the posterior hippocampal, parahippocampal and fusiform regions, while VBM revealed more atrophy in MCI in the anterior parts of the left hippocampus. Furthermore, the hippocampal volume and parahippocampal activation were negatively correlated in MCI, but not in controls or in AD. We suggest that the increased fMRI activation in MCI in the posterior medial temporal and closely connected fusiform regions is compensatory due to the incipient atrophy in the anterior medial temporal lobe.
Cognitive tasks involving conflicting stimuli and responses are associated with an early age-related decline in performance. Conflict and conflict-induced interference can be stimulus- or response-related. In classical stimulus-response compatibility tasks, such as the Stroop task, the event-related potential (ERP) usually reveals a greater negativity on incongruent versus congruent trials which has often been linked with conflict processing. However, it is unclear whether this negativity is related to stimulus- or response-related conflict, thus rendering the meaning of age-related changes inconclusive. In the present study, a modified Stroop task was used to focus on stimulus-related interference processes while excluding response-related interference. Since we intended to study work-relevant effects ERPs and performance were determined in young (about 30 years old) and middle-aged (about 50 years old) healthy subjects (total n=80). In the ERP, a broad negativity developed after incongruent versus congruent stimuli between 350 and 650 ms. An age-related increase of the latency and amplitude of this negativity was observed. These results indicate age-related alterations in the processing of conflicting stimuli already in middle age.
The amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposited in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is generated by beta- and gamma-secretase processing of a larger integral membrane protein precursor (APP). Intramembrane processing of APP by gamma-secretase also yields an intracellular fragment, CTFgamma (a.k.a. AICD), which is highly conserved and is believed to regulate the transcription of several genes including KAI-1 and GSK3beta. The intracellular domain of APP is also processed by caspase to a 31 aa fragment that was shown to induce apoptosis by several groups. Although large quantities of CTFgamma are generated continuously by neurons, little if any is normally detected in cell lysates, which suggests that it is very rapidly turned over in vivo. Previous studies demonstrated that insulysin (IDE), an Abeta-degrading enzyme, is responsible for cytosol-mediated CTFgamma degradation in vitro. Consistent with this finding, knockout mice lacking IDE accumulate CTFgamma to detectable levels in the brain, although its levels remain lower than its precursor, suggesting that it continues to be turned over in the brain. Moreover, when we treated cultured cells with IDE inhibitors, we did not observe an increase in CTFgamma in cell lysates, suggesting that pathways other than IDE are also involved in CTFgamma turnover. To understand CTFgamma turnover further, we have mapped the IDE cleavage sites with the intention of mutating them to examine alternative pathways in future studies. Edman degradation revealed that IDE cleaves CTFgamma at multiple sites to small peptides ranging from 5 to 14 aa. The cleavage sites do not reveal the existence of any sequence specificity for IDE cleavage. Understanding the turnover mechanisms of CTFgamma is critical to the understanding of the signaling function of APP mediated by this fragment. The current study presents the interesting specificity of CTFgamma turnover by IDE, which has been previously identified as the major degrading enzyme for Abeta as well as CTFgamma. In addition, the study provides evidence for the presence of alternative CTFgamma-degrading pathways in the cell.
Glioblastoma is the most common brain tumor that causes significant mortality annually. Limitations of the current therapeutic regimens warrant development of new techniques and treatment strategies in orthotopic animal model for better management of this devastating brain cancer. There are only a few experimental orthotopic models of glioblastoma for pre-clinical testing. In the present investigation, we successfully implanted rat C6 cells via intracranial stereotaxic cannulation in adult Sprague-Dawley rats for development and histoimmunopathological characterization of an advanced orthotopic glioblastoma allograft model, which could be useful for investigating the course of glioblastoma development as well as for testing efficacy of new therapeutic agents. The orthotopic glioblastoma allograft was generated by intracerebral injection of rat C6 cells through a guide-cannula system and after 21 post-inoculation days the brain tumor was characterized by histoimmunopathological experiments. Histological staining and immunofluorescent labelings for TERT, VEGF, Bcl-2, survivin, XIAP, and GFAP revealed the distinct characteristics of glioblastoma in C6 allograft, which could be useful as a target for treatment with emerging new therapeutic agents. Our investigation indicated the successful development of intracranial cannulated orthotopic glioblastoma allograft in adult Sprague-Dawley rats, making it as a useful animal model of glioblastoma for pre-clinical evaluation of various therapeutic strategies for the management of glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma is the deadliest and most prevalent brain tumor, which is not yet amenable to any treatments. Therefore, new and innovative therapeutic strategies need to be developed for treating this deadly disease. We found that all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or 13-cis retinoic acid (13-CRA) induced astrocytic differentiation with down regulation of telomerase activity in rat glioblastoma C6 cells and enhanced sensitivity of the cells to interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) or taxol (TXL) for apoptosis. Sensitivity of differentiated cells to IFN-gamma or TXL was greatly increased for apoptosis with increases in calcineurin expression, Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, and expression and activity of calpain and caspases. Treatment with IFN-gamma activated caspase-8 indicating induction of apoptosis via the receptor-mediated pathway. Notably, IFN-gamma activated the signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT-1) for signaling via binding to gamma activator sequence (GAS), whereas TXL activated Raf-1 kinase for inactivation of Bcl-2 by its phosphorylation. We confirmed involvement of different proteolytic mechanisms in cell death by pretreating the cells with caspase-8 inhibitor II, calpeptin (calpain inhibitor), and caspase-9 inhibitor I, and caspase-3 inhibitor IV. Results demonstrated that retinoids induced astrocytic differentiation with down regulation of telomerase activity and worked synergistically to enhance sensitivity of cells to the cytotoxic agent IFN-gamma and the cytostatic agent TXL for apoptosis. This combination therapy for differentiation and apoptosis could be highly effective for controlling the malignant growth of glioblastoma.
To demonstrate calpain involvement in neurodegeneration in rat spinal cord injury (SCI), we examined SCI segments for DNA fragmentation, neurons for calpain overexpression, neuronal death, and neuroprotection with calpain inhibitor (E-64-d). After the induction of SCI (40 g cm force) on T12, rats were treated within 15 min with vehicle (DMSO) or E-64-d. Sham animals underwent laminectomy only. Animals were sacrificed at 24 h, and five 1-cm long spinal cord segments were collected: two rostral (S1 and S2), one lesion (S3), and two caudal segments (S4 and S5). Agarose gel electrophoresis of DNA samples isolated from the SCI segments showed both random and internucleosomal DNA fragmentation indicating occurrence of necrosis as well as apoptosis mostly in the lesion, moderately in caudal, and slightly in rostral segments from SCI rats. Treatment of SCI rats with E-64-d (1 mg/kg) reduced DNA fragmentation in all segments. The lesion and adjacent caudal segments (S3 and S4) were further investigated by in situ double-immunofluorescent labelings that showed increase in calpain expression in neurons in SCI rats and decrease in calpain expression in SCI rats treated with E-64-d. In situ combined TUNEL and double-immunofluorescent labelings directly detected co-localization of neuronal death and calpain overexpressin in SCI rats treated with only vehicle while attenuation of neuronal death in SCI rats treated with E-64-d. Previous studies from our laboratory indirectly showed neuroprotective effect of E-64-d in SCI rats. Our current results provide direct in situ evidence for calpain involvement in neuronal death and neuroprotective efficacy of E-64-d in lesion and penumbra in SCI rats.
Glioblastoma is the deadliest brain tumor in humans. Current therapies are mostly ineffective and new agents need to be explored for controlling this devastating disease. Inositol hexaphosphate (IP6) is a phytochemical that is widely found in corns, cereals, nuts, and high fiber-content foods. Previous studies demonstrated anti-cancer properties of IP6 in several in vitro and in vivo tumor models. However, therapeutic efficacy of IP6 has not yet been evaluated in glioblastoma. Here, we explored the molecular mechanism of action of IP6 in human malignant glioblastoma T98G cells. The viability of T98G cells decreased following treatment with increasing doses of IP6. T98G cells exposed to 0.25, 0.5, and 1 mM IP6 for 24 h showed morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis. Western blotting indicated changes in expression of Bax and Bcl-2 proteins resulting in an increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and upregulation of cytosolic levels of cytochrome c and Smac/Diablo, suggesting involvement of mitochondria-dependent caspase cascade in apoptosis. IP6 downregulated cell survival factors such as baculovirus inhibitor-of-apoptosis repeat containing-2 (BIRC-2) protein and telomerase to promote apoptosis. Upregulation of calpain and caspase-9 occurred in course of apoptosis. Increased activities of calpain and caspase-3 cleaved 270 kD alpha-spectrin at specific sites generating 145 kD spectrin break down product (SBDP) and 120 kD SBDP, respectively. Increased caspase-3 activity also cleaved inhibitor of caspase-3-activated DNase and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Collectively, our results demonstrated that IP6 down regulated the survival factors BIRC-2 and telomerase and upregulated calpain and caspase-3 activities for apoptosis in T98G cells.
Phosphatase and tension homolog located on chromosome ten (PTEN) is a tumor suppressor as it negatively regulates activation of Akt. Mutation or deletion of PTEN has been found in as high as 80% of glioblastomas, which harbor aberrant cell signaling passing through the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt (PI3K/Akt) survival pathway. Glioblastoma cells without functional PTEN are not easily amenable to apoptosis. We investigated the possibility of modulation of signal transduction pathways for induction of apoptosis in human glioblastoma T98G (PTEN-harboring) and U87MG (PTEN-deficient) cell lines after treatment with the combination of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Treatment with ATRA plus IFN-gamma stimulated PTEN expression and suppressed Akt activation in T98G cells, whereas no PTEN expression but Akt activation in U87MG cells under the same conditions. Pretreatment of U87MG cells with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 could prevent Akt activation. Interestingly, ATRA plus IFN-gamma could significantly decrease cell viability and increase morphological features of apoptosis in both cell lines. Combination of ATRA and IFN-gamma showed more efficacy than IFN-gamma alone in causing apoptosis that occurred due to increases in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, and caspase-3 activity. Luciferase reporter gene assay showed that combination of ATRA and IFN-gamma significantly down regulated transcriptional activity of the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), a survival signaling factor, in U87MG cells. Thus, combination of ATRA and IFN-gamma caused significant amounts of apoptosis in T98G cells due to suppression of the PI3K/Akt survival pathway while the same treatment caused apoptosis in U87MG cells due to down regulation of the NF-kappaB activity. Therefore, the combination of ATRA and IFN-gamma could modulate different survival signal transduction pathways for induction of apoptosis and should be considered as an effective therapeutic strategy for controlling the growth of both PTEN-harboring and PTEN-deficient glioblastomas.
Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) may play a significant role in motor neuron death associated with the pathology of spinal cord injury and, perhaps, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The present study employs an in vitro model of HI to investigate the role of a stress kinase pathway, i.e., p38 MAP kinase, in cell death signaling in a motor neuron cell line, i.e., NSC34, subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Although the neurons were essentially tolerant to either hypoxia (0.2% O(2)) or low glucose (1 mM) alone, more than 60% of them died in response to combined low oxygen and low-glucose exposure. Minocycline, a semi-synthetic tetracycline known for its neuroprotective effects in models of neurodegeneration, afforded substantial (approximately 50%) protection against hypoxic cell death, assessed by lactate dehydrogenase release and flow cytometry, while suppressing OGD-induced p38 MAP kinase activation. An inhibitor of p38 kinase, SB203580, as well as siRNA-mediated down-regulation of p38 kinase elicited an almost complete blockade of OGD-induced cell death. The use of p38 isoform-specific siRNAs further revealed preferential involvement of the alpha over the beta isoform of p38 MAP kinase in hypoxic neuronal cell death in our model.
Glioblastoma is the most malignant human brain tumor that shows poor response to existing therapeutic agents. Search continues for an effective therapy for controlling this deadliest brain tumor. Curcumin (CCM), a polyphenolic compound from Curcuma longa, possesses anti-cancer properties in both in vitro and in vivo. In the present investigation, we evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of CCM against human malignant glioblastoma U87MG cells. Trypan blue dye exclusion test showed decreased viability of U87MG cells with increasing dose of CCM. Wright staining and ApopTag assay, respectively, showed the morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis in U87MG cells treated with 25 microM and 50 microM of CCM for 24 h. Western blotting showed activation of caspase-8, cleavage of Bid to tBid, increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, and release of cytochrome c from mitochondria followed by activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 for apoptosis. Also, CCM treatments increased cytosolic level of Smac/Diablo to suppress the inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins and down regulated anti-apoptotic nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), favoring the apoptosis. Increased activities of calpain and caspase-3 cleaved 270 kDa alpha-spectrin at specific sites generating 145 kDa spectrin break down product (SBDP) and 120 kDa SBDP, respectively, leading to apoptosis in U87MG cells. Results show that CCM is an effective therapeutic agent for suppression of anti-apoptotic factors and activation of calpain and caspase proteolytic cascades for apoptosis in human malignant glioblastoma cells.
Historically, the neuron has been the conceptual focus for almost all of neuroscience research. In recent years, however, the concept of the neurovascular unit has emerged as a new paradigm for investigating both physiology and pathology in the CNS. This concept proposes that a purely neurocentric focus is not sufficient, and emphasizes that all cell types in the brain including neuronal, glial and vascular components, must be examined in an integrated context. Cell-cell signaling and coupling between these different compartments form the basis for normal function. Disordered signaling and perturbed coupling form the basis for dysfunction and disease. In this mini-review, we will survey four examples of this phenomenon: hemodynamic neurovascular coupling linking blood flow to brain activity; cellular communications that evoke the blood-brain barrier phenotype; parallel systems that underlie both neurogenesis and angiogenesis in the CNS; and finally, the potential exchange of trophic factors that may link neuronal, glial and vascular homeostasis.
Elucidation of the underlying pathogenic mechanisms leading to apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes and activation of microglia and astrocytes in different neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory disorders remains a challenge in neuroscience. In order to overcome the challenge and find out therapeutic remedies, it is important to study live and death processes in each and every cell type of the brain. Here we present a protocol of isolating highly purified microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons, all four major cell types of the CNS, from the same human fetal brain tissue. As found in vivo, these primary neurons and oligodendroglia underwent apoptosis and cell death in response to neurodegenerative challenges. On the other hand, astroglia, and microglia, cells that do not die in neurodegenerative brains, became activated after inflammatory challenge. The availability of highly purified human brain cells will increase the possibility of developing therapies for different neurodegenerative disorders.
A 76-year-old patient, since the age of 45, presented with frequent attacks often triggered by emotional stimuli and characterised by forward head drop and a fall to the ground without loss of consciousness. Clinically these episodes were misinterpreted as pseudoseizures and treated with clomipramine for more than 20 years. In spite of this chronic therapy, during the last year, the attacks presented with a daily recurrence and, moreover, after arbitrary clomipramine withdrawal, they increased in frequency until they became subcontinuous. Videopolygraphic analysis, multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) association studies were suggestive of narcolepsy and the recurrent episodes, diagnosed as status cataplecticus, recovered after citalopram administration.
Carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 (CPT2) deficiency is the most common defect of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation; three different clinical phenotypes have been described but the adult form, involving exclusively the skeletal muscle, is the most frequent. We describe herein 3 families where 4 individuals manifested with the adult form of CPT2 deficiency. CPT2 gene molecular analysis identified the homozygous R631C mutation, so far only reported in severe infantile cases. Our data evidenced that R631C mutation is not exclusively detected in the infantile form but it may be present in a wider spectrum of CPT2 phenotypes. These findings indirectly suggest that other modulators may influence clinical severity of CPT2 deficiency.
Growth factors, such as ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), have been implicated in neuronal survival and proliferation. About 2% of the human population is homozygous for a polymorphism that induces truncated and biologically inactive CNTF but does not obviously change the phenotype. In a population of patients with hereditary neuropathy, a higher rate of the CNTF null mutation would indicate greater susceptibility for clinically significant disease, and a recent report attributes early onset and rapid deterioration in a case of familial ALS (FALS) to this mutation. We have, therefore, genotyped the CNTF polymorphism in a large group of patients with CMT 1a, HNPP, sporadic ALS, in one pedigree with FALS, and controls. All groups exhibited a similar distribution of the polymorphism. We conclude that absence of CNTF does not increase susceptibility for these disorders and confirm that it does not affect onset and course of familial and sporadic ALS.
Accumulating evidence suggests that sporadic Parkinson's disease has a long prodromal period during which several non-motor features develop, in particular, impairment of olfaction, vagal dysfunction and sleep disorder. Early sites of Lewy pathology are the olfactory bulb and enteric plexus of the stomach. We propose that a neurotropic pathogen, probably viral, enters the brain via two routes: (i) nasal, with anterograde progression into the temporal lobe; and (ii) gastric, secondary to swallowing of nasal secretions in saliva. These secretions might contain a neurotropic pathogen that, after penetration of the epithelial lining, could enter axons of the Meissner's plexus and, via transsynaptic transmission, reach the preganglionic parasympathetic motor neurones of the vagus nerve. This would allow retrograde transport into the medulla and, from here, into the pons and midbrain until the substantia nigra is reached and typical aspects of disease commence. Evidence for this theory from the perspective of olfactory and autonomic dysfunction is reviewed, and the possible routes of pathogenic invasion are considered. It is concluded that the most parsimonious explanation for the initial events of sporadic Parkinson's disease is pathogenic access to the brain through the stomach and nose - hence the term 'dual-hit'.
Several parameters associated with the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) system show a change in the later stages of life, including elevated CSF outflow resistance. The latter implies a CSF absorption deficit. As a significant portion of CSF absorption occurs into extracranial lymphatic vessels located in the olfactory turbinates, the purpose of this study was to determine whether any age-related impediments to CSF absorption existed at this location. In previous studies, we observed rapid movement of the CSF tracer into the olfactory turbinates in young rats (peaking 30 min after injection), with the concentration of the tracer being much higher in the turbinates than in any other tissue measured. In the study reported here, (125)I-human serum albumin was injected into the lateral ventricles of 3-, 6-, 12- and 19-month-old Fisher 344 rats. The animals were sacrificed at various times after injection of the radioactive tracer, and appropriate tissue samples were extracted. At 30 min post injection, the average tracer values expressed as per cent injected/g tissue were 6.68 +/- 0.42 (n = 9, 3 months), 4.78 +/- 0.67 (n = 9, 6 months), 2.49 +/- 0.31 (n = 9, 12 months) and 2.42 +/- 0.72 (n = 9, 19 months). We conclude that lymphatic CSF transport declines significantly with age. In concert with the known drop in CSF formation, the reduction in lymphatic CSF absorption may contribute to a decrease in CSF turnover in the elderly.
As neurosurgical treatments have been increasingly applied to patients who have intractable epilepsy, much knowledge on pathological changes in surgically removed brain tissues have become clearer in recent years, as well as on the neuroimaging findings which are analyzed with a variety of techniques, including computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in combination with digital imaging and communication in medicine (DICOM), statistical parametric mapping (SPM), subtraction ictal SPECT coregistered to MRI (SISCOM) and/or PET-guided intraoperative navigation system, as mentioned in detain in another article in this issue by Maehara et al. Representative and relatively common diseases, treated by epilepsy-surgery, are as follows; hippocampal sclerosis, amygdaloid sclerosis, coarse and macroscopic brain malformation (focal cortical dysplasia, hemimegalencephaly, tuberous sclerosis), tumors (dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor, ganglioglioma, etc.), destructive lesions and the others. It is a fact, however, that there remains many problems in the diagnostic criteria or histological grading systems, especially in various cortical dysplasias described above. On the other hand, histologically minor but clinically serious lesions have become to be known through careful observations on surgically removed tissues which showed no neuroradiological findings. A good well-known example is microdysgenesis of the cerebrum which is characterized by the presence of both the white mater ectopic neurons and the vascular meandering abnormalities with glial satellitosis. There must be another important histological phenotypes of microdysgenesis, except the above-mentioned ones, that are not yet established at present. Therefore, it is believed that there remains various problems on the diagnostic neuropathology of epileptic lesions with or without neuroimaging findings in which we have to give answers in a few days to come.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) is an opioid-related neuropeptide that is widely distributed in limbic regions of the brain. After intracerebroventricular (icv) injections in rodents, N/OFQ produces elevations in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity, and has been reported to produce both anxiogenic and anxiolytic actions. We examined the neuroanatomical basis of these effects with injections of N/OFQ (0.01-1.0nmol) into the lateral ventricle, the amygdala, and the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST) in independent groups of well-handled rats under low stress conditions. Anxiety-related behaviors were evaluated in a neophobic test of anxiety. The latency to enter, total time spent in, and number of entries into an unfamiliar open field and its central zone were measured. After the open field testing, plasma samples were obtained for analysis of HPA axis activity. The N/OFQ-treated rats displayed more anxiety-related behaviors than vehicle-treated rats did with all three of the injection types. However, these effects were greater and more consistent after the icv injections (0.01-1.0nmol) than they were after the amygdala (0.10-1.0nmol) or BNST (1.0nmol) injections. The icv and BNST injections also produced elevations in circulating corticosterone, indicating that the HPA axis was activated in these rats. Intra-amygdaloid injections did not affect corticosterone levels during the open field testing. These results indicate that the amygdala and BNST participate in the anxiogenic behavioral effects of N/OFQ. However, since the most potent effects were seen after icv N/OFQ injections, the anxiogenic and HPA axis-activating effects of N/OFQ appear to occur through additive actions in multiple limbic (and perhaps cortical and brainstem) sites.
Mechanisms through which the reported antinociceptive activity of GABA re-uptake inhibitors is mediated (and where on the sensory neuraxis) have not been defined. Here, microdialysis in the anaesthetised rat was used to examine the effect of selective GABA transporter type 1 (GAT-1) inhibition on basal and evoked amino acid release in the dorsal spinal cord. Reverse dialysis of the selective GAT-1 inhibitor NO-711 (10-300microM) induced a concentration-related increase in extracellular GABA (maximal approximately threefold of basal levels) without affecting other amino acids. Employing an S2/S1 paradigm, release evoked by brief high (45mM) K(+)-induced depolarisation of aspartate and glutamate, but not GABA or glycine, was found to be significantly reduced by reverse dialysis of NO-711 (300microM). Co-administration of selective antagonists for GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptors ((+)-bicuculline (100microM) or SCH 50911 (100microM), respectively) prevented the GAT-1 inhibition-induced reduction of evoked aspartate. In contrast, while (+)-bicuculline also antagonised the reduction of evoked glutamate, SCH 50911 (up to 1mM) was without effect. Inhibition of GAT-1 re-uptake was further found to play a permissive role in autoinhibitory effects on GABA release mediated through GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. These data demonstrate that augmentation of GABAergic neurotransmission by re-uptake inhibition activates pharmacologically distinguishable inhibitory influences on aspartate and glutamate release in the dorsal spinal cord. Thus, inhibition of spinal pro-nociceptive neurotransmitter release may contribute to the analgesic action of this drug class.
Conflicting reports exist concerning the effect aspartame (APM, l-aspartyl-l-phenylalanine methyl ester) has upon brain biogenic amines. In the following study, in vivo voltammetry was utilized to measure evoked extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in the striatum of rats in order to assess APM's effect. Time-course experiments revealed a significant decline in evoked extracellular DA levels within 1h of a single systemic dose (500mg/kg i.p.) when compared to vehicle-injected controls. The effect was frequency dependent and showed a significant decrease utilizing high frequency stimulation parameters (50 and 60Hz). In order to further determine APM's potential to alter evoked extracellular DA levels, extended stimulation periods were employed to deplete releasable stores both before and after APM administration in intact and 6-OHDA partially lesioned animals. The extended stimulation periods were applied at 60Hz for 2,5,10 and 20s durations. APM decreased DA levels under these conditions in both intact and 6-OHDA partially lesioned animals by an average of 34% and 51%, respectively. Kinetic analysis performed on frequency series indicated that the diminished DA levels corresponded to a significant reduction in DA release. These findings suggest that APM has a relatively potent effect of decreasing evoked extracellular DA levels when administered systemically under the conditions specified.
Withdrawal symptoms are a major deterrent when people try to quit smoking. The alpha7 subunit of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is highly expressed in the brain, and has been suspected to play a major role in nicotine addiction. We studied the influence of alpha7-containing nAChRs on nicotine withdrawal and tolerance, in wild type mice and mice null for the alpha7 nAChR subunit (alpha7 -/-). For withdrawal experiments, animals were implanted with osmotic minipumps delivering nicotine for 13 days. A single intraperitoneal injection of the nAChR antagonists mecamylamine (MEC) or methyllycaconitine (MLA) was used to precipitate withdrawal. In wild type mice, both MEC- and MLA-precipitated somatic signs of withdrawal such as increased grooming, scratching and shaking. In alpha7 -/- mice, the somatic effects of MEC-precipitated nicotine withdrawal were significantly reduced. Interestingly, the presumed alpha7-specific antagonist MLA also precipitated withdrawal. Tolerance, which was measured as a decrease in nicotine-induced hypolocomotion after subchronic nicotine treatment, was normal in alpha7 -/- mice. Finally, because anxiety and withdrawal symptoms are highly correlated in humans, we studied anxiety-like behaviors in alpha7 -/- mice using a battery of anxiety-related tests. The behavior of alpha7 -/- mice was indistinguishable from that of control mice. Our results point to the alpha7 subunit as one of the players in nicotine withdrawal, but not in nicotine tolerance or basal anxiety-like behavior.
Previous studies have suggested that brain histamine is involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), but the role of endogenous histamine in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compact (SNpc) remains unclear. We aimed to investigate this issue by changing the brain histamine levels by giving histaminergic agents, and administrating histamine receptor antagonists in the PD animal model, i.e. the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat. In saline-treated animals, 6-OHDA infusion produced a progressive increase in apomorphine-induced turning rate and a loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in the SNpc. Histaminergic agents were given prior and daily for 1, 7 or 14 days after 6-OHDA infusion. Histidine (500 mg/kg, i.p.), a precursor of histamine, increased the turning rate (27% on day 7 and 26% on day 14, respectively; P&lt;0.05) and also the loss of TH-ir neurons, but only on day 1 and 7 (67% vs 47% and 90.4% vs 74% loss, respectively; P&lt;0.05). In contrast, alpha-fluoromethylhistidine (alpha-FMH, 25 microg, i.c.v.), an irreversible inhibitor of histidine decarboxylase (HDC), significantly decreased the turning rate (25% on day 7 and 26% on day 14, respectively; P&lt;0.05) and prevented the loss of TH-ir neurons, also only on day 1 and day 7 (28% vs 47% and 58% vs 74% loss, respectively; P&lt;0.05). In addition, the histamine H(1) receptor antagonist pyrilamine (5 microg, i.c.v.), but not the H(2) receptor antagonist cimetidine (5 microg, i.c.v.), also decreased the turning rate (38% on day 7 and 21% on day 14, respectively; P&lt;0.05) and prevented the loss of TH-ir neurons on day 1 and day 7 (38% vs 51% and 60% vs 78% loss, respectively; P&lt;0.05). On day 14 after 6-OHDA lesion, there were no significant differences in the number of TH-ir neurons among all the different treatment groups. Taken together, these findings indicate that endogenous histamine may accelerate the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons via its H(1) receptor, while attenuation of histamine transmission may play a protective role on it in the early stage of development of 6-OHDA lesioned PD rats.
By intravenous administration of group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists at 1 or 2h during pilocarpine induced status epilepticus (PISE), we showed that mGluR1 antagonists AIDA or LY367385 (at dosages ranging from 25 to 200mg/kg), mGluR5 antagonists SIB1757 (at dosages ranging from 25 to 200mg/kg), SIB1893 (from 25 to 100mg/kg), MPEP (from 25 to 100mg/kg) injected at 1 or 2h during PISE were ineffective in controlling status epilepticus (SE). However, when administered at 1h during PISE, MPEP at 200mg/kg, combination of MPEP (200mg/kg) with MK801 (0.1mg/kg) or with MK801 (0.1mg/kg) and diazepam (0.5mg/kg), combination of SIB1893 (200mg/kg) with MK801 (0.1mg/kg) could effectively control behavioral SE, and were neuroprotective. In particular, the combination of MPEP with MK801 and diazepam could stop both behavioral SE and electrical SE (under EEG monitoring) within a few minutes after the administration. HPLC study showed that a high level of MPEP was maintained in the blood and its metabolism rate was slow in experimental mice with PISE. We therefore concluded that the combination of MPEP (200mg/kg) with MK801 (0.1mg/kg) and diazepam (0.5mg/kg) could effectively stop SE and its subsequent neuronal loss in the hippocampus when administered 1h during PISE. It may provide a new approach to effectively control intractable SE.
Stem cells are self-renewing undifferentiated cells that give rise to multiple types of specialized cells of the body. In the adult, stem cells are multipotents and contribute to homeostasis of the tissues and regeneration after injury. Until recently, it was believed that the adult brain was devoid of stem cells, hence unable to make new neurons and regenerate. With the recent evidences that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS), the adult brain has the potential to regenerate and may be amenable to repair. The function(s) of NSCs in the adult CNS remains the source of intense research and debates. The promise of the future of adult NSCs is to redefine the functioning and physiopathology of the CNS, as well as to treat a broad range of CNS diseases and injuries.
This review will discuss the latest knowledge of how the endocannabinoid system might be involved in treating addiction to the most common illicit drugs. Experimental models are providing increasing evidence for the pharmacological management of endocannabinoid signaling not only to block the direct reinforcing effects of cannabis, opioids, nicotine and ethanol, but also for preventing relapse to the various drugs of abuse, including opioids, cocaine, nicotine, alcohol and metamphetamine. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that the endocannabinoid system can be manipulated by the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A, that might constitute a new generation of compounds for treating addiction across different classes of abused drugs.
Investigations of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy continue to result in significant advancements in the neuroscience of human memory, as they have for over 50 years. Recent reviews describing the state of the art in the clinical neuropsychology of TLE generally have emphasized (1) lateralization of cognitive deficits and the material-specific model of memory and/or (2) the relationships among pre- and post-surgery performance on standardized measures of anterograde memory, demographic and epilepsy variables and neuroimaging, neuropathology, and neurosurgery data. As information continues to accumulate about the pattern of performance on standard laboratory memory tests and the implications of these data before and after anterior temporal lobectomy for the treatment of TLE, innovative assessment techniques also are increasingly being applied. This review focuses on English language publications that addressed selected novel topics in adult TLE memory research. These topics are: (1) remote memory; (2) accelerated forgetting or long term amnesia; and (3) lateral versus mesial temporal lobe contributions to memory.
Activated microglia and astrocytes have been implicated in the course of multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model: experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). MW01-5-188WH is a novel drug that selectively inhibits glial activation in the central nervous system (CNS). We report here that MW01-5-188WH is effective to ameliorate the severity of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced EAE. Daily oral administration of MW01-5-188WH at 5mg/kg body weight reduced the clinical scores of EAE mice while having no influence on the disease incidence or animal mortality. Pathological examination revealed reduced numbers of microglia and astrocytes in the spinal cord of MW01-5-188WH-treated EAE mice. Moreover, MW01-5-188WH suppressed the release of key chemokines, which are involved in MS pathology, from cultured microglia and astrocytes. Taken together, our results indicate that treatments that suppress the activation of microglia and astrocytes should be pursued in future research for their potential as avenues for the treatment of MS.
The organization of projections from the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) to the paraventricuilar hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) has been studied in order to understand the anatomical substrates of amygdaloid modulation of endocrine and autonomic functions, and a hypothesis that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) may act as a relay site between the CeA and PVH has been proposed. Using anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing methods, in the rat, we first indicated that neurons in the parastrial nucleus (PS), where projection fibers from the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) terminated, sent their axons to the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH). We further demonstrated that the CeA terminals formed symmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of the PVH-projecting PS neurons, and that the PS received CeA fibers predominantly from the lateral part and sent large numbers of projection fibers to almost all the subdivisions of the PVH. Using anterograde tracing combined with the postembedding immunogold method, we finally revealed that nearly all the CeA terminals in the PS were immunoreactive for gamma-aminobutyric acid. The present data suggest that output signals from the CeA are transmitted disynaptically to the PVH neurons via the PS neurons and modulate PVH neuron activity by way of disinhibition.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors plays a Jekyll and Hyde role in the mammalian central nervous system. In pathological scenarios such as ischemia, Ca2+ influx through the NMDA receptor is a key mediator of cell death. However, physiological levels of NMDA-receptor activity can promote neuronal survival and resistance to trauma and play important roles in synaptic plasticity and transmission. This dichotomy may explain the poor tolerance and efficacy of NMDA-receptor antagonists in clinical trials for excitotoxic trauma. There is a growing understanding of the signaling events that mediate the opposing effects of NMDA-receptor activity and the factors that determine whether an episode of NMDA-receptor activity will promote survival or death. This knowledge may lead to therapeutic strategies that enable the selective blockade of prodeath signaling cassettes while sparing physiological signaling to survival and plasticity.
Glial cells are instrumental for many aspects of nervous-system function. Interestingly, complex neuron-glial interactions at synapses are commonly found in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Although these interactions are known to be important for synaptic physiology, the cellular processes and molecular mechanisms involved have not been fully uncovered. Identifying the common and unique features of neuron-glial interactions between invertebrates and vertebrates may provide valuable insights into the relationship of neuron-glial cross-talk to nervous-system function. This review highlights selected studies that have revealed structural and functional insights into neuron-glial interactions at synapses in invertebrate and vertebrate model systems.
Accumulating evidence from cognitive neuroscience indicates that the right inferior parietal cortex, at the junction with the posterior temporal cortex, plays a critical role in various aspects of social cognition such as theory of mind and empathy. With a quantitative meta-analysis of 70 functional neuroimaging studies, the authors demonstrate that this area is also engaged in lower-level (bottom-up) computational processes associated with the sense of agency and reorienting attention to salient stimuli. It is argued that this domain-general computational mechanism is crucial for higher level social cognitive processing.



Congenital Idiopathic Nystagmus (CIN) is genetically heterogeneous. Autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive and X-linked patterns of inheritance have been reported. Linkage analysis has suggested the existence of at least three distinct loci for both autosomal dominant and X-linked forms, although only one disease gene has been identified (FRMD7, Xq26.2). The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying nystagmus are poorly understood but it is anticipated that characterization of the FRMD7 gene and identification of novel nystagmus genes will provide insights into this condition and the functioning and development of the visual pathways in general.
Recent advances in the neuroscience of classical fear conditioning from both rodent and human studies are beginning to be translated to the psychiatry clinic. In particular, our understanding of fear extinction as a form of &quot;safety learning&quot; holds promise for the treatment of anxiety disorders in which extinction learning is thought to be compromised. The Department of Psychiatry at the UPR, School of Medicine promotes the development of innovative strategies for treating mental health problems. Given the burden resulting from anxiety disorders in Puerto Rico, and the lack of evidence-based treatment practices, there is a pressing need for a future center specializing in the treatment of anxiety related disorders. This center would also serve research and training functions, with the ultimate goal of translating extinction research into clinical practice. This review presents the current developments in extinction research and its relationship to anxiety disorders and treatment. We also analyze the available literature on the epidemiology of anxiety disorders and the existing evidence-based treatments for these conditions.
Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD), and some studies suggest that the frequency increases exponentially over the age of 65 years. This review brings attention to the current challenges in the clinical and pathologic diagnoses of vascular dementia, provides an overview of diagnostic schemes in the clinical setting, and discusses the post-mortem pathology associated with VaD. While memory impairment is essential for diagnosis of AD, the clinical syndrome in VaD is often characterized by executive dysfunction rather than memory impairment. Nevertheless, the cognitive symptoms of VaD are so pleomorphic that no single cognitive syndrome captures the range of symptomology. Additionally, there are no widely accepted neuropathologic criteria for VaD. Imaging studies provide information about the distribution and volume of lesions and provide supportive information that differentiates VaD from AD, but are complicated by the concept of ''silent infarcts''. The heterogeneity of cerebrovascular disease and the wide range of pathologic lesions suggest that classification of VaD should include specific subtypes. The main challenge in clinicopathologic correlative studies is the lack of a gold standard for pathologic diagnosis of VaD that includes thresholds for number, size and location of infarcts and ischemic injury to white matter and strategic sites such as the thalamus and hippocampus. VaD is an entity that provides many challenges to the clinician, neuroradiologist and neuropathologist in part because evidence-based studies often lack clear definitions of the disease.
We report a rapid, dramatic and sustained improvement following bilateral pallidal stimulation in two patients affected by intractable generalized tardive dystonia. Both patients had a chronic psychiatric disorder and developed chronic disabling generalized dystonic symptoms persisting despite prolonged withdrawal of neuroleptics and all available symptomatic treatment. The clinical benefit in both patients persisted throughout all the follow up period of 13 and 7 months. The favorable and prolonged response in our two patients suggests that deep brain stimulation may be an effective treatment for medically refractory tardive dystonia.
The mechanisms of brain tissue damage in stroke are strongly linked to the phenomenon of excitotoxicity, which is defined as damage or death of neural cells due to excessive activation of receptors for the excitatory neurotransmitters glutamate and aspartate. Under physiological conditions, ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate the processes of excitatory neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. In ischemia, sustained pathological release of glutamate from neurons and glial cells causes prolonged activation of these receptors, resulting in massive depolarization and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) overload. High cytoplasmic levels of Ca(2+) activate many degradative processes that, depending on the metabolic status, cause immediate or delayed death of neural cells. This traditional view has been expanded by a number of observations that implicate Cl(-) channels and several types of non-channel transporter proteins, such as the Na(+),K(+),2Cl(-) cotransporter, Na(+)/H(+) exchanger, and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, in the development of glutamate toxicity. Some of these ion transporters increase tissue damage by promoting pathological cell swelling and necrotic cell death, while others contribute to a long-term accumulation of cytoplasmic Ca(2+). This brief review is aimed at illustrating how the dysregulation of various ion transport processes combine in a 'perfect storm' that disrupts neural ionic homeostasis and culminates in the irreversible damage and death of neural cells. The clinical relevance of individual transporters as targets for therapeutic intervention in stroke is also briefly discussed.
Notorious variability in the presentation of mitochondrial disease in the infant and young child complicates its clinical diagnosis. Mitochondrial disease is not a single entity but, rather, a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by impaired energy production due to genetically based oxidative phosphorylation dysfunction. Together, these disorders constitute the most common neurometabolic disease of childhood with an estimated minimal risk of developing mitochondrial disease of 1 in 5000. Diagnostic difficulty results from not only the variable and often nonspecific presentation of these disorders but also from the absence of a reliable biomarker specific for the screening or diagnosis of mitochondrial disease. A simplified and standardized approach to facilitate the clinical recognition of mitochondrial disease by primary physicians is needed. With this article we aimed to improve the clinical recognition of mitochondrial disease by primary care providers and empower the generalist to initiate appropriate baseline diagnostic testing before determining the need for specialist referral. This is particularly important in light of the international shortage of metabolism specialists to comprehensively evaluate this large and complex disease population. It is hoped that greater familiarity among primary care physicians with the protean manifestations of mitochondrial disease will facilitate the proper diagnosis and management of this growing cohort of pediatric patients who present across all specialties.
Self-administration of ethanol and food share many common features and Richter hypothesized that an increase in ethanol consumption would decrease feeding to balance the excess calories contained in the ethanol. Previously, we have shown that individual alcohol consumption correlates with neurotransmitter gene expression, especially in the prefrontal cortex. To test the hypothesis of Richter, we measured hypothalamic gene expression of receptors or neuropeptides of known relevance for the regulation of food intake using qPCR and correlated this to individual ethanol consumption in Wistar rats. For validation, gene expression was first correlated with body weight. We found a correlation of dynorphin, somatostatin, melanocortin-4 receptor and serotonin 5-HT(2C) with body weight and trends to correlation for CART, thus confirming the established role of the hypothalamus in the regulation of weight. For ethanol consumption, correlations were found for CRH receptors 1 and 2 and vasopressin while strong trends were observed for galanin receptor 1, orexin receptor 1, MCH and adrenoceptor alpha(1B). Therefore, alcohol consumption does seem to involve several hypothalamic systems which also mediate feeding responses and suggests that the hypothalamus, together with the prefrontal cortex, may determine the 'stopping point' of an individual.
A group of 31 patients with Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder was compared with an age and sex-matched group of 31 nonclinical volunteers on the Defense Mechanism Test, a tachistoscopic paradigm which confronts the subject with anxiety-arousing stimuli at increasing durations from subliminal levels until complete recognition. It was hypothesized that distortions of the stimuli coded as Isolation or Reaction Formation would be more frequent in the obsessive-compulsive sample. Reaction Formation and one variant of Isolation (Barrier Isolation) were significantly associated with the obsessive-compulsive diagnosis.
This study focused on statistical properties and interrelationships of graphometric variables of the signatures of outpatients, 100 men and 119 women, remitted from somatic and psychiatric clinics for possible psychotherapy or for tests of IQ, personality, or brain lesions. The patients' signature on test forms were used. The type of handwriting was classified into Common, Print and Block letters, quantified in breadth, length, and area and grades of slant of minuscules (&quot;lower-case letters&quot;) and majuscules (&quot;upper-case&quot;). Analysis indicated sex and age played roles in style of handwriting and size of letters; writing styles differed on most graphometric variables; and meaningful patterns of interrelationships among graphometric variables were specified by factor analysis.

Bupropion, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, facilitates smoking cessation and reduces some symptoms of nicotine withdrawal. However, the effects of bupropion on nicotine withdrawal-associated deficits in learning remain unclear. The present study investigated whether bupropion has effects on contextual and cued fear conditioning following withdrawal from chronic nicotine or when administered alone. Bupropion was administered alone for a range of doses (2.5, 5, 10, 20 or 40 mg/kg), and dose-dependent impairments in contextual and cued fear conditioning were observed (20 or 40 mg/kg). Follow-up studies investigated if bupropion disrupted acquisition or expression of fear conditioning. Bupropion (40 mg/kg) administration on training day only produced deficits in contextual fear conditioning. Alternatively, bupropion (20 or 40 mg/kg) administration during testing dose-dependently produced deficits in contextual and cued fear conditioning. To test the effect of bupropion on nicotine withdrawal, mice were withdrawn from 12 days of chronic nicotine (6.3 mg/kg/day) or saline treatment. Withdrawal from chronic nicotine disrupted contextual fear conditioning; however, 5 mg/kg bupropion reversed this deficit. Overall, these results indicate that a low dose of bupropion can reverse nicotine withdrawal deficits in contextual fear conditioning, but that high doses of bupropion produce deficits in fear conditioning.
We present an analytical study describing a method for the control of spatiotemporal patterns of synchrony in networks of coupled oscillators. Delayed feedback applied through a small number of electrodes effectively induces spatiotemporal dynamics at minimal stimulation intensities. Different arrangements of the delays cause different spatial patterns of synchrony, comparable to central pattern generators (CPGs), i.e., interacting clusters of oscillatory neurons producing patterned output, e.g., for motor control. Multisite delayed feedback stimulation might be used to restore CPG activity in patients with incomplete spinal cord injury or gait ignition disorders.
Coordinated cellular activity is a major characteristic of nervous system function. Coupled oscillator theory offers unique avenues to address cellular coordination phenomena. In this study, we focus on the characterization of the dynamics of epileptiform activity, based on some seizures that manifest themselves with very periodic rhythmic activity, termed absence seizures. Our approach consists in obtaining experimentally the phase response curves (PRCs) in the neocortex and thalamus, and incorporating these PRCs into a model of coupled oscillators. Phase preferences of the stationary states and their stability are determined, and these results from the model are compared with the experimental recordings, and interpreted in physiological terms.
Adult humans possess a sophisticated repertoire of mathematical faculties. Many of these capacities are rooted in symbolic language and are therefore unlikely to be shared with nonhuman animals. However, a subset of these skills is shared with other animals, and this set is considered a cognitive vestige of our common evolutionary history. Current evidence indicates that humans and nonhuman animals share a core set of abilities for representing and comparing approximate numerosities nonverbally; however, it remains unclear whether nonhuman animals can perform approximate mental arithmetic. Here we show that monkeys can mentally add the numerical values of two sets of objects and choose a visual array that roughly corresponds to the arithmetic sum of these two sets. Furthermore, monkeys' performance during these calculations adheres to the same pattern as humans tested on the same nonverbal addition task. Our data demonstrate that nonverbal arithmetic is not unique to humans but is instead part of an evolutionarily primitive system for mathematical thinking shared by monkeys.
This study examined whether a culturally adapted version of a previously evaluated efficacious HIV prevention program reduced sexual risk behaviors of youth living with HIV (YLH) in Uganda. YLH, 14 to 21 years, were randomized to intervention (N = 50) or control (N = 50) conditions. Significantly more YLH in the intervention used condoms consistently and decreased their number of sexual partners in comparison to the control condition. Western interventions can be culturally adapted to retain efficacy in reducing the sexual risk behavior of YLH.
It is increasingly recognized that diabetes mellitus can lead to long-term complications in the brain. Clinically, these complications are manifested in alterations in cognitive functioning. This paper offers an overview on the impact of diabetes on cognition and provides leads for the evaluation and management of cognitive disturbances in patients with diabetes in a primary care setting. The main message is that while some patient groups appear to be at increased risk of cognitive impairments, in the majority of patients diabetes is not associated with the development cognitive decrements that would be regarded as clinically relevant. Frank impairments of cognition mainly occur in patients above the age of 65, often in association with vascular co-morbidity. Other groups at risk for cognitive decrements are children with an early age at diabetes onset and patients with clinically manifest retinopathy or other microvascular complications. No specific treatment options are available, but for now treatment of vascular risk factors and attention for glycaemic control appears to be a logical approach. Given the recent progress in this field, new treatments to prevent cognitive impairment in patients with diabetes may hopefully become available in the near future.

Despite the long-standing recognition that extraversion is partially heritable, few specific genes have been found to be associated significantly with this personality trait. The purpose of this study was to examine the association between a functional genetic polymorphism of the serotonin transporter promoter region (5-HTTLPR) and extraversion. Caucasian participants (N=183) were genotyped for the 5-HTTLPR; extraversion scores for participants homozygous for the short allele (s/s) were compared with those participants carrying at least one long allele (s/l and l/l). An s/s genotype at 5-HTTLPR was significantly associated with self ratings of reduced extraversion (P=0.012); presence versus absence of the long allele explained 3.4% of the variance in extraversion. These findings provide support for the effect of the 5-HTTLPR, and for the serotonergic system more broadly, on behaviors related to extraversion.
The objectives of this retrospective, naturalistic study were to provide preliminary data on the effects of 6 months treatment with risperidone, olanzapine and quetiapine on behavioral disturbances, within a sample of outpatients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease, and on predictors of response. Between July 2005 and December 2005, data were collected from 58 consecutive outpatients with a DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with behavioral disturbances, who received a 6-month treatment with risperidone, olanzapine or quetiapine. Primary outcome measures were Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) total score and its items forming the basic core of behavioral disturbances in Alzheimer's disease: delusions, hallucinations and agitation/aggressiveness. Secondary outcome measures were Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living and Clinical Insight Rating scale. Correlations between baseline MMSE score and improvements in behavioral disturbances were investigated. At 6 months mean NPI total score had fallen 43.5% in the risperidone group, 45.6% in the olanzapine group and 33.3% in the quetiapine group, with no significant between-group differences. Global cognitive function showed no significant change from baseline to end-point. Incidence of adverse events was low. A significant correlation was found between MMSE score and NPI total score and NPI item agitation decreases. Risperidone, olanzapine and quetiapine produced significant improvements in behavioral disturbances and were well tolerated. No significant differences emerged among treatments. The preliminary results also suggest that baseline cognitive function might influence treatment response.
A 34-year-old man without a past history of any psychiatric or neurological disorder developed severe anterograde amnesia following a psychological trauma. Initial assessment of neuropsychological functions 3 months after the psychological trauma indicated severe memory deficits for acquiring new information in both verbal and visual modalities with widespread cognitive deficits in attention, executive functions, and intellectual ability. Importantly, working and remote memory were intact. The case illustrates that psychogenic anterograde amnesia might be associated with a wider range of cognitive deficits. Possible neurobiological explanations are discussed to explain large cognitive impairments associated with anterograde psychogenic amnesia.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, childhood-onset neurodevelopmental disorder with adverse consequences during adult life. Family, twin and adoption studies show that genetic factors contribute to the aetiology of ADHD and that environmental factors also play a role. Family and twin studies have shown the importance of genetic influences on continuity in ADHD over time and in accounting for the co-occurrence of ADHD and conduct disorder problems. In meta-analyses of molecular genetic studies, the 48-bp variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) variant in the dopamine D4 gene and the CA(n) microsatellite marker in the D5 receptor gene have been found to be repeatedly associated with ADHD. Results from meta-analyses of the 480-bp VNTR in the dopamine transporter gene are mixed. Several genetic studies have also identified genetic variants that are related to specific clinical and developmental features of ADHD. In the next few years, a new generation of much larger-scale genetic studies should lead to the identification of further ADHD susceptibility genes. Such studies will also need to be integrated with other areas of neuroscience, clinical and epidemiological research to investigate how specific gene variants exert risk effects, interact with environmental factors and enable identification of the underlying causal mechanisms that lead to ADHD.
This article focuses on the processes that lead to awareness of our own emotions, which deserve particular attention in contemporary models of emotional consciousness. The subjective component of emotion, or emotional experience, was for a long time the most neglected aspect in the study of emotions although it already constituted the initial point of discussion in the famous William James still asked question : What is an emotion? More than a century later, contemporary theories debate about this heritage. We examine the successive historic contributions to the question of the determinants of our own emotional experience: from James-Lange bodily changes to cognitive appraisal theories, also relating the major role that the fundamental emotions theory attributed to facial expressions. Twenty years after the debate about primacy of cognition or emotion, both physiological-somatic and cognitive components are integrated in contemporary approaches to emotions. However, their respective degree of implication varies according to the different levels of emotional consciousness which are modelized. It is on the last level that present models focus, level that leads to consciousness of our emotional experience, benefiting from the contributions of cognitive neurosciences. Models differ according to the role devoted to neuronal substrates in determining emotional experience, but they converge on the specification of a last level of consciousness, which is the only one that allows the subject to be conscious of emotion as it is experienced (feeling) and that what he is experiencing is an emotion. Then, different models of emotional consciousness account for different varieties of emotion experience and also for various cases of &lt; unconscious &gt; emotions, that is occurrence of emotion with a lack of awareness.
The Hayes Ability Screening Index was developed primarily to provide a short, effective screening test to indicate possible mental retardation amongst persons who come in contact with the criminal justice system. This study examined the validity of a Norwegian version in a sample of 73 subjects. 45 were male and 28 were female (M = 33.3 yr, SD = 12.5; range = 17 to 60 years) consecutively selected from patients referred for neuropsychological examination. The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS-III) was the criterion of validity. The correlation of .81 between scores on the WAIS-III and the Hayes Index was significant. At a stated cut-off score of 85, the sensitivity was 100% and specificity 57%. A suggested alternative cut-off score of 81 obtained a sensitivity of 95% and specificity of 72%. These results indicate that the Hayes Ability Screening Index is a useful, valid, and time-saving tool for screening of mental retardation for the Norwegian population.
Corepresenting actions performed by conspecifics is essential to understanding their goals, inferring their mental states, and cooperating with them. It has recently been demonstrated that joint-action effects in a Simon task provide a good index for corepresentation. In the present study, we investigated whether corepresentation is restricted to biological agents or also occurs for nonbiological events. Participants performed a Simon task either with an image of a human hand or with a wooden analogue. The Simon-like effect emerged only when participants coacted with a biological agent. The lack of the joint-action effect when participants interacted with a wooden hand indicates that the human corepresentation system is biologically tuned.
