Many neurons are now known to undergo dramatic morphological or biochemical changes long after they have completed differentiation and maturation. The ability of fully mature neurons to alter their transmitter phenotype has been amply demonstrated in culture, but direct in vivo data on single neurons have been difficult to obtain. Here we show that a set of 4 individually identified neurosecretory neurons in the moth Manduca sexta, previously demonstrated to contain the peptide hormone bursicon, also stain with a monoclonal antibody directed against 2 insect cardioacceleratory peptides (CAPs). These lateral cells exhibit CAP-like immunoreactivity in larvae but not in pupae or adults, in contrast to other CAP-containing neurons which are strongly immunoreactive in all postembryonic stages. Biochemical analyses using high-pressure liquid chromatography confirm that the lateral neurons in larvae contain CAP2, one of the CAPs. CAP measurements of cell clusters containing these cells indicate high levels only in caterpillars. When the same neurosecretory cells are individually dissected and assayed for CAP bioactivity, high CAP levels are again found in larvae, whereas the same neurons in pupae show no such CAP bioactivity. Simultaneous determinations of both bursicon and CAP levels in single lateral cells indicate that these cells express high levels of CAP activity and low amounts of bursicon in larvae yet are solely bursicon-containing in pupae and adults. Thus, by demonstrating that these cells alter their secretory profile in vivo during metamorphosis, our results confirm the notion that functionally mature neurons are capable of altering their transmitter expression after the completion of embryonic development.
Prolonged (2-6 h) cooling of monolayer cultures of dissociated murine spinal cord at temperatures below 17 degrees C caused pronounced swelling of neuronal perikarya and dendrites. The numbers of swollen neurons in a culture increased as the temperature was reduced, and at 7 degrees C-10 degrees C all of the neurons were swollen. On rewarming the cultures to 37 degrees C, the majority of the swollen neurons died (up to 74% at 10 degrees C). Glial cells were not affected. Addition of the NMDA antagonists D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (DAPV, 100 microM), ketamine (100 microM), and dibenzocyclohepteneimine (MK801, 10 microM) to spinal cord cultures before lowering the temperature to 10 degrees C minimized the dendrosomatic swelling and reduced neuronal mortality from 74% to 10%. These data show a surprising sensitivity of some neurons to nonfreezing low temperatures and suggest direct involvement of the NMDA receptor in hypothermia-related neuronal death.
Science and art need not be in conflict because both require use of imagination, cognitive insight, discipline, and creative application. Conceptual shifts in neuroscience have offered new validity to intuitive beliefs regarding the mind-body unit. One example is the articulation of a neuroimmunomodulatory mechanism of tumor growth. Another critical scientific advancement is the delineation of human physiologic circadian rhythmicity. This emergent discipline asserts the time-based pattern of dynamic physiologic functioning, and thereby embraces the changing, unique, yet predictable human condition. A chronobiology of cancer is now documented and merits the clinician's attention. The nature of time creates a natural bridge between this leading edge endeavor of science and the arts; this bridge is most notably found in music. Each of these paradigms witnesses to the reality that the experience of time is frequently nonlinear. Expression of form and symbolism characterize art and serve as its vehicle. If we dare to become more aware of our experience and the tools of mind, body, spirit, and senses in ourselves and in others, we will come to view our sensate selves as possessing stature equal to that of such biologic measurements as pressure and white blood count.
The passive and synaptic membrane properties of hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus granule neurons have been compared in hippocampal slices obtained from control and ethanol-tolerant rats given ethanol up to 24 hr before sacrifice. In addition, the effects of in vitro exposure to a low concentration (20 mM) of ethanol have been examined in neurons obtained from both groups of animals. No differences were observed in the passive or synaptic membrane properties of dentate granule neurons obtained from control and chronically ethanol-exposed rats. Dentate granule neurons obtained from the two groups of animals also showed similar responses to in vitro exposure to 20 mM ethanol. Hippocampal CA1 neurons were also similar, except for the post-spike train afterhyperpolarization which was significantly prolonged in neurons from chronically ethanol-exposed animals. Exposure to 20 mM ethanol in vitro resulted in a significant increase in the amplitude and duration of the afterhyperpolarization in CA1 neurons obtained from control animals, but a significant decrease in CA1 neurons obtained from chronically ethanol-exposed rats. These results suggest that behavioral tolerance to ethanol is accompanied by adaptive changes in the electrophysiological responses of hippocampal CA1 neurons when tested with an acute exposure to ethanol. Chronic treatment with ethanol did not cause such adaptive changes in dentate gyrus granule neurons suggesting that they may be less sensitive to the effects of long-term exposure to ethanol than CA1 neurons.
The delayed neuronal death induced by a brief (15 min) application of glutamate to primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells can be prevented by pretreating the cultures with the natural ganglioside monosialoglycosylceramide (GM1), the semisynthetic GM1 with N-acetyl sphingosine (LIGA4), GM1 with N-dichloroacetyl sphingosine (LIGA20) and d-eritro 1,3-dihydroxy-2-dichloroacetylamide-4-trans-octadecene (PKS3). The semisynthetic lipids LIGA4, LIGA20 and PKS3 are more potent than the parent natural compounds. The rank order of potency for the protection against glutamate-induced neuronal death is: LIGA20 greater than or equal to LIGA4 greater than PKS3 greater than GM1; the corresponding EC50 values are 4.5 microM for LIGA20, 5 microM for LIGA4, 30 microM for PKS3 and 55 microM for GM1. The effect of the semisynthetic lipids is faster (maximal protection after a 5-min preincubation) and lasts longer (up to 24 hr) than that of the natural compound GM1. The protection from glutamate-induced neuronal death by the semisynthetic sphingolipids persists after thorough washout of free sphingolipid from the incubation medium. Therefore, LIGA4, LIGA20 and PKS3 are potent and efficacious antagonists of glutamate-induced neuronal death with a good separation between the doses needed for pharmacological action and the intrinsic neurotoxic activity. The natural (GM1) and semisynthetic (LIGA4, LIGA20 and PKS3) sphingolipids block neuronal death without affecting the function of glutamate-operated cationic channels. The protective action of sphingolipids appears to be associated with their insertion into membranes where they inhibit specific second messenger-mediated responses triggered by persistent stimulation of glutamate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were recorded in voltage clamped posterior biceps or semitendinosus motoneurones of the cat during reciprocal inhibition. 2. Population IPSCs, recorded following stimulation of the whole quadriceps muscle nerve, had an average time-to-peak of 0.51 +/- 0.02 ms (+/- S.E.M., n = 22) and decayed exponentially, with an average time constant of 0.99 +/- 0.04 ms (at 37 degrees C) at resting membrane potentials. 3. Unitary IPSCs, recorded following spike-triggered averaging from an identified reciprocal inhibitory interneurone, had amplitudes of 120-220 pA with an average time-to-peak of 0.40 +/- 0.06 ms (n = 5). The decay of these unitary currents was exponential, with an average time constant of 0.82 +/- 0.07 ms (at 37 degrees C) at resting membrane potentials. 4. The time course of IPSCs was unaffected by either alpha-chloralose or pentobarbitone at concentrations necessary for deep anaesthesia. 5. The peak synaptic current varied linearly with the membrane potential over the range -90 to -30 mV, and had an average reversal potential of -80.7 +/- 1.5 mV (+/- S.E.M., n = 6) when measured using KCH3SO4-filled electrodes. 6. The reversal potential for the IPSC was used to calculate [Cl-]i. This was estimated to be 6.5 mM assuming that the inhibitory synaptic current was mediated purely by Cl- ions. 7. The rate at which synaptic currents decayed was exponentially dependent on the postsynaptic membrane potential, the decay time constant increasing e-fold for a 91 mV depolarization. This result was independent of [Cl-]i or of the magnitude of the synaptic conductance and was interpreted as a voltage dependence of the glycine channel open time. 8. The average unitary peak conductance was 9.1 +/- 1.7 nS (+/- S.E.M., n = 5), corresponding to the opening of approximately 200 glycine-activated postsynaptic channels following neurotransmitter release from a single Ia reciprocal interneurone.
Three subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) with frontal lobe features of behavioral disinhibition were studied using positron emission tomography with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18 FDG) and standardized neuropsychological tests. The three subjects showed significant decrements (p less than .05) in relative glucose metabolism (regional/mean gray metabolism) in the orbitofrontal, prefrontal and anterior cingulate regions when compared to healthy controls. Severity-matched subjects with DAT without the associated frontal lobe features did not show the relative reductions in glucose metabolism in these regions when compared to controls. However, on neuropsychological testing of frontal lobe cognitive functions the three subjects did not show decrements that were more severe than those shown by severity-matched DAT patients without the behavioral features. These data demonstrate physiologic dysfunction in specific cortical regions in subjects with behavioral aberrations attributed to these regions and an apparent dissociation between behavioral and cognitive functions of the frontal lobe.
Benzodiazepine administration has been associated with alterations in neuroendocrine function both in experimental animals and in humans. Clinical and laboratory data indicate that the beta-carbolines, a class of active benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonists, cause behavioral and neuroendocrine changes characteristic of anxiety and stress. In contrast, the &quot;classic&quot; benzodiazepine receptor agonists such as diazepam can reduce anxiety and inhibit stress-induced increases in anterior pituitary hormone secretion. Although the site of action and mechanisms by which benzodiazepines alter anterior pituitary hormone secretion are still under investigation, evidence suggests that the effects are mediated in the brain, primarily through actions at benzodiazepine receptors in the hypothalamus. The benzodiazepines may act at GABA-coupled benzodiazepine receptors in the hypothalamus or other regions of the brain to potentiate the effects of endogenous GABA. It also is believed that brain monoamines may modulate the effects of endogenous GABA. Brain monoamines have also been reported to modulate the effects of benzodiazepines on stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical function. Direct effects of the benzodiazepines on central- and peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors in the anterior pituitary have also been documented.
Alcoholic blackouts are defined as the temporary, complete inability to form long-term memory as the result of a high blood alcohol level. This means that a neuron-to-neuron system has been blocked. Since that is the case, such central nervous dysfunction should have legal implications, both from the blackout itself and also from the fact that this degree of neural interference in one system is at least suggestive that other dysfunction may be present. The subject of blackouts is updated with recent developments in neuroscience. The legal significance of the blackout is examined in enough depth to allow for further discussion and exploration.
The GABA/benzodiazepine receptor chloride channel complex has been proposed to play a modulatory role in immune function. The effects of alprazolam, a triazolobenzodiazepine with high affinity for &quot;central&quot; benzodiazepine receptors, were examined on several parameters of immune function in mice. Natural killer cell activity, mixed leukocyte reactivity and mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation were all significantly increased two hr after administration of low doses (0.02-1.0 mg/kg) of alprazolam. Twenty four hr later, similar but less robust immunoenhancing effects were observed. Higher doses of alprazolam (5-10 mg/kg) did not affect these measures of immune function. The immunoenhancing effects of alprazolam did not appear related to corticosterone levels. In contrast, vehicle injection caused a profound suppression of these immune parameters two hr later, which was no longer apparent 24 hr later. This immunosuppression appeared to correlate with a concurrent rise in serum corticosterone levels. These data support the hypothesis that the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor chloride channel complex modulates immune function. Use of low doses of alprazolam may be of potential clinical importance when immunoenhancement is required.
Mechanisms by which opiates alter neuronal functions, including neuroendocrine functions, are not well defined. We have previously demonstrated that morphine rapidly and transiently increases expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos in the rat caudate-putamen. This regulation of the c-fos gene by morphine may represent a portion of the intracellular cascade coupling activation of opiate receptors on the cell surface to subsequent alterations in neuropeptide gene expression. In the present study, we have focussed on effects of morphine on c-fos expression in the ventromedial hypothalamus, which contains estrogen-concentrating neurons and a large number of neurons expressing the opioid proenkephalin and Proopiomelanocortin. The hypothalamus has been identified as a &quot;final common pathway&quot; between the remainder of the central nervous system and the pituitary gland. As a marker for c-fos expression, we have detected pp50 c-fos (FOS) protein immunocytochemically, using a polyclonal antibody to the M peptide of FOS, and revealed an intense nuclear stain in many neurons. Labeled nuclei were drawn by camera lucida from 12 matched sections (one side only) covering the rostral and middle levels of the ventromedial nucleus of six rats given morphine and six given phosphate buffered saline. Morphine treatment significantly increased the number and density of immuno-labeled nuclei in the ventromedial nucleus, but not in the arcuate nucleus. These results suggest effects of morphine (directly or indirectly) on neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, despite the relative absence of morphine receptors in this nucleus. These results may also provide an anatomical basis for neuroendocrine alterations following morphine treatment.
The pharmacological profile of PD117302 was studied in three rat models of experimental seizures. It was determined that PD117302 is a potent and efficacious anticonvulsant against NMDA (ED50 = 0.27 mg/kg, i.v.) and MES (ED50 = 16.3 mg/kg, s.c.), but not flurothyl, convulsions. Its anticonvulsant profile was dose- and time-dependent, stereospecific and sensitive to naloxone and the selective kappa opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. Given these findings, we suggest that PD117302 acts via the kappa receptor to modulate seizure protection. Furthermore, in view of its marked ability to block NMDA excitotoxicity (including lethality) it seems possible that this drug, or related compounds, may have potential therapeutic utility as a neuroprotective agent.
In the central nervous system, glycine binds to two recognition sites; one of them (G2), associated with the glutamate receptor, is insensitive to strychnine. Strychnine-insensitive sites were predominant in the forebrain areas and bound D-serine and D-alanine better than the respective L stereoisomers. [3H]D-serine was a more selective radioligand than [3H]glycine for the strychnine-insensitive sites. In the forebrain, the binding of both ligands was inhibited by the putative G2 receptor antagonists, 7-chlorokynurenate and 3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone, while in pons and in spinal cord only the latter drug was effective. This may indicate the heterogeneity of strychnine-insensitive glycine recognition sites.
Among the different biochemical pathways which have been suggested to play a role in the control of prolactin (Prl) release from anterior pituitaries, arachidonate and its metabolites have been proposed to be involved in the process of Prl release. In this study we investigated the contribution of arachidonate metabolites to both basal and TRH-stimulated Prl release from perifused lactotrophs in culture (derived from pituitary glands of lactating female rats), which exhibit a high sustained release of Prl in absence of inhibitory input. Inhibition of the general oxidative metabolism of arachidonate by 10(-5) M ETYA or of the arachidonate lipoxygenase metabolism by 10(-5) M NDGA decreased basal Prl release to 45 +/- 10% (n = 3) and 36 +/- 4% (n = 6) of the control release, respectively. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of the cyclooxygenase pathway, was without effect. Of the lipoxygenase metabolites tested at 10(-6) M only 15-HPETE and 15-HETE induced Prl release. 15-HETE elicited prolactin release in a concentration dependent manner with a maximal effect at 10(-6) M (10.72 +/- 3 ng/ml vs control 5.1 +/- 0.8 ng/ml, n = 3). The quantity of Prl release induced by TRH was markedly decreased in the presence of NDGA. However, the fraction of Prl release elicited by TRH, calculated as a percentage of the amount of Prl released prior to TRH application, was similar under control conditions, and in the presence of NDGA. In contrast, inhibition of the protein kinases A and G by H8 (10(-5) M) failed to alter basal Prl release but inhibited the effect of TRH by 58 +/- 6% (n = 3). These data suggest that in absence of inhibitory inputs the high sustained release of Prl observed in cultures of lactotrophs derived from lactating female rats depends on the availability of lipoxygenase metabolites, and that the blockade of lipoxygenase reduces the absolute amount of Prl released by TRH without suppressing the ability of TRH to stimulate Prl release.
Rats with unilateral, electrolytic substantia nigra (ESN) lesions were tested for rotation following systemic injections of the D1 dopamine receptor agonist SKF38393 or the D2 agonist quinpirole. Only quinpirole produced significant levels of rotation, which was ipsilateral in direction. This rotation was potentiated by coadministration of the D1 agonist, and was significantly reduced by injections of either a D1 or D2 receptor antagonist. Other groups of lesioned animals were treated with reserpine for 5 days and were then tested for rotation in response to the agonists. In this case, SKF38393 produced significant levels of contralateral rotation, while quinpirole-induced rotation remained ipsilateral; coadministration of the D1 and D2 agonists resulted in pronounced ipsilateral rotation. These results stress a role for D1 receptor mechanisms in producing rotation, and suggest that different striatal efferent pathways mediate rotation in response to selective agonists following ESN lesions.
Immunoreactive somatostatin (IR-SRIF) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) contents in the rat brain were investigated to study chronic effects of the treatment with anticonvulsants, carbamazepine (CBZ), valproic acid (VPA) and phenytoin (PHT). Decreased IR-SRIF levels were found in several brain regions after chronic treatment with VPA and CBZ. GABA concentrations were found to be increased significantly in chronic CBZ and VPA treatment in the rat brain, especially in limbic structures. PHT had no effect on both IR-SRIF and GABA contents in the rat brain. Effects of several GABA-mimetic drugs also were studied on IR-SRIF contents in the rat brain. Aminooxyacetic acid an inhibitor of GABA transaminase, induced a decrease in IR-SRIF concentration in the pyriform and entorhinal cortex, whereas ethanolamine-o-sulfate, another GABA-transaminase inhibitor and muscimol, a GABA receptor agonist had no effect on brain IR-SRIF after acute administration. The present results suggest that endogenous somatostatin has an important role for anticonvulsant properties of CBZ and VPA, but not of PHT. The relationship between the changes in IR-SRIF and the GABA transmitter system in the anticonvulsant action of CBZ and VPA remains to be clarified.
We investigated the effect of the relatively selective A1 adenosine receptor agonist N6-(R)-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA) on tyrosine hydroxylase activity (TH) of synaptosomes obtained from rat striatum. TH activity was assayed in supernatant obtained following sonication and centrifugation of the tissue preincubated with the test compounds. R-PIA produced a modest decrease of basal enzyme activity, but significantly reduced the activation of the enzyme by submaximal (0.1-0.5 microM) concentrations of forskolin (FSK) a stimulator of adenylate cyclase. The IC 50 value of R-PIA was 17 nM and the maximal inhibition corresponded to 30-40% decrease of the enzyme activity stimulated by FSK. The S-isomer of PIA failed to affect TH activity under control and stimulated conditions. Moreover, the inhibitory effect of R-PIA was completely antagonized by 8-cyclopentyl- 1,3 -dimethylxanthine, an adenosine receptor blocker. R-PIA inhibited both basal and FSK-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. These results indicate that in striatal dopaminergic terminals TH activity can be modulated in an inhibitory manner by activation of presynaptic A1 adenosine receptors.
Clonidine, an alpha 2-adrenergic agonist, also binds to non-adrenergic imidazole receptors in brain and peripheral tissues. In adrenal medulla, however, clonidine appears to bind only to imidazole receptors. To assess whether the signal transduction mechanism of imidazole receptors differs from alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, we studied the actions of clonidine on the turnover of phosphoinositide and the production of cAMP and cGMP in slices of rat adrenal gland. Clonidine did not modify basal or carbachol mediated increases in phosphoinositide turnover or production of cAMP, however it increased the production of cGMP. The increase in cGMP was slow and unaffected by the addition of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, IBMX. We conclude that the second messenger response triggered by clonidine in adrenal differs from that usually coupled to alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Whether the effect is mediated by cell surface imidazole receptors remains to be established.
Mammalian macular endorgans are linear bioaccelerometers located in the vestibular membranous labyrinth of the inner ear. In this paper, the organization of the endorgan is interpreted on physical and engineering principles. This is a necessary prerequisite to mathematical and symbolic modeling of information processing by the macular neural network. Mathematical notations that describe the functioning system were used to produce a novel, symbolic model. The model is six-tiered and is constructed to mimic the neural system. Initial simulations show that the network functions best when some of the detecting elements (type I hair cells) are excitatory and others (type II hair cells) are weakly inhibitory. The simulations also illustrate the importance of disinhibition of receptors located in the third tier in shaping nerve discharge patterns at the sixth tier in the model system.
The inner ear contains sensory organs which signal changes in head movement. The vestibular sacs, in particular, are sensitive to linear accelerations. Electron microscopic images have revealed the structure of tiny sensory hair bundles, whose mechanical deformation results in the initiation of neuronal activity and the transmission of electrical signals to the brain. The structure of the hair bundles is shown in this paper to be that of the most efficient two-dimensional phased-array signal processors.
The Near-Death Experience (NDE) is a dissociative mental state with characteristic features. These can be reproduced by ketamine which acts at sigma sites and blocks N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) linked phencyclidine (PCP) receptors to reduce ischaemic damage. Endogenous ligands, alpha and beta-endopsychosin, have been detected for these receptors which suggests an explanation for some NDE's: the endopsychosins may be released in abnormal quantity to protect neurons from ischaemic and other excitotoxic damage, and the NDE is a side effect on consciousness with important psychological functions.
Delivered in spring 1665 with the patronage of Parisian Melchisedec Thvenot, this speech sets the basis for a more organic and modern study of the encephalon, analizing critically before and made attempts to explain its functions, errors due to the not always orthodox different techniques of observation, the various and obscure terminology used to indicate its different components, the designer's incapacity to reproduce exactly its structure.
It is difficult to come away from review of pharmacologic and metabolite studies without concluding that dopaminergic mechanisms play a significant role in mediating both negative and positive symptoms. Nevertheless, the characteristics of dopaminergic involvement are unclear. Whereas compelling evidence continues to link the mechanism of action of neuroleptic drugs, including therapeutic effects on negative and positive symptoms, to blockade of D2 receptors, neuroleptic-induced alterations in dopaminergic function are time-dependent and may include reductions in variability as well as in net dopamine activity. Moreover, pharmacologic enhancement of dopaminergic function may at least transiently improve symptomatology (negative greater than positive) and levels of CSF HVA appear to be reduced or are negatively correlated with symptoms in some schizophrenic patients. Thus, there is support for both increased and decreased dopamine function in schizophrenia. Functional brain imaging has, after only a few years of application, made significant contributions to our understanding of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Studies of cerebral metabolism and regional CBF have shown remarkable consistency in their identification of abnormal function of the frontal cortex in schizophrenia. It should be pointed out, however, that agreement across studies remains largely conceptual with significant discrepancies still existing with regard to the precise localization of dysfunction and its relationship to cognitive activation. Although less well documented than 'hypofrontality' itself, negative symptomatology appears to bear some relationship to this defect. The idea that positive symptoms might be associated with increased subcortical and/or metabolism is less well supported. The recent advances in our understanding of structure and function of CNS dopaminergic systems may help to integrate these two bodies of data into more dynamic models of dopaminergic defects in schizophrenia. For example, the concept that diminished mesocortical coupled with increased subcortical dopaminergic activity might be a 'substrate' for psychosis is compatible with neurochemical evidence suggesting both diminished and enhanced dopaminergic processes as well as with metabolic hypofrontality. Better understanding of the regulatory mechanisms involved in establishing functional balance between cortical and subcortical systems might, therefore, identify new possibilities for biological dysfunction in schizophrenia. The recent study by Weinberger et al. which correlates CSF HVA levels with neuropsychologically induced frontal CBF is an example of how neurochemistry can enhance brain imaging data.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) catalyzes the production of alpha-amidated peptides from their glycine-extended precursors, a posttranslational modification often required for full biological activity. We have previously cloned cDNAs encoding a 108-kDa bovine PAM precursor. To confirm that this cDNA encodes a functional alpha-amidating enzyme and to begin to examine the structural requirements for the biosynthesis of an active PAM enzyme, we constructed expression vectors that placed the cDNA for either the full-sized enzyme or a form truncated at the carboxyl-terminal (and thus lacking the transmembrane domain) under the control of the mouse metallothionein-1 promoter. We used the resultant plasmids to transfect AtT-20 mouse anterior pituitary corticotrope cells and selected stable lines that expressed increased levels of PAM activity. Transfected cells in which expression from the metallothionein promoter had been induced had up to 15-fold higher levels of PAM mRNA and up to 7.5-fold higher levels of PAM activity than wild-type cells. The PAM activity in the transfected cells shared many enzymatic characteristics with PAM-B, a 38-kDa soluble form of PAM purified from bovine neurointermediate pituitary. These included copper- and ascorbate-dependent activity, an alkaline pH optimum for the peptide substrate D-Tyr-Val-Gly, similar affinities for several other synthetic substrates, and comparable apparent size during gel filtration. Compared to extracts of wild-type cells, extracts from transfected cells showed increased production of five different amino acid alpha-amides. These data indicate that a single enzyme can act on a variety of peptide substrates, and that the full structure of the PAM precursor is not necessary during biosynthesis for expression of active PAM enzyme.
The dunce locus of Drosophila melanogaster codes for a low Km, cAMP phosphodiesterase. The correct function of this gene is required for normal learning and memory activity in flies, because dunce mutants fail in tests of behavioral conditioning. These observations have indicated that cAMP regulation is an important aspect of the biochemistry underlying learning and memory processes in insects. To determine whether the locus is functionally conserved in mammals, we have expressed dunce gene homologs from the rat in a yeast expression system. We find that the rat homologs encode low Km, cAMP phosphodiesterases similar to that coded for by the Drosophila dunce+ gene and, more importantly, that the mammalian enzymes are inhibited by rolipram and RO 20-1724, drugs with antidepressant properties. Surprisingly, the dunce-encoded phosphodiesterase was not inhibited by rolipram or RO 20-1724. These findings suggest that the phosphodiesterases, through their regulation of cAMP levels, influence learning and memory in insects and mood in mammals.
We describe a syndrome of spontaneous orofacial dyskinesias and cage stereotypies in a singly housed adult cynomolgus monkey never previously exposed to neuroleptic drugs. Abnormal movements were readily suppressed by acute treatment with haloperidol (0.03-0.24 mg/kg i.m.) or SCH23390 (0.05-0.2 mg/kg i.m.) but not by physostigmine (0.005-0.04 mg/kg i.m.) or scopolamine (0.0025-0.04 mg/kg i.m.). The symptomatology and response to pharmacological manipulations was indistinguishable from that previously attributed to chronic neuroleptic treatment in primates. Our findings indicate that neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesias in most primate studies have not been clearly demonstrated.
4-Propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine, or MK-458 (HPMC), a selective, nonergot D2 agonist administered orally twice a day in sustained-release form, was studied as adjunctive therapy with carbidopa-levodopa (Sinemet) in 12 Parkinson's disease patients with motor response fluctuations. The dosage of agonist was gradually increased over 12 weeks to a maximum tolerated level of up to 60 mg/day, and that of Sinemet was reduced concurrently. After 8 weeks, reduction of Sinemet averaged 45.1%, but over the next 4 weeks, despite a continued increase in dosage of the agonist, patients were unable to decrease their Sinemet further, and by 12 weeks mean reduction in Sinemet was only 32%. Only five patients completed the planned 24-week study, mostly due to progressive loss of efficacy. The MK-458 is capable of partially substituting for Sinemet in dosages employed in this study. Reduced sensitivity to the drug can appear over a relatively short time, perhaps as a result of down-regulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors.
A rapid and efficient immunoaffinity procedure for the purification of a new form of brain l-glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) is described. A well characterized monoclonal antibody against rat brain GAD is used as an affinity ligand. The GAD-anti-GAD complex is dissociated by a relatively gentle condition e.g. 0.2 M acetate buffer, pH 4 or 5. GAD preparations thus obtained are still enzymatically active and have a minimum molecular weight of 67,000 Da. The significance of this new form of GAD is also discussed.
Evidence is presented in support of the view that adenosine 5?-triphosphate (ATP) is a cotransmitter with noradrenaline (NA) in sympathetic nerves supplying the vas deferens and a number of blood vessels. ATP is responsible for the excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) in response to single nerve impulses and the initial twitch responses of the smooth muscle, while NA produces the longer-lasting tonic contractions. The proportions of ATP to NA vary between different sympathetic nerves; they also change during development and in some pathological conditions. Prejunctional neuromodulation of release of the two cotransmitters appears to involve independent mechanisms and is frequency dependent; this raises the question of whether ATP and NA are stored in separate vesicles or whether there are subpopulations of sympathetic nerves with a predominance of either ATP or NA. ATP and NA have synergistic postjunctional actions, whether excitatory (as in the vas deferens and most blood vessels) or inhibitory (as in rabbit coronary vessels). It is suggested that use of the term &quot;adrenergic nerves&quot; as a synonym for sympathetic nerves is no longer appropriate, although &quot;adrenergic transmission&quot; or &quot;purinergic transmission&quot; are still useful terms.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities were measured in 13 sequential 2 ml aliquots of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained by lumbar puncture from 7 young and 7 elderly healthy normal subjects. The slopes of the rostrocaudal gradients of AChE and BChE were calculated and compared to those of total protein concentration and the major dopaminergic metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA), for which a pronounced rostrocaudal gradient (with highest concentrations of HVA in more rostral CSF) is consistent with HVA originating primarily from the brain. AChE activity was higher in more caudal fractions of young, but not elderly subjects and there was a significant difference between the mean AChE gradient slopes in the young and old groups. These results suggest that the spinal cord makes an important contribution to AChE activity in lumbar CSF. Furthermore, the absence of a negative AChE gradient in elderly subjects may be the result of a greater rate of entry of cerebral AChE into CSF, possibly as a consequence of an increased ventricular surface area and shorter diffusion distances in atrophic elderly brains. In contrast to AChE, BChE activity and total protein concentrations were higher in more caudal CSF fractions of not only young but also old subjects. In addition, there was a significant correlation between the gradient slopes of BChE activity and total protein concentrations, suggesting that the majority of BChE activity in lumbar CSF derives from the same source as the majority of total protein, namely plasma. The diffuse (i.e. brain and spinal cord) origin of AChE in lumbar CSF would explain the relatively modest changes in lumbar CSF AChE activity in diseases involving certain central cholinergic systems, most notably Alzheimer's disease.
Acute nicotine treatment increases catecholamine synthesis selectively in the nucleus accumbens, hypothalamus and hippocampus of the rat. In the hippocampus, but not in the other areas mentioned, or in the caudate, chronic pretreatment with nicotine for 28 days potentiates this response. In the present study we have investigated the effects of acute treatment with the same dose of nicotine (0.8 mg/kg s.c.), and of chronic pretreatment with this dose, on the in vitro activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme for catecholamine synthesis. Tyrosine hydroxylase was not altered by acute nicotine, but was increased by about 2-fold, selectively in the hippocampus, by the chronic pretreatment. These results show that nicotine treatment increases the capacity for noradrenaline synthesis in the hippocampus; taken with our previous results they indicate that this capacity is not manifest until an acute challenge occurs. This effect of nicotine on tyrosine hydroxylase is consistent with nicotinic receptor mediation of central transsynaptic induction.
Present experiments examined whether previously observed hormone-dependent differences in norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP accumulation in hypothalamic and preoptic area slices are attributable to differences in noradrenergic receptor number or binding affinity. When compared to ovariectomized controls, hypothalamic and preoptic area membranes from estradiol-treated rats had significantly elevated numbers of [(3)H]prazosin (?(1)) binding sites. Estradiol affected neither the number of ?(1) sites in frontal cortex nor the affinity of [(3)H]prazosin binding in any brain region sampled. Estradiol had no effect on [(3)H]idazoxan (?(2)) or [(3)H]dihydroalprenolol (?) binding in hypothalamus, preoptic area or cortex. Progesterone reversed estradiol elevation of prazosin binding in preoptic area but had no other measurable effects on any noradrenergic receptor binding when given alone or in combination with estradiol. Neither estradiol nor progesterone altered binding of radiolabeled antagonists when they were included in the in vitro incubation mixture. These data suggest that the increased ?(1) receptor augmentation of cAMP accumulation seen in hypothalamic and preoptic area slices from estradiol-treated rats is correlated with increased ?(1) receptor number. In contrast, estradiol attenuation of ? receptor function and progesterone depression of norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP generation in slices from estradiol-treated females is not correlated with downregulation of any noradrenergic receptor subtype.
The problem of long-term assessment of cognitive change in dementia is defined as that of avoiding floor and ceiling effects in testing. Unlike diagnosis, the establishment of norms is viewed as secondary. This perspective allows the formulation of strategic guidlines in devising test batteries for longitudinal studies of cognitive change in dementia. A number of tests complying with these guidelines are described, tapping a wide range of cognitive abilities such as semantic analysis of verbal and visual material, semantic memory, object recognition, visuoconstruction and serial planning.
The authors constructed a two-dimensional model of vasogenic brain edema, using the finite element method (FEM). The model incorporates the following physical parameters: cerebrovascular hydraulic conductivity, metabolic water production, tissue hydraulic conductivity and compliance, tissue and plasma osmotic and hydrostatic pressures, cerebrospinal fluid hydrostatic pressure and absorption, intracerebral stress, and shift of brain tissue. These parameters, related by partial differential equations, were approximated numerically in time and space by the FEM. The results of computer simulation of brain edema by the FEM were compared with experimental data obtained in a feline cold injury brain edema model. Computer simulation predicted the changes observed in interstitial pressure, extent of edema, intracerebral stress distribution, and shift of brain tissue. The results indicate that the FEM, applied to a model of vasogenic brain edema, can be used to predict the time course and regional distribution of fluid accumulation and the accompanying regional stress and deformation of brain tissue.
We quantified glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) using immunoblot techniques and anti-GFAP, in unfractionated homogenates of different brain regions from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The amount of GFAP was significantly higher than in brains from controls and other neurodegenerative disorders (mean of 11 times), even in brain regions usually free of AD lesions such as caudate nucleus, thalamus, cerebellum, or brainstem. This dramatic increase of GFAP is not simply reflective of the astrocytic gliosis usually observed near the neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques but more likely represents an astrocytic reaction in the whole brain corresponding to an overproduction or an accumulation of GFAP. The significance of such an increase is unknown, but it might be a key element in the pathogenesis of AD.
Thirty-six clinically diagnosed and pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients included 13 with cortical and subcortical Lewy bodies (LBs). The patients with LBs appeared to constitute a distinct neuropathologic and clinical subset of AD, the Lewy body variant (LBV). The LBV group showed gross pallor of the substantia nigra, greater neuron loss in the locus ceruleus, substantia nigra, and substantia innominata, lower neocortical ChAT levels, and fewer midfrontal tangles than did the pure AD group, along with a high incidence of medial temporal lobe spongiform vacuolization. Analysis of neuropsychological tests from 9 LBV subjects and 9 AD patients matched for age and degree of dementia revealed greater deficits in attention, fluency, and visuospatial processing in the LBV group. Similar comparisons of neurologic examinations showed a significant increase in masked facies; in addition there was an increase in essential tremor, bradykinesia, mild neck rigidity, and slowing of rapid alternating movements in the LBV group. Extremity rigidity, flexed posture, resting tremor, or other classic parkinsonian features were not characteristic of the LBV patient. In some cases, it may be possible to diagnose LBV premortem on the basis of the clinical and neuropsychological features.
Turnover rates of noradrenaline and of dopamine were examined in regions of the CNS (brainstem, frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum) and in cardiac tissue of mice that had ingested ethanol for 2 or 7 days and during withdrawal of ethanol. Turnover of neurotransmitters was assessed from the accumulation of dihydroxyphenylalanine and from the depletion in levels of noradrenaline, dopamine and their deaminated metabolites in tissue, after irreversible inhibition of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase with DL-alpha-monofluoromethyldopa. There were no consistent changes in the turnover of noradrenaline or dopamine after 2 or 7 days of continuous ingestion of ethanol, but at the time that animals exhibited peak ethanol-withdrawal symptoms (8 hr after ethanol consumption was stopped), the turnover of dopamine in the striatum was markedly decreased to less than a third of that observed in control animals, whereas the turnover of noradrenaline in the brainstem was increased by a half. The changes in turnover of neurotransmitters in specific regions of the brain may reflect alterations in neuronal activity that result from withdrawal of ethanol, or may be determinants of particular ethanol-withdrawal symptoms.

This study was designed to compare the antidepressant effects of minaprine and amitriptyline in a group of 60 outpatients suffering from a major depressive episode as defined by the DSM III. The 6-week study was double-blind with a random allocation of treatment. Patients were treated with flexible daily doses of 200-300 mg of minaprine and 50-75 mg of amitriptyline. Both drugs showed significant global antidepressant efficacy with no significant difference between the two treatment groups. The Hamilton item 'psychomotor retardation' improved earlier with minaprine than amitriptyline. The incidence of anticholinergic adverse effects was significantly higher in the amitriptyline treatment group.
Two versions of a line bisection task were given to patients with posterior right-hemisphere damage and normal control subjects. One, which we refer to as the directed-manual task, was the traditional bisection task in which lines were transected with a pen held in the right hand. In the other task, referred to as the directed-visual task, subjects observed the experimenter move a pen along a line from right-to-left (the left-scan task) or from left-to-right (the right-scan task) and they verbally indicated the subjective midpoint. Patients showed significant left neglect in the manual and the left-scan tasks only. Controls showed no consistent biases and no influence of scanning direction. Right and left cues biased bisection for both groups. The results indicate that when the directed manual response is eliminated, scan direction determined the presence or absence of neglect on bisection. The findings are discussed in terms of the efficiency of visual orienting.
34 patients suffering from cervical spondylotic myelopathy confirmed by myelography were examined by delayed CT 6-10 h after myelography. Twelve patients showed bilateral intramedullary collections of contrast medium, predominantly cranial to the stenosis. In these patients males predominated, the duration of clinical symptoms lasted longer although their age was lower. There was no correlation to the degree and the extension of the narrowing of the cervical spinal canal. Half of 20 patients undergoing consecutive decompressive surgery showed intramedullary contrast enhancement, and this was shown again by postoperative MRI in eight. The postoperative clinical and neurophysiological results revealed no change in the majority of patients, but three patients showing intramedullary contrast medium deteriorated in neurophysiological outcome, while only one of the patients in whom intramedullary contrast medium was not noticed got worse.
Gradient-echo pulse sequences are a valuable adjunct to the standard spin-echo sequences used for MR imaging of the brain and spine. Gradient-echo techniques enhance the signal of flowing fluids and increase the conspicuity of vascular lesions. They also increase the sensitivity of MR for chronic hemorrhage and calcification. Finally, steady-state techniques produce a myelographic effect to help evaluate degenerative diseases of the spine.
The present study demonstrates a significant number of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) immunolabeled unmyelinated axons in the C3 fasciculus gracilis of the rat. Approximately 88% of these axons are lost following dorsal rhizotomies from midthoracic levels caudally. Assuming that CGRP labels primary afferent axons, these findings support the hypothesis that there are significant numbers of long ascending unmyelinated primary afferent axons in the dorsal columns of the rat. If these findings can be generalized, they may have clinical import.
Experimental lesions of the mammalian brain involving the developing corticospinal pathways may cause these pathways to become redirected. In humans, injury to the developing brain results in disorders of movement known collectively as 'cerebral palsy'. These motor disorders differ from those produced by similar lesions in adults. We present evidence that abnormal corticospinal projections exist in subjects who have had an injury to the brain in the perinatal period. These aberrant connections, which may represent misdirected corticospinal fibers, help to explain the impairment of voluntary movements experienced by these subjects.
Following the iontophoretic deposition of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into the rostral medullary raphe, which included portions of the caudal nucleus raphe magnus, rostral nucleus raphe pallidus, rostral nucleus raphe obscurus and rostral nucleus reticularis paragigantocellularis, two-color immunoperoxidase staining was employed to demonstrate contiguity between PHA-L-immunoreactive (PHA-LI) varicose fibers and boutons and medullary catecholamine (CA) cells. Raphe projections were contiguous with phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive (PNMTI) neurons in the C1, C2 and C3 cell groups and with tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (THI) neurons in the A1 and A2 cell groups. Contiguity between PHA-LI processes and medullary CA cells was observed most frequently in the C1 cell group. Preliminary findings of this study have been presented previously.





ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 21,000 as determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate), a phosphoprotein substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase, is unevenly distributed in adult rat brain. Using immunoblotting and phosphorylation in vitro followed by immunoprecipitation, ARPP-21 was found to be enriched in caudate-putamen, substantia nigra, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. Intermediate levels were found in cerebral cortex and hippocampus. ARPP-21 was very low in most other brain areas and was not detected in any of the peripheral tissues studied. Following unilateral lesion of the caudate-putamen with quinolinic acid, a marked decrease in the levels of ARPP-21 was observed in both the lesioned caudate-putamen (-75%) and the ipsilateral substantia nigra (-70%) compared with the unlesioned side. This result demonstrates the enrichment of ARPP-21 in striatonigral neurons. In slices of caudate-putamen, substantia nigra or cerebral cortex incubated in vitro, the phosphorylation of ARPP-21 was enhanced by 8-Br-cAMP, a stable analog of cAMP. In striatal slices, forskolin, a compound which stimulates adenylate cyclase directly, enhanced the phosphorylation of ARPP-21 with an EC50 of 0.5 microM. In conclusion, ARPP-21 is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein enriched in specific brain areas which are known to receive a rich dopaminergic innervation and to contain high levels of D1 dopamine receptors. The phosphorylation of ARPP-21 is likely to mediate some of the intracellular effects of neurotransmitters which stimulate adenylate cyclase in these regions, in particular dopamine and vasoactive intestinal peptide.
Fetal striatal neurons were transplanted into the ibotenic acid lesioned rat striatum. Three months after transplantation the grafted tissue was Golgi-impregnated and examined at the light microscopic level to determine the morphological characteristics of the transplanted neurons. Golgi-impregnated neurons were then gold-toned and examined at the electron microscopic level. The transplanted neurons were classified by both somatic size and somatic and dendritic morphology, which demonstrated that at least seven distinct cell types are present in striatal grafts. Type I large neurons had aspinous somata, sparsely spined dendrites, and indented nuclei, whereas type II large neurons displayed somatic spines, sparsely spined dendrites, and indented nuclei. Type I medium neurons exhibited aspinous somata and proximal dendrites, heavily spined distal dendrites, and unindented nuclei. Type II medium neurons had somatic spines, sparsely spined dendrites, and indented nuclei. Type III medium neurons had aspinous somata, poorly branched and sparsely spined dendrites, and indented nuclei, while type IV medium neurons had aspinous somata, highly branched and sparsely spined dendrites, and indented nuclei. Type V medium neurons displayed aspinous somata, varicose dendrites, and indented nuclei. These results demonstrate that transplanted fetal striatal neurons differentiate into morphologically and ultrastructurally distinct striatal cell types.
Small intrusions form in the internodes in or near the constrictions of beaded fibers prepared by fast-freezing and freeze-substituting mildly stretched nerves in the cat and rat. They appear as inwardly directed folds of the inner lamellae of the myelin sheath, or regularly formed spheres composed of lamellae with major dense and interperiod lines like those of the myelin sheath. A splitting of the lamellae and separation of the major dense lines may occur with an accumulation of Schwann cell cytoplasm between them, the result of an influx of cytoplasmic fluid from nearby constrictions. Longitudinally oriented microtubules have been observed in the intrusions, in the adaxonal Schwann cell cytoplasm, and in the innermost lamellae of the myelin sheath. The paranodes contain a number of larger intrusions in the form of spurs and globules along with shelve-like folds of the myelin sheath oriented in the longitudinal direction. Axoplasmic fluid driven from the constrictions during beading can enter the paranodes to smooth out their folds leaving the globular and spur-shaped myelin intrusions in isolation. Their wall thickness, measured from the central opening to the surface of the intrusion, is the same as that of the myelin sheath or, in some cases, double, the result of the folding of a spur-like intrusion upon itself. Intrusions unconnected to the sheath are seen in unbeaded fibers with regular, compact lamellae surrounded by axolemma. Others lack a covering axolemma and consist of variably disorganized and irregularly shaped lamellae suggesting that they are undergoing fragmentation and dissolution within the axon. The hypothesis is advanced that the intrusions in the internodes arise from an excess of lipid and other myelin components when the diameter of the sheath is reduced in the beading constrictions. In the paranodes, excess myelin components moved into these regions form the shelf-like folds which may fuse to form intrusions. These, separated from the myelin sheath, undergo fragmentation and dissolution and are carried by retrograde transport to the cell bodies where their constituent components can be reutilized.
Immunoelectron microscopy was used to investigate the ultrastructural features and synaptic relationships of serotonin-like immunoreactive amacrine cells in the larval tiger salamander retina. Serotonin-positive somas exhibited an evenly distributed peroxidase reaction product throughout their cytoplasm. Their nuclei were unstained and possessed indented nuclear membranes. Serotonin-immunoreactive processes were generally stained throughout with the exception of their mitochondria, whose morphology was often disrupted by the staining reaction. They were further characterized by an occasional dense-cored vesicle/s in addition to a generally homogeneous population of small, round, clear synaptic vesicles. Serotonin-immunoreactive amacrine cell processes formed conventional synapses that were characterized by symmetrical synaptic membrane densities. A total of 222 synaptic arrangements were observed that involved the immunostained processes of serotonin-amacrine cells. As presynaptic elements, they primarily contacted amacrine cells processes (37.8%). They also provided substantial synaptic input to processes that lacked synaptic vesicles (16.2%) and whose origin was unidentified. Serotonin-processes provided a far fewer number of synaptic contacts onto the processes of bipolar cells (1.4%) and the somas of cells in the amacrine cell layer (0.5%). As postsynaptic elements, they received synaptic inputs from amacrine cells (27.9%) and bipolar cells (16.2%). With the exception of their synapses onto bipolar cells and the somas of cells in the amacrine cell layer, each of the synaptic relationships of serotonin-amacrine cells was observed in each of sublayers 1-5 of the inner plexiform layer.
A previously developed model of exercise-induced muscle contracture using iodoacetate to inhibit glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase in rat hindlimb muscles produced selective type II myofiber damage. Utilizing a modification of the same model system, rats were given intra-aortic ortho-iodosobenzoic acid (700 nmol/kg body weight), which cleaves tryptophanyl peptides from glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Within 2-4 h, spontaneous electrically-silent contracture developed in the injected musculature resulting in a plantar-flexed position of the hindlimb. After 24 h, the extensor digitorum longus and tibialis anterior muscles appeared grossly swollen (edematous) and discolored. Microscopically, the extensor digitorum longus (composed predominantly of type II myofibers) contained many randomly scattered, damaged myofibers, reduced glycogen content, absent glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity, interstitial edema and focal collections of mononuclear phagocytes. Damaged fibers showed degenerative changes and contained stainable intracellular calcium. On modified trichrome-stained sections, an outer red staining rim of material was identifiable in many fibers. The fibers of the soleus muscle (composed predominantly of type I myofibers) were not damaged, indicating a preferential ortho-iodosobenzoic acid effect on type II myofibers.
Renshaw cell responses to random motor axon stimulation exhibit second-order non-linearities in that they depend on the occurrence of a preceding stimulus, although these non-linearities are not strong enough to significantly depress the coherence. However, higher-order non-linearities have not been checked for so far. This is carried out here. Lumbosacral Renshaw cells were recorded with micropipettes in anaesthetized cats. Their responses to random (pseudo-Poisson) stimulation of motor axons in peripheral nerves or ventral roots were quantified by calculating peristimulus-time histograms of various sorts, conventional and conditional. Conventional peristimulus-time histograms were computed with respect to all the stimuli in a train. Conditional peristimulus-time histograms were calculated with respect to &quot;test&quot; stimuli which were sorted out (by computer) from the original stimulus train when they were preceded by &quot;conditional&quot; stimuli at average intervals of delta 1 or delta 2 or both. These conditioned responses were compared with those to be expected from hypothetical linear superposition. Renshaw cell responses showed small third-order non-linearities to pairs of conditioning stimuli at small intervals (up to some tens of milliseconds before the test stimuli). These third-order effects were smaller than each of the second-order non-linearities elicited by any of the single-conditioning stimuli. Also, further higher-order non-linearities were apparent, but of little average significance. Hence, the non-linearities in Renshaw cell responses to random inputs are essentially of second-order and fairly small.
The distribution of acetylcholinesterase and the activity of choline acetyltransferase was studied in the tecta of normal frogs and frogs without retinal and/or nucleus (n.) isthmi inputs. In normal animals acetylcholinesterase activity is found primarily in three bands in the outer layers of the tectum-lamina A, laminae C-F, and lamina G. After retinal and contralateral n. isthmi deafferentation three distinct bands of tectal acetylcholinesterase activity are still present. After bilateral n. isthmi deafferentation there is loss of activity in lamina G and reduced activity in lamina A. With retinal and ipsilateral n. isthmi deafferentation, activity is seen only in lamina A. With retinal and bilateral n. isthmi deafferentation there is virtually no acetylcholinesterase activity in the outer tectal layers. Following unilateral retinal deafferentation there is no statistically significant difference in choline acetyltransferase specific activity between intact and deafferented tectal lobes after two, four and nine weeks. With unilateral nucleus isthmi lesions and survival times of between 10 and 40 days, choline acetyltransferase specific activity in the tectal lobe ipsilateral to the ablation is approximately 38% of the specific activity of the contralateral lobe. With bilateral n. isthmi lesions there is a strong correlation between amount of n. isthmi ablated and reduction of choline acetyltransferase activity. In vitro tectal acetylcholine synthesis was also determined in animals with unilateral n. isthmi ablation. On average, tectal lobes ipsilateral to the ablated n. isthmi synthesize acetylcholine at a rate which is approximately 58% of that of contralateral tecta. Collectively, these results imply that n. isthmi is the sole cholinergic input to the frog optic tectum, with ipsilaterally projecting isthmotectal fibers accounting for the greater share.
Accumulation of radioactivity in the medulla oblongata of the rat was assessed with high resolution autoradiography after injection of [3H]2-deoxyglucose or [14C]2-deoxyglucose. The autoradiographic approach employed allowed analysis at the cellular level. A salient feature of autoradiograms was the presence of foci of very high silver grain density in the reticular formation. These heavily labeled foci were shown to be associated with neurons by combined Acridine Orange staining and autoradiography. The high activity neurons in the ventral lateral medulla were predominantly located in the caudal portion of the paragigantocellular reticular nucleus. In addition, a group of high activity neurons was present in the dorsal reticular formation. The potential involvement of the high activity neurons in cardiovascular and respiratory regulation is discussed. In dry-mount autoradiograms produced after injection of [3H]2-deoxyglucose, certain small cells, presumably glial cells, were observed throughout the brainstem to accumulate radioactivity to a greater extent than the surrounding tissue. High activity neurons and high activity glial cells were observed for 5 min and 45 min survival intervals after intravenous injection of [3H]2-deoxyglucose. The similar appearance of autoradiograms at 5 min and 45 min after injection of [3H]2-deoxyglucose indicates that the utility of a 5-min survival period deserves further evaluation for assessment of functional activity patterns in brain.
The regional distribution and cellular localization of mRNA coding for the serotonin 1C receptor were investigated in tissue sections of mouse and rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Several 32P-labelled riboprobes derived from mouse genomic clones were used. The serotonin 1C receptor binding sites were visualized autoradiographically and quantified using [3H]mesulergine as ligand, in the presence of spiperone to block serotonin 1C receptors. Strong hybridization signal was observed in the choroid plexus of all brain ventricles. High levels of hybridization were also seen in the anterior olfactory nucleus, pyriform cortex, amygdala, some thalamic nuclei, especially the lateral habenula, the CA3 area of the hippocampal formation, the cingulate cortex, some components of the basal ganglia and associated areas, particularly the nucleus subthalamicus and the substantia nigra. The midbrain and brainstem showed moderate levels of hybridization. The distribution of the serotonin 1C receptor mRNA corresponded well to that of the serotonin 1C receptors. The highest levels of serotonin 1C receptor binding were observed in the choroid plexus. In addition, significant levels of the serotonin 1C receptor binding were seen in the anterior olfactory nucleus, pyriform cortex, nucleus accumbens, ventral aspects of the striatum, paratenial and paracentral thalamic nuclei, amygdaloid body and substantia nigra pars reticulata. The cingulate and retrosplenial cortices as well as the caudal aspects of the hippocampus (CA3) were also labelled. Binding in brainstem and medulla was low and homogeneously distributed. No significant binding was seen in the habenular and subthalamic nuclei. Similar findings were obtained in rat brain. These results demonstrate that, in addition to their enrichment in the choroid plexus, the serotonin 1C receptor mRNA and binding sites are heterogeneously distributed in the rodent brain and thus could be involved in the regulation of many different brain functions. The combination of in situ hybridization histochemistry with receptor autoradiography opens the possibility of examining the regulation of the serotonin 1C receptor synthesis after pharmacological or physiological alterations.
In brain, a major factor regulating local perfusion is local neuronal activity. However, we have recently discovered that, in rat, five days after selective neuronal destruction in the parietal cortex by local microinjections of the excitotoxin ibotenic acid, local cerebral blood flow, within the lesion, remains in the normal range. We studied whether proliferating non-neuronal cells and/or local changes in microvascular density participate to maintain local cerebral blood flow. Rats were anesthetized (halothane 1-3%), ibotenic acid (10 micrograms in 1 microliter) was locally microinjected in a restricted region of the parietal cortex, and animals were allowed to recover. Three, five, seven, 11, 30 days later local cerebral blood flow was measured autoradiographically under chloralose anesthesia (40 mg/kg, s.c.) by the [14C]iodoantipyrine technique. Cellular density or microvascular area were determined on sections stained with Thionine or processed for the endothelial marker alkaline phosphatase, respectively. Local neurons were destroyed by 24 h after microinjections of ibotenic acid. However, from three to 11 days after lesion local cerebral blood flow was unchanged (P greater than 0.05; n = 5), thereafter declining so that by 30 days blood flow was 48 +/- 6% of control (P less than 0.05; n = 5). Cellular density increased within the lesion by 17.5-fold at seven to 11 days (P less than 0.01) and declined to a 11.7-fold elevation above control at day 30 (P less than 0.01). New cells consisted of macrophages, endothelium and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes. The microvascular area increased 4.2-fold from three to 11 days (P less than 0.01). The patency of the presumably newly formed vessels was determined by the presence of intravascular red blood cells, which were revealed histochemically. The area occupied by red blood cells within cerebral microvessels, in contrast to microvascular area, did not increase until seven days after lesion, reaching a 3.2-fold increase at 11 days. Thus within the lesion, local cerebral blood flow remains constant during the phase in which cellular and microvascular density increases. The presumably newly formed vessels cannot contribute to maintain local cerebral blood flow since during this phase they are not patent; rather patency develops coincident with the decline in local cerebral blood flow. We conclude that non-neuronal cells, most likely activated macrophages, may be an important factor regulating local cerebral perfusion, after acute neuronal death.
Following prolonged stimulation of the perforant path input to the dentate gyrus, long-lasting changes occur in the synaptic responses and cell properties of cells in the fascia dentata. The present study describes the effects of sustained stimulation on the major population of cells innervated by the dentate granule cells: are CA3 pyramidal cells of hippocampus. In 46% of slices from rat, sustained stimulation of perforant path was followed by spontaneous, synchronized, rhythmic bursting activity in area CA3 pyramidal cells that was evident for several hours. These bursts could be recorded extracellularly in the pyramidal cell layer, throughout the hilar region, and even in the granule cell layer. With intracellular recording, all of the cells of the fascia dentata were found to be affected by the pyramidal cell bursts. Hyperpolarizing, inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP)-like events occurred in all granule cells tested during the CA3 pyramidal cell burst. In contrast, spiny hilar &quot;mossy&quot; cells discharged synchronously with the pyramidal cells, as did some of the &quot;fast spiking&quot; interneurons. However, most interneurons only depolarized a few millivolts during the pyramidal cell burst. These results show that sustained stimulation of the perforant path is followed by a period of hyperexcitability in area CA3 of the hippocampus, and that hyperexcitability in area CA3 influences the activity of the cells in the fascia dentata.
Recent studies have shown that prolonged stimulation of afferents of the rat fascia dentata in vivo leads to the development of chronic epileptiform activity of the dentate granule cell region, and degeneration of certain cell types in the adjacent hilus. To investigate the development of dentate hyperexcitability and the selective vulnerability of hilar cells, the hippocampal slice preparation offers an in vitro model in which cellular mechanisms can be examined. We have recorded intracellularly from granule cells and hilar cells in tissue slices from rat before, during, and following sustained stimulation of the major afferent input to the dentate gyrus, the perforant path. Results from intracellular studies in slices were consistent with in vivo studies. Hilar cells were far more sensitive to short-term or prolonged perforant path stimulation than granule cells. At a time when the granule cell population response was not affected by prolonged stimulation, simultaneous recordings from hilar cells and some granule layer interneurons showed that these cells were already depolarized, had very low input resistance, and showed other electrophysiological changes indicative of deterioration. In contrast, granule cells generally hyperpolarized during stimulation and their input resistance increased; no signs of injury were evident in granule cells. Some stimulus-induced changes in the physiological characteristics of granule cells, such as decreased spike frequency adaptation and reduced inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, may contribute to the development of dentate hyperexcitability.
The kinematics of three-dimensional arm movements were recorded during a task in which subjects were required to place a peg in a hole. The accuracy constraint was varied by using holes of different diameters. If the diameter of the hole was large relative to the diameter of the peg, the tangential velocity profile of hand trajectories was relatively symmetric and bell-shaped, but it became increasingly asymmetric as the diameter of the hole was reduced. Peak tangential velocity decreased, overall movement duration increased and the proportion of the movement spent in deceleration increased systematically. The shape of the accelerative phase of the velocity profile showed little dependence on hole diameter, but the decelerative phase became increasingly irregular as the hole diameter was reduced. This irregularity was attributed to submovements corresponding to small changes in the direction of the hand path. On the other hand, deliberately slowing the movement in the absence of a strict accuracy constraint induced a change in the velocity profile which produced irregularity in both the accelerative and decelerative phases of the movement. The results of our experiments are consistent with the idea that movements requiring extreme accuracy and other slow movements are composed of a series of submovements. In the case of movements requiring accuracy these submovements may represent corrective actions that are taken throughout the course of the movement.
Anatomical tracing studies indicate that the nucleus accumbens receives inputs from limbic structures, and projects to the ventral pallidum. In order to get more fundamental insight into how information from the limbic areas is relayed via the nucleus accumbens, electrophysiological experiments were carried out in rats under halothane anaesthesia. Inputs originating in the subiculum were activated by electrical stimulation of the fornix fibres, and both field potentials and extracellular unit activity were recorded from the medial and lateral aspects of the nucleus accumbens. Evoked potentials consisted of two positive peaks (P1 at 10 ms and P2 at 25-30 ms). In between a negative-going wave (N1) was present. These initial components were followed by a complex negative wave (N2) with variable duration of 30-100 ms. The P2 and N2 components showed a conspicuous paired-pulse facilitation at stimulus intervals between 80 and at least 200 ms. When responses were recorded at increasing stimulus intensity, the second response emerged at lower threshold than the first response. The mechanisms underlying these phenomena were investigated by analysing the extracellularly recorded unit activity. Primarily, excitatory responses were found. Onset-latencies could be divided roughly into two clusters, one around 10 ms, representing monosynaptic inputs, and a second around 24-26 ms. Inhibitory responses were also found. Stimulation of the ventral pallidum was carried out in order to test whether the cells that could be driven by stimulation of the subicular inputs were projection cells. Latencies of antidromic action potentials ranged from 9 to 13 ms. A minority of the identified projection cells were activated by limbic inputs. The projection cells were found in the core region of the nucleus accumbens. Units that were inhibited by stimulation of the limbic inputs were found in the shell only, whereas excitatory responses were measured in both subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens. For the latter responses a significant enhancement, by a factor of four, was found using double pulse stimulation of the fornix at intervals of 100 ms. The basic electrophysiological properties are compared with those described in the literature, and speculations about the possible mechanisms responsible for the paired-pulse facilitation phenomena are put forward.
In animal models of transients ischemia, selective vulnerability and delayed neuronal death in the hippocampus have been extensively described. However, little is known about selective damage in the neocortex and the thalamus, even though deficits in sensorimotor function are common in humans surviving hypoxic/ischemic episodes. This study investigated the neurodegenerative effects of transient ischemia in the gerbil neocortex and thalamus with use of Cresyl Violet and silver impregnation staining methods. In addition, immunohistochemistry of an astrocyte-associated protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, was used to assess the astrocytic response to ischemia. Pyramidal cells in layers 3 and 6 of somatosensory and auditory cortex were exceptionally sensitive to ischemia, whereas the neurons in layers 2, 4 and 5 were more resistant to ischemia. More pyramidal cells were killed in layer 3 than in layer 6. This bilaminar pattern of neuronal death developed after periods of ischemia ranging from 3 to 10 min and was identifiable at post-ischemic survival times of 6 h to one month. Somatodendritic argyrophilia in the neocortex was identified as early as 6-12 h after 5 min of ischemia. The greatest number of degenerating cortical neurons were stained two to four days after ischemia. With 10 min of ischemia, argyrophilic neurites and neurons were also found as early as 8 h after the occlusion. The most extensive damage was noted in the ventroposterior nucleus, the medial geniculate nucleus, and the intralaminar nuclei two to four days after ischemia. Thus, selective vulnerability and delayed neuronal death are evident in both the neocortex and the thalamus after transient ischemia. These regions need to be examined when considering the efficacy of potential neuroprotective drugs.
In precollicular decerebrate cats the electrical activity of 141 individual neurons located in the locus coeruleus-complex, i.e. in the dorsal (n = 41) and ventral parts (n = 67) as well as in the locus subcoeruleus (n = 33), was recorded during sinusoidal tilt about the longitudinal axis of the whole animal, leading to stimulation of labyrinth receptors. Some of these neurons showed physiological characteristics attributed to the norepinephrine-containing locus coeruleus neurons, namely, (i) a slow and regular resting discharge, and (ii) a typical biphasic response to fore- and hindpaw compression consisting of short impulse bursts followed by a silent period, which has been attributed to recurrent and/or lateral inhibition of the norepinephrine-containing neurons. Furthermore, 16 out of the 141 neurons were activated antidromically by stimulation of the spinal cord at T12 and L1, thus being considered coeruleospinal or subcoeruleospinal neurons. A large number of tested neurons (80 out of 141, i.e. 56.7%) responded to animal rotation at the standard frequency of 0.15 Hz and at the peak amplitude of 10 degrees. However, the proportion of responsive neurons was higher in the locus subcoeruleus (72.7%) and the dorsal locus coeruleus (61.0%) than in the ventral locus coeruleus (46.3%). A periodic modulation of firing rate of the units was observed during the sinusoidal stimulus. In particular, 45 out of the 80 units (i.e. 56.2%) were excited during side-up and depressed during side-down tilt (beta-responses), whereas 20 of 80 units (i.e. 25.0%) showed the opposite behavior (alpha-responses). In both instances, the response peak occurred with an average phase lead of about + 18 degrees, with respect to the extreme side-up or side-down position of the animal; however, the response gain (imp./s per deg) was, on average, more than two-fold higher in the former than in the latter group. The remaining 15 units (i.e. 18.7%) showed a prominent phase shift of this response peak with respect to animal position. Similar results were obtained from the subpopulation of locus coeruleus-complex neurons which fired at a low rate (less than 5.0 imp./s), as well as for the antidromically identified coeruleospinal neurons. The response gain of locus coeruleus-complex neurons, including the coeruleospinal neurons, did not change when the peak amplitude of tilt was increased from 5 degrees to 20 degrees at the fixed frequency of 0.15 Hz. This indicates that the system was relatively linear with respect to the amplitude of displacement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Using affinity chromatography with the monoclonal antibody 271A6, which binds selectively to telencephalic regions of the rabbit brain, we have purified a telencephalon-specific antigen to apparent homogeneity and characterized it as a membrane glycoprotein. The telencephalon-specific membrane protein (named &quot;telencephalin&quot;) has a molecular weight of about 500,000 and is composed of four subunits each of mol. wt 130,000. Its digestion with N-glycanase reduced the subunit mol. wt by 23,000, indicating that each subunit has several N-asparagine-linked oligosaccharide chains. Immunohistochemical analysis using polyclonal antibody against the purified telencephalin shows that expression of the entire protein is restricted to the telencephalon. In addition, segment-specific expression of telencephalin was observed in all mammalian species examined (mouse, rat, guinea-pig, rabbit, cat and monkey). The telencephalon is the most rostral segment of the brain, and comprises the cerebral neocortex, paleocortex, hippocampus, septum, striatum and olfactory bulb. The present results indicate that all regions of the mammalian telencephalon express the segment-specific membrane glycoprotein, telencephalin, and suggest that telecephalin is involved in functions specific to the surface membrane of telencephalic neurons.
We have investigated the possible role of neural cell adhesion molecule, in promoting motor nerve terminal sprouting in the paralysed mouse gluteus maximus muscle, using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum to mouse brain neural cell adhesion molecule (donated by Dr C. Goridis). This antiserum recognizes neural cell adhesion molecule in the basal lamina and extracellular matrix of denervated mouse muscles (1988, Booth C. M. and Brown M. C., Neuroscience 27, 699-709). As a single dose of antibody injected in vivo over the surface of denervated gluteal muscles bound for 12-48 h to over 80% of fibres expressing neural cell-adhesion molecule, once daily injections were used to see if there was any action on terminal sprouting. Injections of antibody were made for four days, starting three days after muscles were paralysed with botulinum toxin. To avoid non-specific complement-mediated attack on neural cell adhesion molecule bearing motor nerve terminals, mice of the DBA/2 strain were used as these lack complement component C5. They were further complement depleted by daily intraperitoneal injections of colloidal inulin. The percentage of end plates bearing terminal sprouts (visualized in whole mounts of the gluteus maximus with zinc iodide-osmium staining) was reduced from a mean of 60.5% +/- 3.2 (n = 11) for mice treated with botulinum toxin alone and 61.5% +/- 1.2 (n = 8) for those treated with non-immune serum, to 37.3% +/- 3.6 (n = 8) in the anti-neural cell adhesion molecule injected series.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cerebellar vermis has been recognized as a key region of a circuit essential for long-term habituation of the acoustic startle response in rats. The removal of this neuronal structure before training prevents the build-up of this long-term behavioral change. Our data show that, when the same lesion is performed after training for long-term habituation, the learned behavior is not affected. These results indicate that the cerebellar vermis is essential for the acquisition, but not for the retention of long-term habituation of the startle response.
The GABAA antagonist bicuculline methiodide and the GABAB antagonist phaclofen were used to examine the function of the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential, in hippocampal slice cultures in the rat. These cultures form easily-visualized monolayers of nerve cells which maintain the structure and synaptic organization of transverse hippocampal slices. The present study shows that the cellular and synaptic physiological properties of slice cultures are very similar, but not identical, to those observed in acutely-prepared hippocampal slices. The major difference is a higher incidence of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials compared to slices, and the appearance of spontaneous slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. This increase in synaptic drive has been useful for our investigation of the role of GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Bath application of 10 microM bicuculline blocked the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and gave rise to bursts 1-11 s in duration. The presence of the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials did not prevent bicuculline-induced burst activity. Phaclofen (1 mM) perfused in the bath reversibly blocked the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential, but did not result in the formation of large paroxysmal depolarizing shift-like bursts as seen with bicuculline. Rather, block of the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential resulted in the formation of repetitive &quot;afterdischarge bursts&quot;. These afterdischarge potentials typically appeared with a delay of 2-15 min following block of the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential, during which time there was a gradual increase in non-synchronized excitatory activity. Once established, this cycle of increasing excitatory activity culminating in afterdischarge potentials recurred at 2-4 min intervals while phaclofen was present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The activity of anti-oxidant enzymes in the brains of newborn piglets were studied under the condition of ischemic hypoxia followed by reperfusion. The activity of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, was determined in the brain tissue of control animals and animals exposed to 60 min of hypoxia followed by 30 min of normoxia. The results showed that the activities of these enzymes were not significantly affected by hypoxia and subsequent reperfusion, suggesting that under these conditions the anti-oxidant system is not a target for, nor is its inhibition a cause of, cellular damage. It is proposed that the anti-oxidant enzyme system in the brain is non-responsive to and may not play a role during hypoxia/ischemia and subsequent reperfusion.
Physiologic stressors increase trans-synaptic impulse activity and result in adrenal catecholamine release and biosynthesis. To determine the effects of stress on the co-localized opiate peptide system, rats were cold stressed at 4 degrees C. While cold stress slightly decreased enkephalin levels, a more severe stress (wetting and cold) increased enkephalin levels by 95%. Examining trans-synaptic-cholinergic mechanisms, treatment with either nicotinic or muscarinic agonists alone resulted in no change in adrenal enkephalin content. However, treatment with both nicotinic and muscarinic agonists together resulted in a three-fold rise in enkephalin levels. To further examine cellular mechanisms, medullae were explanted in the presence of agents that increase second messenger cyclic nucleotide levels. Treatments that increase the levels of cAMP, the cyclic nucleotide associated with nicotinic receptor activation, prevented the rise in medullary enkephalin relative to control explants. In contrast, treatments that increased cGMP levels, the cyclic nucleotide associated with muscarinic receptor activation, had no effect on enkephalin content compared to control explants. However, in the presence of both forskolin (10 microM) plus db-cGMP (5 mM), enkephalin content rose three-fold over control explants. These data suggest that, distinct from catecholamine pathways, enkephalin levels can be positively or negatively regulated by the severity of a stressful stimulus, by cholinergic receptor mechanisms and by an interaction of cyclic nucleotide second-messenger pathways.
An antiserum raised against the C-terminal region of rat alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide has been used to investigate the morphology and topographical distribution of neurons and terminals containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the cat dorsal column nuclear complex. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive fibers and axon terminals were denser in the cuneate nucleus than in the other dorsal column nuclei subdivisions and were observed throughout all rostrocaudal levels. They were densest in the dorsal and ventrolateral portions of the middle cuneate. Immunoreactive neurons were observed only in animals pre-treated with colchicine. In these cases, some calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive neurons were present in the cuneate and in the external cuneate. In double-labeling experiments, visualization of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglia neurons was combined with the retrograde transport of colloidal gold-labeled wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to inactive horseradish peroxidase injected in the cuneate nucleus. These experiments show that calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive fibers in the cuneate nucleus originate mostly from C3-C6 medium sized dorsal root ganglia neurons but also from some small and large neurons. These results suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive fibers may convey sensory information from a wide range of peripheral receptors.
Degeneration of axons in the mouse sciatic nerve was examined using conventional silver staining and by noting the presence or absence of a compound action potential on stimulating the nerve distal to the point of crush or cut. The presence of myeloperoxidase-positive cells was also examined in frozen sections of the nerve. In all experiments the distal, disconnected segment was studied. Degeneration after crushing with fine watchmakers forceps always began in the most distal part of the nerve and proceeded in a distoproximal direction, from the nerve entry point into a muscle back to the crush site. Myeloperoxidase-positive cells were also recruited into the nerve starting at the distal rather than proximal (the originally injured) end. This result favours the view that degeneration is triggered by lack of trophic support from the cell body rather than entry of deleterious substances at the site of the injury, for the terminals furthest from both the source of supply and the injury are affected first. Degeneration following nerve section was always more rapid than after crushing. The rate of axonal sealing at the injury was, however, no slower than after crushing, so it does not seem likely that greater entry of possible degeneration-triggering material at the injury site is the explanation for this. Crush lesions in which the perineurium was also cut open and the blood supply at the site was damaged, degenerated at the slower rate characteristic of simple crushes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Injection of the excitatory neurotoxin ibotenic acid into the septum produces rapid destruction of neuronal cell bodies and accompanying gliosis. We have previously shown that following ibotenate-induced cell death this may also result in damage to healthy axons en passage (Coffey et al., Neurosci. Lett. 84, 178-184, 1988). We suggested that the axonal damage resulted from non-specific damage by recruited inflammatory cells. In this study we have further examined the phenotype of the cells involved in the inflammatory response in the rat. Immunocytochemical identification of cells in the region of the lesion site identifies them as being of haematopoitic origin and most of them have the phenotype of macrophages. The dramatic increase in their number following an ibotenate lesion is sensitive to irradiation of the body providing evidence that the majority are blood derived. The inflammatory response is accompanied by a loss of myelin and a breakdown of the blood-brain barrier in the region of the lesion site. We have shown that these two effects are consequences of the inflammatory response since reduction in the inflammatory response by prior irradiation will abrogate these two effects.
Cell incubation with lecithin-cholesterol liposomes (1:1 mol/mol) caused enhancement of the cholesterol content. The level of cholesterol esters of total and phospholipid unsaturated fatty acids increased in cholesterol enriched cells. Simultaneously the amount of saturated fatty acids decreased and lysophosphatidylcholine appeared in the cells. On the contrary, cell incubation with lecithin liposomes resulted in cholesterol depletion. This effect was accompanied by a decrease of cholesterol esters, of total and phospholipid unsaturated fatty acids. The content of saturated fatty acids was raised in cells with reduced amount of cholesterol. The quantity of N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine and N-acylethanolamine, lipids newly found in neuroblastoma cells, also changed in cells with modified content of cholesterol. The physiological role of cell response to the changes of cholesterol level is discussed.
It has been proposed that there is a reciprocal relationship between food intake and sympathetic activity. To test this hypothesis corticotropin releasing hormone, which suppresses feeding behavior, and neuropeptide Y, which stimulates it, were injected intracerebroventricularly and sympathetic nerve activity to interscapular brown adipose tissue measured in anesthetized rats. Multi-unit discharges of sympathetic nerves to interscapular brown adipose tissue were recorded electrophysiologically. The intracerebroventricular injection of corticotropin releasing hormone (250 and 500 pmol) increased sympathetic nerve activity and the intracerebroventricular injection of neuropeptide Y (250-500 pmol) suppressed sympathetic nerve activity in a dose-dependent manner. The intracerebroventricular injection of vehicle did not affect sympathetic nerve activity. The result is consistent with the hypothesis that these brain peptides are neuromodulators of the sympathetic nervous system which may control energy expenditure in interscapular brown adipose tissue. The effects of these two brain peptides on sympathetic nerve activity are opposite to their effects on feeding behavior suggesting that sympathetic activity and food intake may be reciprocally related.
The effect of increasing doses of GTP on agonist and antagonist binding to adenosine A1-receptors in different regions of rat brain was studied by autoradiography. A high concentration of GTP (100 microM) practically eliminated the binding of the agonist [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine in all regions. However, there were regional differences in the effects of low concentrations of GTP (0.1-10 microM). In some regions, for example the hippocampus, all concentrations of GTP decreased [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine binding, by decreasing the Bmax. In other structures, e.g. the superior colliculus, there was a biphasic response to GTP. Concentrations of 0.1-3 microM increased agonist binding, apparently due to a decrease in KD, whereas higher concentrations also decreased binding in these regions. The effects of GTP were mimicked by the stable GTP analogue guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). GTP (0.5-100 microM) increased the binding of the antagonist [3H]8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine in all regions, but most markedly in those where GTP had a biphasic effect on agonist binding. Decreasing the levels of endogenous adenosine by increasing the concentration of adenosine deaminase and adding the 5'-nucleotidase inhibitor alpha-beta-methylene adenosine-5'-diphosphate gave an increase in [3H]8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine binding and diminished the response to GTP. In sections treated with adenosine deaminase and alpha-beta-methylene adenosine-5'-diphosphate, GTP steadily decreased [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine binding in all regions. Thus, the GTP-induced increase in both agonist and antagonist binding may be due to a displacement of endogenous adenosine. In the presence of 1 mM EDTA, GTP had a monophasic effect on the binding of [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine in all regions. In the presence of 2 mM MgCl2 a biphasic response to GTP was seen in all regions. In EDTA washed sections, the effect of MgCl2 on [3H]N6-cyclohexyladenosine binding was more pronounced in the superior colliculus, where we had observed a biphasic response to GTP. The results suggest that there are regional differences in the effects of GTP on adenosine A1-receptor binding in rat brain, that reflect regional differences in the magnesium-dependent binding of endogenous adenosine, which is bound to the receptor by tight binding, is very difficult to remove, and easily interferes with radioligand binding in in vitro experiments. There may be regional differences in the sensitivity of A1-receptor-G-protein complexes to magnesium, that reflect a heterogeneity of the G-proteins to which the A1-receptors are coupled.
The solitary nucleus (nucleus tractus solitarii), the first central relay for taste in mammals, was studied anatomically and physiologically in the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus). Activity of neurons to anterior tongue stimulation with sucrose, NaCl and KCl were extracellularly recorded. Electrolytic lesions or horseradish peroxidase deposits allowed subsequent localization of recording sites. Anterior tongue taste-responsive sites were restricted to a very small part of the rostral pole of the solitary nucleus, which is about 3% of the entire nucleus. Sites were confined to the rostral-central and rostral-lateral subdivisions of Whitehead, which contain a number of morphological cell types. Some chemotopic organization was seen with multi-unit recordings, with NaCl-selective sites concentrated rostrally and sucrose- and KCl-selective sites concentrated caudally. Sites with broad sensitivity were distributed throughout the gustatory region. Single neural units showing inhibition to taste stimuli, units highly reactive to all three stimuli, and units with high spontaneous rates were seen in the solitary nucleus, as well as units that responded very selectively and had low spontaneous rates. Single units with similar response profiles to sucrose, NaCl and KCl were not segregated to separate restricted locations within the taste-reactive region; their distributions overlapped. In the hamster, neurons in the anterior tongue taste region of the solitary nucleus process taste quality information in diverse ways. Highly reactive non-specific neurons, neurons that show inhibition, and neurons with high spontaneous rates are more frequently observed in the solitary nucleus than in the afferent input fibers of the chorda tympani nerve. The small region of the rostral pole enclosing taste-responsive neurons is complexly organized in relation to taste quality and contains a number of morphological cell types whose functional role in taste is not yet known.
The mosaic of topical organization of afferent inputs from some cortical, subcortical, including nucleus caudatus, brainstem and spinal cord structures to the magnocellular part of the cat red nucleus has been revealed by microiontophoretic injection of horseradish peroxidase and subsequent study of retrograde axonal transport of the enzyme. Substantial differences between afferent inputs of dorsal and ventral regions of the red nucleus as representation zones of fore- and hind-limbs in this structure were observed. It was found that while a considerable variety of afferent inputs to the ventral regions of the red nucleus exists, the dorsal region receives information from only a restricted number of structures. The trajectories of retrogradely labelled fibre systems of the red nucleus have also been described.
We have examined the location of basal forebrain cells projecting to the region of the nuclei gemini in the caudolateral hypothalamus of the rat using retrograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. Since many tracer-positive neurons were identified in ventral pallidal areas known to project to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, we also prepared several animals with wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase injections in mediodorsal thalamus. Many of the sections from both groups of animals were subsequently prepared for the demonstration of ventral pallidal regions, using either substance P or glutamate decarboxylase as a pallidal marker. Some animals received injections of different retrogradely transported fluorescent tracers in the mediodorsal thalamus and the nuclei gemini for the purpose of studying potential axon collateralization. The large gemini-projecting cells are diffusely scattered within the medial forebrain bundle area, from the caudal margin of the nucleus of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band to the rostral tip of the olfactory tubercle, and with a concentration of cells in the lateral part of the medial forebrain bundle region. Gemini-projecting cells were not found in the olfactory tubercle proper, including the islands of Calleja complexes, or in the ventral pallidal areas located dorsal to the medial forebrain bundle area underneath the lateral extension of the anterior commissure. Gemini-projecting cells within ventral pallidal areas were observed only in regions where the longitudinal fascicles of the medial forebrain bundle interdigitate with the rostroventral extension of the ventral pallidum. Anterogradely-labeled fiber plexuses in the region of the nuclei gemini were observed following injection of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or Fluoro-Ruby into the forebrain regions containing retrogradely-labeled neurons following nuclei gemini injections of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase. We found no evidence of cells with axonal projections to both mediodorsal thalamus and nuclei gemini. The gemini-projecting cells are generally large, triangular and plump, and the electron microscopic picture of gemini-projecting neurons is the same regardless of whether the cells are located in pallidal or non-pallidal areas.
The effects of the neuropeptide neurotensin on dopamine release and metabolism in the posteromedial nucleus accumbens and anterior dorsomedial striatum of the anesthetized rat were investigated using in vivo chronoamperometry and intracerebral microdialysis techniques. A dose-dependent augmentation of dopamine efflux as evidenced by increases in the chronoamperometric signal was observed in the nucleus accumbens following intracerebroventricular injections of neurotensin. However, neurotensin failed to alter extracellular concentrations of dopamine in the striatum. The selective effects of neurotensin on mesolimbic dopamine neurons were confirmed using in vivo microdialysis. These results demonstrate that neurotensin can selectively enhance the release and metabolism of dopamine in neurons projecting from the ventral tegmental area to the nucleus accumbens.
In continuation of our quantitative studies of mitoses in 15-day fetal rat brain, we have now studied mitoses in hippocampus of neonatal rat. In contrast to cortex in which neuroblast mitoses terminate prenatally, hippocampus in rodents has been known to exhibit mitoses well past birth. Our present study suggests that at birth (rat) 61% of these mitoses are situated in the medioventral tip of the germinal (ventricular and sub-ventricular) zone of lateral ventricle. However, the remaining 39% of mitoses may not be neural but represent mitoses of brain capillaries, similar to &quot;deep mitoses&quot; which we reported in 15-day fetuses. Like these, some of the neonatal mitoses are situated not in the germinal layer of the ventricle, but 44 +/- 21 microns deeper, near Ammon's horn or dentate gyrus; also, as in these previous studies, the spindles of all deep mitoses are not parallel to ventricular or hippocampal structures but perpendicular, presumably to promote their radial expansion known for capillaries at that age. Possibilities are considered that capillary cells are produced in excess and eventually undergo natural &quot;capillary death&quot;, to follow natural &quot;neuronal death&quot;.
The effect of two doses of clonidine on regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose were measured during morphine withdrawal in rats. In the first study, 0 or 200 micrograms/kg clonidine was administered to rats subjected to naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal (naloxone, 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.), and to non-dependent control rats. In a second study of similar design, 0 or 20 micrograms/kg clonidine were administered. Withdrawal signs in rats subjected to naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal and receiving 0, 20 or 200 micrograms/kg clonidine were also assessed. Naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal stimulated regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (59 of 83 regions in study no. 1; 73 of 83 regions in study no. 2). At 200 micrograms/kg, clonidine attenuated this effect (33 of 59 regions). Although 200 micrograms/kg clonidine directly suppressed regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in many regions (significant main effect of clonidine), it attenuated the naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal effect specifically in the lateral septal nucleus, medial habenula, subiculum and gracile nucleus (significant interactions between clonidine and morphine withdrawal). The 20 micrograms/kg dose of clonidine had no statistically significant effect. In behavioral experiments, both doses of clonidine diminished withdrawal in that there was no diarrhea, fewer wet-dog shakes and less abnormal posturing. However, locomotion, grooming and jumping were increased by clonidine. Most of these effects were statistically significant only with the 200 micrograms/kg dose. The results of these studies show that clonidine reduces morphine withdrawal-induced increases in regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in many brain regions, irrespective of the distribution of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Although clonidine has been thought to ameliorate morphine withdrawal by actions primarily at the locus coeruleus and central amygdala, it may play a major role in other regions as well.
An immunocytochemical double labelling study of L4 dorsal root ganglia from rats aged seven to 10 weeks was made with an antibody to calcitonin gene-related peptide and with RT97, an anti-neurofilament antibody which specifically labels the light neuron population. Peptide immunoreactivity was found in an average of 46.5% of all neurons. Sixty-two per cent of the small dark (RT97-negative) and 30% of the light (RT97-positive) neuron populations contained the peptide. About one-third (32%) of the cells with peptide immunoreactivity were light cells and about two-thirds (68%) were small dark cells. Intracellular electrophysiological recordings were made in vitro from neurons in lumbar (L4, L5 and L6) dorsal root ganglia from six- to eight-week-old rats, followed by dye-injection and immunocytochemistry. This showed that conduction velocities of neurons with calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity ranged from 0.5 to 28.6 m/s. Seventy-three neurons were successfully processed. Of these, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was found in 46% of C-fibre neurons, 33% of A delta-fibre neurons and in 17% of the A alpha/beta-fibre neurons. The peptide-like immunoreactivity was found in approximately 25% of all A-fibre neurons sampled.
To investigate the production of angiotensinogen by the brain, primary cultures were prepared from the brains of one-day-old rats. Two to four weeks after plating, they were transferred to serum-free medium. The cultures, which contained approximately 15% neurons, 80% astroglia and 5% other types of cells, produced angiotensinogen at a steady rate for three to four days in serum-free medium. Cultures prepared from subcortical tissue produced more angiotensinogen than cultures prepared from cerebral cortical tissue. Angiotensinogen mRNA was also identified in those cultures. Forskolin treatment had no effect on angiotensinogen production. Astroglia-enriched cultures that contained no identifiable neurons also produced angiotensinogen and its mRNA. Astroglial cells from hypothalamus and thalamus produced more of both than astroglial cells from the cerebral cortex. In situ hybridization histochemistry on sections of the hypothalamus of adult male rats showed a diffuse distribution of cells containing angiotensinogen mRNA that was more consistent with a glial than a neuronal distribution. The data indicate that most if not all of the angiotensinogen in rat brain is produced by astrocytes.
Chromogranin A is a glycoprotein stored in secretory granules of a variety of neuroendocrine cells. Among other functions, chromogranin A is a calcium-binding protein, and a precursor of modulatory peptides. Although known to be expressed in mammalian CNS neurons, it was previously believed that antibodies directed against human chromogranin A did not label neurons. A method is reported for the immunohistochemical demonstration of chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity in adult human post-mortem brain, utilizing the previously characterized monoclonal antibody LK2H10. Chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity of human brain could be absorbed with heat-stable protein extract from adrenal medulla, but not from liver, and a similar preparation of human cerebral cortex eliminated the labeling of adrenal medulla by LK2H10. However, unlike adrenal medullary chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity, cerebral chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity was destroyed by embedding the tissue in paraffin or treating frozen sections with methanol during the endogenous peroxidase blocking step, suggesting differences in post-translational processing of these two forms of chromogranin A. In both cerebral regions studied, bulbar medulla and parietal cortex, chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity was widespread in neuronal perikarya, dendrites, and axonic terminals, but restricted to certain neuronal populations. Among other findings it is reported that the main olivary neurons are immunoreactive for chromogranin A; this implies a new co-localization of chromogranin A, with corticotropin-releasing factor. The cerebral neocortex showed a laminar pattern of staining of perikarya in layers III-VI, and of the neuropil in the supragranular layers. In conjunction with the evidence of neuromodulatory action in the periphery, these results raise the possibility of a major neurotransmitter role for chromogranin A in the human brain.
It has been shown previously that after section of L5 ventral ramus at 5 days the intact axons of L4 ventral ramus retain their large neonatal peripheral field in the rat soleus muscles. Soleus muscles of 5-day-old rats were partially denervated by section of their major neural input, L5 ventral ramus, and in addition paralysed with alpha-bungarotoxin for 3-5 days. The motor unit size was examined 2 months later. The tension developed by individual motor units from muscles that were partially denervated and in addition temporarily paralysed was much less than that after partial denervation alone. This reduced tension output was not due to muscle atrophy but to a smaller number of muscle fibres supplied by individual axons. Thus, unlike after partial denervation only, motoneurons were unable to maintain their large neonatal territory when the muscle was temporarily paralysed and they were unable to reoccupy this territory after the muscles recovered from the paralysis. The possibility that arrested muscle maturation due to paralysis has a permanent effect on motor unit size is discussed.
The properties of a new fluorescent retrograde neuronal tracer, green fluorescent latex microspheres (&quot;beads&quot;), are described. Green beads, like the red beads that have been in use for several years, are readily transported by neurons in the mammalian central nervous system. After survival times ranging from 24 h to over one month they produce a distinct granular green fluorescence in the neuronal cytoplasm that is highly resistant to fading, when viewed using fluorescein filter sets. Green and red beads are transported with similar efficacy; cells labelled with either one or both tracers are easily distinguished. When injected into the brain, green beads, like red beads, show only minimal diffusion from the injection site. Because these two tracers differ only in their fluorescence, they should be ideal for double-labelling studies in a wide variety of systems and in developmental studies in which long-term retention of labels is required.
Methionine enkephalin, an endogenous opioid peptide, participates in the regulation of growth in the developing brain. In the present study, enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was localized in the cerebellum of developing and adult rats by immunoelectron microscopy. In 10-day-old animals, enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was found in the somata of proliferating, migrating and differentiating neural cells, and was associated with the plasma membrane, microtubules, filaments, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear envelope. Both neurons and glia in the cerebellum of the preweaning rat displayed a similar profile of immunoreactivity. Reaction product was also detected in the dendrites and dendritic spines of Purkinje cells where it was concentrated in postsynaptic densities. The majority of internal granule neurons in 10-day-old animals were not immunoreactive, nor were axons, glial processes and postsynaptic elements (with the exception of mossy fiber terminals). At weaning (Day 21), enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was confined primarily to the somata of Purkinje, basket and stellate neurons, and to Purkinje cell dendrites and synaptic spines. Adult rats (day 75) exhibited no enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. These results establish that enkephalin or an enkephalin-like substance can be detected during the ontogeny of both neurons and glia in the cerebellar cortex, and appears to be associated with certain structural elements.
A specific form of cytochrome P450, P450 IIE1, active in ethanol oxidation, is known to be induced about 10-fold in rat liver following ethanol treatment. This isozyme of P450 participates effectively in the metabolic activation of precarcinogens, such as N-dimethylnitrosamines, and of solvents such as carbon tetrachloride and benzene. In the present investigation, two different polyclonal antisera against P450 IIE1 were used in order to map the regional distribution of this P450 form in the rat central nervous system. The presence of P450 IIE1 in various brain regions was confirmed by Western blot analysis. The P450 IIE1-immunoreactivity was heterogeneously distributed between brain areas. Neuronal cell bodies and glial cells of presumed astroglial as well as oligodendroglial identity contained immunoreactivity. All fiber tracts harbored P450 IIE1-immunoreactive glial cells as did the ependymal lining of the ventricular wall as well as small and large vessels throughout the brain. P450 IIE1-immunoreactive glial cells were present in all areas of the neocortex, in the olfactory bulb, in the piriform cortex and in several different thalamic nuclei. In the cerebellum, P450 IIE-immunoreactivity was found in all cell layers and was exclusively localized to glial cells and their processes. Staining of blood vessels was prominent in the white matter where P450 IIE1-immunoreactive glial cells were seen to have end-feet on the vessels. A subgroup of pyramidal cells of the frontal cortex showed strong P450 IIE1-immunoreactivity, as did a component of the olfactory nerve which innervates the accessory bulb. In the hippocampal region, the pyramidal cells of all subfields were P450 IIE1-immunoreactive. Some polymorphic cells of the hilus and subfield CA stained intensely with the P450 IIE1 antibodies. A high density of P450 IIE1-immunoreactivity was detected throughout the striatal complex. The immunoreactivity was localized to neuronal cell bodies as well as the neurophil. Fibers of the nigrostriatal system were strongly P450 IIE1-immunoreactive. Mechanical lesions of this pathway showed an accumulation of P450 IIE1-immunoreactivity proximal to the lesion relative to the striatum and a depletion in the reticular part of the substantia nigra, suggesting that the antigen may be transported from the striatum to the substantia nigra. In the brain stem a high density of P450 IIE-immunoreactive neurons was detected in the substantia nigra, the pontine nucleus, lateral superior olive and the nucleus of the trigeminal nerve and facial nucleus. A great number of large- to medium-sized immunoreactive neurons were situated in the central gray and in the reticular formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus is densely innervated by noradrenergic terminals mainly originating in the A1 group within the ventrolateral medulla. An oxidation signal corresponding to extracellular catechols was recorded from the paraventricular nucleus of urethane anaesthetized rats every 1 s by differential pulse amperometry at + 105 mV combined with carbon fiber electrodes. In basal conditions, both extracellular noradrenaline and DOPAC, which are synthesized by noradrenergic terminals, contributed to this oxidation signal. Electrical stimulations of the rostral part of the A1 group were applied for 10 or 20 s every 10 min at physiological frequency (3-20 Hz). They induced an immediate increase in the oxidation signal which lasted as long as the stimulation. This increase was due to the evoked noradrenaline release since it was enhanced by pargyline, desipramine and amphetamine and it was attenuated by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine and reserpine. The amplitude of the evoked noradrenaline release depended non-linearly on the frequency of the stimulation (from 3 to 20 Hz). When expressed per pulse, noradrenaline release was facilitated four-fold as the frequency increased from 3 to 20 Hz. Central noradrenergic neurons exhibit a tonic activity in a single spike discharge pattern with a mean frequency below 5 Hz but they respond to physiological stimuli by short bursts of action potentials at 20 Hz. Therefore, the present data show that noradrenergic terminals convert physiological impulse flow into noradrenaline release as a high pass filter which enhances the signal-to-noise ratio in response to phasic stimuli.
Similarities in cellular morphology, afferentation, efferentation, and neurotransmitter content between the internal and external parts of the pallidum and the substantia nigra pars reticulata have long been noted. Here we present evidence that the globus pallidus, entopedunucular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata are more closely related to each other antigenically than to any other anatomical subdivision in the murine central nervous system. In a monoclonal antibody library composed of 20 distinctive lines selected from 300 hybridomas screened immunohistochemically on mouse brain sagittal sections we found two antibodies whose staining patterns distinguish the pallidum and substantia nigra pars reticulata from all other brain gray matter regions but stain these two divisions similarly. One monoclonal antibody, F1-134, stains all brain gray matter regions moderately but gives intense staining of the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, and substantia nigra pars reticulata only. Another monoclonal antibody, F1-20, stains different brain gray matter regions to varying degrees but shows a complete and exclusive exclusion of staining from the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. These results support the tripartite pallidum hypothesis. This study also provides an example of how the monoclonal antibody library strategy can be applied to general problems of brain organization.
The expression of a cell surface proteoglycan, recognized by monoclonal antibody Cat-301, is regulated by neuronal activity in early life. Here we report that the expression of the Cat-301 proteoglycan on motor neurons depends on primary afferent input in the early postnatal period. Previously we showed that in two different systems, Y-cells in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus and motor neurons in the hamster spinal cord, the expression of the Cat-301 antigen requires neuronal activity during a circumscribed period in development. Disrupting the activity of Y-cells (by dark rearing or by monocular lid suture) or of motor neurons (by sciatic nerve crush or by spinal cord lesion) during the early postnatal period prevents Cat-301 expression. Disrupting neuronal activity in adults has no effect on Cat-301 expression. The onset of Cat-301 expression corresponds to the end of the period of activity-dependent development. In order to further dissect the components of the segmental reflex are required for the expression of Cat-301 on motor neurons, here we evaluated the effect of deafferentation by dorsal rhizotomy. In adult animals two weeks after deafferentation all sciatic motor neurons continue to express Cat-301. In contrast, in neonates two weeks after deafferentation the normal developmental expression of Cat-301 is reduced and less than 50% of sciatic motor neurons express Cat-301. We next selectively lesioned the small diameter afferents using the neurotoxin capsaicin. In contrast to rhizotomy, neonatal deletion of small diameter afferents has no effect on the development of Cat-301 expression on motor neurons. These results imply that input relayed by large diameter primary afferents (probably those conveying muscle and/or joint information) is required for normal maturation of motor neuronal properties during early life. They also provide further evidence for activity-dependent maturation of motor neurons.
The neuronal responses to stimulation of motor cortical sites and of forelimb single muscles were studied in the lateral vestibular nucleus of anaesthetized rats. Of the 228 neurons tested for response to stimulation of contralateral motor cortex, 63% responded to cortical sites controlling extensor muscles and 30% to those controlling flexors. The corresponding figures for responders to ipsilateral stimulation were 34 and 21%. Vestibulospinal units responded to cortical sites controlling extensor and flexor muscles whereas the remaining lateral vestibular nucleus neurons, very reactive to cortical sites controlling extensor muscles, responded little to contralateral and not at all to ipsilateral cortical sites controlling flexor muscles. The effects evoked by contralateral cortical sites controlling extensors varied, those induced by cortical sites controlling flexors were inhibitory in 77% of cases. The responses to ipsilateral motor cortex stimulation differed not so much by cortical sites controlling extensor or flexor muscles as by whether the neuron was in the dorsal or ventral zone of the lateral vestibular nucleus: mixed in the former, all inhibitory in the latter. Of the lateral vestibular nucleus units tested for response to stimulation of ipsilateral or contralateral forelimb distal muscles, only 11% responded. All the vestibulospinal units responsive to muscle stimulation lay in the dorsal zone of the nucleus. The remainder, dorsal or ventral, were not responsive to contralateral muscles. Single lateral vestibular nucleus cells influenced both by ipsilateral muscle and by contralateral motor cortex made up 24% of the pool, vestibulospinal and non-vestibulospinal. They fell into three groups: responsive to one or both structures but responding more strongly to combined stimulation; responsive to each of the two structures but showing a response to combined stimulation not significantly different from that evoked by the cortex alone; responsive only to combined stimulation. The lateral vestibular nucleus units included in these three groups accounted for 29% of those tested for response to extensor muscles and cortical sites controlling extensors and 15% of those tested for response to flexor muscles and cortical sites controlling flexors. Twenty-five per cent of the vestibulospinal neurons responded both to contralateral muscles and to ipsilateral motor cortex stimulation but none of the non-vestibulospinal neurons responded to both. All the responders to both were in the dorsal zone of the lateral vestibular nucleus and responded to extensor stimuli, always in the same way. These results indicate that motor cortex output exerts a major influence on lateral vestibular nucleus discharges, while the muscle afferents have a modulatory influence on the lateral vestibular nucleus responses to cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Short-term (surgical) and long-term (chemical) sympathectomy have revealed the presence of a population of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerve fibres which do not degenerate in parallel with noradrenaline-containing nerves supplying cerebral vessels and the iris of the rat. Two days after bilateral removal of the superior and middle cervical ganglia of 7-week-old rats, noradrenaline-containing nerves could not be detected along any of the arteries of the rat circle of Willis or of the iris, but 18-32% of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerves remained. Long-term treatment (6 weeks) with guanethidine commencing in developing 1-week-old rats caused degeneration of the sympathetic neurons in cervical ganglia and disappearance of 5-hydroxydopamine-labelled nerves (that showed dense-cored vesicles at the electron microscope level) from rat cerebral vessels, but did not significantly change the density of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive axons on the vessels. Furthermore, whilst in control rats neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was localized largely within 5-hydroxydopamine-labelled cerebrovascular nerves, after long-term sympathectomy with guanethidine, neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was seen only in nerves lacking small dense-cored vesicles. A small number of catecholamine-containing nerves appeared along the internal carotid and anterior cerebral arteries after long-term sympathectomy; these may arise from neurons of central origin. These results suggest that as a consequence of long-term sympathectomy with guanethidine, compensatory changes occur, involving an increase in the expression of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity in non-sympathetic axons in cerebrovascular nerves and iris of the rat. In contrast, the neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerves in the dura mater appear to be entirely sympathetic, since none were present after short-term sympathectomy and none appeared after long-term sympathectomy.
The inferior vagal or nodose ganglion contains the perikarya of vagal afferent neurons that function as cardiopulmonary and abdominal visceral receptors as well as aortic arch baroreceptors. In this study we have sought to utilize the axon-sparing properties of the excitotoxins kainic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-4-isoxazolepropionic acid to destroy the perikarya of these sensory neurons and thus selectively de-afferent the vagus in the rat. Kainic acid (0.5 nmol/microliters, 2 X 2 microliters) was applied topically to both nodose ganglia and the rats were allowed to recover for 7-8 days. Baroreceptor heart rate reflex activity was assessed in these conscious rats. Baroreceptor heart rate reflex gain was reduced (-51%) in kainic acid-treated rats, as was the maximal reflex bradycardia induced by the pressor agent, phenylephrine. Kainic acid treatment did not alter resting mean arterial pressure or heart rate. Vagal efferent neurons were spared by kainic acid treatment since bradycardic responses to electrical stimulation of the peripheral end of a cut vagus were not impaired. Histological studies showed marked destruction of perikarya within the nodose ganglia of kainic acid-treated rats: inflammatory and degenerative changes were evident at 2 days, and at 10 days there was considerable loss of neuronal cell bodies, but sparing of axons. Topical application to the nodose ganglion of alpha-methyl-DL-aspartic acid (6.8 nmol/microliters, 2 X 2 microliters), a non-excitotoxic dicarboxylic acid, failed to alter baroreflex sensitivity or produce perikaryal degeneration in nodose ganglia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hippocampal slices from rat brain were exposed to histamine and related substances in a perfusion chamber. Granule cells of the dentate gyrus were studied with conventional extra- and intracellular recording and a single electrode voltage clamp. Histamine caused, through activation of H(2)-receptors, a small depolarization, an increase in the number of synaptic and action potentials, a block of the long lasting (but not the early) component of spike afterhyperpolarizations and a reduction of the accommodation of action potential firing. These effects were mimicked by forskolin (suggests activation of adenylate cyclase). In voltage clamp, histamine blocked a long lasting calcium-dependent outward tail current without any reduction of inward current. Thus histamine selectively blocks the late calcium-dependent potassium current in dentate granule cells which receive histaminergic input from the posterior hypothalamus. Histamine also reduces the field excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by perforant path stimulation. These actions allow for a powerful modulation of excitatory signals and an effective regulation of hippocampal excitability.
One hundred and eight male mice from nine different inbred strains were tested for two aspects of learning in an eight-arm radial maze. In the first experimental arrangement of the maze, measuring spatial working memory, clear strain differences were found on the fifth day of training. Furthermore, this type of learning showed a high positive correlation with the size of the intra- and infrapyramidal hippocampal mossy fiber terminal field as revealed with Timm's staining. In the second experiment, in which non-spatial reference memory was tested, significant strain differences were found for the learning variables, but there were no significant covariations with the sizes of the intra- and infrapyramidal mossy fiber terminal fields. These results, combined with previous data, suggest that heritable variations of the hippocampal intra- and infrapyramidal mossy fiber projection influence processes determining spatial learning capabilities in mice.
Possible dynamic relationships between orthodromically conducted somatic bursts and antidromic impulses arising from presynaptic endings of thalamocortical neurons were explored. Evoked or spontaneous bursts were recorded from 125 identified thalamic relay neurons in 36 anesthetized rats using extracellular microelectrodes. Evoked bursts were obtained by electrical stimulation of either the neocortex or the peripheral activation field. Spontaneous antidromic firing appeared only during periods of (or an expected) rapid somatic intrinsic burst discharge. Ectopic axonal impulses occurred either separately, or clustered in doublets or triplets having relatively long-lasting intervals; these slow bursts represented a proportion of about 12% of evoked and 20% of spontaneous whole bursts. Separate ectopic action potentials could also appear several milliseconds after rapid bursts, producing peculiar long last-interval bursts; about 15% of the whole bursts were of this long interval type. The probability that an ectopic axonal impulse will occur after a rapid burst increases with the number of its action potentials, suggesting that the duration of orthodromic burst firing might contribute to the triggering of ectopic impulses. For 52% of the neurons tested, the activation threshold of their axon terminals decreased just before or immediately after rapid somatic bursts. Since no excitability changes were observed in thalamocortical axons of the white matter, the ectopic action potential generators were probably located on presynaptic endings. During a transient deafferentation of thalamic neurons induced by intrathalamic microinjection of a magnesium solution, neither burst activity nor spontaneous antidromic firing were observed, suggesting that thalamic orthodromic burst discharges are required for presynaptic impulse generation. In conclusion, somatic intrinsic bursts traveling orthodromically along thalamocortical axons might be involved in triggering presynaptic impulses on parent and possibly on nearby thalamic cells. Since a spontaneous antidromic action potential is able to trigger a rapid burst [Pinault (1988) Eur. J. Neurosci. Suppl. P. 246; Pinault and Pumain (1989) Neuroscience 31, 625-637], it is postulated that excitatory interactions between presynaptic endings might be involved in intrinsic burst synchronization processes.
Glutamine uptake into hippocampal slices of the rat was investigated autoradiographically. The characteristics of registered [14C]glutamine uptake such as the incubation with the radiolabelled amino acid at a concentration of 3.5 mumol/l, sodium dependency, the distribution pattern of radioactive material, and the postnatal development of uptake capacity are comparable with those of high-affinity uptake of glutamate. Densitometric evaluation of grain density over hippocampal layers exhibited a marked enhancement of uptake capacity in the neuropil areas during the first postnatal weeks. In the strata oriens and radiatum (CA1) radiolabelling increased from day 2 to 25 by about 390 and 410%, in the strata oriens and lacunosum-moleculare of CA3 by about 350 and 375%, respectively. In contrast, the rise in the accumulation rate in cell body layers was negligible. The temporal and topographical profiles of glutamine uptake in the hippocampal neuropil correlated with those of the activity of phosphate-activated glutaminase and parameters of maturation of the glutamatergic transmission system which have fairly similar time characteristics, suggesting a mutually causative relationship of all these factors.
Effects of organic Ca channel blockers, Ca channel activators and omega-conotoxin on guinea-pig hippocampal CA1 neurons in vitro preparations were studied with intracellular recording methods. Most of the Ca channel blockers, such as prenylamine, D 600, flunarizine, nifedipine, cinnarizine and nicardipine (0.2-4 microM), raised the threshold for Na-dependent spike generation and decreased the amplitude of the spike afterhyperpolarization. Verapamil (5 microM) and diltiazem (5 microM) did not significantly alter the threshold and amplitude of the Na spike. Action potentials elicited in the presence of either tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) and tetraethylammonium (20 mM) or tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) and Ba (1.25 mM) consisted of an initial spike component followed by a long depolarization. Both responses were abolished by addition of Co (2 mM) or Cd (0.25-0.5 mM), or by superfusion with a low Ca (0.25 mM)-high Mg(15 mM) medium, indicating that the potentials resulted from Ca entry. The Ca-dependent slow depolarization was preferentially blocked by most of the organic Ca channel blockers at approximately one-third the concentrations (0.1-2 microM) which were required to shorten the Ca spike. When the cell in a solution containing tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM), Co (2 mM) and 4-aminopyridine (2 mM) was hyperpolarized and then depolarized by passing current pulses across the membrane, a transient depolarizing hump occurred on the decay phase of the electrotonic potential. This transient depolarization was abolished by Co (2 mM), Ni (2 mM) or most of the organic Ca channel blockers (0.2-5 microM). Diltiazem (5 microM) did not significantly change these Ca-dependent potentials. The evoked excitatory postsynaptic potential was very resistant to the Ca channel blockers. Approximately 2-10 times higher concentrations (0.5-3 microM) were necessary to decrease the excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude than to shorten the Ca spike. On the other hand, the minimal concentrations and order of potencies of the Ca channel blockers for depressing the evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potential and for elevating the threshold for Na spike generation were almost the same. Dihydropyridine Ca channel activators, such as Bay K 8644, CGP 28 392 and YC 170 at low concentrations (0.1-1 microM), decreased the Ca spike, the Ca-dependent slow depolarization and the evoked synaptic potentials, while the substances augmented the Ca-dependent transient depolarization. On the other hand, omega-conotoxin (5 microM) reversibly depressed the Ca spike and slow depolarization to the same degree, without affecting the transient depolarization and the evoked excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Under normal conditions, iron is found predominantly in oligodendrocytes, the myelin producing cell, in the rat brain. A genetic mutant strain of rats known as myelin deficient rats is examined in the present study because their number of oligodendrocytes is decreased and those oligodendrocytes present are structurally abnormal. The levels of iron in the liver (major site of iron storage) and in the pons-cerebellum did not differ statistically between the myelin deficient rats and the littermate control rats, whereas only half of the iron normally found in the cerebrum-midbrain was present in the myelin deficient rat. Histologically, iron was found predominantly in oligodendrocytes in the littermate control rats, as expected. In the myelin deficient rat, iron staining was confirmed to astrocytes and microglia. The results of this study strongly suggest that iron uptake into the brain continues in the absence of normal oligodendrocytes and myelin. Furthermore, these data suggest that iron metabolism can be substantially altered, as indicated by the accumulation of iron in astrocytes and microglia, when normal or near normal levels of iron are quantitatively demonstrated. The response of astrocytes and microglia to sequester the iron (presumably through phagocytosis) in the absence of invasive damage represents, to our knowledge, a new functional observation for these cells. Based on these observations it is clear that iron histochemistry in combination with quantitative analysis is necessary to interpret data regarding iron physiology, at least in neurobiology, and iron accumulation by astrocytes and microglia may provide clues of altered iron metabolism despite normal iron levels.
The aim of this study was to assess whether omega conotoxin fraction GVIA, a potent blocker of N- and L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels, might interfere with reflex responses (micturition, blood pressure rise in spinal rats) produced by activation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves of the rat urinary bladder. The effect of conotoxin was also investigated on reflex micturition persisting after capsaicin pretreatment. Following topical application onto the bladder, conotoxin did not affect the volume threshold to elicit micturition although it reduced the amplitude of volume-evoked bladder contractions. Likewise, topical conotoxin did not prevent the reflex rise in blood pressure elicited by sudden bladder distension or topical application of capsaicin onto the bladder. In contrast, topical lidocaine strongly prevented both reflex responses. After intrathecal administration, conotoxin produced a dose-dependent inhibition of volume-evoked bladder contractions and the cardiovascular reflex produced by mechanical or chemical stimulation of bladder nerves. Intrathecal conotoxin inhibited micturition also in rats pretreated with capsaicin (50 mg/kg s.c., 4 days before). Depolarization by high potassium (80 mM) produced release of both substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity from superfused slices of the dorsal half of rat spinal cord. Capsaicin (1 microM) produced a similar effect, and a previous exposure to capsaicin prevented the effect of potassium. Conotoxin (0.1 microM) significantly reduced (about 50%) the potassium-induced release of neuropeptides from the dorsal half of the rat spinal cord. These findings indicate that conotoxin-sensitive calcium channels in the rat spinal cord play a role in the neurotransmission along reflex pathways activated by stimulation of capsaicin-sensitive nerves in the urinary bladder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To quantify the serotonin innervation in adult rat hippocampus, serotonin axon terminals (varicosities) were uptake-labeled for light microscope radioautography in whole hemisphere slices incubated with 1 microM [3H]serotonin. The labeled varicosities were visualized as small aggregates of silver grains and counted with the aid of an image analysis system across all layers in representative sectors of subiculum, Ammon's horn (CA1, CA3-a, CA3-b) and dentate gyrus (medial blade, crest and lateral blade). Counts were obtained in six rats at three equidistant horizontal levels from the ventral two-thirds of the hippocampus. After double correction for duration of radioautographic exposure and section thickness, and measurement of the mean diameter of labeled varicosities in electron microscope radioautographs, the results were expressed in number of varicosities per mm3 of tissue. The overall density of hippocampal serotonin innervation was thus evaluated at 2.7 x 10(6) varicosities per mm3, and appeared significantly higher in subiculum (3.6 x 10(6)) and Ammon's horn (3.1 x 10(6)) than in dentate gyrus (2.2 x 10(6)). Subiculum and dentate gyrus-crest (2.0 x 10(6)) had the highest and lowest regional densities. There was a marked heterogeneity also in terms of laminar distribution. For example, the stratum moleculare of subiculum and CA1, and the stratum oriens of CA3 (5.2 x 10(6)) varicosities in CA3-a), showed much higher values than the pyramidal cell layer (0.7, 1.1 and 0.7 x 10(6) in CA1, CA3-a and CA3-b, respectively). Similarly, the granular layer of dentate gyrus had a much lower density (1.1 x 10(6)) than did the molecular (2.8 x 10(6)) and the polymorph layer (2.4 x 10(6)). From these data, it was possible to evaluate the mean endogenous amine content per hippocampal serotonin varicosity (0.05-0.07 fg), and the average number of serotonin varicosities per hippocampal neuron in both CA3 (130) and dentate gyrus (20-35). In the context of current data on the distribution of serotonin receptors and diverse actions of serotonin at the cellular level in hippocampus, such quantified information provides new insights on some basic properties of serotonin in this part of the brain.
Beating neuron V8, whose activity is abolished upon interneuronal stimulation, has been found and identified in the CNS of the snail, Helix pomatia. It was found earlier that stimulation of the same interneuron initiates bursting pacemaker activity in another neuron. Under voltage clamp conditions interneuronal stimulation evoked a slow outward current in the V8 neuron with a latency of about 2 s. Intracellular injection of tetraethylammonium or Cs+ ions into the interneuron greatly increased the slow outward current amplitude. External application of CdCl2 (1 mM), LaCl3 (5 mM) or replacement of Ca2+ by Mg2+ ions reversibly abolished transmission between the interneuron and the V8 neuron. The neuronal membrane conductance increased by about three times on the maximum of the slow outward current development. Computer fitting showed that a decay of the slow outward current can be approximated by the sum of two exponentially decaying components with time constants of about 1 s and 16 s. Extrapolated reversal potential for a fast (1 s) component of the current was about -70 mV. A slow (16 s) component asymptotically decreased upon hyperpolarization and it was observed at even more negative potential than Ek. Theophylline (1 mM) and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (0.1 mM) reversibly increased the slow outward current amplitude, whereas imidazole (5 mM) and tolbutamide (5 mM) caused its reversible decrease. It is concluded that inhibitory monosynaptic transmission exists between the interneuron and the beating V8 neuron. Interneuronal simulation evokes an increase in the membrane potassium conductance and probably a decrease in stationary potential-dependent sodium conductance of the postsynaptic V8 neuron. The cellular cyclase system seems to be involved in the postsynaptic response.
The afferents to the periaqueductal gray utilizing excitatory amino acid transmitters have been described in rat brain by autoradiography following microinfusion and retrograde transport of D[3H]aspartate. Parallel experiments employing injections of [3H]GABA established that the retrograde labelling found with D[3H]aspartate was transmitter-selective. Following infusion of D[3H]aspartate, perikaryal labelling was found in nine subcortical areas, particularly infralimbic and cingulate cortices, with a predominance of ipsilateral labelled perikarya. Heaviest cortical labelling was localized in perirhinal cortex, in an extensive band of cells adjoining the rhinal sulcus. The hypothalamus contained the heaviest perikaryal labelling within brain: D[3H]aspartate labelled cells in 11 hypothalamic and mammillary nuclei. Intense bilateral labelling was obtained in ventromedial hypothalamus, although the number of perikarya was lower contralaterally. D[3H]Aspartate also produced heavy ipsilateral labelling of perikarya in posterior hypothalamus. Labelling patterns in cortex and hypothalamus were precise and topographic, and [3H]GABA never labelled cells in these regions. Other telencephalic and diencephalic areas containing prominent, retrogradely labelled cells were the lateral septum, amygdala, zona incerta and lateral habenula. The relative density of labelled cells in mesencephalic areas was much lower than that found in cortex and hypothalamus, although D[3H]aspartate labelled a moderate number of perikarya in the inferior colliculus and cuneiform nucleus. A smaller number of heavily labelled cells was found in the parabrachial nuclei, Kolliker-Fuse nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Only occasional labelled perikarya were observed in the myencephalon. Low densities of labelled cells were found after the injection of [3H]GABA into the periaqueductal gray, and the only regions in which a small number of perikarya were labelled by both [3H]GABA and D[3H]aspartate were the dorsal raphe and parabrachial nuclei. Overall, the retrograde transport of D[3H]aspartate revealed a complex topographic and convergent network of afferent pathways to the periaqueductal gray likely to utilize an excitatory amino acid transmitter. Our findings confirm the selectivity of this neurochemical mapping technique and provide evidence that hypothalamic, habenular, subthalamic and cuneiform afferents to the periaqueductal gray utilize an acidic amino acid as their transmitter. They also confirm that corticofugal afferents to periaqueductal gray utilize an excitatory amino acid.
A well-organized network of varicose fibers was revealed throughout the frontal and temporal cortex of adult humans with specific antisera against histamine. The densest network of fibers was seen in lamina I, where varicose fibers were seen to run in parallel to the overlying pia mater. Electron microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed histamine-immunostaining in granules in a small number of nerve fibers and varicosities. Hypothalamic samples obtained from autopsy brains of adult humans revealed numerous histamine-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies in the posterior basal hypothalamus in and around the tuberomammillary nucleus. The results suggest that a histaminergic neuronal system reminiscent of that described in rodents is present in human brain.
Due to its functional importance and its large and highly differentiated central projections, the vibrissal system of rodents is a prime object for the study of sensory plasticity, especially at the cortical level: the representation of vibrissae in the &quot;barrel field&quot;, a part of the somatic cortex, is exceptionally precise and is susceptible to experience-induced changes. In a previous series of experiments, we found that a sensory-sensory conditioning procedure, pairing two vibrissal stimulations, produces significant changes in responses of single neurons of the barrel field in the chronic awake and undrugged rat: (1) the appearance of an excitatory response to a stimulus that was ineffective before pairing (&quot;conditioned response&quot;); (2) the modifications of pre-existing responses consisting of the suppression of afferent inhibition and the appearance of long-latency excitatory components. We report here that the micro-iontophoretic application of atropine abolishes &quot;conditioned responses&quot; and restores afferent inhibition. Acetylcholine facilitates an enlargement of the receptive field and induces a sustained mode of discharge to stimuli. These data provide a new and direct support to the hypothesis that cholinergic mechanisms are involved in the sensory cortex plasticity.
Homogenates of human and pig brain in 10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0 were centrifuged at 25,400 x g for 1 h. The supernatants were electrophoresed in polyacrylamide gels were stained for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.49) activity. Five distinct bands were visible. Isozymes corresponding to two of those bands were purified from human and pig brain. The isozymes were electrophoretically homogeneous. The native proteins, Mr, 220,000, dissociated in sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gels into a 57,000 Mr subunit. Therefore, the native isozymes are tetramers. None of the isozymes required additional metal ions for activity. At 1 mM concentration Mg2+ and Ca2+, independently or together, activated the isozymes 1.5-fold. The isozymes were NADP(+)-specific. Kmapp values of the G6PD isozymes were similar for NADP+ (6-8 microM), but different for G6P (56-180 microM). The specific activities of the isozymes varied from 50 to 210 units per mg of protein. All isozymes were inhibited by NADPH. The inhibition was competitive with respect to NADP+ and non-competitive with respect to G6P. NADH did not affect any of the isozymes. ATP inhibited the isozymes competitively with respect to G6P and non-competitively with respect to NADP+. Palmitoyl-CoA dissociated the active tetramers into enzymatically inactive dimeric forms. This treatment also abolished the 6-phosphogluconate activity of the isozyme II from both sources. High performance liquid chromatography peptide maps of the tryptic digest and amino acid analyses of the isozymes showed extensive homologies between the corresponding isozymes from the two species. Interestingly, only the isozyme II in human and pig brain was active with 6-phosphogluconate as a substrate (Kmapp = 864 and 279 microM). The specific activities of the isozyme II with 6-phosphogluconate (14 and 48 unit per mg of protein for human and pig brain isozyme II, respectively) was four times less than those with G6P. It is therefore suggested that isozyme II is a bifunctional enzyme.
Peptide-FMRFamide-like immunoreactivity in the brain and suboesophageal ganglion of the honeybee Apis mellifera L. is demonstrated with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Immunoreactivity is found in about 120 perikarya of the brain and in about 30 of the suboesophageal ganglion. These cells are distributed in 13 paired clusters representing neurons of different types including neurosecretory neurons projecting to neurohemal organs. Immunoreactivity of different intensity is found in the non-glomerular neuropil around the mushroom bodies, in the lateral protocerebrum, the central body, the optic tubercles, the lobula and medulla of optic lobe, the ocellar neuropil, in multiglomerular elements of the antennal lobes and in the dorsal deuterocerebrum. In the mushroom bodies, immunoreactivity is located in layers of the lobes and stalks, corresponding to intrinsic fibre bundles of some Kenyon cell types. The somata of these intrinsic cells did not show FMRFamide-like immunoreactivity. Electron microscopy of immunostained somata and nerve fibres was performed employing a pre-embedding peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Fibres of optic lobes and the non-glomerular neuropil contain immunoreactive dense core vesicles (diameter 50-165 nm) accumulated in boutons besides small synaptic vesicles and synaptic membrane specializations. Immunoreactive layers of the mushroom body neuropil were analysed at the ultrastructural level. Axon profiles with dense-core vesicles of a small type (diameter 35-75 nm) show only faint immunoreactive products. Immunoreactivity of intrinsic mushroom body neurons does not appear to be specifically correlated with synaptic organelles. Our results indicate that FMRFamide or related peptides peptides may be neuroactive compounds in different classes of nerve cells in the bee brain.
In this study we sought to establish the distribution, projections and neurochemical coding of opioid immunoreactive neurons in secretomotor pathways of the guinea-pig ileum. Non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons in the submucous ganglia have been shown to be immunoreactive for dynorphin A 1-8, dynorphin A 1-17, dynorphin B and alpha neo-endorphin while cholinergic neurons have been shown to be immunoreactive for dynorphin A 1-8 only. Thus all submucous neurons in the guinea-pig ileum are immunoreactive for prodynorphin-derived peptides. Two major populations of opioid immunoreactive fibres projecting to the submucous ganglia have been established. Firstly, neurons immunoreactive for prodynorphin-derived peptides and vasoactive intestinal peptide project anally from the myenteric plexus to the submucous ganglia. Secondly, a substantial proportion of sympathetic postganglionic fibres immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, and projecting from the coeliac ganglion to submucous ganglia, have been shown to be immunoreactive for prodynorphin-derived peptides. Other smaller populations of opioid-immunoreactive neurons include fibres immunoreactive for substance P, enkephalin and dynorphin A 1-8 which project from the myenteric plexus to the non-ganglionated plexus of the submucosa. These fibres are probably excitatory motor neurons to the muscularis mucosae. The present paper has described several distinct populations of opioid immunoreactive neurons in secretomotor pathways of the guinea-pig ileum. Furthermore we have shown that these enteric or postganglionic sympathetic neurons contain opioid peptides in combination with other neurotransmitter substances. These results should provide a firmer basis on which to plan functional experiments to elucidate the physiological role of opioid peptides in the enteric nervous system.
End plates from the extensor digitorum longus, soleus and diaphragm muscles of adult (10-month-old) and aged (25-month-old) rats were examined to determine whether aging affects the frequency of occurrence of ultraterminal sprouting, a form of terminal sprouting commonly associated with muscle denervation. There was a significant increase in the fraction of end plates exhibiting ultraterminal sprouts in the extensor digitorum longus muscle only; the number increased from 5.5% in 10-month-old animals to 23.0% in 25-month-old animals. To see whether age also influences the sprouting response to denervation, extensor digitorum longus muscles from 10-and 25-month-old animals were partially denervated by severing spinal nerve L5, and end plates were examined 4-7 and 10-14 days following denervation. Denervation induced a more profound increase in the percentage of end plates exhibiting ultraterminal sprouting in the 10- compared with 25-month-old animals. However, sprouting remained significantly greater in the 25- compared with the 10-month-old animals. Furthermore, following denervation the average ultraterminal sprout length was significantly greater in the 25- compared with the 10-month-old animals. There was no correlation between the extent of muscle denervation and the percentage of end plates exhibiting ultraterminal sprouts. End plates with ultraterminal sprouts had larger areas and contained fewer nerve terminal branches than end plates without these sprouts. It is suggested that the limited response to partial denervation in the 25-month-old extensor digitorum longus muscles may indicate that the aged extensor digitorum longus has already approached the maximum capacity for sprouting.
The immunocytochemical and ultrastructural features within [Met]enkephalin neurons of the guinea-pig hypothalamoseptal tract were investigated under chronic inhibition of GABAergic catabolism. This was achieved by raising the brain GABA concentration with aminooxyacetic acid which inhibits GABA-transaminase, the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of GABA. Guinea-pigs were injected intraperitoneally with 10 or 20 mg/kg per day aminooxyacetic acid for two, four or eight days and killed 16 h post-dose. Repeated injections of aminooxyacetic acid produced a great increase in immunoreactivity for GABA in nerve endings surrounding enkephalinergic perikarya in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus of the guinea-pig. Extensive immunocytochemical studies stressed the increase and redistribution of the immunoreaction for [Met]enkephalin in the perikarya of the magnocellular dorsal nucleus under such GABAergic activation. Quantitative and statistical analyses showed that administration of aminooxyacetic acid for eight days significantly increased the intensity of labelling within stimulated perikarya (P less than 0.001). A concomitant accumulation of immunopositive large granules in the enkephalinergic boutons of the lateral septum was observed. In the same way, ultrastructural changes in enkephalinergic cell bodies were analysed and reflected disturbances in the biosynthetic and digestive activities of enkephalinergic perikarya. We postulate that chronic inhibition of the GABAergic catabolism leads to modification in the metabolism of enkephalinergic neurons and to an inhibitory action of GABA on the [Met]enkephalin release from nerve endings. This study give morphological support to the complex functional interactions between GABA and opioid peptide transmitter system.
The mechanism of neuropeptide secretion induced by bradykinin from capsaicin-sensitive afferents was studied in guinea-pig atria. Both the inotropic response induced by bradykinin (0.1 microM) in the electrically driven isolated guinea-pig left atria and the bradykinin (10 microM)-induced release of calcitonin gene-related peptide calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity from slices of guinea-pig atria were abolished in vitro by capsaicin pretreatment or in the presence of indomethacin. Bradykinin-induced calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive release was unaffected by tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM), the protein kinase C inhibitor, 1-(5-isoquinolinesulphonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (30 microM), nefedipine (1 microM) or Ruthenium Red (10 microM). It was significantly reduced by 79% in a Ca2(+)-free medium and by 52% in the presence of 0.1 microM omega-conotoxin (fraction GVIA). It is proposed that bradykinin releases calcitonin gene-related peptide from capsaicin-sensitive afferents in guinea-pig atria, via prostanoid generation. This mode of activation of the &quot;efferent&quot; function of capsaicin-sensitive nerves appears to be distinct from those produced by capsaicin or electrical field stimulation as they have been characterized in previous works. In fact, the bradykinin activation of capsaicin-sensitive afferents is not affected by tetrodotoxin and Ruthenium Red, but is partially sensitive to the selective blocker of N-type Ca2(+)-channels, omega-conotoxin.
The glycoprotein L1 is a cell adhesion molecule that has been proposed to function in the peripheral nervous system in axon fasciculation and onset of myelination. In this report we localize L1 during the development of a major central pathway: the pyramidal tract. The (sub)cellular localization of L1 was determined both by pre-embedding staining on Vibratome sections and by immunogold labelling on ultracryosections in developing rat pyramidal tract at the fifth cervical segment. On arrival at the fifth cervical segment, i.e. at postnatal day 1, growth cones of pioneer fibres did not exhibit L1-immunoreactivity. In the contact zone between pyramidal tract growth cones and glial processes no L1-immunoreactivity was observed. A clear L1-immunoreactivity was noted on small unmyelinated other axons situated in the entrance area of the pyramidal tract growth cones. Also on later arriving, i.e. between postnatal days 2 and 10, small unmyelinated fasciculating pyramidal tract axons L1 were present. It is our impression that L1 is localized in an irregular patchy way on the outer side of the axonal membrane. During the onset of myelination, i.e. between postnatal days 10 and 14, L1 could not be detected on axons ensheathed by oligodendrocytic processes. When myelination is largely completed, i.e. at postnatal day 21, the L1 antigen could be localized within the axoplasma of both unmyelinated and myelinated pyramidal tract axons. Furthermore, L1 could be observed occasionally on small unmyelinated pyramidal tract axons. Whereas compact myelin was always L1-negative, L1 was noted periaxonally between the axolemma and compact myelin and at (para)nodal regions at the contact zone between axolemma and oligodendrocytic processes. From these results it may be deduced that: (1) L1 is involved in fasciculation of outgrowing later arriving pyramidal tract fibres: (2) L1 is not involved in the onset of myelination in this central tract; (3) L1 might play an additional adhesive role in myelinated rat pyramidal tract.
The distribution of seven kinds of neuropeptide precursor mRNA-containing neurons was investigated in the rat main and accessory olfactory bulbs, where various peptides have previously been identified immunohistochemically, by means of in situ hybridization using [35S]cRNA probes. In the glomerular layer, numerous preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone mRNA-expressing neurons, moderate numbers of preprosomatostatin and preproenkephalin A neurons, and a small number of preprocholecystokinin neurons were detected. In the external plexiform layer, numerous medium sized preprocholecystokinin and preprocorticotropin-releasing hormone neurons, and a small number of beta-preprotachykinin A neurons were observed. In addition, small preprovasoactive intestinal polypeptide and preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone neurons were evenly distributed in the external plexiform layer. Medium to large sized beta-preprotachykinin A neurons formed a thin layer in the mitral cell layer. In the granule cell layer, in addition to numerous small preproenkephalin A neurons, moderate numbers of small beta-preprotachykinin A and preprocorticotropin-releasing hormone neurons, and a small number of preprothyrotropin-releasing hormone neurons, were identified. Large sized preprosomatostatin neurons were located in the deep layer of the granule cell layer. The distribution patterns of these neurons, as a whole, confirmed previous studies based on immunohistochemistry, although peptide precursor mRNA-expressing neurons were far more numerous than those immunoreactive to the respective neuropeptides. Moreover, mRNA-expressing neurons were observed in areas where no immunoreactive neurons had been observed (e.g. preprovasoactive intestinal polypeptide and preprosomatostatin neurons in the mitral cell layer of the assessory olfactory bulb). The distribution patterns were generally similar in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs.
Field potentials of dentate granule cells in response to stimulation of the perforant path have been studied before and after injecting tetanus toxin (200 mouse LD50; or phosphate-buffered saline in controls) into the hilus of the dentate gyrus of rats under urethane anaesthesia. Within 1 h of toxin injection, the population spike, but not the slope of the excitatory postsynaptic potential, had increased markedly in amplitude and double or treble population spikes appeared in response to perforant path stimulation. Both paired pulse inhibition (15-ms interval between conditioning and test stimuli) and commissural inhibition (10-ms interval) were substantially reduced by the toxin. Neither multiple spikes nor the reduction in inhibition were seen in controls. Apparent inhibition of the excitatory postsynaptic potential, seen with paired stimuli to the perforant path, was not affected by the toxin. At later times after the injections, a progressive increase in the size of the spikes was seen in the controls while in the toxin animals there was often a secondary decrease in size. It is concluded that tetanus toxin can block both feed-back and feed-forward inhibitory components acting on dentate granule cells. The results are discussed with respect to the role of inhibitory processes in the control of epileptogenesis.
The ongoing micro-electroencephalogram was recorded with a chronically implanted comb-like array of 16 tungsten semi-microelectrodes 0.2 or 0.25 mm apart, spanning CA1 strata oriens, pyramidale and radiatum and into subiculum, in four behavioral states: walking, standing still, paradoxical and slow wave sleep and under scopolamine. Power, phase and coherence spectra were computed, the latter two for each of the 120 pairs, in frequency bands from 1 to 64 Hz. (1) Coherence is high for all frequencies within the same subfield, e.g. stratum radiatum, but falls with distance. Theta frequency (8 Hz), when prominent and widespread (during &quot;theta states&quot; walking and paradoxical sleep), shows the most widespread synchrony: coherence falls slowly, from 1.0 at 0.2 mm to 0.7 at c. 2 mm longitudinally within stratum radiatum; all other frequencies fall two or three times faster. (2) An abrupt drop in coherence occurs across field borders (CA1-subiculum) and between stratum oriens and radiatum, across a line just under stratum pyramidale, between high coherence regions on each side of the coherence discontinuity. A less extreme drop occurs in stratum radiatum 0.4 mm from the subiculum border, without obvious histological correlate. The discontinuities in coherence are stable through all four behavioral states as well as under scopolamine. (3) Phase profiles diagonally across CA1 and into subiculum show abrupt, local shifts of phase (up to 125) at these same levels. No gradual shift reaching 180 (phase reversal) occurs in the span of loci examined. (4) The theta power peak in theta states is not necessarily due to additional energy in that band; in some conditions it is mainly due to reduced power in other frequencies. Root mean square voltage is generally less in the high theta (&quot;synchronized&quot;) than in the non-theta states. Only the theta peak correlates with a peak in coherence. (5) Significant microstructure in the dynamics of neuronal cooperativity distinguishes behavioral states and regions of the hippocampal cortex.
Spontaneous and evoked neuronal activity of the medial septum-diagonal band complex was investigated extracellularly in slices, taken from the brain of the three groups of animals: hibernating ground squirrels, waking ground squirrels, and guinea-pigs. All slices were incubated at 31-32 degrees C. The slices of the ground squirrels' brain were retested after keeping them for 15-36 h in the refrigerator at 2-4 degrees C. In all experimental groups the majority of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons had high regular or rhythmic burst spontaneous activity, which in half of the neuronal population persisted in conditions of synaptic blockade. The low-frequency irregular activity of the surrounding structures (lateral septum, caudate, accumbens, medial preoptic area) was completely suppressed in these conditions. The density of the spontaneously active neurons in the slices, as well as the mean frequency of discharges in the medial septum-diagonal band complex of hibernating ground squirrels, was significantly higher than that in waking ground squirrels and guinea-pigs. Stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle evoked initial suppression of activity in majority of the medial septum-diagonal band complex units; in many of them the suppression was followed by a burst discharge. The neurons with background rhythmic burst activity always responded by resetting the spontaneous bursts. In total, about 50-60% of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons of waking ground squirrels and guinea-pigs responded by post inhibitory bursts to the stimulation of medial forebrain bundle, while in hibernating ground squirrels such responses were observed in nearly all neurons. The threshold values of the stimulating current were significantly lower in the hibernating ground squirrels' group, the mean duration of the initial suppression was shorter, the intraburst density of spikes and/or duration of the bursts was increased. Thus, evaluation of spontaneous and evoked activity on the basis of various criteria revealed surprising similarity between the two groups of active animals, while the activity and excitability of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons was approximately doubled in the hibernating animals. This difference between active and hibernating ground squirrels was preserved during retesting after deep and prolonged cooling of the slices. The experiments demonstrate paradoxical stable increase of activity and excitability of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons in the hibernating ground squirrels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The brain of hibernating animals, controlling the physiological functions during the hibernation cycles, is itself subject to deep cooling during bouts of hibernation. This suggests its high tolerance to deep hypothermia. Effects of prolonged deep cooling were investigated in hippocampal and septal slices, taken from the brains of three groups of animals: hibernating ground squirrels, actively waking ground squirrels, and guinea-pigs. The slices were kept at a low temperature (2-4 degrees C) for various periods of time (from several hours up to six days) and periodically tested in warm (31 degrees C) incubation medium. The hippocampal field potentials (mainly of field CA1), as well as spontaneous activity of single neurons of hippocampus and medial septum were recorded. For comparative purposes mean amplitudes of population spikes and mean frequency of spontaneous neuronal discharge were used. Significant differences between the experimental groups were observed in recovery of functional activity of the slices after their dissection from the brain, as well as after deep cooling. In both cases re-establishment of neuronal activity in ground squirrels occurred more rapidly, than in guinea-pigs. The most dramatic was the difference in maximal time of survival of the slices under conditions of deep cooling. Independently of periodicity of the electrophysiological testing in warm medium, the slices taken from hibernating squirrels retained their activity for seven to nine days, the slices of waking ground squirrel hippocampus survived up to six to seven days, while those of guinea-pis did not recover their functional activity after cooling for more than one to two days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acute osmotic disturbances can lead to profound neurological problems, yet there has been little experimentation at a cellular level to assess if neurophysiological changes are induced by altered osmolality. Using extra- and intracellular recording in the rat neocortical slice preparation, we examined pyramidal neurons of layers II-III under changing osmotic conditions. Single cell properties, field potentials, synaptic transmission and epileptiform discharges were studied in control saline (295 mOsm) and compared with corresponding data collected during exposure to osmolalities between 245 and 375 mOsm. Single cell properties (resting membrane potential, cell input resistance, action potential threshold and duration) did not change significantly, but neuronal interactions were considerably influenced by osmotic change within minutes. Hyposmolality increased the amplitude of evoked field potentials and of excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded intracellularly. Hyperosmolality, induced with mannitol, decreased these parameters. Electrotonic coupling, as gauged by the degree of dye coupling and by cell input resistance, was not influenced by shifts in osmolality. The clinical finding that overhydration promotes seizure onset was examined in slices made epileptogenic in Mg2(+)-free saline. Hyposmolality increased the frequency and decreased the duration of interictal bursts, whereas raising osmolality with mannitol had opposite effects. None of the aforementioned effects occurred when osmolality was increased with a freely permeable substance such as dimethylsulfoxide, nor could they be ascribed to changes in saline Na+ or Ca2+ concentrations. The results are consistent with hyposmotic solutions reducing extracellular space by causing cells to swell. Theoretically, during population discharge, this should both concentrate K+ released extracellularly and possibly increase field (ephaptic) interactions. How lowered osmolality strengthens spontaneous and evoked excitatory synaptic transmission in neocortex is not yet clear. However, it may be an important mechanism underlying the increased seizure susceptibility of patients and experimental animals with lowered plasma osmolality. Conversely, suppression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials by osmotically active substances may be involved in the lowered seizure susceptibility observed clinically.
The patterns of co-existence of neuropeptides in cranial autonomic neurons of guinea-pigs have been examined with quantitative double-labelling immunofluorescence and retrograde axonal tracing using Fast Blue. Within the sphenopalatine, otic, sublingual and submandibular ganglia, and a prominent intracranial ganglion associated with the glossopharyngeal nerve, most neurons contained immunoreactivity of vasoactive intestinal peptide, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin and substance P in combinations that were correlated with their projections. Hair follicles in the facial skin formed a major target of sphenopalatine ganglion cells. The combinations of peptides co-existing in these neurons depended upon the region of the skin where the follicles were located. The parotid gland was innervated by neurons with cell bodies in the otic ganglion or the intracranial ganglion. Most of these neurons contained immunoreactivity to all four peptides. The sublingual gland was innervated by local ganglion cells usually containing immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide and substance P. The submandibular gland was innervated by local ganglion cells containing enkephalin immunoreactivity and low levels of immunoreactivity to neuropeptide Y. Presumptive vasodilator neurons, containing immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide but no other peptide examined here, comprised less than 10% of cranial autonomic ganglion cells. These results demonstrate that the patterns of co-existence of neuropeptides in cranial autonomic neurons show a high degree of target specificity. The discovery that hair follicles form a major parasympathetic target implies a broader range of actions of cranial autonomic neurons than has been suspected until now.
The electrotonic properties of tuberal supraoptic neurons were studied from conventional intracellular recordings made in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial explant in vitro. The cable parameters electrotonic dendritic length, and the dendritic to somatic conductance ratio, were estimated using the slopes and intercepts of the first two peeled exponentials of the voltage transients generated by current steps. The estimations were made assuming an equivalent cylinder model consisting of a soma and an attached, lumped dendrite of finite length. An equalizing time constant was resolved in 12 of 17 neurons, allowing calculation of both cable parameters. In only one of these 12 was it necessary to assume a somatic shunt to account for the data. The average value of the dendritic electrotonic length was 1.02, and that of the dendritic to somatic conductance ratio, 4.11. In the remaining five neurons, an equalizing time constant could not be peeled and consequently the dendritic cable parameters could not be estimated. The average input resistance of these 12 neurons was 162 M omega and the average membrane time constant was 11.86 ms. Principal Components Analysis revealed that the variance of input resistance and time constant was largely explained by one factor, while that of dendritic electrotonic length and the dendritic to somatic conductance ratio was explained by a separate, independent factor, suggesting a separation of electrical and morphological parameters, respectively. In addition, the variability of the data indicates that considerable differences in the morphology and specific membrane resistivity exist across supraoptic neurons. An analysis of spontaneously occurring postsynaptic potentials revealed that the shapes of these potentials could not be explained simply by assuming that they were determined by their passive decay from some point along the equivalent cable to the soma. In conclusion, dendrites make a significant and previously unappreciated contribution to the electrotonic behavior of supraoptic neurons. These electrotonic properties are similar to those of many other, morphologically diverse, central nervous system neurons.
In the preceding experiments with electrolytic lesions of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, we showed pre- and postsynaptic degeneration in the midbrain central gray of the rat. The postsynaptic degeneration seen may indicate a transneuronal effect of the ventromedial nucleus on the midbrain central gray. Electrolytic lesions, however, destroy afferent endings and fibers in passage, so that the postsynaptic degeneration seen in the midbrain central gray may be due to retrograde degeneration of midbrain central gray afferents to the ventromedial nucleus or due to degeneration of fibers in passage. In order to distinguish among these possibilities, chemical, i.e. kainic acid and N-methyl aspartate, lesions were made in the ventromedial nucleus and the ultrastructure of the midbrain central gray and cerebral cortex was examined at various intervals following the lesions. Both of these excitotoxins have been shown to destroy neurons, sparing afferent terminals and fibers in passage. Animals receiving kainic acid lesions in the right ventromedial nucleus were allowed to survive for one week, and animals receiving N-methyl aspartate lesions in the right ventromedial nucleus were permitted to survive for four, eight, and 20 days. Midbrain central gray tissue of unlesioned animals served as a control for both kainic acid and N-methyl aspartate lesions. In addition, other control animals received injections of the same amount of N-methyl aspartate in the right parietal cortex and were permitted to survive for four and eight days. For each of the above injection and survival conditions, the left cortex and subdivisions of the midbrain central gray were removed and processed for electron microscopy. Animals receiving ventromedial hypothalamic lesions with both kainic acid and N-methyl aspartate showed signs of pre- and postsynaptic degeneration. A quantitative analysis (General Linear Model Procedure) of degeneration was performed on the cortex and midbrain central gray of animals receiving N-methyl aspartate lesions in the ventromedial nucleus and cortex, and several parameters were measured. Animals receiving ventromedial hypothalamic lesions and surviving for eight and 20 days show significantly higher ratios of degenerating presynaptic elements to total presynaptic elements, degenerating postsynaptic elements to total postsynaptic elements, and degenerating total elements to total elements, in the midbrain central gray than in the cortex. Furthermore, the ratio of degenerating postsynaptic elements to total postsynaptic elements is larger than the other ratios.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular and extracellular recording techniques and in vitro preparation were used to examine the effect of [Met]enkephalin on the rat periaqueductal neurons. In the 20 cells that were recorded intracellularly, [Met]enkephalin caused an increase in the resting membrane conductance, hyperpolarization of the cell membrane, an increase in the firing threshold and a decrease in the spontaneous firing rate. This effect of [Met]enkephalin could be blocked by naloxone. The effect of [Met]enkephalin on 99 neurons was also examined using extracellular recording. In 59% of cells, pressure application of [Met]enkephalin caused a dose-dependent inhibition that could be blocked by naloxone; 15% of the cells were excited and the remaining neurons (26%) did not respond. Nineteen per cent of responsive cells were located in the dorsolateral subdivision; 41% in the ventrolateral and 13% in the dorsal regions. In 10 cells, perfusion with physiological saline solution/Mg did not alter the inhibitory effect of [Met]enkephalin. However, perfusion with physiological saline solution/Mg abolished the excitatory response to [Met]enkephalin in four cells. It is concluded that: (1) the major effect of [Met]enkephalin on periaqueductal gray cells is inhibition that occurs through a direct postsynaptic process. This inhibition is probably due to an increase in permeability to potassium; (2) a small population of periaqueductal gray cells are excited by [Met]enkephalin, probably through a presynaptic process.
Spontaneously occurring and drug-induced high voltage spike-and-wave electroencephalogram patterns were examined in inbred rats of the Fischer 344 and Buffalo strains and of the random-bred Sprague-Dawley strain at different ages. In addition, tyrosine hydroxylase activity and dopamine D2 receptor density were determined in the substantia nigra, corpus striatum, olfactory tubercle and ponsmedulla areas of Fisher 344 and Buffalo animals. High voltage spike-and-wave episodes were present in 87.5% of the 3-month-old and in 100% of the older Fischer 344 rats. High voltage spike-and-wave episodes were completely absent in 3-month-old Buffalo and Sprague-Dawley animals but could be induced by systemic injection of pentylenetetrazol and at an older age they appeared in 58.3% (12-month) and 71.4% (greater than 26-month) of the subjects of these strains. The incidence and duration of high voltage spike-and-wave episodes were significantly higher/longer in Fischer 344 rats than in the age-matched Buffalo and Sprague-Dawley animals. The dopamine blocker acepromazine induced a several-fold increase of the incidence and duration of high voltage spike-and-wave episodes in 3-month-old Fischer 344 rats, but failed to induce high voltage spike-and-wave episodes in Buffalo animals at this age. However, acepromazine also triggered high voltage spike-and-wave episodes in Buffalo rats when they were pretreated with subthreshold doses of pentylenetetrazol. Tyrosine hydroxylase activity was significantly higher in the substantia nigra, corpus striatum and olfactory tubercle of the Fischer 344 strain than in Buffalo rats. The higher tyrosine hydroxylase activity was paralleled with significantly higher D2 binding values in the corpus striatum and olfactory tubercle of Fischer 344 rats. These findings suggest that the neocortical high voltage spike-and-wave phenotype is genetically mediated and that the inbred Fischer 344 and Buffalo rats with defined bilineal origin will facilitate future works aimed at the identification of genetic elements involved in the generation of neocortical high voltage spike-and-wave episodes. The significant genotype x age interaction supports the suggestion, however, that high voltage spike-and-wave episodes are likely to be influenced by more than one gene; some of them are probably related to the regulation of brain aminergic systems.
In order to test the contribution of the target areas of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis to the mediation of item and order recognition memory for spatial locations, one set of rats received lesions of the dorsolateral frontal cortex, parietal cortex, or basolateral amygdala after training in an order recognition memory task, whereas another set of animals received lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis or basolateral amygdala in an item recognition memory task. Animals with basolateral amygdala lesions displayed a deficit for order recognition memory, but no deficit for item recognition memory, a pattern equivalent to that found for animals with nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions. In contrast, animals with dorsolateral frontal cortex displayed no deficit, and animals with parietal cortex lesions displayed only a partial deficit for order recognition memory, results that differ from those found for animals with nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions. It appears that the nucleus basalis magnocellularis influences item and order recognition memory for lists of spatial locations primarily through projections to limbic but not neocortical targets.
Cholecystokinin binding sites were labeled with [3H]cholecystokinin-8, [125I]cholecystokinin-33, and [125I]cholecystokinin-8 in major structures of macaque basal ganglia by in vitro receptor autoradiography. Analysis of autoradiograms revealed areas of heavy cholecystokinin binding in the neostriatum and substantia nigra that were set off, often quite sharply, from the adjacent globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus where labeling was, by contrast, very light. Heavy label characterized the ventromedial and posterior parts of the caudate nucleus and adjacent putamen, binding was of moderate intensity in central areas of these regions, while, the dorsolateral margin of the head of the caudate and precommissural putamen, the dorsolateral one-third of the body of the caudate, and all but the most medial and ventral portions of the posterior putamen lateral to the pallidum were sparsely labeled. The pattern of cholecystokinin binding within the neostriatum was mottled; patches of reduced label stood out from the background of more prominent binding. However, those patches were only imperfectly correlated with the striosomal organization of both the caudate nucleus and putamen as revealed by acetylcholinesterase staining. Cholecystokinin binding in the substantia nigra was also intricately patterned. Moderately dense, vertically orientated bands of label were found in the dorsal one-third to half of the pars reticulata, providing a marked contrast to the near background levels in the ventral pars reticulata and overlying pars compacta. The present study shows that heavy cholecystokinin binding is confined to particular areas within the primate basal ganglia; the pattern of label within the substantia nigra and neostriatum can be linked to intrinsic and afferent connections of these structures. The confinement of binding sites to the dorsal pars reticulata suggests an association with dendrites of pars compacta neurons which invade this region; this interpretation is consistent with recent evidence of depletion of nigral cholecystokinin binding sites in macaques following chemical lesion of dopaminergic cells of the par compacta. In the neostriatum the distribution of binding shows overlap with its topographically organized corticostriatal innervation; portions of heavily labeled striatum coincide with regions innervated by association cortex of the frontal and temporal lobes, whereas regions of diminished binding correspond to areas innervated mainly by sensory and motor cortex. These latter findings suggest that cholecystokinin may have a particularly strong influence on cognitive aspects of striatal function.
The burst firing of thalamic cells in the adult cat is mainly controlled by a voltage-dependent membrane current that has recently been characterized as being similar to the low voltage-activated (i.e. low threshold), T-type, Ca2+ current originally described in sensory neurons. In those neurons so far studied, as well as in skeletal muscle, the low threshold Ca2+ current has been shown to decrease in amplitude or even disappear during embryogenesis or the first few weeks of postnatal life. We have now investigated the in vivo postnatal development of the low threshold Ca2+ current present in thalamocortical cells of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of cats aged four to 100 days. The results show that the amplitude of the low threshold Ca2+ current triples from 0.5 nA in the first few days after birth to over 1.5 nA in the adult. However, this increase in amplitude is not accompanied by any change in its inactivation and activation properties, its latency to peak and the time dependence of inactivation removal. Because of these similarities during development and in adulthood it is likely that a major role of the low threshold Ca2+ current during neuronal development is the generation of oscillatory activities similar to those observed in adult thalamocortical cells.
The impact of transcranial pulsed magnetic stimulation on blood-brain barrier permeability was studied in rats. An integral uptake technique was used to asses the blood-brain barrier permeability to the tracers [3H]sucrose, [14C]urea, and 36Cl-. From the arterial plasma concentration-time curve-integral the permeability surface-area products were calculated. A Dantec magnetic stimulator delivering a peak magnetic field of 1.9 T with a rise-time of 160 microseconds was used for transcranial stimulation of the rats. One group of rats had about 50-60 stimulations during the 15-min infusion of the tracers while another group was exposed to 50 magnetic stimulations a day for one week. A third group comprised the controls. No differences in permeability surface-area product were found for any of the three tracers in the rats exposed to magnetic stimulation as compared with the controls. It is concluded that with regard to blood-barrier integrity, pulsed magnetic stimulation of the brain can be regarded as safe.
The amphetamine derivative methylenedioxyamphetamine selectively destroys serotoninergic terminals in the brain. We have studied the effects of this toxin upon resting cerebral function, as reflected in rates of glucose utilization. Rats were injected subcutaneously with either 1 ml/kg saline (n = 5) or 20 mg/kg methylenedioxyamphetamine (n = 5) twice daily for four days. Local cerebral glucose utilization was measured between six and nine weeks after treatment using [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography. Samples of frontal cortex taken from these animals for in vitro [3H]paroxetine binding showed a 64% reduction in 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake sites. In the majority of the 31 functionally diverse brain areas analysed, no significant changes were measured, but significant (P less than 0.05) increases in glucose use were found in neocortical regions e.g. anterior cingulate cortex (+16%) and sensorimotor cortex (+21%). However, the most profound increases were found in globus pallidus (+30%) and hippocampus molecular layer (+34%). It would appear, therefore, that treatment with methylenedioxyamphetamine results in long-lasting alterations in cerebral functional activity.
Epithelioid (&quot;type 1&quot;) astrocytes and hippocampal neurons have been stereotaxically grafted into adult rat brain by a new &quot;microtransplantation&quot; method and the results of grafting assessed at various survival times by conventional histological methods using light and electron microscopes. The extent of bleeding that accompanied grafting was assessed by peroxidase staining of extravascular red cells. Grafts were small, compact and reproducible in terms of their volume and location. Implantation was achieved with very little trauma to host tissue. There was no apparent disruption of host tissue adjacent to the graft and very little damage to host blood vessels from earliest survival times. Donor astrocytes were in direct contact with cells of the host immediately after grafting. This situation was compared with conventional implantation of astrocytes in which much damage, necrosis and bleeding occurred and for which cells of graft and host were initially isolated from one another. Microtransplanted astrocytes were observed to migrate. Similar, comparatively non-traumatic microtransplantation of hippocampal neurons was also carried out. Long-term survival of grafted neurons was demonstrated.
The levels of native and cryptic [Met5]enkephalin in the chicken retina were found to vary during a 12:12 h light-dark cycle, both rising in the light and falling during the dark. Such variations could conceivably arise from (a) changes in the rate of release and subsequent degradation of native and/or cryptic [Met5]enkephalin, (b) changes in the rate of proenkephalin A synthesis, or (c) changes in the rate of proenkephalin A processing. Measurement of the rate of release of native and cryptic [Met5]enkephalin in vitro indicated that the increased rate of release of both of these forms of [Met5]enkephalin during the dark quantitatively accounted for the fall in their retinal levels during the dark. This indicated that the biosynthesis of proenkephalin A was not activated during the light-dark cycle. Molecular weight fractionation of retinal extracts also supported this idea, since the pool of high molecular weight precursors did not vary in size, suggesting that processing was not modulated during the light-dark cycle. Instead, the fall in both cryptic and native [Met5]enkephalin during the dark was due to their increased rate of release together with a rate-limiting conversion of high molecular weight [Met5]enkephalin-containing peptides to low molecular weight [Met5]enkephalin-containing peptides. The enkephalinergic cells of the retina seem to cope with physiological variations in demand by accumulating a large pool of peptide during periods of low stimulation (light), so that when stimulation and release is high (dark), the decrease in pool levels does not compromise the function of the cells and their postsynaptic targets.
The physiological basis of the high selective potassium permeability of the crayfish glial perineurium was studied. The transient spike-like perineurial potential generated in high external [K+] was used as a measure of barrier K+ permeability. The medial giant axon membrane potential was used to monitor interstitial [K+]. Perineurial current-voltage relations of the perineurium were used to measure electrical resistance and to determine changes in K+ conductance of the perineurial barrier. Of a range of cations studied only Rb+, in addition to K+ generated a large transient sheath potential. In some experiments &quot;regenerative&quot; multiple spikes were observed during the continued exposure of the perineurium to high [Rb+]0. This degree of ion selectivity is typical of glial cell membranes and K channels. Barrier conductance increased only very briefly in Rb+; the potential falling rapidly to a steady 5-10 mV. The PCl/PRb and the PCl/PK ratios at the peak transient potential were similar suggesting the permeability site for these cations was the same. The permeability of Rb+ in the plateau phase was significantly lower than K+ suggesting that high [Rb+]0 may act to block K+ channels. The K(+)-selective permeability was reversibly blocked by extracellular Ba2+ at both the peak and the plateau phase, in a concentration-dependent manner. Other K-channel blocking agents, tetraethylammonium ions (10 mM), caesium ions (20 mM), and 3,4-diaminopyridine (0.5 mM) were ineffective. The effect of Ba2+ on the peak potential was similar to the removal of external Ca2+ or exposure to the Ca2(+)-channel blockers, verapamil (10(-4) M) or La3+ (5 mM). The time- and concentration-dependent reversible block of the K+ permeability of the perineurium was consistent with the known action of these agents on voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in nerve and glia. La3+ caused an irreversible decrease in perineurial conductance and K+ influx. Lanthanum titration of the negative charges of glial membranes and mucopolysaccharide matrix of the intercellular space suggest they may be important factors in determining the magnitude of the perineurial leak and paracellular K+ permeability. Electron microscopic examination of La3+ distribution demonstrated a diffusion barrier at the outer layer of perineurial glia. The binding of La3+ at the basolateral membranes of the glial barrier suggested this was the site at which La3+ had its physiological actions. The results suggest that the increase in glial membrane K+ conductance in high [K+]0 was most likely due to voltage-gated Ca2+ and K+ channels and Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels of the membranes of perineurial glia.
Selective ion permeability, ion transport properties, and electrical resistance of the perineurial barrier, as they relate to interstitial ion regulation, where studied and characterized electrophysiologically in ion substitution experiments. In high external [K+] a transient spike-like voltage was generated across the perineurial barrier which fell over 1-2 min to a slowly decaying voltage. The glial perineurium had at least a 10 times greater permeability to K+ than Cl-, and was effectively impermeant to Na+. The potential, in high external [K+], was determined by the K+ and Cl- gradients and their relative permeabilities across the sheath. For other cations the selectivity sequence of the perineurial barrier, as determined from electrophysiological measurements, was K+ greater than or equal to Rb+ much greater than NH4+ greater than Cs+ greater than Li+ greater than Na+ corresponding most closely to the Eisenman sequence IV. The perineurium had a resistance of 260 +/- 23 omega cm2 in crayfish physiological solution. In high [K+]0 the resistance fell by over half during the transient spike potential and then recovered towards resting levels as the voltage decayed. In the intact nerve cord interstitial [K+] rose to only 10-20 mM during a 2-min exposure to 100 mM K0+. K influx and efflux were related to the change in barrier permeability and an increased selectivity to K+ which, in these studies, was determined primarily by its electrochemical gradient across the perineurial barrier. The results suggest that the crayfish perineurium is a leaky epithelium capable of a high degree of ion regulation. Trans-perineurial barrier potential and conductance in high external [K+] are primarily functions of passive processes of the perineurial glial cell membranes and of the paracellular conductance channels driven by the electrochemical gradient for the K+. Accordingly, the mass transport of [K+] showed the same quantitative relationship in both directions.
The responses of single units in the brainstem of the decerebrate, paralysed, pigeon were studied. Natural vestibular stimulation was provided by horizontal, sinusoidal, oscillation of the bird and extraocular muscle afferents of the ipsilateral eye were activated by passive eye-movement. Unit responses to vestibular and/or orbital stimuli were examined in sets of peristimulus time histograms interleaved in time. Of 352 units in the brainstem, in the region of the vestibular nuclei, which were exposed to the effects of both vestibular stimuli and passive eye-movement, 40 (11%) responded only to the latter; the other 312 units (89%) responded to vestibular stimulation at 0.4 Hz (amplitude +/- 8 degrees). Of these 312 units, 129 (41%) were affected only by vestibular stimuli; in the other 183 units (59%) passive eye-movement produced clear modification of the vestibular responses by adding excitation or inhibition, or both. There were phasic modifications in most units; in 77 there were longer-lasting changes in the vestibular responses, often following a phasic response. In 124 units whose responses were subjected to statistical analysis, the vestibular responses of 42 (34%) were modified only by horizontal eye-movement and eight (6%) were affected only by vertical movement. A further 18% showed larger effects from horizontal than from vertical eye-movement; in 2% vertical eye-movement was preferred. Further examination of the specificity of the effects of eye-movement in planes between the vertical and horizontal was possible in 29 units which showed various degrees of &quot;tuning&quot; of the effect. In some units there was additional specificity for eye-movement in (a) particular directions (towards the beak rather than towards the tail, for example); (b) in particular arcs of the orbit (centre-to-temporal rather than nasal-to-centre, for example). Note that all these effects were upon the responses of the units to horizontal vestibular stimulation. Thus, the modifications of the vestibular responses depended upon specific characteristics of the passive eye-movement. The exact recording sites of 29 units were determined histologically; some were in the medial vestibular nucleus but many were in the adjacent reticular formation. The principal interest of the results is that they provide more detailed information than was available previously on the specificity of the effects of afferent signals from the extraocular muscles upon the vestibular responses of units in regions of the brainstem known to be involved in oculomotor control. The decerebrate pigeon proves to be a particularly good preparation in which to study these effects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ischemic neuronal damage has been believed to make rapid progress in the course of a few days even in delayed selective neuronal death, to say nothing of acute brain necrosis. In the present study, however, we demonstrate for the first time a new type of ischemia-induced neuronal damage which progresses in the course of several weeks or a few months and we tentatively call this process &quot;slowly progressive neuronal damage&quot;. We have focused on the chronological changes of neuronal damage in the dorsolateral striatum and neocortex following various durations of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, which does not cause cerebral infarction and is clinically designated &quot;transient ischemic attack&quot;. In the rats subjected to 15 min middle cerebral artery occlusion, the neocortex and lateral striatum were rarely damaged, whereas the small to medium-sized neurons only in the narrow area restricted to the dorsal striatum showed slowly progressive neuronal damage. Prolongation of ischemic duration to 30 min accelerated the evolution of neuronal damage in the dorsolateral striatum and also extended the distribution of neuronal damage to the neocortex, especially to layer III and more superficial layers. Further prolongation of ischemic duration to 45 min resulted in more rapid progress of selective neuronal death in those areas described above, whereas no animal escaped 60 min ischemia, without acute total tissue necrosis in the middle cerebral artery territory. Ischemia-induced slowly progressive neuronal damage may be implicated in the pathogenesis of such slowly progressive neurologic deterioration as dementia or Parkinsonism in patients with cerebral arteriosclerosis.
Direct intracerebral administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate typically produces focal brain injury. (+)-5-Methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-immi ne maleate (MK-801), a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, can protect against N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated brain injury when administered shortly before or after an intracerebral injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, in this study we report that in perinatal rats if MK-801 (1 mg/kg) is administered intraperitoneally 24 h prior to a unilateral intrastriatal N-methyl-D-aspartate injection, N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated brain injury is paradoxically enhanced. The severity of resulting brain injury is 15-25% greater in groups that received MK-801 in comparison with saline-treated controls (P less than 0.001, linear regression analysis). In contrast, the severity of brain injury resulting from intrastriatal injection of the glutamate agonist quisqualate is not altered by a similar 24 h MK-801 pretreatment. Furthermore, the enhanced toxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate produced by a 24 h pretreatment with MK-801 is completely blocked if a second dose of MK-801 is administered 15 min after the intrastriatal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate. To determine if MK-801 produced alterations in glutamate receptor pharmacology co-incident with the enhanced toxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate, in vitro quantitative autoradiography for excitatory amino acid receptor subtypes was performed with [3H]glutamate and [3H]N-1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl-3,4-piperidine in seven-day-old rats killed 2 or 24 h after MK-801 (1 mg/kg) administration. A 2 h MK-801 pretreatment produced a 30-50% increase in [3H]glutamate binding at N-methyl-D-aspartate preferring recognition sites in all four brain regions examined (areas CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus, corpus striatum, cingulate cortex) in comparison with saline-treated controls (P less than 0.05, ANOVA). [3H]N-1-(2-Thienyl)cyclohexyl-3,4-piperidine binding to the phencyclidine site associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor was reduced by 60-80% in all brain regions examined (P less than 0.001). Quisqualate-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding was not altered by a 2 h MK-801 pretreatment. In animals that received a 24 h MK-801 pretreatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurons containing the calcium-binding proteins, calbindin or parvalbumin, were studied by immunohistochemistry in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Calbindin-containing cells were found in laminae I, II and III, being more abundant in laminae I and II. Some of the neurons in lamina I containing calbindin projected to the supraspinal area. Parvalbumin-containing neurons were mainly distributed in laminae IIi and III. Calbindin and parvalbumin were not detected in the same cells. Some 75% of the neurotensin-like immunoreactive neurons contained calbindin, which corresponded to 13% of the calbindin-containing neurons. Calbindin was sometimes found in the same cells with substance P, enkephalin or somatostatin but less frequently (44-46% of the peptide-containing neurons). Parvalbumin was not found together with these peptides. Electron microscopy showed that the immunoreactive products of calbindin or parvalbumin were mostly in the dendrites or cell bodies. Immunoreactive axon terminals were relatively few. In rhizotomized animals, neurons containing one of these proteins in laminae II and III were found to receive direct inputs of primary afferent fibers. These findings indicate that neurons containing these two proteins belong to different subpopulations of dorsal horn neurons. They may be important in primary afferent processing.
Recordings were made from convergent neurons in trigeminal nucleus caudalis of the rat. These neurons could be activated by both innocuous and noxious mechanical stimuli applied to their excitatory receptive fields on the ipsilateral part of the muzzle. Percutaneous application of suprathreshold, 2 ms square-wave electrical stimuli to the centre of the excitatory field resulted in responses to A- and C-fibres being observed. The effects on these responses of manual acupuncture performed by a traditional Chinese acupuncturist at the &quot;Zusanli&quot; point on the right hindlimb were compared with the effects induced by acupuncture applied at a non-acupoint, next to &quot;Zusanli&quot;. In addition, the effects of acupuncture were compared with the inhibitory effects evoked by noxious thermal stimulation of the left hindlimb on the responses of the same neurons. This last type of inhibition has been described previously by our group and termed diffuse noxious inhibitory controls. Acupuncture, either applied at &quot;Zusanli&quot; or at a non-acupoint and noxious thermal stimulation induced similar strong inhibitory effects on the C-fibre-evoked responses of trigeminal convergent neurons (77.9 +/- 4.4%; 72.5 +/- 4.6% and 78.5 +/- 3.6% inhibition, respectively) and these inhibitions were followed by long-lasting aftereffects. In addition, both the acupuncture- and noxious thermal stimulation-evoked inhibitions were significantly reduced by systemic naloxone (0.4 mg/kg, i.v.). Since the antinociceptive effects elicited by acupuncture (i) had a similar magnitude and time-course to those evoked by noxious thermal stimulation, (ii) exhibited a lack of topographical specificity and (iii) involved an opioidergic link, we would suggest that, at least in our experimental conditions, acupuncture manoeuvres trigger the neuronal mechanisms involved in diffuse noxious inhibitory controls.
In spinal-transected lampreys, locomotor function is restored within a few weeks, and a number of mechanisms could potentially contribute to behavioral recovery. The present study examines the contribution of functional regeneration of descending axons from brainstem locomotor &quot;command&quot; centers to behavioral recovery using both whole animal and in vitro preparations. Under in vitro conditions activation of brainstem locomotor centers could elicit locomotor patterns below a healed transection of the rostral spinal cord. Additional experiments indicated that spinal locomotor networks below a spinal transection could be directly activated by descending axons arising from brainstem neurons. In contrast, mechanosensory inputs and regenerated spinal neurons did not contribute significantly to the initiation of locomotor activity below a spinal lesion. Regenerated descending axons from large reticulospinal Muller neurons did not contribute significantly to the recovery of locomotor function. These results suggest that functional regeneration of descending axons from neurons in brainstem locomotor command centers contribute significantly to the recovery of locomotion following spinal cord transection. This is the first demonstration in a vertebrate of functional regeneration of descending command axons which can initiate locomotion.
In view of the role of the amygdala in the modulation of adrenocortical secretion we have studied the neural pathways which mediate this response. Changes in plasma corticosterone following medial amygdala stimulation, under pentobarbital anaesthesia, were studied in rats which chronically implanted electrodes in intact and lesioned animals. The rise in plasma corticosterone following amygdala stimulation was inhibited by bilateral lesions of the stria terminals, medial preoptic area, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and to a greater extent by a combined lesion of the latter two structures. The combined lesion also completely blocked the adrenocortical response to olfactory stimulation. These various lesions did not affect, however, the rise in plasma corticosterone following ether stress. These data thus demonstrate that the stria terminalis, preoptic area and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis are involved in the transmission of neural impulses to the hypothalamus which activate adrenocortical secretion.
Specific brain sites for the opiate abstinence syndrome syndrome have been elusive to delineate, and the classic overt signs of withdrawal such as wet dog shakes, ptosis and teeth chattering appear to be widely represented in the brain. Using a more general motivational test involving a disruption of operant behavior in dependent rats, the brain site most sensitive to the response disruptive effects of intracerebral administration of the opiate antagonist, methylnaloxonium, was the region of the nucleus accumbens, a site also implicated in the acute reinforcing properties of opiates. This disruption of operant responding was hypothesized to reflect the aversive properties of opiate withdrawal. The present study directly tested that hypothesis by exploring whether intercerebral administration of methylnaloxonium produced aversive stimulus effects as measured by the formation of place aversions. Rats implanted intracerebroventricularly or with bilateral cannulae aimed at the medial dorsal thalamus, periaqueductal gray, ventral tegmental area, amygdala or nucleus accumbens were made dependent on morphine by subcutaneous implantation of two 75-mg morphine pellets. The animals were then subjected to place aversion training by pairing of a distinct environment (one of three arms of a three-armed box with distinct texture, markings and smell) with a single injection of methylnaloxonium intracerebroventricularly or intracerebrally. Results showed that at high doses of methylnaloxonium (1000-2000 ng) all sites produced a place aversion. However, lower doses (250-500 ng) produced a significant brain site selectivity with the region of the nucleus accumbens the most sensitive. Observational measurements taken during the postinjection period with the high dose of methylnaloxonium showed that agitation was particularly observed following methylnaloxonium administration into the nucleus accumbens and periaqueductal gray.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a previous study conducted over six months, we demonstrated that 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) the active metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, chronically infused (10 micrograms/24 h for seven days) into one median forebrain bundle of the rat can cause long-lasting damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system. The present study was carried out in animals 18-19 months after MPP+ infusion to determine firstly, if the lesion was indeed permanent and secondly, if embryonic nigral dopamine suspension grafts implanted into the dopamine-denervated neostriatum can reverse the neurochemical and behavioural deficits induced by MPP+. All the animals within the MPP(+)-lesioned group showed robust contralateral and ipsilateral turning in response to apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg) and methamphetamine (2.5 mg/kg), respectively, at each time point of testing. In the grafted animals there was a progressive significant reduction in the number of rotations in response to both apomorphine and methamphetamine over the three-month test period. Autoradiographic analysis of [125I]sulpiride binding to striatal sections showed a 27% increase in dopamine D2 receptor density in the ipsilateral striatum of MPP(+)-lesioned animals. This increase in D2 receptor density was completely abolished by the dopamine grafts so that the D2 receptor density in the grafted striatum was similar to the contralateral striatum of MPP(+)-lesioned animals. This increase in D2 receptor density was completely abolished by the dopamine grafts so that the D2 receptor density in the grafted striatum was similar to the contralateral striatum of the grafted animals or the ipsilateral striatum of control non-lesioned animals. In all the animals of the lesioned and grafted groups there was a complete loss of dopamine neurons in the ipsilateral substantia nigra as demonstrated by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization histochemistry. In all the animals that received nigral dopamine grafts, numerous cells were localized within the grafts which contained tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA. Moreover, immunohistochemical staining showed a dense network of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres within the grafted striatum. The results of the present study are important in two respects. Firstly, they demonstrate that MPP+ infusions into the rat nigrostriatal dopamine pathway can produce a permanent degeneration of nigral dopamine neurons. Thus, in animals assessed 18-19 months after the initial MPP(+)-lesion there was no significant behavioural or neurochemical compensation with time. Secondly, the results clearly show that embryonic nigral dopamine grafts implanted into the dopamine-denervated striatum can reverse the behavioural and neurochemical deficits induced by MPP+.
Two major systems of cholinergic projection neurons are found within the centrum of the mammalian brain: the basal nuclear complex, projecting predominantly to the cerebral cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus, and the pontomesencephalotegmental network, innervating primarily the thalamus. Neurons comprising the latter network also project to the basal forebrain, but the functional properties of that fiber connection, if any, are unknown. In an attempt to address this issue, the extracellular concentration of acetylcholine was measured in the basal nuclear complex of freely moving rats, both singularly and in combination with lesions and pharmacologic manipulations. Acetylcholine release monitored in the presence of physostigmine sulfate in the basal forebrain was (a) calcium-dependent, (b) increased by systemic scopolamine injection, the rise persisting in the presence of quisqualate lesions of the basal nuclear complex, (c) blocked by tetrodotoxin, and (d) abolished by ablation of cell bodies in the pontomesencephalic tegmentum, which also produced a decrease of choline acetyltransferase activity in the nucleus basalis/substantia innominata region, but not by quisqualate lesions of the basal forebrain. It is concluded from these data that the calcium-dependent release of acetylcholine in the basal nuclear complex (a) is largely axonal in nature, (b) derives substantially from axons of the cholinergic pontomesencephalic tegmentum, and (c) appears to be controlled by presynaptic muscarinic receptors on axon terminals of the latter system. The pontomesencephalotegmental cholinergic complex might thus influence cortical acetylcholine release, in part at least, by means of serial-order cholinergic-cholinergic interactions in the basal nuclear complex.
Simultaneous intracellular recordings were made in the dentate gyrus of rat hippocampal slices, from pairs of the following cell types: granule cells, interneurons located in the granule cell layer, hilar interneurons, and spiny hilar &quot;mossy cells&quot;. Granule cells were found to have strong excitatory effects on mossy cells and interneurons. Interneurons inhibited granule cells as well as other interneurons. No synaptic connections from mossy cells onto other cell types were found, within the confines of the slice, using intracellular recording methods. However, at the ultrastructural level, axon terminals of horseradish peroxidase-filled mossy cells were found making synaptic contacts in the hilus on dendrites of interneurons. These studies provide the first step towards determining the functional interactions of the various cell types in the fascia dentata.
We have examined the effects of antidepressant drugs on the morphology and fine-structure of cingulate cortex neurons and synapses in vitro. Dissociated cell cultures from 16-day-old rat fetuses were maintained for up to three weeks in the presence of amitriptyline and desipramine (tricyclic antidepressants) mianserin and citalopram (non-tricyclic antidepressants) or without drugs as controls. Synapses in cultures exposed to amitriptyline and desipramine displayed increased numbers of presynaptic vesicles and more extensive membrane specializations than in control cultures, and increased numbers of coated vesicles both pre- and postsynaptically. In mianserin- and citalopram-treated cultures, synaptic specializations were increased in length, and aggregates of mitochondria at the base of neurites were observed. Our results indicate that long-term exposure to antidepressant drugs results in significant changes in intracellular structure, including changes in synaptic ultrastructure.
Effects of sodium bromide were studied on central neuroplasticity induced by early binocular enucleation. It has previously been found that enucleation on the day of birth, but not later than the first postnatal week, resulted in changes in the occipital cortex, such as the invasion of somatosensory evoked activity into the visual cortex areas. The present results showed that sodium bromide treatment extended at least up to 15 days after birth, the critical period during which somatosensory projections could be modified by visual deafferentation. Together with observations of Frost [J. comp. Neurol. (1981) 203, 227-256; Devl Brain Res. (1982) 3, 627-636], the present results suggest a mutual dependency of visual and somatosensory projection development. The present study is the first demonstration that the critical period of development, during which a specific type of neural plasticity can be induced, may be prolonged by pharmacological means, i.e. by chronic treatment with sodium bromide.
The previous paper (Redgrave et al., Neuroscience 37, 571-584, 1990) presented anatomical evidence indicating there are at least two largely segregated components of the crossed tecto-reticulo-spinal pathway which project to the periabducens area and caudal medulla. An immediate question arising from this finding is whether tectal cells which project either to the periabducens area or to the caudal medulla have different electrophysiological response properties. An answer to this question would be relevant to the issue of whether different components of the tecto-reticulo-spinal system are specialized for the production of different classes of orienting movement. Accordingly, extracellularly recorded units in the superior colliculus of urethane anaesthetized rats were tested for antidromic activity following electrical stimulation of the periabducens area or the caudal medulla. When antidromic potentials were successfully recorded the sensory properties of the units were tested with a range of unimodal visual, somatosensory and auditory stimuli. The following results were obtained. (i) Tectal cells antidromically activated by stimulation of the caudal medulla were preferentially sensitive to somatosensory stimuli from the perioral region, while cells activated from the periabducens area were more frequently responsive to auditory stimuli. (ii) Tectal fibres activated by stimulation of the caudal medulla had significantly higher conduction velocities than the fibres activated by electrodes in the periabducens region. (iii) More than 90% of antidromically activated cells were located in stratum album intermediale or dorsal stratum profundum. These electrophysiological findings confirm and extend previous anatomical observations which indicate that components of the crossed descending projection of the colliculus may be functionally specialized for the production of different classes of orienting movements.
Afferents to the median-paramedian raphe nuclear complex, which contains the B8 serotonergic cell group, were investigated in the rat with neuroanatomical and transmitter-selective retrograde labelling techniques. Injection of sensitive retrograde tracers, cholera toxin genoid or wheat germ agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase into the median raphe resulted in labelling of neurons in a large number of brain regions. Projections from 26 of these regions are supported by available orthograde tracing data; the cingulate cortex, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, medial septum and diagonal band of Broca, ventral pallidum, medial and lateral preoptic areas, lateral hypothalamus, dorsomedial nucleus of hypothalamus, lateral habenula, interpeduncular nucleus, substantia nigra, central (periaqueductal) gray, and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus seem to represent major sources of afferents to the median-paramedian raphe complex. Retrogradely labelled cells were also observed in a number of regions for which anterograde tracing data are not available, including the perifornical hypothalamic nucleus, ventral premammillary nucleus, supramammillary and submammillothalamic nuclei and the B9 area. Possible excitatory amino acid afferents were identified with retrograde D-[3H]aspartate labelling. Microinjection of D-[3H]aspartate at a low concentration, 10(-4) M in 50 nl, resulted in retrograde labelling of a limited number of median raphe afferents. The most prominent labelling was observed in the lateral habenula and the interpeduncular nucleus, but retrogradely labelled cells were also noted in the medial and lateral preoptic areas, lateral and dorsal hypothalamus, ventral tegmental area, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, medial parabrachial nucleus, and the pontine tegmentum. After injections of 10(-3) M D-[3H]aspartate selective labelling also appeared in more distant afferent regions, including cells in cingulate cortex, and in some regions located at shorter distances, such as the supramammillary nucleus. Injections of D-[3H]aspartate at high concentration, 10(-2) M, resulted in the appearance of weakly to moderately labelled cells in most afferent areas which were devoid of labelled cells after injections of lower concentrations, suggesting that this labelling may be non-specific. It was concluded that the median-paramedian raphe receives afferents from a large number of forebrain and hypothalamic regions, while relatively few brain stem regions project to this nuclear complex. The selectivity of retrograde labelling with D-[3H]aspartate was found to be concentration dependent, and it is suggested that the connections showing high affinity for D-[3H]aspartate may use excitatory amino acids as transmitters. Excitatory amino acid inputs from lateral habenula and interpeduncular nucleus may play predominant roles in the control of ascending serotonergic and non-serotonergic projections originating in the median and paramedian raphe nuclei.
Acetylcholinesterase is released from dopaminergic cells within the substantia nigra. The functional significance of this phenomenon has been studied in the freely-moving animal by a novel system for measuring acetylcholinesterase release from the substantia nigra &quot;on-line&quot; and in vivo. In the unanaesthetized guinea-pig the amount of acetylcholinesterase released was significantly greater than during anaesthesia, and release occurred in a more pulsatile manner. In addition, release of acetylcholinesterase could be evoked by either pharmacological or physiological manipulations, i.e. (1) a depolarizing concentration of potassium ions administered locally; (2) metamphetamine, administered systematically, which also resulted in increased locomotor activity; (3) drinking behaviour, elicited by presentation of a water bottle. Although all three treatments were accompanied by an increase in acetylcholinesterase release within the substantia nigra, potassium-evoked release did not cause any detectable change in behaviour. It is therefore suggested that release of the protein acetylcholinesterase within the substantia nigra is not necessarily a direct cause of locomotor activity: rather, it reflects diverse sensorimotor events.
Ependymins are unique, brain specific glycoproteins, which are major constituents of the cerebrospinal fluid. Originally, they were discovered in goldfish and are thought to be involved in synaptic plasticity. In the present study two transcripts were characterized in Brachydanio rerio originating from a single gene possibly by alternative splicing. These transcripts differ only in the length of their 3'-non-coding-regions and the encoded protein shares 90 and 88% homology with the two corresponding goldfish proteins, respectively. In situ hybridization revealed the expression of ependymins exclusively in the leptomeninx including its invaginations but not at all in the ependymal layer surrounding the ventricles. An initial developmental profile showed that ependymins first appear before hatching, i.e. between 48 and 72 h postfertilization.
We recorded neuromagnetic responses of the second somatosensory cortex in healthy humans. Cutaneous electrical stimulation of fingers elicited a response around 100 ms, with a field pattern agreeing with activation of the second somatosensory cortex in the upper bank of the Sylvian fissure. In an oddball paradigm, with standards presented to the thumb and deviants (10%) to the middle finger, or vice versa, the second somatosensory cortex responses to deviants were almost three times as high in amplitude as those to standards. A similar amplitude enhancement was obtained when the deviants were presented in the absence of the intervening standards but with the same interstimulus interval. The results indicate that an accurate functional representation of different body areas is maintained at the human second somatosensory cortex.
In partially restrained but awake and undrugged rats, excitatory unit responses of the somatic cortex barrel field to vibrissal stimulation, were recorded in two conditions: during spontaneous episodes of theta and in the absence of this rhythm. Two main variables were considered: a signal-to-noise ratio and an index of the &quot;afferent inhibition&quot;. Both measures were extracted from peristimulus time histograms. &quot;Theta effects&quot; were characterized by an increase in signal-to-noise ratio and afferent inhibition. They were most important in neurons located in infragranular layers of the cortex; they went in the same direction but only approached significance in supragranular neurons; neurons of the granular layer were not affected. Spontaneous unit activity and latencies were not modified in any group. These data were obtained during a preliminary step of a sensory-sensory conditioning procedure which in some cases modified the receptive field of the neurons. Theta effects were less marked in future &quot;conditioned&quot; than in future non-conditioned neurons but this was probably due to the fact that conditioned neurons had significantly higher signal-to-noise ratio and afferent inhibition. The origin of these &quot;theta effects&quot;, hippocampal versus non-hippocampal, and their functional significance, relation to selective attention, are discussed.
Endogenous opioids play a role in carcinogenic events by serving as inhibitory growth factors that alter cell proliferative events by interaction with opioid receptors. The present study addresses the question of whether endogenous opioid systems function tonically in tissue culture. Using S20Y neuroblastoma, a cell line that produces a growth-related opioid peptide (i.e.[Met5]enkephalin) and contains the zeta receptor known to be associated with growth, the effects of opioid receptor blockade by naltrexone, a potent opioid antagonist, was examined. Drug concentrations of 10(-4) to 10(-8) M naltrexone stimulated cell proliferation, with 32-86% more cells found in the naltrexone groups than control from 12 to 48 h after initiating drug exposure; drug concentrations of 10(-9) to 10(-13) M had no effect on growth. Evaluation of labeling and mitotic indices revealed that both DNA synthesis and mitosis were increased by naltrexone, as were the number of cells with process lengths greater than 40 microns. Naltrexone (10(-6) M) also stimulated the growth of N115 murine neuroblastoma, SK-N-MC human neuroblastoma, and HT-1080 human fibrosarcoma. These results indicate that endogenous opioids function in vitro to regulate growth by inhibitory mechanisms, and do so actively. This autocrine mechanism in tissue culture also occurs in other animal neuroblastoma cell lines, as well as for human neuroblastoma and fibrosarcoma cell lines.
Post-translational conjugation of arginine (but not other amino acids) to proteins has been reported to occur in a high speed supernatant fraction of rat brain homogenates from which molecules of less than 5000 mol. wt have been removed. In the present study we report that removal of molecules of less than 1000 mol. wt by dialysis, does not result in incorporation of arginine into protein in amounts significantly different than in the undialysed supernatant. The addition of molecules with molecular weights greater than 1000 and less than 5000 to the active fraction, inhibits the incorporation of arginine into proteins in a concentration dependent manner suggesting that the post-translational incorporation of arginine into brain is regulated by a molecule(s) of greater than 1000 and less than 5000 mol. wt. Incorporation of lysine into proteins did not occur following removal of molecules of less than 5000 mol. wt, but did occur in the void volume fraction of a Sephacryl S-200 column (molecular weight cut-off 125,000), suggesting that the incorporation of lysine into proteins is regulated by molecules retained by the S-200 column but greater than 5000 mol. wt. When experiments were repeated using the void volume of a Sephacryl S-300 column (molecular weight exclusion, approximately 200 k), leucine and proline were incorporated in amounts similar to arginine and lysine and serine, alanine, valine, phenylalanine and histidine were incorporated at lower but measurable levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Electrical stimulation of the brain of the domestic cat elicited vocalizations from a site in the ventrolateral pons in the region of the medial lemniscus. The evoked vocalizations were analysed by means of sound spectrographs and classified as meows, growls, hisses and meow-growls. The neural pathways associated with these call sites were traced by following the pattern of fiber degeneration resulting from lesions placed at these sites. A descending fiber pathway was traced to the magnocellular tegmental field, the facial nucleus and the retrofacial nucleus, while an ascending system terminated in the zona incerta, the red nucleus, contralateral oculomotor nucleus, the ventroposterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus and inferior colliculus. It is concluded from these findings and the nature of the behavior evoked that the ventrolateral pontine call site lies on common pathway for a majority of vocalizations in the cat.
Functional studies in the rabbit suggest that GABA is an important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the control of cardiovascular, respiratory and neuroendocrine functions by the medulla oblongata. The present work was undertaken to provide a description of the distribution in the rabbit medulla of neurons containing glutamate decarboxylase, an enzyme present in GABA-synthesizing neurons. Combined retrograde axonal transport and immunohistochemical studies were carried out to determine intramedullary and spinal projections of immunopositive neurons located in regions particularly relevant to the interpretation of functional studies. Neurons containing glutamate decarboxylase, putatively GABA-containing neurons, were found in all nuclei of the rabbit medulla with the exception of somatic cranial nerve nuclei and the lateral reticular nucleus. The immunopositive cells were distributed throughout individual nuclei and their morphological appearance was similar to that of neighbouring immunonegative neurons in the nucleus. An exception was encountered in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus where the glutamate decarboxylase-containing neurons belong to a population of small neurons easily distinguished from the larger vagal preganglionic cells. Many immunopositive cells in the raphe nuclei, in the medial reticular formation and in the vestibular nuclei have axonal projections to the spinal cord and presumably represent sources of inhibitory bulbospinal control. Within the medulla there were glutamate decarboxylase-containing neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius with projections to caudal but not to rostral regions of the ventrolateral medulla. These neurons could provide a GABAergic input to respiratory, cardiovascular and neuroendocrine neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Immunopositive cells projecting from the caudal to the rostral ventrolateral medulla could form part of the population of inhibitory vasomotor neurons known to be present in the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Some glutamate decarboxylase-containing neurons just medial to the nucleus ambiguous in the rostral medulla, in the region containing the Botzinger group, project to the caudal ventrolateral medulla and could therefore provide an inhibitory input to caudal respiratory cells.
The effect of intracranial microdialysis on brain glucose metabolism in control and kainic acid-treated rats was assessed by semi-quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. A dialysis fiber loop was implanted into the piriform cortex or a horizontal Vita fiber into the hippocampus, and 24 h later, fibers were perfused with Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate solution before and after injection of kainic acid (16 mg/kg, i.p.) [14C]2-Deoxyglucose was injected i.p. 3 h after the injection of kainic acid. Rats injected with kainic acid were initially lethargic and then proceeded through behavioral phases of staring, &quot;wet-dog shakes&quot;, Straub tail, rearing, forepaw clonus, and, in some cases, tonic-clonic convulsions. Three hours after kainic acid, the fiber presence in the piriform cortex enhanced kainic acid-induced metabolic activity in areas adjacent to the fiber assembly, whereas the fiber in hippocampus attenuated kainic acid-induced metabolic activity in areas adjacent to the fiber assembly. The results indicate that intracranial microdialysis alters the already abnormal brain metabolism in a kainic acid-induced seizure state, but has no significant effect in the non-seizure control state.
Action potentials recorded in vitro from the perikarya of trigeminal root ganglion neurons (guinea-pig) were examined for their sensitivities to blockers of specific ion channels or to removal of certain ionic species in the bathing media. The majority (approximately 65%) of the 137 neurons exhibited action potentials following application of the Na(+)-channel blocker, tetrodotoxin. This group of neurons was selected for further investigation under conditions of extracellular K(+)-channel blockade with tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine. Long-duration action potentials consisting of two distinct components could be evoked under such conditions. The fast component of the spike was abolished in Na(+)-deficient perfusion media and was sensitive to blockade by extracellular lidocaine or intracellular QX-222 applications. It is likely that the slow component was mediated mainly by Ca2+, but in Ca2(+)-deficient media. Mg2(+)-influx may have contributed to the small voltage response. The amplitude and shape of the slow component was unaffected by applications of lidocaine or QX-222. Self-sustained repetitive firing was also observed in 11 neurons in the above conditions. This activity persisted even under conditions of severe deficiencies in extracellular [Ca2+] or [Na+]. Two distinct but overlapping K(+)-conductances that were sensitive to blockade by internal Cs(+)-application and insensitive to applications of tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine, appear to mediate the afterhyperpolarization of the long-duration spike. One portion of the afterhyperpolarization was 60-150 ms in duration and was unaffected by removal of Ca2+ from the extracellular media, while the other had a time-course lasting 150-250 ms and was abolished by removal of external Ca2+. In some neurons, these K(+)-conductances were blocked by high doses of doxorubicin or cisplatin. The results show that at least two ion species (Na+ and Ca2+) contribute to the formation of the tetrodotoxin-resistant, long-duration action potential in trigeminal root ganglion neurons during selective K(+)-conductance blockade and also provide evidence for Mg2+ involvement in the generation of this voltage response.
Investigations were conducted to determine the topography of the high-affinity dopamine uptake process within the rat striatum. [3H]Dopamine uptake into crude synaptosomes prepared from micropunch samples was found to be two- to three-fold higher in dorsal caudate-putamen relative to nucleus accumbens septi. In contrast, the concentrations of dopamine in the two regions were equivalent. The recognition site associated with high-affinity dopamine uptake was labeled using [3H]mazindol, and the binding of this ligand was also found to be two- to three-fold higher in homogenates from dorsal caudate-putamen samples relative to nucleus accumbens septi. Regional differences in uptake of [3H]dopamine or binding of [3H]mazindol were shown to be due to variations in Vmax or Bmax, not to differences in apparent affinity. Autoradiography of [3H]mazindol binding in rat striatum revealed a decreasing density of the site along the dorsal-to-ventral axis, with the highest binding occurring in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, lower binding in the ventral caudate-putamen, and lowest levels in the septal pole of the nucleus accumbens septi. Quantification showed that the extent of this gradient was two-fold. Further autoradiographic studies revealed less striatal heterogeneity in the pattern of binding of [3H]ketanserin, another radioligand associated with the striatal dopaminergic innervation but not linked to the dopamine uptake process of the plasma membrane. The findings suggest that the dopaminergic fibers of the ventral striatum, especially the medial nucleus accumbens septi, may be relatively lacking in their capacity for dopamine uptake following its release. This organization may result in regional differences in the time-course of of extraneuronal dopamine following transmitter release and may render the dopamine-containing terminals of the ventral striatum less susceptible to the degenerative influences of neurotoxins that are incorporated by the high-affinity dopamine uptake process.
In kittens reared with either monocular, binocular or reverse suture, beginning before the physiological eyelid opening (around one week of age) and lasting until after one month, the cortical laminar distribution of geniculocortical afferents to area 17 was examined by using orthograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase, and compared with that in normal kittens. In normal kittens, at birth, the afferents were distributed most densely in layer I and, to a lesser extent, widely from the upper part of layer II to layers V or VI. After one month, the afferents were found mainly in and around layer IV and very sparsely in layer I. Neither binocular nor monocular suture affected this normal development. In contrast, when the present procedure of monocular suture had been followed by opening the sutured lid and suturing the other lid (reverse suture) for one week, the distribution was altered. The density of the afferents in layer I was increased while the labelled terminals in deeper layers were as segregated in and around layer IV as observed in normal kittens. Such increase in density of the afferents resulted only when the injected tracer covered the medial or intermediate part of the C complex of the lateral geniculate nucleus. To confirm these findings, geniculate neurons retrogradely labelled by horseradish peroxidase injections into layer 1 of area 17 were examined in normal and reverse-sutured kittens. In both kinds of kittens, the labelled neurons were dense in the C complex, and absent or sparse in the A laminae. But, the number was higher in reverse-sutured kittens. These results suggest an involvement of geniculocortical layer I projections in reorganization of neuronal circuits in the visual cortex.
The ontogenetic development of Cajal-Retzius cells was studied in mouse by local application of horseradish peroxidase over the developing neocortex, revelation with 3,3'-diaminobenzidene and examination from horizontal thick sections. Cajal-Retzius cells were completely stained in Golgi-like fashion. The Cajal-Retzius cells were seen to be elongated spindle-shaped bipolar neurons with their main processes horizontally oriented. They were exclusively located in the first cortical layer and were connected to the cortex surface by the numerous vertical appendages. Except for these appendages, the Cajal-Retzius cells were two-dimensional, with an immature structure at their tips resembling a growth cone. Cajal-Retzius cell dendrites were up to 400-microns-long and reached their maximal length prenatally. Their axon and its collaterals were very fine and sometimes measured several millimetres. It followed a random but planar trajectory confined to the first layer. Healthy Cajal-Retzius bearing growth cones were seen until one week after birth when signs of Cajal-Retzius cell degeneration began to occur and intensified in the days that followed. Rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex swelling along with a progressive darkening of the Cajal-Retzius cells were revealed by electron microscopy, strongly suggesting that most Cajal-Retzius cells disappear from the first cortical layer. Usually neuronal death is the result of cell deafferentation following synapse retraction; however, this effect does not seem to apply to Cajal-Retzius cells engaged in the process of death since normal synaptic junctions were seen on them. No signs of the morphological transformation of Cajal-Retzius cells into persisting horizontal first layer cells were observed. The concept of dual origin of neocortex is discussed in light of the similar fate of Cajal-Retzius cells and subplate neurons which both are transient neurons.
The tongue surface directly above a fungiform taste bud is flat, thinly keratinized, and free of filiform spines. We examined fungiform papillae in serial sections of rat and gerbil tongues after unilateral transection of the chorda-lingual nerve had caused many fungiform taste buds to degenerate. Such empty fungiform papillae often formed a solitary keratinized outgrowth that closely resembled the spine of an ordinary filiform papilla. By six months an ectopic spine was found on 61% of empty fungiform papillae, but never on fungiform papillae that contained a taste bud. Experimental innervation of the tongue reduced the incidence of ectopic filiform spines in proportion to the cross-sectional area of the trigeminal nerve branches tested (the mylohyoid nerve, the lingual nerve, lingual + mylohyoid or lingual + auriculotemporal nerves). The chorda tympani nerve was 60 times more effective than trigeminal nerves in preventing ectopic filiform spines. We suggest that positive and negative trophic actions are normal characteristics of taste axons, for they promote the formation of taste buds and prevent the expression of ectopic filiform spines. By preventing the outgrowth of ectopic spines on fungiform papillae, taste axons maintain a thinly keratinized apical surface that can be breached by the taste receptor cells.
Immunohistochemical techniques have shown that the C-fragment of tetanus toxin injected into medial gastrocnemius muscle in the guinea-pig and rat, in addition to its retrograde transport in the axons of the somatomotor, sympathetic and sensory neurons supplying this muscle, is taken up and concentrated by terminal varicosities within pre- and paravertebral sympathetic ganglia at all thoracolumbar levels. Staining was absent in chronically denervated ganglia, demonstrating the specific association of the antigen with preganglionic varicosities. Preganglionic varicosities at all levels were also labelled after C-fragment injection into the peritoneal cavity or into denervated medial gastrocnemius; both of these procedures failed to label somatomotor or sensory neurons. Although retrograde trans-synaptic transport could be demonstrated, sympathetic labelling was sparse and non-specific, so that the C-fragment of tetanus toxin is unsuitable for the identification of sympathetic pathways. The selective and widespread uptake of tetanus toxin by sympathetic preganglionic terminals could explain the diverse autonomic symptoms observed in tetanus intoxication.
Intracellular recordings were made from rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro. Action potentials with an inflection on the falling phase occurred in all cells conducting up to 5.2 m/s and in a proportion of faster conducting cells which decreased with increasing conduction velocity, until no cells conducting faster than 31 m/s had an inflection. Overall, all C-cells (less than 1.3 m/s), 61% of A delta-cells (1.3-12 m/s) and 23% of A alpha/beta-cells (greater than 12 m/s) had inflections. A-cells with inflections were found to be electrophysiologically distinct from those without as they differed in the mean and distribution of every action potential and afterhyperpolarization parameter measured. C-cells differed from all A-cell groups, but the means and distributions of most parameters were closer to those of A-cells with inflections than of A-cells without. In addition, all A- and C-cell action potentials with inflections were tetrodotoxin resistant, while all those without were sensitive. The only parameters whose means differed between A alpha/beta- and A delta-neurons were ones which correlated with conduction velocity (action potential duration, overshoot and maximum rate of rise and fall). The response pattern to prolonged current injection did not correlate with conduction velocity, but slightly more A-cells with inflections were single firing. A-cells with long afterhyperpolarizations always fired singly, while those with shorter durations fired singly or multiply. Somatic following frequency was most strongly limited by long afterhyperpolarization duration; it was also slightly lower in A delta- than in A alpha/beta-cells, and lower in A-cells with inflections than in those without. Fibre following frequencies were highest in the fastest conduction neurons.
Membrane potentials were recorded in vitro with intracellular electrodes from the circular muscle cells of the cat lower oesophageal sphincter and oesophageal body. In addition, the tension of lower oesophageal sphincter and oesophageal body strips was recorded isotonically. Under the experimental conditions, no spontaneous electrical activity or variation in the tension of the strips occurred. The resting membrane potential of the circular muscle cells was significantly lower in the lower oesophageal sphincter (-51.0 +/- 0.3 mV) than in the circular muscle cells of the oesophageal body (-57.1 +/- 0.4 mV). These values were not affected by infusion of tetrodotoxin 3.1 x 10(-6) M. In the presence of atropine (3.5 x 10(-7) M), the resting membrane potential of the circular muscle cells of the lower oesophageal sphincter increased significantly (-57.6 +/- 0.4 mV), whereas the resting membrane potential of the circular muscle cells of the oesophageal body was not significantly affected (-57.8 +/- 0.6 mV). In the presence of atropine, no significant difference in the values of the resting membrane potential of the circular muscle cells was observed between the lower oesophageal sphincter and the oesophageal body. Hyoscine (2.9 x 10(-7) M) significantly increased the resting membrane potential of the circular muscle cells of the lower oesophageal sphincter, whereas eserine (3.6 x 10(-6) M) significantly decreased it. Atropine induced a significant decrease in the membrane resistance of the circular muscle cells of the lower oesophageal sphincter. Atropine decreased the resting tension of lower oesophageal sphincter strips whereas eserine increased it, but no such effects were recorded on oesophageal body strips.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The synaptic efficacy and repetitive firing in masseteric motoneurons after the self-union operation and in tongue protruder motoneurons after their cut axons were reunited to tongue retractor muscles, the styloglossus muscle, were studied in cats. To ensure the correct identification of reinnervating motoneurons, the muscle response produce by an induced spike in a motoneuron by intracellularly injected depolarizing current was recorded. In both masseteric and tongue protruder motoneurons there were no differences on the patterns of postsynaptic potentials produced in reinnervating and non-reinnervating motoneurons by peripheral nerve stimulation, suggesting that the recovery of the synaptic efficacy of inhibitory synapses is time-dependent rather than muscle reinnervation. However, the present study demonstrated that the recovery of processes that control rhythmical firing of motoneurons is probably dependent on muscle reinnervation.
Reflex response of fusimotoneurons to sinusoidal muscle stretching were investigated in decerebrated cats. Nerve impulses of single fusimotoneurons were recorded from thin filaments dissected from otherwise intact nerves to triceps surae muscles. Amplitude of the sinusoidal stretching of these muscles was 3 mm peak-to-peak and the frequencies 0.1-10 Hz. Electric muscle activity was also recorded in some experiments. Fusimotor responses were similar to those of the skeletomotoneurons in that both were advanced in phase with respect to muscle length changes, while their amplitude increased with increase in stretching frequency. Modulation at the frequency corresponding to the second harmonic of the input signal was predominant in fusimotor responses. It is supposed to appear mainly due to the convergence to fusimotoneurons of afferent impulses from different muscle receptors arriving after different delays. Its functional role is discussed.
Our electrophysiological experiments in female mice have provided evidence that electrical stimulation of the accessory olfactory bulb orthodromically excites a subpopulation of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons by way of the amygdala. The present study shows that half of such neurons are identified as dopaminergic by examining the effectiveness of infusing 6-hydroxydopamine and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine locally into the median eminence in blocking their antidromic response. Further attention is focused on excitatory amino acid receptors within the amygdala and the amygdaloid pathway that mediate the accessory bulb-induced excitation of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons. The excitatory transmission was reversibly blocked by intra-amygdala infusion (3 nmol) of the excitatory amino acid antagonists kynurenic acid, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, gamma-D-glutamylaminomethylsulphonate and D,L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate. Intra-amygdala infusions (3 nmol) of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate markedly enhanced the firing activity of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons with excitatory inputs from the accessory bulb, whereas similar infusions of quisqualate were without effect Intra-stria terminalis infusions of the local anaesthetic lignocaine completely abolished the excitatory transmission in all the cells tested. Furthermore, tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons stimulated from the accessory bulb were also orthodromically stimulated from the stria terminalis with a shorter latency. These studies demonstrate that the projections of the accessory olfactory bulb activate excitatory amino acid receptors within the amygdala and subsequently the stria terminalis route, thereby causing excitation of tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic arcuate neurons. This functional pathway can account for the reproductive effects so far described as a consequence of vomeronasal chemoreception.
Immunohistochemical and histochemical techniques were used to re-examine the extent to which neonatal capsaicin treatment depletes calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, to determine the localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide in relation to that of fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase in lumbar dorsal root ganglia, and to compare the distribution of these primary afferent markers in the dorsal horn. A substantial depletion of calcitonin gene-related peptide was observed in the dorsal horn of adult rats treated neonatally with capsaicin suggesting that a large proportion of this peptide in the dorsal horn is contained within capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent fibers. In dorsal root ganglia 30% of all or 44% of small- and medium-sized calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cells were positive for fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase. Conversely, 50% of cells positive for the phosphatase enzyme also displayed immunoreactivity for the peptide. In lamina II of the dorsal horn calcitonin gene-related peptide and fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase were found to have an overlapping distribution. The presence of fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase in a substantial proportion of neuropeptide-containing primary sensory neurons suggests a lack of segregation of sensory neuronal populations into peptide- and non-peptide-containing subgroups at least on the basis of non-peptide neurons defined as those containing fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase.
Changes in the concentration of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) in the early period after a focal traumatic injury to rat spinal cord were determined and related to the formation of edema and alterations in blood flow. A unilateral, 5-mm-long and 3-mm-deep traumatic injury located 2 mm from the midline was created in the T10-11 segment of the cord. Five hours after the injury the serotonin concentration in the traumatized segment had increased more than 100% compared with controls. There was also a progressive increase in water content of the traumatized segment measured 1-5 h after the injury. On the other hand, the spinal cord blood flow showed a progressive decrease to about 35% of its initial value at 5 h. Pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine, a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, impeded the elevation in water content measured 5 h after the trauma. The spinal cord blood flow remained close to normal values and the increase in serotonin was absent. Our results show that trauma to the rat spinal cord will induce changes in the serotonin concentration of the tissue and that the associated formation of edema and blood flow alterations can be alleviated in serotonin depleted rats. Obviously, serotonin plays a significant role in the pathophysiology of traumatic injury of rat spinal cord.
An enzyme immunoassay for nerve growth factor was developed to determine the regional distribution and ontogenic change in the macaque (Macaca fascicularis) CNS. The standard curve of mouse nerve growth factor paralleled the dilution curves of extracts from the primate CNS at the adult and pre-natal stages. Furthermore, the nerve growth factor immunoreactive material comigrated with mouse nerve growth factor by means of carboxy methyl cellulose chromatography. These findings suggest that the immunoreactive material extracted from the primate CNS is mouse nerve growth factor-like molecules. At the adult stage, the highest level of nerve growth factor was in the hippocampus, with relatively high levels also in the hypothalamus, the cerebral cortex, the amygdala, the basal nucleus of Meynert, the septal nucleus, the cerebellum and the caudate nucleus. No detectable amounts were observed in the spinal cord, the substantia nigra or the dentate nucleus. In addition to the CNS, the pituitary gland contained about four times the level found in the hippocampus. At embryonic day 120, a high level of nerve growth factor already existed in the occipital cortex (80% of the level at the adult stage) and in the hippocampus (70% of the level at the adult stage). Between embryonic day 120 and the newborn stage in the occipital cortex and between embryonic day 120 and postnatal day 60 in the hippocampus, nerve growth factor levels increased about 1.7-fold, and after that, they gradually decreased until the adult stage was reached. In contrast, in the cerebellum, the level was quite high during the pre-natal period and declined to one-third at postnatal day 60. The developmental changes in nerve growth factor and choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus were well correlated (r = 0.963) between embryonic day 120 and postnatal day 60. Our studies reveal that nerve growth factor is present in the primate CNS. The high level of nerve growth factor during embryonic stages and the good correlation with choline acetyltransferase activity suggest a physiological role for nerve growth factor in the development of the primate CNS.
Using the technique of perfusion microdialysis combined with a small-bore liquid chromatography system we have measured the basal and drug-induced fluxes of extracellular dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex of chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats and have compared our findings in the cortex to that observed in the striatum. The results were as follows. (1) At a flow rate of 2 microliter/min, the basal level of dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex was 0.28 +/- 0.1 (n = 32) fmol/microliter perfusate, which was nearly an order of magnitude less than that obtained from the striatum. (2) alpha-Methyl-para-tyrosine (150 mg/kg i.v.) significantly decreased the extracellular levels of striatal and cortical dopamine. The magnitude and duration of the responses were similar in both regions. (3) Local perfusion with 30 mM K+ had a more profound effect on dopamine release in the striatum than in the medial prefrontal cortex. The K(+)-induced release in both regions was significantly attenuated in the absence of Ca2+. (4) The anxiogenic beta carboline FG 7142 (15 mg/kg, i.p.) enhanced the release of cortical dopamine by about 50% while it was without an effect in the striatum. (5) Amphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly elevated, while reserpine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) rapidly attenuated, the dopamine level in the medial prefrontal cortex. These studies demonstrate that perfusion microdialysis, in conjunction with small-bore liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection, can be used to measure the basal release of dopamine in the rat medial prefrontal cortex and that the dopamine release process in this region, as has been shown in the striatum, is sensitive to stimulation conditions and pharmacological manipulations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activity of hippocampal neurons was recorded in an in vitro slice preparation. Topical application of serotonin produced hyperpolarization, blockade of a slow afterhyperpolarization which follows a burst discharge and blockade of a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential. The slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential evoked by stimulation of the apical dendritic region of the hippocampus is more sensitive to serotonin than the membrane potential or conductance. The effects of serotonin on the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are blocked by the 5-HT1a antagonist spiperone, and not by mianserin, a 5-HT2 antagonist. The attenuation of the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials is not accompanied by a change in postsynaptic reactivity to GABA or baclofen. Serotonin blocks repetitive large inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked in hippocampal neurons by topical application of 4-aminopyridine. Putative interneurons are more sensitive to topical application of serotonin than pyramidal neurons. Fenfluramine, a serotonin releaser mimics the effects of topical application of serotonin indicating that synaptically released serotonin can produce the changes in membrane potential and reactivity to afferent stimulation. It is suggested that serotonin attenuates slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials by inhibiting feed forward inhibitory interneurons which impinge upon the recorded pyramidal neurons.
The action of the endogenous divalent cation zinc on Ca2+ and Ca2(+)-dependent currents was studied in rat hippocampal CA1 and CA3 neurons in vitro, by means of a single electrode voltage clamp technique. Bath application of zinc (0.5-1 microM) produced a small membrane depolarization associated with an increase in synaptic noise and cell excitability and a depression of the afterhyperpolarization following a train of action potentials. The effects on the afterhyperpolarization, could not be reversed on washout. In voltage-clamped neurons, zinc induced a steady inward current and reduced, at resting membrane potential, the peak amplitude of the outward current underlying the afterhyperpolarization, IAHP. In caesium loaded neurons (in the presence of tetrodotoxin and tetraethylammonium), zinc reduced the slow inactivating Ca2+ current activated from a holding potential of -40 mV. Similar results were observed with nickel and cobalt at comparable concentrations, with Zn2+ greater than Ni2+ greater than Co2+, in their order of potency. In contrast to nickel and cobalt the effects of zinc did not reverse on washout. These results suggest that low concentrations of zinc enhance cell excitability by reducing IAHP. In addition, zinc reduces the slow inactivating voltage-dependent Ca2+ current. The irreversible effect of this metal ion is compatible with a toxic, intracellular site of action.
MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptors, was tested for its ability to antagonize excitotoxic actions of N-methyl-D-aspartate or quisqualic acid injected into the brains of seven-day-old rats. Stereotaxic injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (25 nmol/0.5 microliters) or quisqualic acid (100 nmol/1.0 microliter) into the corpus striatum under ether anesthesia consistently produced severe unilateral neuronal necrosis in the basal ganglia, dorsal hippocampus and overlying neocortex. The distribution of the damage corresponded to the topography of glutamate receptors in the vulnerable regions demonstrated by previous autoradiographic studies. N-Methyl-D-aspartate produced severe, confluent neuronal destruction while quisqualic acid typically caused more selective neuronal necrosis. Intraperitoneal administration of MK-801 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) 30 min before N-methyl-D-aspartate injection had a prominent dose-dependent neuroprotective effects as assessed morphometrically by comparison of bilateral striatal, hippocampal and cerebral hemisphere cross-sectional areas five days later. A 1 mg/kg dose of MK-801 given as pre-treatment completely protected the infant brain. The same dose of MK-801 was also completely protective when administered 30 or 40 min after N-methyl-D-aspartate and afforded partial protection when given 2 h later. MK-801 pre-treatment also prevented the electrically confirmed behavioral seizures induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate. The drug significantly reduced striatal but not hippocampal or neocortical injury when given as two doses (1 mg/kg) 30 min prior to and immediately following quisqualic acid injection. The data indicate that systemic administration of MK-801 can prevent N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced neuronal injury in perinatal rat brain even when administered after the initial insult. MK-801 also partially antagonized quisqualic acid-mediated neurotoxicity, suggesting that quisqualic acid-induced toxicity is, in part, mediated through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. The sensitivity of the developing brain to the toxicity of N-methyl-D-aspartate provides a sensitive and reproducible in vivo model for exploring these issues and for screening prospective neuroprotective drugs that act at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-channel complex.
Behavioural experiments in the freely moving rat were carried out to determine thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds to ramp stimuli applied to the face. The mean thermal escape threshold was 43.5 degrees C, and the mean mechanical escape threshold was 179.2 g/mm2. In a parallel set of experiments recordings were made from single neurons in the caudal trigeminal nucleus of the anaesthetized rat. Neurons were classified according to their responses to a range of thermal and mechanical stimuli applied to the face. Three classes of neuron responded exclusively to mechanical stimuli and four classes responded to thermal stimuli (usually in addition to responding to mechanical stimuli). The mean thermal threshold of neurons responsive to warming stimulation was 44.4 degrees C. Neurons responsive to innocuous warming were located in deeper laminae. Many of the neurons responsive to noxious heat appeared to show an exponential relation between temperature and firing rate. An argument is made for a direct role of exponentially responding neurons in thermal nociception. The distribution of all neuronal response thresholds was left-skewed compared with a normal distribution, whereas the behavioural escape thresholds approximated a normal distribution.
Neuropeptide Y co-exists with noradrenaline in the majority of the sympathetic nerves supplying cerebral blood vessels. However, after sympathectomy in the rat the number of cerebrovascular neuropeptide Y nerve fibers are only reduced in number despite a complete disappearance of the adrenergic markers. The origin of these non-sympathetic neuropeptide Y fibers was studied by nerve transections and retrograde axonal tracing utilizing True Blue. Three days after bilateral superior cervical sympathectomy, the number of neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers decreased to about 40% of that in non-treated animals. One week after True Blue application on the proximal portion of the middle cerebral artery, the tracer accumulated in neurons of the sphenopalatine, otic, and internal carotid ganglia. Of these cells 80%, 95% and 5%, respectively, were neuropeptide Y-positive. Some of the True Blue/neuropeptide Y-positive cells displayed immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and some were positive for choline acetyltransferase. Two weeks after bilateral removal of the sphenopalatine ganglion or transection of postganglionic fibers from the ganglion reaching the pial vessels through the ethmoidal foramen, together with subsequent sympathectomy, no neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibers could be observed on the anterior cerebral and internal ethmoidal artery or the distal portion of the middle cerebral artery, whereas a few nerve fibers remained on the proximal portion of the middle cerebral artery, internal carotid artery, and the rostral portion of the basilar artery. In conclusion, neuropeptide Y in cerebrovascular nerves is co-stored not only with noradrenaline in sympathetic nerves from the superior cervical ganglion, but also with acetylcholine (reflected in the presence of choline acetyltransferase) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in parasympathetic nerves originating in the sphenopalatine, otic, and internal carotid ganglia.
The objective of this study was to measure the uptake and metabolism of [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion in rat brain synaptosomes. In previous investigations, we showed that this compound binds irreversibly to the choline carrier thereby inhibiting choline transport into nerve terminals; it also acts as both a substrate and inhibitor of the acetylcholine biosynthetic enzyme choline acetyltransferase. We now report that [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion was transported into purified rat brain synaptosomes by a hemicholinium-sensitive mechanism, but at only a fraction of the rate of uptake of [3H]choline. Following 5 min incubation with the nerve terminal preparation, uptake of [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion was 20% of that of [3H]choline transport, but this fell to 10% of [3H]choline accumulation at 30 min incubation. Apparent Michaelis constants derived from double reciprocal plots of velocity of transport versus substrate concentration revealed that the apparent affinity constants (Km) of the high-affinity choline carrier for [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion and [3H]choline were not different (1.44 +/- 0.15 and 2.14 +/- 0.80 microM for choline and choline mustard aziridinium ion, respectively). Increasing the incubation time from 5 to 30 min, during which time a proportion of the high-affinity choline carriers were irreversibly inactivated by choline mustard aziridinium ion, did not alter the binding affinity for this compound. The maximum velocity of transport (Vmax) for the two compounds were significantly different with the maximum uptake of [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion being 19.5% of that for choline at 5 min incubation, and falling to only 10.6% of the maximum rate of choline transport by 30 min incubation. [3H]Choline mustard aziridinium ion transported into synaptosomes on the high-affinity choline carrier was metabolized, with 27% being recovered as [3H]acetylcholine mustard aziridinium ion, 27% as [3H]phosphorylcholine mustard aziridinium ion, 7% as unmetabolized [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion and 16% recovered as an unidentified metabolite. In parallel samples, [3H]choline taken up into synaptosomes was recovered as [3H]acetylcholine (71%) and unmetabolized [3H]choline (18%) with no net production of [3H]phosphorylcholine. Acetylation of [3H]choline mustard aziridinium ion amounted to only 7.6% of [3H]acetylcholine synthesized under the same conditions. These results show clearly that choline mustard aziridinium ion was accumulated into the cholinergic nerve terminals by the high-affinity choline carrier, but the amount was small relative to the uptake of choline and probably restricted by progressive inactivation of the transporters through covalent bond formation.
Quantitative autoradiography of [3H]SCH 23390 and [3H](-)-sulpiride binding was performed in the brain of rats of various ages (3, 11 and 24 months) in order to study the changes in D1 and D2 receptor density with age. Binding of [3H]SCH 23390 in the caudate-putamen decreased progressively and markedly at rostral levels in 11- and 24- compared with 3-month-old rats (max. decrease -63%) while at caudal levels significant decrease was observed only in 24-month-old rats. [3H](-)-Sulpiride binding progressively decreased during aging in the caudate-putamen at rostral levels and the decrease was more pronounced laterally (-70% at 24 months), while at caudal levels no significant decrease was observed. D1 and D2 binding sites also decreased in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle of aged rats, while in the substantia nigra only the D1 receptors appeared to be modified with aging. No change was found in the entopeduncular nucleus, amygdala, frontoparietal, suprarinal-prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex. The results indicate that the age-associated decrease of D1 and D2 receptors is not widespread, being confined to dopaminergic areas with high density of dopamine receptors.
The cholinergic circuitry in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of the rat was investigated in a correlated light and electron microscopic study by using monoclonal antibodies against the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, following the unlabelled antibody peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemical procedure. After the immunocytochemical approach, large cholinergic cells and a few immunoreactive fibres exhibiting a varicose appearance, were detected by light microscopy in portions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis located within the anatomical limits of the globus pallidus, mostly in its ventromedial part. Cholinergic neurons and fibre-like structures were also found within the substantia innominata on the edge of globus pallidus. The same material studied by light microscopy was analysed with the electron microscope. At the ultrastructural level, the immunopositive neurons showed the same cytological characteristics and pattern of synaptic input as cholinergic basal forebrain cells. Additionally, scarce immunoreactive preterminal axons and terminal boutons were detected in the region. The immunoreactive terminals were scattered or formed occasional clusters and appeared as heavily immunostained vesicle-filled boutons making exclusively axodendritic synaptic contacts principally with immunonegative distal dendrites. Both symmetric and asymmetric synaptic contacts established between these structures were detected, although the symmetric contacts were the more numerous. The surface of postsynaptic immunonegative dendrites in asymmetric synaptic contact with immunoreactive terminals was generally covered by terminals that lacked detectable immunoreactivity. In contrast, those in symmetric synaptic contact with labelled terminals showed much sparser input from immunonegative terminals, suggesting that they may belong to interneurons. Very rarely, cholinergic terminals were detected in asymmetric synaptic contact with dendrites which also contained positive immunoreaction product. Asymmetric contacts were frequently characterized by the presence of subjunctional dense bodies. The detection of cholinergic terminals in the region of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of the rat indicates that this region not only contains cholinergic projecting neurons, but receives a cholinergic input itself. Results of this study provide evidence of the existence of a cholinergic transmission in the basal forebrain of the rat, and also that acetylcholine might play a role in the regulation of the extrinsic cortical cholinergic innervation. The possible sources of this innervation are discussed.
The membrane properties of interneurons situated near the border of stratum oriens and the alveus of the CA1 region were examined with intracellular recording and staining in rat hippocampal slices in vitro. Cellular staining with Lucifer Yellow indicated that the somata of these interneurons were multipolar and their dendrites projected horizontally along the alveus and vertically toward stratum lacunosum-moleculare. Intrinsic properties (input resistance, action potential amplitude, time constant) and spike after-potentials were typical of non-pyramidal cells. Action potential duration, however, was of relatively medium duration (1.15 ms) and slow afterhyperpolarizations followed depolarization-induced trains of action potentials. Spontaneous activity of interneurons was prominent and of either of two types: single action potentials or high frequency bursts of action potentials. Interneurons displayed marked, voltage- and time-dependent inward rectification and anodal break excitation. Analysis of the slope of the charging function of hyperpolarizing transients, suggested that these interneurons were electrically compact (dendrite to soma conductance ratio, p approximately 2.7; and electrotonic length constant, L approximately 1.1). Characteristically, interneurons sustained high frequency repetitive firing during long depolarizing pulses. The slope of the frequency-current relation was 442 Hz/nA for the first interspike interval and 117 Hz/nA for later intervals (no. 60), suggesting the presence of spike frequency adaptation. Physiologically, these interneurons resembled more closely basket cells of stratum pyramidale than stellate cells of stratum lacunosum-moleculare.
Changes in extracellular levels of acetylcholine and choline in the hippocampal formation were measured using intracerebral microdialysis coupled to high performance liquid chromatography with post-column enzyme reaction and electrochemical detection. Various pharmacological and physiological manipulations were applied to awake unrestrained normal rats and rats subjected to a cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus by a complete fimbria-fornix lesion (1-2 weeks previously). Low baseline levels of acetylcholine (about 0.3 pmol/15 min sample) could be detected in the absence of acetylcholinesterase inhibition in all animals. However, in order to obtain stable and more readily detectable levels, the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine was added to the perfusion medium at a concentration of 5 or 10 microM and was used during all subsequent manipulations. Addition of neostigmine increased acetylcholine levels approximately 10-fold (to 3.7 pmol 15 min) in the normal rats, which was about 4-fold higher than the levels recovered from the denervated hippocampi. Depolarization by adding KCl (100 mM) to the perfusion fluid produced a 3-fold increase in the extracellular acetylcholine levels, and the muscarinic antagonist atropine (3 microM) resulted in a 4-fold increase in the normal rats, whereas these drugs induced only small responses in the denervated rats. Neuronal impulse blockade by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) resulted, in normal rats, in a 70% reduction in extracellular acetylcholine levels. Sensory stimulation by handling increased acetylcholine levels by 94% in the normal rats, whereas this response was almost totally abolished in the denervated hippocampi. Behavioural activation by electrical stimulation of the lateral habenula resulted in a 4-fold increase in acetylcholine release in normal animals, and this response was totally blocked by a transection of the lateral habenular efferents running in the fasciculus retroflexus. The levels obtained by lateral habenula stimulation were reduced by about 95% in the rats with fimbria-fornix lesions. Following an acute knife transection of the fimbria-fornix performed during ongoing dialysis, acetylcholine levels dropped instantaneously by 70%, indicating that the extracellular acetylcholine levels in the hippocampus are maintained by a tonic impulse flow in the septohippocampal pathway. The extracellular levels of choline were reduced by about 30% after the addition of neostigmine in the normal rats, and increased by about 50% in both normal and denervated rats after addition of KCl to the perfusion fluid. No changes could be detected after atropine, handling, lateral habenula stimulation, or acute fimbria-fornix or fasciculus retroflexus transection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The cerebellum is thought to modulate saccadic activity in the primate in order to maintain targeting accuracy, and the cerebellotectal pathway has been posited to play a role in this modulation. However, anatomical descriptions of this pathway in primates are sketchy and conflicting. To determine whether the organization of the cerebellotectal projection in primates is similar to that found in other species, neuroanatomical tracer transport techniques were utilized in two species of macaque monkey to label cerebellotectal somata and fiber terminations. Two pathways were found. One, the fastigiotectal pathway, is derived from cells in the caudal fastigial nucleus and projects bilaterally to the rostral end of the intermediate gray layer. The other pathway is derived from cells in the posterior interposed nucleus and the adjacent posterior wing of the dentate nucleus, and it terminates contralaterally throughout the ventral half of the intermediate gray and the deep gray layers. Both of these pathways terminate within the layers of the superior colliculus containing premotor, saccade-related neurons, but the differences in the distribution of their terminals and cells of origin suggest that these two pathways have different functions. Furthermore, the pattern of connections of these two pathways indicates that they do not function as a traditional feedback circuit. We suggest that the cerebellotectal pathways may instead modulate collicular activity in a more complex manner. For example, it may provide signals necessary for corrective saccades or for maintaining spatial registry between the different sensory representations supplied to the superior colliculus and its presaccadic output, which is organized into a motor map.
Gamma irradiation (500 rad) is often used to suppress the immune system in mice, rats and man. Recently, it was shown that irradiation prior to chronic morphine treatment, dramatically reduces the severity of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal in morphine-dependent animals. In the present study adoptive transfer of 2-6 x 10(8) splenocytes to irradiated rats prior to chronic morphine treatment restored the severity of all withdrawal signs precipitated by naloxone. In contrast, adoptive transfer of fractionated splenocyte subpopulations only partially restored withdrawal severity; and transfer of irradiated splenocytes, red blood cells or diluted numbers of normal splenocytes did not have any observed restorative effect. These findings suggest that specific cellular activities or factors derived from lymphoid cells are required for the expression of opiate withdrawal.
Patterns of neuronal activity in the lumbar spinal cord of the anaesthetized rat were mapped by immunocytochemical localization of the c-fos gene product, Fos protein, at different timepoints following brief noxious stimulation of one hindpaw (20 s immersion in water at 52 degrees C). After 2 h, Fos-immunoreactive neurons were seen mainly in the superficial laminae of the ipsilateral dorsal horn, with maximum somatotopic organization in lamina II. Subcutaneous injection of dilute formalin produced a similar pattern of immunostaining at 2 h, with a greater proportion of Fos-positive neurons in laminae III-VIII than with heat. With a survival time of 8 h following formalin injection, Fos immunoreactivity was virtually absent from the spinal cord. Eight hours after heat stimulation, however, the superficial pattern had given way to the appearance of a population of immunoreactive cells in the deeper laminae. The pattern of this &quot;second wave&quot; of heat-induced Fos-positive cells had a marked contralateral component, and was still present after 24 h, having become even more diffuse and symmetrical. The number of Fos-positive cells seen at 8 h was increased by local anaesthetic blockade of the peripheral nerve after stimulation, and reduced by continuous barbiturate anaesthesia. These findings suggest that the early stages of thermal injury trigger a complex pattern of molecular events within the spinal cord, which are initially monosynaptic and closely related to primary afferent terminal depolarization, and in the longer term the result of an induced pattern of synaptic activity set up within the spinal cord.
The normal morphology and distribution of parvalbumin-containing neurons (shown in a previous study to be GABAergic nerve cells) of the medial septal-diagonal band region of the adult rat brain have been studied, and the findings compared with observations on choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons. The two antigens were visualized either in the same sections using a double-label immunohistochemical procedure for the simultaneous localization of parvalbumin and choline acetyltransferase, or in immediately adjacent sections. In double-stained sections of the whole medial septal-diagonal band complex, about 34% of the total neurons showed immunoreactivity to parvalbumin; the proportion of parvalbumin-labelled neurons was slightly higher in the medial septal-vertical limb of the diagonal band region, and much lower in the horizontal limb of the diagonal band region. The distribution of parvalbumin- and choline acetyltransferase-containing neurons also varied markedly between different mediolateral subdivisions of the medial septum: about 30, 65 and 2% of the parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons were present in the midline, medial and lateral part of the medial septum, respectively. At different rostrocaudal levels, the proportion of parvalbumin- and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons varied in a consistent manner, and the largest number of parvalbumin-containing neurons was found at the level 1.9 mm anterior to the bregma. In the absence of reliable immunocytochemical methods for the localization of glutamate decarboxylase and GABA, parvalbumin may serve as a good marker for studying the distribution of GABAergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band region. Moreover, the precise maps reported in the present study of the topographic localization of parvalbumin-containing GABAergic and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cholinergic nerve cells in the medial septal-diagonal band complex will serve as a useful guide in future morphological and electrophysiological studies on the septum and its efferents.
The purpose of this work was to evaluate if the implantation into the gap of a transected spinal cord of a biomaterial providing a scaffolding structure for tissue ingrowth would favor the permeation and the growth of regenerating axons across the spinal-bioimplant interface. The interstump gap of rat transected spinal cords was injected with an ice-cold neutral solution of collagen, either alone or mixed with glyoxal, a harmless tanning agent. Upon warming to the temperature of the tissue, the fluid implant self-assembled forming a loose fibrillar network which simultaneously re-established a physical continuity to the transected organ. At various post-implantation timepoints, the bioimplants were studied by light microscopy, with the picrosirius-polarization method and with scanning electron microscopy. We observed that the bioimplants evolved following three overlapping phases: first a massive inflammatory response characterized by the invasion of cells of heterogeneous nature, then, a phase where microcysts predominated and during which, there is a major remodeling of the biomatrix by the deposition of newly synthesized collagen and of a periodic acid Schiff-positive material. Finally, a regeneration phase occurred where astroglial processes followed by regenerating axons invaded the biomatrix. Three months after implantation, spinal axons had grown from the two spinal stumps and penetrated the bioimplant across at least one lesion interface. However, the glyoxal-tanned collagen matrices showed a better biostability and durability than collagen alone. We conclude that the histopathological reaction of the mammalian lesioned spinal cord, when adequately directed by a scaffolding structure can be beneficial for the expression of the intrinsic regenerative capacity of the spinal cord tissue.
In co-cultures of rat septum and hippocampus, cholinergic neurons, identified by immunocytochemical techniques using antibodies against choline acetyltransferase, were found to be exclusively located in septal tissue. The presence of nerve growth factor during the entire growth period of four weeks increased the activities of acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase about 10-fold and strongly increased the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons. Application of nerve growth factor yielded different effects depending on the age of the cultures. During the first two weeks in vitro, nerve growth factor enhanced the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons, an effect which was no longer observed following later applications of nerve growth factor. Nerve growth factor increased the activities of cholinergic enzymes during all phases of in vitro development, but the effects of one-week applications were always considerably smaller than those observed following continuous application of nerve growth factor. The results of different application schedules suggest that the continuous presence of nerve growth factor is needed for maximal increases in cholinergic enzyme activities and maintenance of cholinergic neurons in septohippocampal co-cultures.
The aim of the present study was to examine the fine structural changes in the superior cervical ganglion of adult rats following baclofen treatment. On the addition of this GABAB receptor agonist there was a transient increase in the number of coated vesicles and pits in the dendrites of principal sympathetic neurons. As compared to the control ganglia, we found a significantly higher number of synapses which had coated pits attached to the postsynaptic densities. In interpreting these observations it is suggested that the GABAB receptors play some role in mediating the synaptogenetic action of GABA, although the formation of vacant postsynaptic densities and spines was not seen after baclofen treatment.
The expression of peripherin, a type III neuron-specific intermediate filament protein, and the middle neurofilament subunit were studied in the mouse embryo using immunofluorescence staining. The earliest staining for both proteins is seen at embryonic day 9 in the myelencephalon, initially as fiber staining followed by cell body staining in the developing facial and acoustic nuclei. As the embryo develops, there is rostral as well as caudal extension of peripherin and staining is seen in the trigeminal ganglia, nerve fibers and in the enteric nervous system. As the spinal cord forms there is anti-peripherin staining in developing motoneurons of the anterior horns while little cell body staining is seen for the middle neurofilament subunit. Both antibodies stain the developing dorsal root and its entry zone, but peripherin is found in the secondary sensory and commissural fibers while the middle neurofilament subunit is not. While both proteins are found in the neurons of the dorsal root ganglia, their distribution varies. The larger peripheral cells of the ganglia contain both proteins while the smaller more central cells, constituting over 60% of the cells in the ganglia, contain only peripherin. A similar picture is found in the sympathetic ganglia where there are cells which contain peripherin. middle neurofilament subunit or both, but where the majority of the neurons have only peripherin in their cell bodies. Peripherin is not found in the developing retina or in the adrenal medulla. Peripherin is also completely absent from cell bodies in the cerebral and cerebellar cortices. These results indicate that peripherin is found in development only in regions in which it is found in the adult. It can either co-exist with neurofilaments in the same neuron or the two may be independently expressed.
Parvocellular corticotropin-releasing hormone neurosecretory cells in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus project axons to the portal capillary plexus in the external zone of the median eminence. Immunocytochemical studies have identified two approximately equal subpopulations of these corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons in normal rats, distinguished by the presence or absence of co-existent vasopressin, and different responses to stress. However, it was recently proposed that the vasopressin deficient cells do not contain corticotropin-releasing hormone, but have been misidentified due to cross-reactivity of the corticotropin-releasing hormone antiserum to peptide histidine-isoleucineamide. It is shown here that the same set of corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons (including both vasopressin expressing and vasopressin deficient subtypes) was labeled with multiple corticotropin-releasing hormone antisera. These included two antisera that did not cross-react with peptide histidine-isoleucineamide: one against ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone, and one rat corticotropin-releasing hormone antiserum absorbed with peptide histidine-isoleucineamide. The results provide further support for the hypothesis of functionally distinct compartments of the corticotropin-releasing hormone neurosecretory system that can modulate the ratio of vasopressin to corticotropin-releasing hormone in portal blood.
The effects of microiontophoretic application of glutamate, GABA and the GABA antagonist, bicuculline methiodide were tested on the degree of adaptation exhibited by striate cortical cells to moving sin wave grating patterns. Application of GABA, which prevents firing of the cell and thereby any fatigue of the cell, did not reduce the degree of adaptation. Administration of either glutamate or GABA, without simultaneous exposure to the adapting high-contrast gratings did not reduce the sensitivity of the cell to subsequent exposure of a low-contrast grating, showing that adaptation is not caused by the excitatory or inhibitory activity of the cell itself. Application of the GABA antagonist, bicuculline did not prevent pattern adaptation, indicating that the lowered sensitivity of the cell is not mediated by a GABAergic inhibition acting on the cell. Thus adaptation of a striate neuron is not due to altered sensitivity of the cell to a constant input but depends upon changes in the input itself. It is most likely that these changes occur in a co-operative cortical network, whose effect on individual cortical cells is mediated by intracortical excitatory connections.
The hypothesis has been tested that the enantiomers of alpha-aminoadipic acid have different target effects; the L-isomer has both glio- and neurotoxic actions, while the DL-isomer has a gliospecific action in the CNS. Electrophysiological and morphological studies were carried out on the retina of the carp (Cyprinus carpio) for one to two months after intraocular injection with alpha-aminoadipic acids at various doses. Intracellular recording from horizontal cells and extracellular recording of spike discharges from ganglion cells in isolated retinal preparations were made from control and pretreated retinas at various intervals after intraocular injection with the enantiomers. In control retinas, application of 15 mM L-alpha-aminoadipic acid in the superfusate resulted in hyperpolarization of all horizontal cells and in a decrease in amplitude of their light responses (S-potentials). In the retinas pretreated with L-alpha-aminoadipic acid (8 mumol), low amplitude S-potentials were seen during an early phase 2-4 h after ocular injection, but the normal appearance of S-potentials was restored one day after injection. In control retinas, a brief period of iontophoretic application of L-alpha-aminoadipic acid resulted in a slight activation of the spontaneous spike firing of ganglion cells but a slight decrease in the rate of light-induced firing. In retinas pretreated with intraocular L-alpha-aminoadipic acid (4 mumol) 4 h prior to eye removal, however, light-induced spike discharges were abolished from nearly all spontaneously firing ganglion cells (greater than 90%). Their unresponsiveness to light stimuli lasted for more than two months after injection, and was accompanied by insensitivity to iontophoretically applied putative neurotransmitters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A monoclonal antibody, RC1, has been generated which provides a selective and sensitive immunohistochemical marker of radial glial cells and related cell forms during development of the mouse CNS. Beginning on embryonic day E10, immunocytochemistry performed on cryostat sections stains throughout the CNS a subpopulation of cells in the ventricular zone with radial processes that terminate with endfeet at the pial surface. These processes become fasciculated and attain maximal densities by E12-14 in the spinal cord and lower brainstem and by E14-16 in the midbrain, cerebellum and forebrain. Fasciculation is especially prominent for a subclass of these cells at the midline of the brainstem and spinal cord. As nuclear and cortical structures develop, the trajectories of the radial fiber fascicles undergo systematic and region-specific distortions in their initially simple linear configuration, in the process maintaining a consistent spatial registration of germinal ventricular zones with distal sites of assembly of post-migratory neurons. In the late fetal period, radial glial progressively disappear and scattered immature astrocytes bearing multiple fine processes appear in most regions of the CNS. In the spinal cord, a transitional unipolar radial form is identified in the emerging ventral and lateral funiculi between E13 and E17. In the cerebellum, precursors to the unipolar Bergmann glial cell are identified by E15, and in the retina, precursors of the bipolar Mller cell are identified by E16. Postnatally, RC1-stained radial glia become sparse, and after one week, immunoreactive cells include only ependymal cells, hypothalamic tanycytes, Bergmann glia, Mller cells, a unipolar radial form in the dentate gyrus, and a subpopulation of white matter astrocytes. These results suggest that radial cells of astroglial lineage comprise a diverse set of cell classes which subserve multiple functions in the developing and adult brain.
Electrical stimuli were applied to tooth-pulp in cats and the thresholds of the jaw-opening reflex and of neurons in the trigeminal sensory nuclei were determined. The effects of the method of preparation of the animal for stereotaxic recording were determined by making observations on animals set up in one of three ways: acutely in the usual manner; chronically, three to five days before recording; and acutely with precautions to minimize nociceptive input to the central nervous system. The threshold of the jaw-opening reflex increased progressively during the setting up of the normal, acute preparations and at the time brainstem recording began was significantly higher in these than in either the chronic or low-trauma acute preparations. Previous studies have shown that the increase in threshold is maintained for several hours and is not due to the effects of the anaesthetic. In normal acute preparations, few units (27/154) were found that had thresholds below 50 microA, 0.1 ms, whereas many units were encountered that responded to such a stimulus in chronic (147/152) and low-trauma acute (99/127) animals. In the chronic and in low-trauma acute preparations, there was no significant difference between the thresholds of the units in the main sensory trigeminal nucleus and spinal subnucleus oralis compared with those in subnucleus caudalis. Thus the preparation of an animal for stereotaxic recording can cause a severe and long-lasting depression in the excitability of neurons in the trigeminal sensory nuclei and an increase in the threshold of the jaw-opening reflex. This effect will have influenced the results of previous studies on the responses evoked in central neurons by stimulation of tooth-pulp, and may have similarly affected recordings from other regions.
Oral administration of the antithyroid drug methimazole (50 mg/kg per day) to rats during the last six days of pregnancy, and subsequent daily s.c. injection of methimazole (20-30 mg/kg) to their pups from birth to postnatal day 30 provoked hormonal and somatic alterations resembling (with all caution to any association between rodent and human data) those of congenital hypothyroidism. The steady-state concentrations of striatal dopamine were similar in hypothyroid and euthyroid, 32-day-old rats, while the levels of the dopamine metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic and homovanillic acids were markedly decreased in hypothyroidism. The results of this and our earlier study [Vaccari A. and Gessa G. L. (1989) Neurochem. Res. 14, 949-955] show that the maximal synaptosomal uptake of [3H]dopamine, an index for the density of nigrostriatal dopaminergic terminals, and the maximum number of membrane [3H]tyramine binding sites, reflecting the concentration of the vesicular transporter for dopamine, were decreased in the hypothyroid striatum. There was also a loss of those D1-type dopaminergic receptors claimed to be located on neurons intrinsic to the striatum, and, consequently, dopamine-stimulated, D1-regulated adenylate cyclase activity was depressed. It is suggested that individual dopaminergic nerve endings in the neonatal hypothyroid striatum must contain more dopamine, owing to some loss of pertinent innervation and, therefore, to the presence of less vesicular transport sites for dopamine. Hypothyroidism-related decreases in the maximum number of striatal D1- and, reportedly, D2-receptors, plus the impairment of D1-coupled second messenger activity, may play a role in the derangement of those neurobehavioural patterns where a dopaminergic regulation is putatively implied.
Larval lampreys recover locomotor function several weeks after receiving complete spinal transections. In behaviorally recovered whole-animals, the phase-coupling of locomotor activity across a lesion was similar to that observed along the body in normal, unlesioned lampreys. Two factors were found to contribute to recovery of locomotor coupling above and below a spinal transection. Firstly, under in vitro conditions regenerated spinal coordinating neurons could couple brainstem-evoked locomotor activity above and below a lesion in the absence of mechanosensory inputs. Secondly, in whole-animals mechanosensory inputs were capable of coupling locomotor activity across an acute, mid-body spinal transection in the absence of direct neural coupling through spinal coordinating neurons. Since neither regenerated coordinating neurons nor mechanosensory inputs resulted in phase-lags that were as stable as those observed in recovered whole-animals, presumably both mechanisms contribute significantly to the restoration of locomotor coupling across a healed spinal lesion.
Aminoacylhistidine dipeptides are present in the nervous tissue of many species. The olfactory mucosa and bulb of many vertebrates are rich in carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine). Two related dipeptides homocarnosine (gamma-aminobutyryl-L-histidine) and anserine (beta-alanyl-N-methyl-L-histidine) are present in the CNS of mammals and birds, respectively. This manuscript describes the production, characterization and use in immunolocalization studies of antisera directed against carnosine and anserine. The anserine antiserum is highly specific for anserine while the carnosine antiserum cross-reacts with all three dipeptides. The differential specificity of the antisera, coupled with chemical characterization of the dipeptide composition of various brain regions, has permitted assignment of the cellular localization of the various dipeptides. Immunocytochemical localization of anserine has not been previously reported. Carnosine immunoreactivity in the olfactory system is restricted to the mature neurons in the olfactory mucosa, their axons and synaptic terminations in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. Similar reactivity is seen in the accessory olfactory system. Astrocytes and cerebellar Bergmann glia seem to account for all the non-olfactory carnosine-like immunoreactive staining in the rodent brain. In contrast, in the avian CNS where anserine is chemically abundant, anserine-like immunoreactivity is widespread and apparently exclusively associated with glial cells. Thus, the olfactory receptor neurons appear to be the only neuronal population that expresses carnosine. Elsewhere in the CNS the aminoacylhistidine dipeptides are associated with various populations of glia.
The hypothesis that insulin-like growth factor-I is a trophic factor for primary fetal rat hypothalamic cells was tested, since we previously reported a potent mitogenic effect of this peptide on virally-transformed hypothalamic cells. It was found that insulin-like growth factor-I produced significant and dose-dependent increases in the survival of fetal hypothalamic neurons in primary mixed glial/neuronal cultures. By 48 h in vitro, cultures treated with insulin-like growth factor-I (6 nM) had twice as many neurite-bearing cells as controls, while by day 15 a five-fold difference was present. The peptide was similarly active in promoting neuronal survival in neuron-enriched (98% neurons) hypothalamic cultures. Mixed hypothalamic cultures had specific binding sites for insulin-like growth factor-I. In addition, the neurons grown in the presence of insulin-like growth factor-I had a more differentiated morphology and had significantly higher levels of protein kinase C, an enzyme that increases during neurite formation and synaptogenesis. Finally, glial-enriched cultures (greater than 99% glial cells) obtained from the fetal hypothalamus showed increased [3H]thymidine incorporation in response to insulin-like growth factor-I. These results further support the contention that insulin-like growth factor-I is a neurotrophic factor and suggest that it may participate in the normal development of the hypothalamus by increasing neuronal survival/differentiation and stimulating glial growth.
We investigated the pathogenic role of free radical formation in ischemic neuronal death using radical scavenger, superoxide dismutase. Cerebral ischemia was produced in the gerbil by bilateral common carotid occlusion for 5 min, which consistently resulted in delayed neuronal death in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. The effects of free superoxide dismutase and a derivatized superoxide dismutase, pyran copolymer conjugated superoxide dismutase, on early ischemic damages, detected sensitively by the immunohistochemical reaction for microtubule associated protein 2, and a subsequent delayed neuronal death after restoration of blood flow were investigated. Preischemic treatment by pyran conjugated superoxide dismutase showed clear protective effects against both the neuronal damages detected by immunohistochemistry after 5 min ischemia and the delayed neuronal necrosis after one week of recovery, although no clear beneficial effects were observed when this drug was administered just before the recirculation or free superoxide dismutase was used. These results strongly suggest that free radical generation during brief period of ischemia plays a pivotal role in triggering the ischemic neuronal damages causing delayed neuronal death at the selectively vulnerable areas of the brain.
This paper describes the distribution of structures stained with mono- and polyclonal antibodies to the calcium-binding proteins calbindin D-28k and parvalbumin in the nervous system of adult rats. As a general characterization it can be stated that calbindin antibodies mainly label cells with thin, unmyelinated axons projecting in a diffuse manner. On the other hand, parvalbumin mostly occurs in cells with thick, myelinated axons and restricted, focused projection fields. The distinctive staining with antibodies against these two proteins can be observed throughout the nervous system. Calbindin D-28k is primarily associated with long-axon neurons (Golgi type I cells) exemplified by thalamic projection neurons, strionigral neurons, nucleus basalis Meynert neurons, cerebellar Purkinje cells, large spinal-, retinal-, cochlear- and vestibular ganglion cells. Calbindin D-28k occurs in all major pathways of the limbic system with the exception of the fornix. Calbindin D-28k is, however, also found in some short-axon cells (Golgi type II), represented by spinal cord interneurons in layer II and interneurons of the cerebral cortex. It is also detectable in some ependymal cells and abundantly occurs in vegetative centres of the hypothalamus. The &quot;paracrine core&quot; of the nervous system and its adjunct (1985, Nieuwenhuys, Chemoarchitecture of the Brain. Springer, Berlin) is very rich in calbindin D-28k. The distribution of calbindin D-28k-positive neurons is very similar to that of the dihydroperydine subtype of calcium channels. Most of the cells containing calbindin D-28k are vulnerable to neurodegenerative processes. Parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons have a different, and mostly complementary distribution compared with those which react with calbindin D-28k antisera, but in a few cases (Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, spinal ganglion neurons), both calcium-binding proteins co-exist in the same neuron. Many parvalbumin-immunoreactive cells in the central nervous system are interneurons (Golgi type II) and, to a lesser extent, long-axon cells (Golgi type I), whereas conditions are vice versa in the peripheral nervous system. Intrinsic parvalbuminic neurons are prominent in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellar cortex and spinal cord. Long-axon parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons are, for example, the Purkinje cells, neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus, globus pallidus, substantia nigra (pars reticulata) and a subpopulation among large spinal-, retinal-, cochlear- and vestibular ganglion cells. Parvalbumin is rich in cranial nerve nuclei related to eye movements. In addition to nervous elements, parvalbumin immunoreactivity occurs in a few ependymal cells and in some pillar cells of the organ of Corti.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of activating dopamine receptors in accumbens and prefrontal cortex on self-stimulation behavior in the medial forebrain bundle. The experiments were carried out in rats chronically implanted with one stimulating electrode in medial forebrain bundle and two bilaterally-placed cannulas for giving injections into accumbens or prefrontal cortex. After completion of training, animals classified as responders and non-responders were given drug tests. The non-responders were tested to determine the effects of the treatment on motor activity. The self-stimulation task involved the depression of a lever to obtain a stimulus of 0.25 s duration, 60 Hz sine waves applied to the medial forebrain bundle. Dopamine receptor activation in accumbens or prefrontal cortex was induced with bilateral injections in these structures of a mixture containing 5 mg dopamine, 10 mg d-amphetamine sulfate and 5 mg pargyline mixed in 0.5 ml saline containing 0.1% ascorbic acid (dopamine + d-amphetamine sulfate + pargyline, the cocktail). Each injection was of 2 microliters/side, yielding a concentration of 20 micrograms of dopamine, 40 micrograms of d-amphetamine sulfate and 20 micrograms of pargyline/injection. The bilateral injections were given immediately before the self-stimulation session which lasted 12 h, starting in late afternoon. The effects of saline containing the ascorbate were determined in control sessions. Saline injected bilaterally in accumbens or prefrontal cortex of self-stimulators or non-self-stimulators had no effects on the response-rate of self-stimulators or on the gross motor activity of non-responders. In contrast, the cocktail of dopamine + d-amphetamine sulfate + pargyline injected in accumbens of self-stimulators induced a complex response which included first a facilitation, then a prolonged suppression and then again one or two episodes of facilitation interspersed with periods of suppression of self-stimulation and then a return to baseline rats. The same cocktail of dopamine + d-amphetamine sulfate + pargyline injected bilaterally in accumbens of non-self-stimulators resulted also in a complex response including as a first component a facilitation of responding, but the complex effect was of shorter duration and lower magnitude, never raising the rate of lever-pressing to levels meeting self-stimulation criteria. The same cocktail of dopamine + d-amphetamine sulfate + pargyline injected in prefrontal cortex of self-stimulators simply attenuated or suppressed responding, and the effect lasted for most of the session. The same effect was seen in non-self-stimulators indicating a decrease in gross motor activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The motility of protein structure, the existence of discrete conformational states, and the multifarious modes of supramolecular protein organization seem to underlie neuronal plasticity. These aspects of protein structure are surveyed from the viewpoint of their potential role in short-term and long-term memory. It is suggested that long-term memory may ensue from the remodelling of synaptic protein assemblies requiring extra copies of pre-existing proteins.
It has been suggested that gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons with irregular contours receive more synaptic input than do those with smooth contours. To test this hypothesis, a morphometric analysis of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons of differing shapes was made. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were perfused and 40-microns tissue sections from the preoptic area were treated for the demonstration of gonadotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactivity, using the avidin-biotin horseradish peroxidase method with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine as the chromogen. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons with either a smooth or a highly irregular outline, sampled at three depths ultrastructurally, were compared for density of synaptic innervation and for relative content of various subcellular organelles. Point counting stereology comparisons of five gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons of the two shapes in four rats revealed that smooth neurons contained less cytoplasm than &quot;thorny&quot; neurons, but the size of their nuclei was the same. There were more and larger nucleoli in smooth cells. Thorny neurons contained more Golgi apparatus and more mitochondria, but the amount of rough endoplasmic reticulum was the same in neurons of the two morphological types. There was no difference in the incidence of synapses or in the density of synaptic input as measured per unit of neuronal membrane in smooth and thorny gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons. These results suggest that smooth-contoured gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons may be more actively transcribing a message while thorny neurons are more actively engaged in peptide processing and packaging.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intraperitoneal injections of sodium selenite result in the formation of zinc-selenium complexes in zinc-containing axonal boutons (&quot;Timm stainable boutons&quot;), and the zinc-selenium precipitate can be rendered visible in histological sections by silver enhancement. In this work we present evidence, in the rat, that zinc-selenium precipitates formed in vivo after intraperitoneal injections of sodium selenite are translocated by colchicine-sensitive retrograde transport to neural perikarya when animals are allowed to survive 12-24 h after the selenite administration. Silver enhancement renders the perikaryal precipitates visible and thus demonstrates the perikarya of all zinc-containing neurons in the CNS simultaneously. Large populations of zinc-containing neurons identified by the method are found in layers II, III, and VI of all neocortical areas, in the superficial and deep layers of the prepyriform areas and, with a high degree of regional differentiation, in the retrosplenial, entorhinal, para- and presubicular cortices, the hippocampal formation and the amygdaloid complex. Zinc-containing cells were absent from the caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and septal complex. Labeled zinc-containing cells are absent in non-telencephalic parts of the brain. The findings indicate that the zinc-containing circuitry of the brain mainly serves in telencephalic information processing.
The sodium channel content of human brain was measured by tritiated tetrodotoxin specific binding. After solubilization, the sodium channel was submitted to chromatography on diethylaminoethyl(cellulose) Sephadex, hydroxylapatite and wheat germ agglutinin sepharose. An increase of tritiated tetrodotoxin binding specific activity was subsequently observed. Eluted sodium channels from wheat germ agglutinin sepharose were overlaid on a sucrose gradient. Electrophoretical analysis of the material obtained after the sedimentation step revealed two co-purified peptides, alpha (Mr = 275,000 mol. wt) and beta (Mr = 30,000-36,000 mol. wt.). Alpha showed an exceptionally high free electrophoretic mobility, which is a common feature for all sodium channels previously described. However, the high denaturation rate of the solubilized tetrodotoxin receptor site 1 did not allow tetrodotoxin receptor quantification by the tritiated toxin binding in sucrose fractions. Sodium channel effective reconstitution in liposomes was demonstrated: (1) 22Na+ influx in proteoliposomes was sensitive to sodium channel-specific neurotoxins: (2) reconstituted proteins showed a cation selectivity similar to that previously described for animal sodium channels. The sodium channel preparation obtained after four chromatographic steps shows two peptides on the electrophoretic analysis. Reconstituted sodium channels displayed some physiological properties found in intact conducting membranes.
A Ca2(+)-dependent actin binding protein with a molecular weight of 74,000, was purified from bovine adrenal medulla by using deoxyribonuclease I affinity chromatography followed by ion-exchange chromatography and gel filtration. This protein broke actin filaments into fragments and promoted nucleation of actin polymerization in a Ca2(+)-dependent manner as effectively as gelsolin. Proteolytic and immunological comparison with gelsolin which is widely distributed actin-severing protein, indicated that the 74,000 mol. wt protein is a distinct protein, but its domain structure resembles that of gelsolin. Immunoblotting using antibody against this protein showed a tissue-specific distribution. The protein was detected in various endocrine, neuroendocrine and nervous tissues, but not in muscle tissues and plasma which contained relatively large amounts of cytoplasmic and plasma gelsolin. This fact might indicate that this actin-severing protein is involved in the regulation of the secretory process of endocrine and nervous tissues. In the exocytotic process regulated by Ca2+, this protein probably plays a role to free secretory organelles like vesicles from the cytoskeletal network, mainly F-actin, which prevents the movement of secretory vesicles in the resting state.
Antagonists acting at the 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor are potent anti-emetic agents in cases of cytotoxic- and radiation-induced vomiting, and binding sites for these compounds have been described in brainstem areas known to be involved in mediation of nausea and vomiting. We have used autoradiography to examine the distribution of one of these antagonists, [3H]granisetron in the caudal brainstem of the ferret, a commonly used animal model for physiological investigations of emesis. The highest density of binding sites was found to be in the dorsomedial region of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the principal terminus for gastric vagal afferent fibres. Lower levels of binding were observed in the area postrema and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Following unilateral nodose ganglion excision, displaceable binding of [3H]granisetron in the nucleus of the solitary tract was attenuated on the ipsilateral side by 65%. Bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy abolished binding of [3H]granisetron in the entire dorsal vagal complex. These results provide strong circumstantial evidence that 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptors are located on vagal afferent terminals in the ferret brainstem.
Microinjections of the cholinergic agonist carbachol into a caudal part of the pontine reticular formation of the rat induce a rapid eye movement sleep-like state. This carbachol-sensitive region of the pontine reticular formation is innervated by cholinergic neurons in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsol tegmental nuclei. The same population of cholinergic neurons also project heavily to the thalamus, where there is good evidence that acetylcholine facilitates sensory transmission and blocks rhythmic thalamocortical activity. The present study was undertaken to examine the degree to which single cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine tegmentum project to both the carbachol-sensitive region of the pontine reticular formation and the thalamus, by combining double fluorescent retrograde tracing and immunofluorescence with a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase in the rat. The results indicated that a subpopulation (5-21% ipsilaterally) of cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine tegmentum projects to both the thalamus and the carbachol-sensitive site of the pontine reticular formation, and these neurons represented the majority (45-88%) of cholinergic neurons projecting to the pontine reticular formation site. The percentage of cholinergic neurons with dual projections was higher in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (6-27%) than in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (4-11%). In addition, mixed with cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine tegmentum, there was a small population of dually projecting neurons that did not appear to be cholinergic. Mesopontine cholinergic neurons with dual projections may simultaneously modulate neuronal activity in the pontine reticular formation and the thalamus, and thereby have the potential of concurrently regulating different aspects of rapid eye movement sleep.
Treatment of PC12 cells with chroquine (10-50 microM) obliterated the low intragranular pH, as detected by Acridine Orange fluorescence, and depleted the cells of dopamine and norepinephrine. However, these concentrations of chloroquine did not prevent the release of the newly synthesized proteins which normally undergo stimulus-coupled secretion with the catecholamines. Higher concentrations of chloroquine (200 microM) and ammonium chloride (10 and 25 mM) inhibited the release of most of these proteins. This inhibition did not result from alterations in protein synthesis, since the profile of proteins synthesized was not substantially altered. Nor did the inhibition result from degradation of the neurosecretory proteins, since prelabeled proteins were capable of undergoing stimulated secretion from chloroquine-treated cells, as from normal cells. The findings indicated that the inhibition was at the step of packaging of the proteins into the neurosecretory granules. While release of the major secretory proteins, including chromogranin B, was inhibited with 200 microM chloroquine, chromogranin A was secreted upon stimulation of these cells. The results of this study indicate that an acidic intragranular pH is not a requirement for the packaging and secretion of neurosecretory proteins. Higher concentrations of chloroquine had a differential effect on the regulated secretion of different neurosecretory proteins.
The mechanisms underlying the psychotropic actions of lithium are not established, but modulation of endogenous brain neurotransmitter systems is likely to be important. Several interactions of lithium with muscarinic responses have been reported, including a marked potentiation of seizures produced by muscarinic agonists. Because the mechanism by which lithium augments muscarinic seizures may be related to the mechanism by which it produces its psychotropic effects, we have studied the interaction of lithium and muscarinic agonists in vitro. Using rat hippocampal slices, we found that a muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, increased postsynaptic neuronal excitability, but simultaneously decreased synaptic transmission because of presynaptic inhibition. Lithium did not alter pilocarpine's postsynaptic excitatory actions, but reversed its presynaptic inhibitory action, leading to markedly increased action potential firing. These presynaptic effects are not caused by alterations in presynaptic action potential shape or reliability of conduction, and do not involve pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. Activation of protein kinase C with phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate, or inhibition with H-7 and sphingosine, did not affect muscarinic presynaptic inhibition, but abolished lithium's ability to enhance synaptic transmission, suggesting that this effect of lithium involves protein kinase C. We propose that presynaptic facilitation accounts for lithium's potentiation of muscarinic seizures. Since these effects occur with concentrations of lithium used clinically, similar presynaptic effects in endogenous brain neurotransmitter systems may be important for lithium's psychotropic actions.
Ventromedial hypothalamic projections to the midbrain central gray may be involved in the mediation of female reproductive behavior. In order to demonstrate and examine projections of the ventromedial nucleus in the midbrain central gray, in the rat, electrolytic lesions were placed in the ventromedial nucleus and the midbrain central gray was examined for ultrastructural signs of degeneration at various intervals, i.e. 27.5 h and two, four, six and eight days following the lesions. The fine structure of the midbrain central gray of unlesioned animals was also examined to characterize its normal morphology and to establish a baseline with which to compare the effects of the lesion. In unlesioned animals, the neuropil of midbrain central gray contained several synaptic types, with axodendritic synapses appearing to be the most predominant. Dendrites contained well-preserved microtubules. Synaptic endings contained many clear, round vesicles and some contained dense-cored vesicles as well. Neuropil synapses were both asymmetric and symmetric. Cell bodies were characterized by light cytoplasm and had asymmetric and symmetric synapses on their surface. Following electrolytic lesions in the ventromedial nucleus, various types of degenerative patterns were seen in the midbrain central gray, including electron-dense, flocculent, watery, and pinocytotic degeneration. Specific characteristics of degeneration included shrunken, dense axons and endings, clumped synaptic vesicles, abnormally large, dark mitochondria, membranous sacs of various sizes, swollen endings with reduced numbers of synaptic vesicles, and endings and processes containing large numbers of coated vesicles. Some of these signs were already evident at 27.5 h following the lesion. In addition, degenerating postsynaptic processes and cell bodies were seen in the midbrain central gray. At 27.5 h survival time, degenerating dendritic processes often appeared swollen, devoid of microtubules, and contained enlarged mitochondria. At longer survival times neuronal degeneration was observed in the midbrain central gray, characterized by electron-dense cell bodies and pycnotic nuclei. Both degenerating pre- and postsynaptic elements appeared to be engulfed by glial processes. Control lesions in non-hypothalamic regions which project to the midbrain central gray, i.e. nucleus gigantocellularis and pontine reticular formation and in a non-projecting region, i.e. parietal cortex, were performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The periaqueductal gray plays an important role in the descending modulation of nociception. While the importance of endogenous opioids to periaqueductal gray circuits that modulate nociception is supported by many studies, the ultrastructural relationships between enkephalin-immunoreactive axon terminals and the surrounding periaqueductal gray neuropil have not been quantitated in the rat. Further, the possible interaction between enkephalin-immunoreactive axon terminals and periaqueductal gray neurons that project to the rostroventral medulla has not been described. The present study utilized electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to quantitate the normal neuronal associations of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals in the caudal periaqueductal gray of the rat. A primary focus of this analysis was to ascertain whether any interaction exists between enkephalin-immunoreactive axon terminals and periaqueductal gray neurons that were retrogradely-labeled from the nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent medullary reticular nuclei. We examined the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and the ventral periaqueductal gray immediately subjacent to the aqueduct and found that both the average terminal diameters and the volume fractions of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals were very similar. In these two regions, most terminals were observed to be in close apposition to either two or three dendrites that were neither retrogradely-labeled nor enkephalin-immunoreactive, although axonal and perikaryal associations were also observed. In the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, 22% of all enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals were adjacent to periaqueductal gray-nucleus raphe magnus and periaqueductal gray-reticular nucleus projection neurons. In the periaqueductal gray subjacent to the aqueduct, 32% of all enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals were adjacent to periaqueductal gray-nucleus raphe magnus and periaqueductal gray-reticular nucleus projection neurons. Symmetrical synapses with these retrogradely-labeled neurons were formed by 5.5% of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, and by 4.3% of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals located subjacent to the aqueduct. We also noted that enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals formed symmetrical synapses with non-retrogradely-labeled, enkephalin-immunoreactive dendrites in the periaqueductal gray. Direct opioid input onto putative excitatory periaqueductal gray output neurons that are hypothesized to modulate nociception was an unexpected finding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Low voltage-activated T-type Ca2+ channel currents were recorded from cultured rat dorsal root ganglion neurons using the whole-cell clamp technique with Ba2+ as the charge carrier. The T-type Ca2+ channel current was identified by its low threshold of activation (Vc -50 to -20 mV from VH - 90 mV), its kinetics of inactivation and its sensitivity to NiCl2 (100 microM). It was also sensitive to 1-octanol (1 microM). omega-Conotoxin (1 microM) markedly reduced the high threshold voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents but did not inhibit the T-type Ca2+ channel current. Photorelease of intracellular guanosine 5'-O(3-thio) triphosphate from a photolabile &quot;caged&quot; precursor had dose-dependent effects on the T-type Ca2+ channel current. At a concentration of 6 microM, guanosine 5'-O(3-thio) triphosphate enhanced the current, but further photorelease of guanosine 5'-O(3-thio) triphosphate (up to 20 microM) inhibited the current. Only the inhibitory response was sensitive to pertussis toxin. These data suggest that more than one G-protein is involved in T-type Ca2+ channel current modulation. Inclusion of guanosine 5'-O(2-thio) diphosphate (1 mM) in the patch solution prevented guanosine 5'-O(3-thio) triphosphate from potentiating the current, and greatly attenuated the inhibitory effects observed when larger amounts of guanosine 5'-O(3-thio) triphosphate were photoreleased. Photorelease of guanosine 5'-O(2-thio) diphosphate had no effect on T-type current but did significantly increase the high voltage-activated current. A low concentration of (-)-baclofen (2 microM), potentiated T-type current, while 100 microM(-)-baclofen inhibited T-type current.
Injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin within the ventromedial thalamic nucleus resulted in many filled fibres in the frontal areas of rat cerebral cortex. The fibres were restricted to the upper part of layer I except in a small area of motor cortex where terminals were also found in deeper layers. Terminals were also seen in the striatum, in parts of the mesencephalic reticular formation and occasionally in the contralateral ventromedial nucleus. There is some topographical order in the projection with medial and dorsal areas well represented in medial cortex while lateral parts of ventromedial nucleus are more directly related to the cortical area that receives the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus projection. Electron microscopic examination showed the terminals in layer I of cortex making synaptic contact with dendritic spines and small dendritic profiles that showed a very dense postsynaptic specialization. Neurons in the ventromedial nucleus could be antidromically driven from electrode positions along strips of cortex which could not be easily related to any known organizational pattern in the cortex. Thalamic neurons responding antidromically to only one stimulation site were more common when the stimulation was within motor cortical areas, suggesting that in this region a more restricted pattern of termination is the rule.
Using a semihorizontal section plane tangential to the ventral surface of the cerebral peduncle, the authors re-examined cyto-, myelo- and dendroarchitecture, acetylcholinesterase activity, afferent fibers, and efferent projection neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. In the semihorizontal section plane, the substantia nigra pars reticulata was a disc-shaped nucleus and contained two to three myelinated fiber bundles running from anteromedial to posterolateral. Bands of high acetylcholinesterase activity existed parallel to the anteromedial-posterolateral direction. The Golgi silver impregnation study revealed that many nigral neurons extended their varicose dendrites anteromedially and posterolaterally. In cases with injections of wheat germ agglutinated horseradish peroxidase into the neostriatum or injections of tritiated leucine into the subthalamic nucleus, anterogradely labeled afferent fibers and axon terminals in the substantia nigra pars reticulata were organized into bands in the same anteromedial-posterolateral direction. In cases with injections of wheat germ agglutinated horseradish peroxidase into either the superior colliculus, the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus or the ventromedial nucleus of the thalamus, retrogradely labeled neurons were also clustered along the anteromedial-posterolateral direction with their dendrites extending anteromedially and posterolaterally. The present findings strongly suggest that the substantia nigra pars reticulata has a laminar organization.
The developmental time-course of callosal and ipsilateral corticocortical projections was studied in embryonic and postnatal hamsters, from the time of neurogenesis until the appearance of adult patterns. Callosal neurogenesis was determined by combining the incorporation of [3H]thymidine injected on specific embryonic days with retrograde labelling of callosal neurons in the adult animal. The development of both callosal and corticocortical projections was studied by the transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Despite a significant radial disperson of postmigratory neurons born on the same day, it was found that the birthdates of callosally-projecting neurons in the frontal cortex were not restricted to a short period of time, but extended between embryonic days 13 and 15. This period covers the neurogenesis of cells in cortical layers III-V. Elongation of callosal axons (and possibly also of corticocortical fibres) started a couple of days before birth in the frontal cortex, and continued through the first postnatal days. After a &quot;waiting period&quot; of a few days, axons from both sets of projections were seen innervating restricted target sectors of the cortex. The zones of origin of these projections were initially exuberant, but were subsequently trimmed to overlap completely with the corresponding terminal fields. It is concluded that callosal and ipsilateral corticocortical projections undergo similar sequences of ontogenetic stages, suggesting that the development of neocortical connectivity as a whole may be governed by one and the same set of rules.

Rat optic nerves were studied in a sucrose gap chamber in order to study the origin of a late afterhyperpolarization that follows repetitive activity. The results provide evidence for electrogenic pump (Na+/K(+)-ATPase) activity in central nervous system myelinated axons and demonstrate an effect on axonal excitability. Repetitive stimulation (25-200 Hz; 200-5000 ms) led to a prolonged, temperature-dependent post-train afterhyperpolarization with duration up to about 40 s. The post-train afterhyperpolarization was blocked by the Na+/K(+)-ATPase blockers strophanthidin and ouabain, and the substitution of Li+ for Na+ in the test solution, which also blocks Na+/K(+)-ATPase. The peak amplitude of the post-train afterhyperpolarization was minimally changed by the potassium-channel blocker tetraethylammonium (10 mM), and the Ca2(+)-channel blocker CoCl2 (4 mM). Hyperpolarizing constant current did not reverse the afterhyperpolarization. The amplitude of the hyperpolarization was increased in the presence of the potassium-channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (1 mM). In the presence of 4-amino-pyridine, the post-train hyperpolarization was much reduced by strophanthidin, except for a residual early component lasting several hundred milliseconds which was blocked by the potassium-channel blocker tetraethylammonium. This finding indicates that after exposure to 4-aminopyridine, repetitive stimulation leads to activation of a tetraethylammonium-sensitive K(+)-channel that contributes during the first several hundred milliseconds to the post-train afterhyperpolarization. The amplitude of the compound action potential elicited by a single submaximal stimulus during the post-train hyperpolarization was smaller than that of the control response. The decrement in amplitude was not present under identical stimulation conditions when the post-train hyperpolarization was blocked by strophanthidin, indicating that the hyperpolarization associated with repetitive stimulation reduced excitability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of peptides synthesized from the same precursor as vasopressin, i.e. the C-terminal 39-amino acid long glycopeptide and neurophysin II, were investigated for biological activities in electrophysiological experiments in brain slices of the rat lateral septum. These slices contained the glycopeptide as the predominant form and a fragment of it, amino acid sequence 22-39, as a minor form (8% of the glycopeptide 1-39), as shown by high performance liquid chromatography of extracts and by radioimmunoassay. None of the peptides, neurophysin II, the glycopeptide 1-39 and the fragment 22-39, tested in a concentration of 10(-12) M, had measurable effects on the resting membrane potential of the neurons. The glycopeptide and the fragment 22-39, however, increased, in some cells, for tens of minutes the excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in these neurons by stimulation of the fimbria fibers. The increase in input resistance, seen in many septal neurons treated with either of the peptides was not correlated with the excitatory postsynaptic potential increase. Neurophysin II affected neither the excitatory postsynaptic potentials nor the input resistance of the neurons. It is concluded that the glycopeptide 1-39 and the fragment 22-39 possess biological activities amongst which the facilitation of excitatory amino acid transmission on lateral septum neurons. Therefore, these peptides derived from the vasopressin precursor may act in concert with vasopressin to establish facilitation of excitatory transmission in the brain.
Morphine, given acutely, inhibits oxytocin secretion in adult female rats, but chronic intracerebroventricular infusion for five to six days induces tolerance and dependence in the mechanisms regulating oxytocin secretion. One explanation for tolerance could be that there is a loss of opioid receptors. To test this hypothesis cryostat sections of selected brain regions and the pituitary, from six control and six intracerebroventricular morphine-infused rats, were processed for quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography. [3H]Etorphine or [3H](-)-bremazocine were used as ligands, and DAGO, DPDPE and U50,488H as selective displacers from mu-, delta-, and kappa-receptors, respectively. Control incubations had naloxone determined specificity. The supraoptic nucleus (site of oxytocin-secreting magnocellular perikarya) contained both mu- and kappa-receptors in control rats (mean +/- S.E.M. binding of mu-selective [3H]etorphine was 91.8 +/- 25.4 fmol/mg of tissue, and of kappa-selective [3H](-)-bremazocine was 130.4 +/- 25.6 fmol/mg). Chronic morphine treatment caused a 83.9% decrease in binding in mu-selective conditions (P less than 0.05), but no significant change in kappa-selective binding. In the median preoptic nucleus (which projects to the supraoptic nucleus) mean +/- S.E.M. binding of [3H]etorphine decreased by 77.0% (P less than 0.01) in chronic morphine-treated rats, from the control value of 76.2 +/- 9.8 fmol/mg of tissue. In the posterior pituitary gland (site of the terminals of the oxytocin-secreting magnocellular perikarya) binding with [3H](-)-bremazocine in controls was over 90% lower than in the supraoptic nucleus. No changes followed chronic morphine treatment. Thus chronic morphine exposure reduces the numbers of available mu-receptors in the supraoptic nucleus, and of opioid receptors in the median preoptic nucleus, perhaps accounting for morphine-tolerance in relation to oxytocin secretion.
Our previous studies showed that the survival of cerebellar granule cells in culture is promoted by treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate. Here we report on the influence of another glutamate analogue, kainic acid, which, in contrast to N-methyl-D-aspartate, is believed to stimulate transmitter receptors mediating fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The kainate effect was complex: increased survival at low concentrations (the maximum, at 25-50 microM, was about 50% promotion), whereas concentrations exceeding 50 microM resulted first in a loss of the effect, and then at concentrations of 2-5 x 10(-4) M cells became vulnerable to kainate. The trophic influence of kainate is mediated through receptors other than the N-methyl-D-aspartate preferring subtype. In contrast to the effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate, that of kainate did not depend on the medium K+ level and was potently blocked by dinitroquinoxalinedione, which--at the concentration used here--did not counteract the promotion of cell survival evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate. Quisqualate was a potent inhibitor of the rescue by kainate. Furthermore, blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with the selective antagonists MK-801 or aminophosphonovalerate did not inhibit, but rather potentiated the trophic effect of kainate. Possible mechanisms underlying the trophic effect of chronic depolarization or treatment with excitatory amino acids are discussed, and it is proposed that they involve elevated free cytoplasmic calcium activity following increased influx through voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (high K+ and kainate) or receptorgated channels (N-methyl-D-aspartate).
Small tissue fragments excised from the electric organ of Torpedo marmorata were treated with diamide, a penetrating thiol oxidizing agent, until synaptic transmission was blocked. At this stage, we found an unexpected number of exo-endocytotic images in the presynaptic plasmalemma. Omega-shaped profiles, some of them coated, were seen in thin sections of fixed tissue and pits opened in the P-face of the presynaptic membrane in freeze-fracture replicas from rapidly-frozen preparations. Diamide-treated specimens were frozen at 1 ms time intervals before, during and after a single electrical stimulus. This stimulation did not result in a further increase in the density of presynaptic pits, not in any change affecting the density or size distribution of intramembrane particles. This result is in contrast with what is observed in untreated specimens where transmission of a nerve impulse is accompanied by a momentary rise in the number of large particles. The density of synaptic vesicles--especially that of a subpopulation of small size vesicles--transiently increased within the first 2 h of diamide treatment. During the first stages of intoxication, diamide prolonged the time course of postsynaptic potentials--both spontaneous and evoked--probably by altering the gating properties of receptors (acetyl-cholinesterase activity was not impaired). Later on, all evoked responses were blocked. The spontaneous transmitter release greatly increased, first in the form of quantal miniature potentials. These then subsided whereas a class of very small potentials was generated at a high frequency. Also under the action of diamide, calcium progressively accumulated in the tissue but the number of synaptic vesicles containing calcium deposits was reduced. It is concluded that diamide causes a marked increase in the number of exo-endocytotic images in the presynaptic membrane, suppresses quantal but not subquantal release, and interferes with calcium sequestration in and extrusion from terminals.
The basal overflow of extracellular endogenous amino acids was measured from the ventrolateral medulla of urethane anaesthetized rats in vivo by microdialysis. Inclusion of a mercury salt, p-chloromercuriphenylsulphonic acid, in the dialysate (Krebs' solution), results in a preferential increase in the overflow of aspartate, glutamate, glycine and GABA. A smaller increase in the overflow of the glutamate precursor and metabolite, glutamine, was also found. There was no significant change in the basal extracellular levels of taurine, asparagine, alanine, serine, ornithine or lysine. Inclusion of a specific GABA uptake inhibitor, nipecotic acid, in the dialysate results in an immediate, dose dependent increase in the overflow of GABA, and to a lesser extent, taurine. Since it is likely that mercury salts increase neurotransmitter release by increasing free intracellular calcium ion concentrations, it is suggested that these results provide further evidence for a physiologically relevant neurotransmitter role for aspartate, glutamate, glycine and GABA in the ventrolateral medulla.
The kainate and quisqualate types of excitatory amino acid receptor were visualized autoradiographically in brain sections from rats kindled by stimulating the angular bundle. Kainate receptors were labeled with [3H]kainate and quisqualate receptors with L-[3H]glutamate. When assayed one day after the last evoked seizure, kainate receptor binding had declined by 24-29% in stratum lucidum of hippocampal area CA3 and by 12-14% in the inner third of the dentate molecular layer, but was unchanged in the neocortex and basolateral amygdala. Saturation binding curves revealed that, under the conditions of these experiments, [3H]kainate labeled a single class of binding sites with a KD of 33-36 nM. In stratum lucidum of area CA3, kindling reduced the density of kainate receptors without altering their affinity for kainate. At the same time, quisqualate receptor binding had declined by 20-35% in many layers of the hippocampal formation and neocortex, but remained unchanged in the basolateral amygdala. Repeated stimulation or repeated seizures were required to produce these effects, since both kainate and quisqualate receptor binding were unchanged one day after a single afterdischarge. These receptor changes largely or completely reversed during a 28-day period without further stimulation. Thus maintenance of the kindled state probably cannot be explained by a long-lasting change in the expression of kainate or quisqualate receptors. The transient, regionally-selective down-regulation of these receptors may represent a compensatory response of forebrain neurons to repeated stimulation or seizures.
Myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle strips were used to study nerve action potential propagation and transmission and their differences between the proximal and the distal regions of cholinergic terminals. Neurogenic twitches of a portion of the strip were evoked by focal electrical stimulation. Twitches mediated by the distal regions of cholinergic nerve terminals were more influenced by drugs affecting Ca2+ &quot;utilization&quot; (Bay K 8644, kappa opiate ligand ethylketocyclazocine, changes in extracellular Ca2+ or Co2+ concentration) in contrast to twitches mediated by proximal regions of these terminals which were more influenced by drugs affecting sodium-potassium spike (tetrodotoxin, dendrotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, tetraethylammonium). Post-tetanic potentiation of twitches was prominent with that portion of the strip where the distal regions of nerve terminals were involved. Drugs interfering with Na+/K+ spikes indiscriminately influenced both the twitch height and post-tetanic potentiation whereas changes in extracellular Ca2+ concentration affected selectively only post-tetanic potentiation. Release of [3H]acetylcholine from pre-labelled strips evoked by 1 Hz continuous stimulation or by train stimulation at 30 Hz was measured selectively from portions containing either proximal and distal or only distal regions of nerve terminals. The release from portions containing the distal regions was relatively higher when evoked by 30 Hz than by 1 Hz. The distal regions of nerve terminals might be thus recruited to participate in transmission by a frequency-dependent process. Nerve impulses were recorded from strands of nerve fibres in the myenteric plexus. At 1 and 5 mm distance from the stimulation focus nerve impulses were completely suppressed by tetrodotoxin. At 5 mm, in some strands the amplitude of nerve impulses was also subject to the effect of drugs affecting Ca2+ &quot;utilization&quot;; facilitation of nerve impulse amplitude during 30 Hz train stimulation was always influenced by drugs affecting Ca2+ &quot;utilization&quot;. Propagation of nerve impulses in the distal region of cholinergic nerve terminals was found to be Ca-sensitive and frequency-dependent; this might form the basis for facilitation and post-tetanic potentiation of muscarinic transmission.
The effect of both chronic and acute lithium treatment on hypothalamic opioid peptides was investigated. Acute treatment with lithium was found to stimulate the release of beta-endorphin, dynorphin and Met-enkephalin from perfused rat hypothalamic slices. Application of tetrodotoxin was found to have no effect upon the stimulation indicating it to be mediated at the nerve terminal level. The release of hypothalamic opioid peptides is known to be under the chronic control of a system of inhibitory autoreceptors. Blockade of these autoreceptors with, for example, the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone causes a release of all three opioid peptides. Simultaneous addition of naloxone and lithium was found to have no additive effect on the release of any opioid, suggesting lithium acts via an inhibition of the inhibitory autoreceptor. Preincubation with pertussis toxin prevented the lithium stimulation of dynorphin and Met-enkephalin, but not beta-endorphin, release, indicating lithium interacts with a G-protein to affect the autoreceptor controlling the release of dynorphin and Met-enkephalin. Chronic treatment with lithium in vivo (10 days) had no effect on the basal release or hypothalamic content of any of the opioids, but prevented the naloxone-stimulated release of dynorphin and Met-enkephalin in vitro. Long-term treatment with lithium would thus appear to inactivate the autoreceptor(s) controlling their release. These data demonstrate a lithium-stimulated release of hypothalamic beta-endorphin, Met-enkephalin and dynorphin, apparently mediated via an inhibition of the autoreceptors controlling their release. Chronic treatment with lithium permanently inactivated the autoreceptor(s) controlling the release of dynorphin and Met-enkephalin but not beta-endorphin. Lithium would appear to mediate its effects upon Met-enkephalin and dynorphin release via an interaction with a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein. The mechanisms underlying its release of beta-endorphin are at present uncertain.
We have investigated the role of Ca2+ and Ca2+ channels in the modulation of GABA release. Brain slices prepared from rat striatum were preincubated with [3H]GABA, superfused with Krebs bicarbonate buffer, and exposed to electrical field stimulation (2 Hz for 3 min). Tritium efflux was measured as an index of GABA release. Both resting and evoked efflux were greatly accelerated by deleting Ca2+ from the medium and adding EGTA (1 mM). However, when the concentration of Mg2+ in the buffer was elevated to 10 mM, no effect of the Ca2(+)-deficiency was observed on resting release and its impact on evoked overflow was diminished. Moreover, addition of verapamil (10 microM), a Ca2+ channel blocking agent, reduced evoked overflow even in the absence of external Ca2+, while 4-aminopyridine (10 microM), a K+ channel inhibitor, enhanced GABA efflux in normal buffer but had no effect in the absence of Ca2+. Finally, we have shown previously that nipecotic acid, an inhibitor of high affinity GABA transport, increases GABA overflow in normal buffer, but blocks it in Ca2(+)-free buffer. Collectively, these results suggest that Ca2+ channels may play two roles in the regulation of depolarization-induced GABA release. Firstly, these channels permit a depolarization-induced influx of Ca2+ which then promotes GABA release. In addition, these channels influence GABA release through a mechanism that does not involve external Ca2+. Although the precise nature of this latter involvement is unclear, we propose that the Ca2+ channels serve to permit an influx of Na+, which in turn promotes Ca2(+)-independent release through an influence on the high affinity GABA transport system.
The autoradiographic distribution of [125I]Bolton-Hunter neuropeptide Y receptor binding sites was quantified in rat brain. The highest level of [125I]Bolton-Hunter neuropeptide Y binding sites was seen in the hippocampus (ventral stratum radiatum, CA3 subfield: 6029 +/- 250 fmol/g tissue). The distribution of these sites was clearly laminated, being particularly concentrated in the oriens layer (dorsal CA3 subfield: 2562 +/- 147 fmol/g tissue) and stratum radiatum (dorsal CA3 subfield: 2577 +/- 95 fmol/g tissue). Lower levels of sites were seen in the pyramidal cell layer (1708 +/- 105 fmol/g tissue) and the molecular layer (1155 +/- 116 fmol/g tissue). The cortical distribution of [125I]Bolton-Hunter neuropeptide Y receptor sites was also laminated, being particularly enriched in superficial laminae (occipital cortex, layers I-II, 4038 +/- 148 fmol/g tissue; layers III-IV, 1392 +/- 97 fmol/g tissue and layers V-VI, 1522 +/- 138 fmol/g tissue). Other areas containing high amounts of sites included the anterior olfactory nuclei (ventral part, 4935 +/- 119 fmol/g tissue; lateral part, 4530 +/- 149 fmol/g tissue; dorsal part, 3378 +/- 140 fmol/g tissue and medial part, 2601 +/- 150 fmol/g tissue); anteromedial (5168 +/- 211 fmol/g tissue), medial (4611 +/- 107 fmol/g tissue) and lateral posterior thalamic nuclei (4465 +/- 189 fmol/g tissue); medial mammillary nucleus (5555 +/- 241 fmol/g tissue); medial geniculate nucleus (4747 +/- 56 fmol/g tissue); claustrum (4123 +/- 235 fmol/g tissue); posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus (3524 +/- 138 fmol/g tissue), tenia tecta (2540 +/- 195 fmol/g tissue); lateral septum (1785 +/- 90 fmol/g tissue); suprachiasmatic hypothalamic nucleus (1604 +/- 115 fmol/g tissue), and substantia nigra, pars compacta (1846 +/- 142 fmol/g tissue) and pars lateralis (1750 +/- 165 fmol/g tissue). Areas moderately enriched with [125I]Bolton-Hunter neuropeptide Y binding sites included the zonal layer of the superior colliculus (1347 +/- 71 fmol/g tissue); anterior pretectal nucleus (1172 +/- 113 fmol/g tissue); ventral tegmental area (1090 +/- 97 fmol/g tissue); periventricular fibre system (1026 +/- 48 fmol/g tissue); core of nucleus accumbens (948 +/- 29 fmol/g tissue) and area postrema (799 +/- 87 fmol/g tissue). These results are discussed with regard to some of the suggested biological effects of neuropeptide Y in the central nervous system such as effects on learning, locomotion and circadian rhythms. Moreover, we also compared the distribution of [125I]Bolton-Hunter neuropeptide Y receptor sites with that of [125I]peptide YY sites in rat brain. The resolution of the autoradiographic image is better with [125I]peptide YY most likely because of higher affinity and percentage of specific labelling.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The molecular forms of atrial natriuretic factor were studied in the sympathetic ganglia of the rat. The peptide atrial natriuretic factor was also tested for its ability to induce intracellular changes in ganglionic elements. Chromatographic evaluation of extracted ganglionic atrial natriuretic factor revealed the presence of proatrial natriuretic factor together with lower molecular weight peptides. Atrial natriuretic factor induced a maximal six-fold increase of cGMP accumulation within ganglia in vitro, most probably in principal ganglionic cells. Its effect on cGMP was not mediated by acetylcholine or any other neurotransmitter because it persisted after muscarinic receptor blockade and in a calcium-free medium and was not affected by ganglia decentralization. Thus, atrial natriuretic factor appears to be produced by a structural neural component of ganglia (in preganglionic cholinergic neurons or small intensely fluorescent cells?) and has receptors at sites different from its source. It is suggested that atrial natriuretic factor may be locally involved in the process of neurotransmission and may be yet another peptide neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator.
Recent evidence suggests that a strychnine-insensitive glycine modulatory site is associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-channel complex. A quantitative autoradiographic method was used to characterize the pharmacological specificity and anatomical distribution of strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding sites in rat brain. [3H]Glycine binding was specific, saturable, reversible, pH and temperature-sensitive and of high affinity. [3H]Glycine interacted with a single population of sites having a KD of approximately 200 nM and a maximum density of 6.2 pmol/mg protein (stratum radiatum, CA1). Binding exhibited a pharmacological profile similar to the physiologically defined strychnine-insensitive glycine modulatory site. Binding was stereoselective; the rank order of potency of simple amino acids as displacers of binding was: glycine greater than D-serine greater than D-alanine greater than L-serine greater than L-alanine greater than L-valine greater than D-valine. Binding was not altered by the inhibitory glycine receptor ligand, strychnine, by the glutamate agonists, quisqualate and kainate, or by GABA receptor selective ligands. Most competitive agonists or antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate recognition site were ineffective displacers of glycine binding. The exceptions were the aminophosphono series of antagonists, D-alpha-aminoadipate, gamma-D-glutamyglycine and beta-D-aspartylaminomethylphosphonic acid. However, the inhibition of [3H]glycine binding produced by the aminophosphono compounds could be accounted for by the level of glycine contamination present in these compounds. The non-competitive NMDA receptor-channel blockers, phencyclidine, its thienyl derivative, and MK-801 did not alter glycine binding. Kynurenate, glycine methylester, L-serine-O-sulfate, L-homocysteic acid, and several glycine-containing dipeptides were effective displacers of glycine binding. Structure-activity relations of agonists and antagonists of the strychinine-insensitive glycine binding site are discussed. The distribution of strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding was heterogeneous with the following rank order of binding densities: hippocampus greater than cerebral cortex greater than caudate-putamen greater than or equal to thalamus greater than cerebellum greater than brain stem. This distribution of binding was correlated with N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding (r2 = 0.77; P less than 0.001; Pearson product-moment) and [3H]thienylcyclohexylpiperidine binding (r2 = 0.72; P less than 0.001). These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that the strychnine-insensitive glycine binding site is closely associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-channel complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Traumatic or stroke-like injuries of the cerebral cortex result in the rapid retrograde degeneration of thalamic relay neurons that project to the damaged area. Although this phenomenon has been well documented, neither the basis for the relay neuron's extreme sensitivity to axotomy nor the mechanisms involved in the degenerative process have been clearly identified. Physiological and biochemical studies of the thalamic response to cortical ablation indicate that pathological overexcitation might contribute to the degenerative process. The responses of thalamic projection neurons, protoplasmic astrocytes, and inhibitory thalamic reticular neurons in adult mice were examined from one to 120 days following ablation of the somatosensory cortex as part of an investigation of the role of excitotoxicity in thalamic retrograde degeneration. The responses of thalamic neurons to cortical ablation were compared with those produced by intracortical injection of the convulsant excitotoxin kainic acid, since the degeneration of neurons in connected brain structures distant to the site of kainic acid injection is also thought to occur via an excitotoxic mechanism. Within two days after either type of cortical injury, protoplasmic astrocytes in affected regions of the thalamic ventrobasal complex and the medial division of the posterior thalamic nuclei became reactive and expressed increased levels of immunohistochemically detectable glial fibrillary acidic protein. Within the affected regions of the ventrobasal complex an increased intensity of puncta positive for glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity, presumably due to an increase in its content within the terminals of the reciprocally interconnected thalamic reticular neurons, was also evident. These immunohistochemically detectable alterations in the milieu of the damaged thalamic neurons preceded the disappearance of the affected relay neurons by at least two days following cortical ablation and by seven to 10 days following intracortical kainic acid injection. Regions of the thalamus containing reactive astrocytes corresponded very closely to the regions undergoing retrograde degeneration. Protoplasmic astrocytes in these areas remained intensely reactive up to 60 days after cortical injury. Levels of glutamate decarboxylase were only transiently elevated in the degenerating regions of the ventrobasal complex following cortical ablation and returned to normal by 14 days. Increased glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity was transiently seen through the entire ventrobasal complex following intracortical kainic acid injection but was markedly more intense in degenerating regions. These patterns of labeling did not return to normal until 50 days after intracortical kainic acid injection, well after the death of the relay neurons. Cortical ablation and intracortical kainic acid injection produce similar alterations in thalamic neuronal and glial populations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Specific [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding to the kainate-sensitive subtype of glutamate receptor was studied in brain of 31-day-old non-epileptic Sprague-Dawley control and two colonies of genetically epilepsy-prone rats using in vitro autoradiographic techniques. At 37.5 nM [3H]vinylidene kainic acid, specific [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding was reduced significantly by 18 and 22% in dorsal and ventral hippocampal formation stratum lucidum of 31-day-old genetically epilepsy-prone-9 rats compared with non-epileptic controls. Hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding was reduced in genetically epilepsy-prone-3 rats by 15 and 18%, but these reductions were not statistically significant. Saturation of [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding studies indicated that the total number of ventral hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding sites was decreased by 21% in genetically epilepsy-prone-3 rats and 28% in genetically epilepsy-prone-9 rats. The reduction in ventral hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding in genetically epilepsy-prone rats resembles the reduction in ventral hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding sites observed in perinatal hypothyroid rats. As genetically epilepsy-prone rats are hypothyroid during the neonatal period, the reduction in hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding in the genetically epilepsy-prone rats may be a consequence of a hypothyroid-induced defect in the development or maturation of the hippocampal mossy fiber projection in genetically epilepsy-prone rats. An alternative hypothesis is that the putative occurrence of spontaneous limbic seizures in genetically epilepsy-prone rats may lead secondarily to a reduction in hippocampal [3H]vinylidene kainic acid binding sites.
[3H]Vesamicol binding was characterized in human brain post mortem. The number of binding sites was then determined in parallel with choline acetyltransferase activity in the temporal cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease, demented and non-demented patients with Parkinson's disease, and in the cerebral cortex of rats with quisqualic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Whereas choline acetyltransferase activity decreased in patients with Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease indicating loss of cholinergic innervation, the number of binding sites for [3H]vesamicol was the same as or higher than in controls. Similar results were obtained with the lesioned rats. It is suggested that the increase in binding sites may reflect compensatory regulation of the spared neurons at the level of the synaptic vesicle.
The proto-oncogene c-fos is rapidly and transiently induced in the CNS by a variety of stimuli. Brain injury, disruption of pia-arachnoid in a limited area, is one of the situations that leads to a dramatic increase in c-fos immunoreactivity. This increase is limited to the lesioned hemisphere. Injections of atropine (25 mg/kg, i.p.), naltrexone (5 mg/kg, i.p.), nifedipine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), and N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (20 mg/kg, i.p.), prior to the injury, did not affect the activation of c-fos as assessed by immunohistochemistry in adult Sprague-Dawley rats perfused 2 h after the lesion. The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists ketamine (100 mg/kg, i.p.) and MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate] (1 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.) markedly reduced c-fos activation. Phencyclidine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a slight reduction in damage-induced fos activation. This study suggests that c-fos activation in this particular model is N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated and supports the idea that the fos proto-oncogene might play a role in plasticity and/or neurotoxic changes following brain damage.
A monoclonal antibody, IX-50, that was raised against a kainate binding protein (Mr = 49,000) from chicken cerebellum, was used in light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical studies to localize putative kainate receptors. Pre- and postembedding immunoperoxidase and immunogold methods were used in the cerebellar cortices of one to 26-day old chickens and adult rainbow trout. Immunoreactivity was detected only in association with Golgi epithelial/Bergmann glial cells. Intracellular immunoreactivity was present in the granular and agranular endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus and in lysosomes, representing the sites of synthesis, glycosylation and degradation of the protein. In the fish the granular endoplasmic reticulum was not immunoreactive. Extracellular immunoreactivity was associated with the plasma membrane. In the fish it was established that the epitope is on the outer surface of the membrane. The protein seems to be uniformly distributed along the membrane including the somata, the radial stem processes and the leafy lamellae surrounding Purkinje cell dendrites. Areas of the glial membrane in contact with other glial cells were also immunopositive. High-resolution light microscopy demonstrated all the Bergmann glial plasma membrane in the cortex, providing a &quot;negative&quot; image of Purkinje cell dendrites. It is apparent that Bergmann glial processes selectively outline the dendrites of the Purkinje cells by surrounding the parallel fibre terminal/Purkinje cell spine synaptic complexes. The parallel fiber terminals were highly immunoreactive for glutamate, as shown by an immunogold procedure. The association of Bergmann glial processes, carrying the Mr = 49,000 kainate binding protein, with the Purkinje cell dendrites and spine synapses could provide a basis for neuronal signalling to the Bergmann glia, possibly by glutamate.
The role of the ventral hippocampal dentate granule neurons in the mu opioid receptor agonist-induced motor seizures and wet dog shakes was examined in this study. [NMe-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin (9.4 nmol) was injected into the left ventral hippocampus of rats 14 days after unilateral or bilateral colchicine (5 nmol/site) lesions of ventral hippocampal dentate granule cells and the subsequent behavioral and neuropathological responses were observed. [NMe-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin injected into control animals produced convulsions and numerous wet dog shakes that lasted for less than 1 h. [NMe-Phe-D-Pro4]morphiceptin-induced wet dog shakes were significantly reduced in unilateral colchicine-pretreated rats, and completely inhibited in bilateral colchicine-pretreated animals. In contrast, generalized motor seizures evoked by [NMe-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin were potentiated and prolonged in colchicine-pretreated animals as status epilepticus (sustained clonus of forepaws and head for more than 1 h) was observed in both unilateral and bilateral colchicine-pretreated animals but not in control rats. No morphological damage of granule or pyramidal cells was found in the ventral hippocampus of control animals following [NMe-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin injection. Colchicine treatment by itself produced a selective lesion of dentate granule cells. In colchicine-pretreated animals, [NMe-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin induced widespread seizure-related damage of CA3/CA1 pyramidal cells. These results suggest that dentate granule cells in the ventral hippocampus are essential for the elaboration of wet dog shakes. However, these neurons may play an inhibitory role in the spread of seizure activity within the hippocampus or limbic structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ontogeny of [3H]kainic acid binding in rat forebrain was studied quantitatively using in vitro receptor autoradiography. Specific binding was detectable in ventral thalamus, hippocampus, striatum and olfactory bulb by postnatal day 1. In regions with high densities of receptors in adulthood, such as CA3, dentate gyrus and striatum, binding increased progressively across development peaking at postnatal day 21. In ventral thalamus and the inner lamina of the neocortex, [3H]kainic acid binding was high in the first three postnatal weeks and relatively low thereafter. Saturation studies performed on adults and 14-day-old animals suggest differences in both the affinity and the maximal binding capacity contributed to the observed developmental changes in binding of [3H]kainic acid.
In barbiturate anaesthetized spinal cats antibody microprobes were used to examine release of immunoreactive neurokinin A following cutaneous thermal and mechanical stimulation. In the absence of peripheral stimuli, microprobes detected a diffuse basal presence of immunoreactive neurokinin A. Noxious mechanical and to a lesser extent noxious thermal stimuli increased the levels of immunoreactive neurokinin A diffusely throughout the dorsal horn which, in many cases, spread into the adjacent white matter. These diffuse stimulus-evoked increases contrast with previous experiments where the same stimuli produced discrete focal increases in levels of immunoreactive substance P. Evidence was obtained that released immunoreactive neurokinin A persisted in the spinal cord for at least 30 min beyond the period of stimulation. Neurokinin A needs consideration as the agent responsible for the long-lasting increases in excitability of some spinal neurons found by several laboratories to follow a brief input from unmyelinated primary afferents.
Clinical and experimental evidence indicates that exposure to alcohol in utero is associated with altered immune capacity. The mechanisms underlying such abnormalities are not clear. However, the suggestion that reciprocal interactions between the immune and the nervous systems are necessary for a competent immune response may be relevant. This work examined the consequences of prenatal ethanol exposure on cellular immune responses and noradrenergic synaptic transmission in lymphoid organs of the adult C57B1/6 mouse. Pregnant mice were fed a liquid diet containing 25% of the calories as ethanol (4.8% w/v) or pair-fed an isocaloric equivalent of this diet throughout gestation, followed by foster-nursing the neonates on normal dams. As young adults, mice exposed to ethanol prenatally displayed immunologic and selective neurochemical changes: (1) depressed ability to produce cellular immune responses, including contact hypersensitivity and a local graft-vs-host response, and (2) altered noradrenergic synaptic transmission, including enhanced norepinephrine turnover, and a reduction in norepinephrine levels and beta-adrenoceptor density in the thymus and spleen, but not the heart. However, both the integrity and compartmentation of noradrenergic nerve fibres in the spleen were intact. It is suggested that altered noradrenergic synaptic transmission selectively in lymphoid organs may contribute to the impaired immune capacity associated with fetal alcohol exposure.
A slice preparation was used to study the spread of epileptiform activity in the rat entorhinal cortex. Interictal-like discharges were induced in the medial entorhinal cortex by blocking synaptic inhibition mediated via GABAA-receptors. Recorded intracellularly, these discharges consisted of an initial paroxysmal depolarizing shift followed by a variable number of afterdischarges. There was no apparent difference between these events whether they were recorded in isolated cortical slices or in slices where the hippocampus and subicular complex remained attached. The events were also unaffected by droplets of a xylocaine solution applied to sites in the hippocampus, subicular complex or superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex but applications to layer IV/V, lateral or medial to the recording site could reduce the number of afterdischarges without affecting the initial paroxysmal shift. Simultaneous intracellular recordings from neurons in layer IV/V and layer II of the medial entorhinal cortex showed that the paroxysmal depolarizing shift and all afterdischarges in the deeper layer always preceded those recorded in the superficial layer, and these events invariably occurred on a one-to-one basis. This was true whether the events were evoked or occurred spontaneously. The delay varied between 2 and 11 ms but was consistent for a given cell pair. A similar relationship existed between discharges recorded simultaneously in layer IV/V neurons and layer VI neurons, events in the layer IV/V cells preceding those in the deeper layer. Discharges recorded simultaneously in pairs of layer IV/V neurons showed more complex relationships. Paroxysmal depolarizing shifts were always recorded in both cells and the discharge could occur at the more medial site before the more lateral, or vice versa. For a given pair the temporal relationship was invariable. It was often the case, however, that the temporal relationship between afterdischarges was reversed with respect to the initial paroxysmal shift. This relationship was also invariable in a given pair of cells. Interictal-like discharges in layers II or IV/V neurons could be abolished by perfusion with 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione which is an antagonist for the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (i.e. quisqualate/kainate) subtype of excitatory amino acid receptor. The afterdischarges associated with the events were abolished in an all-or-none fashion whereas the blockade of the paroxysmal depolarizing shift was progressive. Antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors also abolished afterdischarges but only reduced the initial paroxysmal shift. It is concluded that the interictal-like discharges arise intrinsically within the cortex and are not influenced by input from hippocampal or subicular structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sympathetic efferents contribute to the severity of joint injury in experimental arthritis in the rat, [Levine J. D. et al. (1986) J. Neurosci. 6, 3423-3429] and beta 2-adrenergic receptor antagonists suppress the disease [Levine J. D. et al. (1988) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85, 4553-4556]. The present study was directed at determining the endogenous ligand for, and target of, the beta 2-receptor contribution to arthritis. We report that adrenal medullectomy significantly reduced joint injury in experimental arthritis, but that severe joint injury was re-established in adrenal medullectomized rats chronically treated with epinephrine or the beta 2-agonist, salbutamol. The ability of these two drugs to enhance joint injury in adrenal medullectomized rats was blocked by sympathectomy. These data suggest that adrenal medulla-derived epinephrine acts at beta 2-adrenoceptors on sympathetic efferent nerve terminals, to contribute to the severity of experimental arthritis.
Previous work had shown that nicotinic antagonists resulted in a marked up-regulation of alpha-bungarotoxin sites in chromaffin cells in culture. The present experiments were done to determine the intracellular mechanism(s) whereby nicotinic antagonists might mediate their effects on these receptors. Chromaffin cells were cultured for three days with various concentrations of 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, an agent which affects protein kinase C by mimicking the actions of diacylglycerol. The phorbol ester resulted in a dose-dependent increase in alpha-bungarotoxin binding which was maximal with 100 nM 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. This increase in binding appeared to be due to an increase in the maximal number of alpha-bungarotoxin sites. Time dependence studies showed that the effect of the phorbol was undetectable with incubations of 24 h or less and appeared to plateau by 72-96 h. A similar increase in toxin binding was also observed with 4 beta-phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate. On the other hand, an inactive analog of 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate had no significant effect on binding. D-Sphingosine, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, was able to partially block the phorbol ester-induced increase in toxin binding while polymyxin B, another protein kinase C inhibitor, completely prevented the up-regulation of the alpha-bungarotoxin sites. Carbachol and nicotine prevented this enhancement of toxin binding in the presence of 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Although the phorbol ester resulted in an increase in toxin binding, acetylcholine-evoked catecholamine secretion from chromaffin cells in culture was decreased, indicating a dissociation between the functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptor population and the alpha-bungarotoxin sites. To determine whether agents which affect protein kinase C can alter the up-regulation of alpha-bungarotoxin sites by d-tubocurarine, 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate was added to the cells in combination with the nicotinic antagonist. The up-regulation of toxin binding sites induced by d-tubocurarine was additive with that induced by the phorbol and was not affected by polymyxin B. Thus, the results would suggest that there are at least two mechanisms by which alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites can be regulated. One is mediated via an interaction at nicotinic receptors, while the other occurs in response to phorbol esters and thus may be mediated by protein kinase C. Interestingly, although the molecular mechanisms resulting in alpha-bungarotoxin receptor up-regulation differ, both the d-tubocurarine- and the phorbol ester-induced increases were prevented by nicotinic receptor ligands.
Evoked noradrenaline release was monitored every 1 s in vivo from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus by differential pulse amperometry at +105 mV combined with carbon fiber electrodes. Noradrenaline release was evoked by electrical stimulations of the ventrolateral medulla for 20s every 10 min at a physiological frequency (3-20 Hz) (see accompanying paper). The evoked noradrenaline release was dose-dependently attenuated by clonidine (10-100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) and strongly enhanced by alpha-2 antagonists: yohimbine (2 mg/kg), piperoxane (2 mg/kg) and idazoxan (0.05-1 mg/kg). Moreover, the effect of clonidine (50 micrograms/kg) was prevented by yohimbine (5 mg/kg) or idazoxan (1 mg/kg). Haloperidol (50 micrograms/kg) or propranolol (10 mg/kg) did not affect evoked noradrenaline release while prazosin (0.05-1 mg/kg) induced a moderate increase. However, prazosin did not prevent the effect of clonidine (50 micrograms/kg). Reserpine (5 mg/kg) pretreatment for 1 h induced a pronounced decrease in the evoked noradrenaline release and abolished the effect of yohimbine (2 mg/kg). Pretreatment by desipramine 30 min before injection abolished the effect of clonidine (50 micrograms/kg) but not of yohimbine (2 mg/kg). The amplitude of the yohimbine (2 mg/kg) effect depended on the frequency of the stimulation: it was maximal between 3 and 7 Hz and gradually declined from 10 to 20 Hz. These results show that noradrenaline release is presynaptically controlled by an alpha-2 adrenoreceptor and suggest that, in physiological conditions, endogenous extracellular noradrenaline inhibits its own phasic release. In conclusion, noradrenergic terminals act as a high pass filter which converts impulse flow into noradrenaline release and the features of this filter are modulated by extracellular noradrenaline via an alpha-2 adrenoreceptor.
[3H]GABA quantitative autoradiography was used to examine the binding kinetics and regional distribution of GABAB receptors in rat brain. The regional distribution was compared to that of GABAA receptors. At 4 degrees C, [3H]GABA binding to GABAB receptors reached equilibrium within 45 min. The association and dissociation rate constants for GABAB binding to outer neocortical layers were 2.87 +/- 0.17 X 10(5) min-1 M-1 and 0.0966 +/- 0.0118 min-1, respectively, indicating a dissociation constant of 336 +/- 40 nM. Saturation binding studies in the same region yielded a dissociation constant for GABAB receptors of 341 +/- 41 nM while that of GABAA receptors was 92 +/- 10 nM. While the affinities of each type of GABA receptor were uniform across brain regions, the maximal number of binding sites for both types of GABA receptor varied across regions. The distributions of the two receptors in rat brain were different in the olfactory bulb, cerebellum, thalamus, neocortex, medial habenula and interpeduncular nucleus. Areas high in GABAB binding included the medial and lateral geniculates, the superior colliculus and certain amygdaloid nuclei. Binding to white matter tracts and ventricles was negligible. The distribution of GABAB receptors was in agreement with previously postulated sites of action of baclofen.
In vitro autoradiography was used to examine the response of excitatory amino acid receptors in the hippocampus of rat following unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex. The density of N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptor binding was determined on days 1, 3, 7, 14, 21, 30 and 60 postlesion both ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion and in unoperated controls. The results are compared to the time-course of deafferentation and reinnervation. The molecular layer of the dentate gyrus contralateral to the lesion is only minimally denervated, but is known to exhibit extensive synapse loss and replacement. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding density in the contralateral hippocampus increased (10-15% relative to unoperated controls) as early as 3 days postlesion and remained elevated through all postlesion times examined. In contrast, the quisqualate receptors in the contralateral hippocampus were unaffected at all times investigated. In the deafferented molecular layer of the ipsilateral dentate gyrus there was a small transient decrease (15-20%) in the binding density of quisqualate receptors 3 days postlesion. At later postoperative times (30-60 days postlesion) the density of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors in the ipsilateral molecular layer was higher (15-50%) than that of unoperated controls. These results indicate that N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors are differentially regulated in response to deafferentation. The rapid decrease in quisqualate (and perhaps also N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor binding at 3 days postlesion may simply reflect the loss of presynaptic receptors, the turnover of postsynaptic receptors or the down-regulation of postsynaptic receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Multiple nuclei and fiber tracts in the adult rat brainstem and spinal cord were found to contain nerve growth factor receptor-related protein, as recognized by the monoclonal antibody 192-IgG. Both cholinergic and non-cholinergic sensory and motor regions demonstrated immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers. Nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive cells were seen in the mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal nerve, superior colliculus, parabrachial, prepositus hypoglossal, raphe, dorsal and ventral cochlear, interstitial nucleus of the vestibular nerve, ambiguus and reticular nuclei, cerebellum and ventral spinal cord. Immunoreactive cells resembling neuroglia were distributed subpially along the superior colliculus. Intracerebroventricular injection of colchicine resulted in significantly increased nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity in all previously positive neurons and especially in certain neurons of the cochlear and ambiguus nuclei. It also resulted in the visualization of receptor immunoreactivity in certain neurons which were normally non-immunoreactive including cerebellar Purkinje cells, neurons of the central gray, locus coeruleus, facial, dorsal motor vagal and hypoglossal nuclei. In normal animals, nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive fibers and varicosities occurred in the trigeminal nerve nuclei, pontine, vestibular, parabrachial, facial, hypoglossal, dorsal motor vagal, solitary, gracile and cuneate nuclei and spinal cord. Although most fiber-like immunoreactive structures were probably axons and nerve terminals, neuroglial or extracellular localizations could not be excluded in some areas. For example, the medial nucleus of the inferior olive and most cerebellar nuclei contained diffuse non-fibrillar receptor immunoreactivity. The presence of nerve growth factor receptor-like immunoreactivity in cell bodies and fibers of several sensory and motor areas of the adult rat brainstem, cerebellum and spinal cord suggests multifocal actions of nerve growth factor or a nerve growth factor-like substance. Although the degree of overlap between nerve growth factor receptor- and choline acetyltransferase-containing regions in the brainstem is not as great as in the forebrain, our findings suggest a potential influence of nerve growth factor or nerve growth factor-like substances on cholinergic systems outside the forebrain. Furthermore, the disparities which occur imply that non-cholinergic nerve growth factor receptor-containing neurons of the brainstem, cerebellum and spinal cord may be affected by such trophic substances.
Nerve growth factor receptor, as recognized by the monoclonal antibody 192-IgG, was localized to multiple regions of the adult rat forebrain. Immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were seen in both sensory and motor regions which are known to contain cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons. Specifically, nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity was present in cells lining the olfactory ventricle, rostral portion of the lateral ventricle, in basal forebrain nuclei, caudate putamen, globus pallidus, zona incerta and hypothalamus. Immunoreactive cells which were situated subpially along the olfactory ventricle and anterior portions of the lateral ventricle, and in the arcuate nucleus resembled neuroglia but could not definitively identified at the light microscopic level. Animals pretreated with intracerebroventricular colchicine displayed significantly increased nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity in all previously positive neurons and particularly in the medial preoptic area and ventral premammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus. In such animals, receptor immunoreactivity also appeared in previously non-immunoreactive cells of the hippocampal CA3 region and polymorph layer of the dentate gyrus as well as in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb. Nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive fibers and varicosities were seen in the olfactory bulb, piriform cortex, neocortex, amygdala, hippocampus, thalamus, olivary pretectal nucleus and hypothalamus. In most regions, such fiber-like immunoreactive structures likely represented axon terminals, although in some areas, neuroglial or extracellular localizations could not be excluded. In this context, diffuse, non-fibrillar receptor immunoreactivity occurred in the lateral habenular nucleus and medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic tract. Furthermore, intense nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity occurred along certain regions of the pial surface on the ventral surface of the brain. The distribution of nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in multiple sensory and motor nuclei suggests wide-spread influences of nerve growth factor throughout the adult rat forebrain. There is a high degree of overlap with regions containing choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. However, significant disparities exist suggesting that certain nerve growth factor receptor-containing non-cholinergic neurons of the rat forebrain may also be affected by nerve growth factor.
Transient global forebrain ischaemia was produced in Mongolian gerbils by occluding both common carotid arteries for 10 min followed by 48 h recirculation. Dexamethasone, 5 mg/kg i.p., was given 5 h before the occlusion and every 12 h thereafter. After occlusion an increase in water, sodium and calcium content was found in the parietal cortex and hippocampus, while the concentration of potassium decreased. Exudation of plasma albumin was not found in the brain. The activity of Na+, K(+)-ATPase decreased in the hippocampus. Morphological signs of cerebral oedema were also observed, both in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and in the cortex. Dexamethasone treatment prevented the accumulation of water, sodium and calcium in the ischaemic brain. It also attenuated the oedematous morphological changes of the blood-brain barrier. Thus dexamethasone treatment may also have therapeutic relevance in the acute, high-risk phase of patients suffering from repetitive, transitoric cerebral ischaemia.
The effect of zinc on the development and evolution of quinolinic acid-induced alterations in the rat hippocampus in culture was studied ultrastructurally. Zinc, although it possesses intrinsic cytotoxic properties, after application in concentrations comparable with those encountered in vivo, was able to prevent typically observed responses after quinolinic acid exposure, either early or late damage to hippocampal neurons. The results further support the concept of a potential protective effect of zinc against the neurotoxicity of particular excitotoxins.
The effects of agonist concentration, transmembrane voltage and calcium on the glycine-independent desensitization of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were examined in voltage-clamped postnatal rat hippocampal neurons. In the presence of 1 micron glycine and 1 mM calcium, both the time-course and degree of N-methyl-D-aspartate desensitization were dependent on agonist concentration. Transmembrane voltage influenced both the rate and degree of desensitization with a more rapid rate and greater degree at negative holding potentials. Both the time-course and the degree of desensitization were influenced by extracellular calcium in a dose-dependent manner. N-Methyl-D-aspartate desensitization is not augmented by activation of voltage-gated calcium currents and is more pronounced in the presence of intracellular calcium chelators, suggesting that the site of action of calcium in promoting desensitization is extracellular. Although a physiological role for N-methyl-D-aspartate desensitization has not been demonstrated, the process is observed over a range of agonist concentrations, is prominent near resting membrane potential and is regulated by physiologic concentrations of calcium. Thus desensitization could be an important neuroprotective mechanism during periods of prolonged glutamate exposure.
The aims of this study were two-fold. Firstly, to characterize the behavioral properties of a potential new dopamine D1 receptor agonist, (-)-4,6,6a,7,8,12b-hexahydro-7-methyl-indolo[4,3-ab]phenanth ridine (CY 208-243), to determine its suitability as a tool for investigating D1 receptor function in vivo. Secondly, to investigate how the behavioural properties of D1 agonists are modified in the presence of D2 receptor blocking drugs. For this purpose, using mice, we employed CY 208-243 and 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SKF 38393) as reference D1 agonists, and the substituted benzamides metoclopramide and sulpiride as selective D2 antagonists. CY 208-243 (0.25-10 mg/kg) caused only a modest increase in grooming in non-habituated mice, but stimulated locomotion, rearing, grooming and orofacial activities in habituated animals. These responses were inhibited by a D1 antagonist, but not by D2 antagonists, suggesting CY 208-243 behaves as a selective agonist of D1 receptors in vivo. In non-habituated mice, doses of metoclopramide and sulpiride which had little or no effect on motor behaviour by themselves, interacted synergistically with CY 208-243 (4 mg/kg) and SKF 38393 (30 mg/kg) to cause extended periods of immobility. Other species-typical behaviours were not affected in this way. For example, grooming was decreased by metoclopramide and increased by sulpiride, indicating that an increase in behavioural competition from this parameter was not the cause of the hypokinesia. To explain the apparent ability of D1 receptor stimulation to increase exploratory activity in earlier experiments and to decrease it here, it is proposed that this behaviour is regulated by D1 receptors coupled to two functionally opposite postsynaptic D2 receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The presence of the growth-associated protein, B-50 (also known as GAP-43) was investigated in the adult mammalian enteric nervous system. The small intestine of rat, ferret and human was examined by immunohistochemistry. Dense B-50-like immunoreactivity was localized in nerves throughout the wall of the rat, ferret and human small intestine, notably in the myenteric and submucous plexuses, where in the ferret ileum it co-localized with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibre groups. Material with the biochemical and immunological characteristics of rat B-50 was extracted from the rat ileum. In-situ hybridization demonstrated that enteric neurons express B-50. These findings are consistent with a role for B-50 in the documented plasticity of the adult enteric nervous system.
The presence of endogenous ligands for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor was looked for in highly purified rat brain cortex synaptic vesicles, the contents of which were extracted and fractionated by gel filtration on Sephadex G-10, or by three different high-voltage electrophoresis procedures. The presence of endogenous ligands was detected by their ability to compete with 50 nM L-[3H]glutamate for binding to whole rat brain N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The receptor preparations used were those present in purified postsynaptic densities, in which the quisqualate receptors were blocked by 10 microM quisqualate. Synaptic vesicles had a high content of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ligands, which on fractionation always coincided with glutamate or aspartate. A variable and very small amount of a highly acidic endogenous ligand was also found. The latter substance did not coincide in the electrophoresis with homocysteic, cysteic, quinolinic, cysteine sulphinic or homocysteine sulphinic acids, or with N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamic acid, S-sulphocysteine or sulphoserine. We also found that a single centrifugation, in 0.25 M sucrose, 25 mM Tris-citrate, pH 7.1, of purified synaptic vesicles, at 135,000 gmax for 45 min, led to a 51% loss of endogenous glutamate, but did not change their aspartate content. Thus, in uncentrifuged vesicles the glutamate/aspartate ratio was 9.4, while in centrifuged ones the ratio was 3.9 ATP markedly enhanced L-[3H]glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles, but did not change the binding of L-[3H]aspartate. Differences in labelled aspartate and glutamate efflux from the vesicles were also found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To further define the ontogeny of &quot;excitotoxic&quot; injury to brain, intrastriatal injection of an N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist (quinolinate) and a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist (quisqualate) was performed in rats at postnatal days 7 and 14, and in adults. Excitotoxic injury was quantified volumetrically and with neuronal counts of nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate-containing neurons as this cell population is spared in neonatal hypoxia ischemia. Only postnatal day 7 pups injected with quinolinic acid showed selective sparing of neurons containing the enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate. At postnatal day 14 and later ages, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate neurons were susceptible to the actions of both quinolinic and quisqualic acids. The unusual sparing of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-reactive neurons after N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist exposure in the first week of life appears to be unique to the neonatal brain and may be related to the pathophysiology of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia.
The actions of the active L-isomer of vesamicol, an inhibitor of the vesicular storage of acetylcholine, has been studied on spontaneous and evoked acetylcholine release at the snake neuromuscular junction. Miniature endplate currents and endplate currents were recorded from cut muscle fibres of the garter snake, Thamnophis sirtalis. In controls, prolonged periods of high frequency nerve stimulation produced a bimodal distribution of miniature endplate current amplitudes. The stimulation induced &quot;small-mode&quot; miniature endplate currents had a mean amplitude of around 40-55% of the pre-stimulation miniature endplate current. Relative to the normal-sized post-stimulation miniature endplate current, the proportion and, to a lesser extent, amplitude of the small-mode miniature endplate currents was related to both the frequency and duration of nerve stimulation and to the extracellular calcium ion concentration. In unstimulated preparations, L-vesamicol (2-5 microM) did not affect either endplate current quantal content or miniature endplate current amplitude or frequency. However, at these doses, the mean amplitude of the stimulation-induced, small-mode miniature endplate current was reduced by L-vesamicol in a concentration-dependent manner such that they were not visible at the highest dose. L-Vesamicol had no affect on the mean or coefficient of variance of amplitude of the larger, normal-sized miniature endplate current. Additionally, the stimulation-induced increase in overall miniature endplate current frequency seen in controls was abolished by 5 microM L-vesamicol. After prolonged 10 Hz nerve stimulation endplate current amplitude was markedly reduced in both controls (by 94%) and in the presence of 5 microM L-vesamicol (by 98%). Analysis of endplate current amplitude variance showed that in control the decrease was due to reductions in both quantal content and quantal size while in L-vesamicol the decrease was due entirely to a change in quantal content with no change in quantal size. Thus, we have observed that L-vesamicol selectively reduces the amplitude of a population of stimulation-induced small-mode quanta both as miniature endplate currents and as constituents of endplate currents. We suggest that these quanta are derived from a highly active, readily releasable pool. An action of L-vesamicol on this labile pool is consistent with previous observations on its ability to inhibit the vesicular storage of acetylcholine.
Application of serotonin to the isolated, hemisected frog spinal cord resulted in two distinctive changes in motoneuron membrane potential: hyperpolarizations were produced by low concentrations (0.01-1.0 microM) and depolarizations by higher concentrations (3.0-100 microM). The hyperpolarizations appeared to be caused by a direct action of the amine upon motoneurons since exposure of spinal cord tetrodotoxin or magnesium ions in concentrations which blocked interneuronal firing and synaptic transmission, respectively did not reduce these responses. In contrast, depolarizations were significantly reduced by tetrodotoxin or magnesium indicating a large indirect component. The use of agonists and antagonists known to discriminate among different subtypes of serotonin receptors indicated that the hyperpolarizations were produced by activation of 5-HT1A receptors and the depolarizations were generated by activation of 5-HT2 and/or 5-HT1C receptors. Accordingly, the selective 5-HT1A agonists 8-hydroxy-2-(n-dipropylamino)tetralin and ipsapirone directly hyperpolarized motoneurons. The changes in potential produced by low concentrations of serotonin and by these agonists were blocked by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonists spiperone and spiroxatrine. In contrast, application of high concentrations of alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, a serotonin analog which activates 5-HT1C and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes, depolarized motoneurons. These depolarizations, and those produced by high concentrations of serotonin, were blocked by the 5-HT1C/5-HT2 antagonists ketanserin, methysergide and mianserin. These observations indicate that serotonin can alter the membrane potential of motoneurons directly and indirectly by activation of both 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes. Activation of different receptor subtypes depends upon the concentration of the amine.
When adult dorsal root ganglion cells are dissociated and maintained in vitro, both the small dark and the large light neurons show increases in the growth-associated protein GAP-43, a membrane phosphoprotein associated with neuronal development and plasticity. Immunoreactivity for GAP-43 appears in the cytoplasm of the cell bodies as early as 3.5 h post axotomy and is present in neurites and growth cones as soon as they develop. At early stages of culture (4 h to eight days) satellite/Schwann cells are also immunoreactive for GAP-43. Neurons in isolated whole dorsal root ganglion maintained in vitro become GAP-43-immunoreactive between 2 and 3 h after axotomy. It takes three days however, after cutting or crushing the sciatic nerve in adult rats in vivo, for GAP-43 immunoreactivity to appear in the axotomized dorsal root ganglion cells. GAP-43 immunoreactivity can be detected in the central terminals of primary afferent neurons in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn of the lumbar enlargement four days after sciatic cut or crush. The intensity of the GAP-43 staining reaches a peak at 21 days and becomes undetectable nine weeks following crush injury and 36 weeks following sciatic nerve cut. The pattern of GAP-43 staining is identical to the distribution of sciatic small-calibre afferent terminals. Little or no staining is present in the deep dorsal horn, but GAP-43 does appear in the ipsilateral gracile nucleus 22 days after sciatic injury. In investigating the mechanism of GAP-43 regulation, blockade of axon transport in the sciatic nerve with vinblastine (10(-5) M-10(-4) M) or capsaicin (1.5%) was found to produce a pattern of GAP-43 immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn identical to that found with crush, while electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve had no effect. Axotomy of primary sensory neurons or the interruption of axon transport in the periphery therefore acts to trigger GAP-43 production in the cell body. The GAP-43 is transported to both the peripheral and the central terminals of the afferents. In the CNS the elevated GAP-43 levels may contribute to an inappropriate synaptic reorganization of afferent terminals that could play a role in the sensory disorders that follow nerve injury.
The contribution of dopaminergic mechanisms to the generalization of epileptic activity was studied in rats given pilocarpine after pretreatment with selective dopamine agonists. At the dose of 200 mg/kg, pilocarpine produced limbic stereotypes but not convulsions or seizure-related brain damage. Pilocarpine, 200 mg/kg, following pretreatment with the D1 agonist (RS)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3 benzazepine, but not its (S)-enantiomer, induced convulsive activity as revealed by behavioral, electroencephalographic alterations and widespread brain damage. These features were identical to those produced by a higher, convulsant dose of pilocarpine (400 mg/kg). On the other hand, pretreatment with the D2 agonist 4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-n-propyl-2H-pyrazolo-3,4-g-quinoline failed to induce convulsions. Furthermore, the D1 receptor antagonist (R)-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-n-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine -7-ol prevented the convulsive activity induced by both 2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3 benzazepine plus pilocarpine (200 mg/kg) and pilocarpine (400 mg/kg), given alone. However, neither dopamine agonists nor antagonists altered the limbic stereotypes induced by pilocarpine, suggesting a dopamine system involvement primarily in the mechanisms of epilepsy generalization. The results suggest that pharmacological manipulation of dopaminergic transmission may provide an alternative approach to therapy of secondarily generalized epilepsy.
When inelastically scattered electrons with an energy loss specific for interaction with phosphorus atoms were used for visualization of sections of squid axons, bead-like domains of elongated proteins, presumably neurofilaments, exhibited distinct phosphorus signals. A marked asymmetry of these phosphorus signals was detectable between the pre- and the postsynaptic cytoskeleton of the giant synapse. Signals were very numerous and intense in the presynaptic terminal, while rare and weak in the postsynaptic axoplasm. The giant axon revealed a delayed appearance of phosphorus signals in its course from the cell bodies in the giant fibre lobe to its exit from the stellate ganglion. Numerous and intense phosphorylation signals were evident only in the peripheral giant axon. Asymmetry in the distribution of phosphorus signals between pre- and postsynaptic axoplasm paralleled differences in Ca(2+)-buffering mechanisms, as shown in a previous study. In the presynaptic terminal patterns of phosphorus signals correlated with precipitates which had formed after intra-axonal injection of calcium. Our observations suggest a role of phosphorylated neurofilaments in binding of calcium in the squid synapse.
The major purpose of the present study was to determine the origin of the serotonin-containing neurons which project to the rostral ventral respiratory group in the rat. This was accomplished by using the technique of retrograde tracing with rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres (beads) combined with immunochemistry. The rhodamine-labeled beads were microinjected into electrophysiologically identified groups of inspiratory neurons in the rostral ventral respiratory group to retrogradely label neurons projecting to this site. Immunohistochemical processing of the tissue was then done to determine if serotonin was present in the retrogradely-labeled neurons. Serotonin-containing neurons projecting to the rostral ventral respiratory group were found in the raphe magnus, raphe obscurus, raphe pallidus and in the paraolivary region extending to the ventral medullary surface. No serotonin-containing neurons in more rostrally located raphe nuclei were found to project to the rostral ventral respiratory group. The findings suggest that caudal raphe serotonergic projections may affect the activity of respiratory neurons in the rostral ventral respiratory group. Projections to the rostral ventral respiratory group from other pontomedullary nuclei were also identified. Rhodamine-labeled neurons were found in the area of the Klliker-Fuse nucleus, lateral and medial parabrachial nuclei, retrofacial nucleus, nucleus ambiguus/retroambigualis, nucleus tractus solitarius, A5 region, nucleus paragigantocellularis lateralis, retrotrapezoid nucleus, area postrema and spinal trigeminal nucleus. The projections to the rostral ventral respiratory group in the rat are similar to those previously described in the cat and suggest a common circuitry for the CNS control of breathing.
Neonatal sensory neurons from rat nodose ganglia express nicotinic acetylcholine receptors when grown in tissue culture without other cell types. The present study investigates the role of nerve growth factor in inducing these receptors. Nerve growth factor has little effect on the growth and survival of nodose neurons in culture, although most neurons were found by quantitative radioautography to have high-affinity nerve growth factor receptors. Nerve growth factor strongly influenced the expression of nicotinic receptors on these neurons: the proportion of acetylcholine-sensitive neurons was approximately 60% in cultures with nerve growth factor compared with 15% in cultures grown without nerve growth factor. The proportion of acetylcholine-sensitive neurons increased over the first week, plateaued by day 12 and remained high for at least three weeks. In contrast, without NGF, the proportion of acetylcholine-sensitive neurons was low throughout the three-week period. The results indicate that nerve growth factor is an important factor in promoting nicotinic receptors on these neurons in culture.
We have detected angiotensinogen immunoreactivity in the hindbrain and in the spinal cord of rat fetuses during the 18th to 20th day of gestation. In the 18th-day fetus, a few immunoreactive angiotensinogen cells are localized in precise brain areas. Their number sharply increase during the 19th and 20th day gestation period when there is an active cell differentiation and cell growth. These observations suggest a role of the renin-angiotensinogen system during cell growth and cell differentiation.
The time-courses of junction potentials and junction currents at the sympathetic neuroeffector junction of guinea-pig vas deferens were investigated using simultaneous intracellular and focal extracellular recording. Excitatory junction potentials produced in the smooth muscle cells following electrical stimulation of the sympathetic nerves had duration of 600-1000 ms and were prolonged in time-course compared with the underlying excitatory junction currents which had durations of 40-150 ms. The time-course of the excitatory junction potential could be predicted accurately from the time-course of the underlying excitatory junction current by assuming that the smooth muscle cells were isopotential during the excitatory junction potential. In contrast, the time-course of the spontaneous excitatory junction potential, produced by the action of a single quantum of transmitter, was identical to the time-course of the underlying spontaneous excitatory junction current, both events having durations of 40-150 ms. Local application of 10(-4) M adenosine 5'-triphosphate in the vicinity of an intracellular microelectrode produced depolarizations (&quot;adenosine 5'-triphosphate potentials&quot;) of durations ranging between 400 and 2500 ms. When adenosine 5'-triphosphate was applied close to the rim of an extracellular electrode, negative-going signals (&quot;adenosine 5'-triphosphate currents&quot;) were produced which reflected the time-course of postjunctional membrane currents evoked by adenosine 5'-triphosphate. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate currents were abolished by alpha, beta-methylene adenosine 5'-triphosphate (10(-6) M) but were unaffected by tetrodotoxin (3 x 10(-7) M or 10(-6) M) and the alpha-adrenoceptor blockers prazosin (10(-6) M) and phentolamine (10(-6) M). The time-courses of adenosine 5'-triphosphate currents were similar to the time-courses of excitatory junction currents recorded in the same preparation. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate currents were generally brief compared with simultaneously recorded adenosine 5'-triphosphate potentials which had durations or greater than or equal to 1000 ms. The time-courses of relatively brief adenosine 5'-triphosphate potentials (duration less than or equal to 800 ms) followed the time-courses of the underlying adenosine 5'-triphosphate currents. These results indicate that the time-course of decay of the excitatory junction potential in the guinea-pig vas deferens is determined mainly by the passive membrane properties of the smooth muscle cells, the duration of underlying transmitter action being brief. However, the factors determining the time-course of adenosine 5'-triphosphate potentials are less clear, and may include passive membrane properties and diffusion of locally applied adenosine 5'-triphosphate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone is secreted into the hypophysial portal vasculature through which it controls the release of the gonadotropins. The peptide also acts as a neurotransmitter in various loci within the central nervous system. It is not known whether these roles are performed by separate populations of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons. Some recent tracing experiments suggest that this is the case (Silverman et al., J. Neurosci. 7, 2312, 1987; Jennes and Stumpf, Neuroscience 18, 403, 1986). One aspect of this question was addressed in the current study by intraperitoneal introduction of Fluoro-Gold (a retrograde tracer) into male and female rats under various age and hormonal conditions. Brain sections from the anterior olfactory nuclei to the median eminence were treated for the immunocytochemical demonstration of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. In all cases, regardless of the age, sex or hormonal condition of the animal, the Fluoro-Gold tracer was found in more than 90% of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons. We conclude that virtually all luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons in the rat secrete outside the blood-brain barrier, including those which project to sites within the central nervous system.
The system between cutaneous (suralis) afferents and dorsal horn neurons was studied for comparison with studies previously performed on the motor axon-Renshaw cell system, using the same methods. In anaesthetized or decerebrated cats, 27 dorsal horn neurons of segments L5 to S1 were recorded extracellularly in depths of 1-2.3 mm from cord dorsum. Cutaneous afferents in branches of the ipsilateral suralis nerve were stimulated with sequences of randomly occurring electrical pulses at two levels of mean rate. The responses of the dorsal horn neurons to the stimuli were evaluated in the frequency and time domain. Calculation of coherence, gain and phase functions (via spectral analysis) showed that the frequency response depended on the precise pattern on cell discharge and could vary from broad-band to low-pass or occasionally band-pass characteristics. There were minor differences in these characteristics with those of Renshaw cells. A special type of nonlinear analysis, using conditional peristimulus-time histograms, showed that the responses to test stimuli were facilitated, depressed or both by conditioning stimuli occurring some tens to a few hundred milliseconds before. Early and late response components could be conditioned individually and differently. Exponential fits to such conditioning curves yielded two time constants for depression (means of 21 and 94 ms) and one for facilitation (14 ms). Similar conditioning effects and time constants were previously found for the motor axon-Renshaw cell system although a few differences were apparent. By analogy, it is suggested that part of the long-lasting conditioning effects (with long time constants) are probably due to presynaptic mechanisms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Embryonic rat hippocampal primordia from class I and class II major histoincompatible donors were transplanted into the hippocampus of adult rat hosts. The allografts were rejected by a specific host immune response, which was identified by reference to events at a histocompatible hippocampal primordial graft (syngeneic to the host) of similar embryonic age placed simultaneously in the contralateral hippocampus of the same hosts. The present combined light immunohistochemical and electron microscopic study was undertaken to elucidate the mechanism of induction of the immune response by a graft of a tissue which does not constitutively express major histocompatibility antigens, to identify which cells are involved, and how they enter the brain and attack the graft, and to look for possible sources of variability in the outcome of such an attack. Our main findings are (1) that host and graft microglia play a prominent role from the earliest stages, and throughout the evolution of the histological changes, (2) that the later entry of host dendritic cells, lymphocytes, and lymphoblasts (with associated mitoses) into the perivascular cuffs of the graft vasculature ensures that the local immune response becomes self-propagating, (3) that the allografted neurons are killed by host cytotoxic lymphocytes only after a previous encirclement by host macrophage-derived microglial cells, and (4) that the observed variability (especially within different regions of a single allograft) is associated not with failure of immune induction, but with local failure of the graft tissues to express allotypic major histocompatibility antigens. Our observations confirm that once the host immune system has been primed, local factors leading to the induction of transplant major histocompatibility complex antigens make histoincompatible intracerebral transplants of embryonic into adult brain tissue vulnerable to vigorous and effective immune attack. The histological picture of the immune response observed in our intracerebral allografts resembles that described in intraventricular allografts of embryonic brain, in allografts of other organs and tissues such as skin, kidney, and heart, and also that seen in the response to brain autoantigens in multiple sclerosis and experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. However, the involvement of a special cell type, the perivascular microglial cell, in the early stages of immune induction in brain raises the possibility of designing future therapeutic approaches which might selectively block this step in conditions such as multiple sclerosis.
Catecholamine metabolism was studied in vivo in the C1 adrenergic area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata in rats, using differential normal pulse voltammetry coupled with an activated carbon fiber microelectrode. Pharmacological evidence indicates that 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, the major dopamine metabolite, is responsible for the electrochemical signal appearance in the C1 group, and that it reflects the catecholamine synthesis rate, as previously reported in the locus coeruleus. Indeed, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was estimated to be formed from 77% of the intracellular dopamine, since its synthesis was increased by only 23%, after blockade of the dopamine-beta-hydroxylase activity. Neuronal activation by retrograde electrical stimulation increased the electrochemical signal, as well as hemorrhage and hypotension, suggesting that the level of extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid is a good biochemical index of the C1 adrenergic cellular activity in baseline conditions and during cellular activation.
The rat pineal gland is an attractive system for studies on the capacity of neural systems to recover following partial injury, allowing both for the creation of precise subtotal lesions and for the measurement of recovery of function at the cellular level. The pineal gland receives overlapping sympathetic innervation from the right and left internal carotid nerves from neurons whose cell bodies are located in the two superior cervical ganglia. This innervation regulates several aspects of pineal metabolism in a circadian fashion, with the most dramatic being a marked increase in the night-time activity of N-acetyltransferase, a key enzyme regulating the rate of melatonin synthesis. We have previously shown that a highly divergent pattern takes place in the night-time activity of this enzyme following two different unilateral lesions of the sympathetic innervation to the gland. Thus, following a unilateral lesion of the internal carotid nerve (unilateral denervation), there is an initial decline in N-acetyltransferase activity; however, normal activity is again seen during the second and subsequent nights. In contrast, a unilateral lesion of the cervical sympathetic trunk, the nerve that innervates the superior cervical ganglion (unilateral decentralization), results in &quot;permanent&quot; impairment of N-acetyltransferase activity. In the present study, we report that the functional capacity of the entire pathway for melatonin synthesis is similarly affected following these lesions, as reflected by the levels of melatonin and of its precursor N-acetylserotonin in the pineal gland, as well as the levels of the main melatonin metabolite 6-hydroxy-melatonin in the urine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The amygdala is severely and consistently affected by pathology in Alzheimer's disease. The distribution of Thioflavin S-stained neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques was examined in the various nuclei that form the amygdala in 20 cases of clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease and five non-demented control cases. Large numbers of neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques were observed in the accessory basal and cortical nuclei and the cortical transition area, while there was lesser involvement of the mediobasal nucleus. The medial, lateral, laterobasal and central nuclei were relatively spared. The distribution of neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic plaques was compared with neuroanatomic connections known from non-human primate experimental studies. This comparison suggests that (1) nuclei receiving and giving rise to hippocampal projections are consistently affected by neuropathological alterations in Alzheimer's disease; (2) the nuclei which receive strong cholinergic projections from the nucleus basalis of Meynert (e.g. laterobasal nucleus) have, in general, relatively few neuritic plaques; and (3) nuclei which receive olfactory projections are not uniformly affected, the cortical nucleus being heavily affected but the medial nucleus consistently spared.
In order to determine whether short-term glucocorticoid manipulations influence the morphology and survival of neurons in the adult mammalian hippocampal formation, we performed quantitative analyses of Golgi-impregnated and Nissl-stained tissue from the brains of sham operated male rats, adrenalectomized male rats and adrenalectomized male rats which received corticosterone replacement. Three days after adrenalectomy, massive cell death, as detected by a dramatic increase in number of pyknotic cells, was observed in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. By seven days following adrenalectomy, the numbers of pyknotic cells were even greater. Moreover, significant decreases in cross-sectional cell body area and numbers of dendritic branch points of Golgi-impregnated dentate gyrus granule cells were detected at seven days after adrenalectomy. Replacement of corticosterone to adrenalectomized rats prevented the appearance of large numbers of pyknotic cells as well as the decrease in granule cell cross-sectional cell body area and the numbers of dendritic branch points. In contrast, no obvious signs of degeneration were detected in the pyramidal cell layers of the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus at either three or seven days following adrenalectomy. In addition, no significant changes in morphological characteristics were observed in CA1 or CA3 pyramidal cells with adrenalectomy. These results show that dentate gyrus granule cells require glucocorticoids for their survival and for the maintenance of normal morphology and suggest that granule cell morphology and/or survival may undergo constant fluctuation in response to diurnal rhythms or stress-induced changes in glucocorticoid levels.
The hippocampal output to the dorsal presubiculum was analysed in the guinea-pig by field potential analysis. Perforant path volleys, synaptically elicited by stimulation of the dorsal psalterium of one side, were used to activate the lamellar circuit of the same side and, through interhippocampal impulses, the hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the opposite side. The discharge of the pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus was followed by a negative fast wave with associated unit firing in lamina principalis interna and in the innermost part of lamina principalis externa of the presubicular cortex. These findings suggested the generation of excitatory synaptic effects in lamina principalis interna and innermost lamina principalis externa. The presubicular response was present in preparations with the fornix bilaterally sectioned. It was eliminated by interruption of the caudally-directed hippocampal projections, which suggested that it was mediated by these hippocampal efferents. The generation site of the presubicular response in deep cell laminae was not consistent with the terminal field of the hippocampus-presubiculum projections but was with that of the subiculum-presubiculum projections. The hippocampal discharge evoked in the dorsal subiculum a response with shorter latency and lower threshold than the presubicular response. These data suggest that the presubicular response might be evoked through hippocampus-subiculum-presubiculum connections. The results show that the hippocampal output evokes excitatory synaptic effects in the presubiculum and that these effects are segregated in deep cell laminae. The fact that these laminae give origin to an important projection to the anterior thalamic nuclei suggests that hippocampal impulses may be transferred to subcortical structures through the presubiculum.
The efferent projections to the host brain from intrastriatal grafts have been examined at the ultrastructural level. Cell suspensions of E14 rat fetal striatal tissue were implanted into the ibotenic acid lesioned caudate-putamen of adult rats. After survival times of at least five months, the anterograde neuronal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was injected into the grafts. Consistent with our previous light microscopical analysis, anterogradely labelled fibres could be followed from the grafts into the host globus pallidus along the normal trajectory of the striatopallidal pathway in the internal capsule, and a few fibres also reached the entopeduncular nucleus and the substantia nigra. In the electron microscope, the graft-derived efferents were seen to be myelinated as they projected caudally along the fibre bundles of the internal capsule, and they were thus similar to the neostriatal projection in normal control animals. In the host globus pallidus, the graft-derived fibres ramified into a terminal network forming morphologically normal synaptic contacts with neuronal elements in the host globus pallidus. A total of 118 synaptic contacts were identified, all of them formed symmetric membrane specializations. The major postsynaptic targets were dendritic shafts (90%), with only a few contacts with spines or small shafts (8%) and perikarya (2%). The morphology of the synaptic contacts and their distribution on different postsynaptic targets were similar to that which was found in the globus pallidus after tracer-injections into the caudate-putamen of normal control animals. The results show that grafted fetal striatal neurons can grow along the myelinated territory of the internal capsule to reinstate a seemingly normal synaptic input to the previously denervated neurons in the host globus pallidus.
alpha-Latrotoxin, the major toxin of black widow spider venom, was suggested to bind to the specific receptor on the membrane of presynaptic cells and to activate a nonselective cation channel. The aim of this investigation was to express the receptor to alpha-latrotoxin in the membrane of Xenopus laevis oocytes. Responses to alpha-latrotoxin were studied using a double microelectrode voltage-clamp technique on X. laevis oocytes previously injected with poly(A+)-RNA from rat brain. alpha-Latrotoxin (10 nM) was shown to induce a slow activating reversible inward membrane current at a clamp potential of -60 mV. A second application of alpha-latrotoxin immediately after washing out induced a smaller response. Reversal potential of this current was near to 0 mV; it hardly changed in low Cl- external solution. Response to alpha-latrotoxin did not depend significantly on the variation of Ca2+ concentration in external solution. Ethyleneglycolbis(aminoethylether)tetra-acetate (EGTA) injection into oocytes did not decrease alpha-latrotoxin-induced current, but seemed to slow the kinetics of the response. Inorganic Ca-channel blocker Co2+ had no effect on alpha-latrotoxin response. These results indicate that alpha-latrotoxin-induced inward current flows mainly through cation nonspecific channel. A lectin concanavalin A irreversibly inhibited alpha-latrotoxin-evoked inward current. Many of these observations are similar to those reported for nerve cells after alpha-latrotoxin application. The data obtained suggest that functional receptor to alpha-latrotoxin can be successively expressed in the membrane of Xenopus oocytes providing future search of DNA encoding receptor subunits and study of receptor structure-function relationship.
The influence of circulating antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide on the inflammatory response was examined in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Rats were immunized with alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide conjugated to thyroglobulin, and circulating antibodies were identified by their capacity to bind radiolabelled rat alpha or human calcitonin gene-related peptide. In unimmunized rats and rats immunized with thyroglobulin alone, the secondary lesions (characterized as paw swelling, nodules on ears and tail, and inflamed nose) produced after adjuvant-induced arthritis were similar. However, at 21 days, when these lesions were maximal, the animals immunized with calcitonin gene-related peptide showed decreased numbers of lesions. An additional marker of disease activity, namely alpha 1 glycoprotein levels in plasma, was also measured. Again, plasma alpha 1 glycoprotein levels were similar in rats that were unimmunized or received thyroglobulin alone, but at 21 days were significantly reduced in animals immunized with calcitonin gene-related peptide. In contrast, the initial foot swelling seen in the first few days after injection of adjuvant was not significantly different in the various groups. The results suggest that antibodies to calcitonin gene-related peptide are able to reduce the severity of the adjuvant arthritis syndrome, and that this peptide contributes to the inflammatory response seen in the later stages of the disease model.
Two temperature-sensitive alleles of Drosophila melanogaster, Cha(ts1) and Cha(ts2), have been previously identified and are thought to be point mutations in the structural gene for the neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzyme choline acetyltransferase. In order to clarify the molecular nature of these alleles and characterize the presumed amino acid substitutions, we have used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify choline acetyltransferase messenger ribonucleic acid fragments from both mutant genotypes. Amplified mutant complementary deoxyribonucleic acid was cloned and used to construct chimeric complementary deoxyribonucleic acid clones containing approximately two-thirds of the wild-type sequence which would code for N-terminal amino acids and one-third of the mutant sequence coding for the C-terminal amino acids. After in vitro translation of complementary ribonucleic acid produced from the chimeric complementary deoxyribonucleic acid clones, choline acetyltransferase activity was determined and shown to be thermolabile. Sequence analyses of these clones showed that one amino acid substitution due to single base substitution is crucial in each chimeric choline acetyltransferase complementary deoxyribonucleic acid to generate a thermolabile choline acetyltransferase product. The point mutations of the structural gene for choline acetyltransferase are thus confirmed and shown to regulate the thermolability of the enzyme produced by Cha(ts1) and Cha(ts2).
Systemic administration of 0.2 mg/kg of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol reduced the rate of feeding in food-deprived rats, whereas a dose of 0.4 mg/kg suppressed both the rate of feeding and time spent feeding. Pre-feeding a group of rats decreased the time spent feeding but had minimal effects on the rate of feeding. Regression analysis showed that food intake, time spent feeding, and rate of feeding were related to each other in different ways in haloperidol-treated and pre-fed rats. Near-total depletion of brain dopamine by injection of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle initially decreased both time spent feeding and feeding rate. When rats that were initially aphagic after dopamine depletion recovered feeding behavior, their rate of feeding did not return to control values, and they spent more time feeding than control rats. Similarly, 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats with smaller dopamine depletions, which were not initially aphagic after the lesions, nevertheless had a prolonged reduction in the rate of feeding. Although control rats typically held the food pellets in both forepaws while feeding, dopamine-depleted rats often fed with one or no paws holding the pellet. The suppression of food intake and rate of feeding in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats was correlated with the depletion of dopamine in the lateral striatum, but not the medial striatum. These results indicate that dopamine in the striatum is involved in aspects of motor control that are necessary for efficient feeding behavior in rats.
Specific prostaglandins have been identified that mediate the sympathetic postganglionic neuron-terminal dependent hyperalgesia induced by bradykinin and norepinephrine, prostaglandin E2 and prostacyclin, respectively. In this study we evaluated the hypothesis that bradykinin and norepinephrine stimulate prostaglandin production in the rat, via distinct phospholipases. We found that, in normal skin, bradykinin hyperalgesia is inhibited by the phospholipase A2 inhibitor, mepacrine, but not by the phospholipase C inhibitor, neomycin and is mimicked by phospholipase A2. In chloroform-treated skin or when co-injected with A23187, bradykinin-induced hyperalgesia was found to consist of two components, one resulting from prostaglandin E2 synthesis (phospholipase A2-dependent) and one resulting from prostacyclin synthesis (phospholipase C-dependent). This latter component is blocked by Quin 2 and verapamil and also inhibited by yohimbine, an alpha 2 receptor antagonist. Arachidonic acid induces a dose-dependent hyperalgesia that was found to be like bradykinin-hyperalgesia in untreated skin (prostaglandin E2-mediated and phospholipase A2-dependent). In chloroform-treated skin or in the presence of A23187, arachidonic acid like bradykinin led to the production of prostacyclin as well as prostaglandin E2. Norepinephrine does not produce hyperalgesia in untreated skin, but in chloroform pretreated skin or in the presence of the calcium ionophore A23187, norepinephrine produces a potent dose-dependent hyperalgesia. This hyperalgesia is prevented by sympathectomy and suppressed by the calcium antagonists Quin 2 and verapamil. It is also suppressed by indomethacin and neomycin but not by SC19220 and mepacrine and is mimicked by phospholipase C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The pelvic paracervical autonomic ganglia of female rats were studied for a subpopulation of nerve endings that could be derived from sensory nerve fibers. Immunohistochemical staining using an antiserum against the synaptic-terminal protein synapsin I was used to identify terminal boutons, while an antiserum against the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide was used to reveal a subpopulation of sensory nerve fibers. The uterine cervix was also examined for the existence of calcitonin gene-related peptide and synapsin I immunoreactivity in nerve fiber varicosities. In addition, the location of nerve endings in the paracervical ganglion was compared to that in the superior cervical ganglion. Synapsin I immunoreactivity was present in the paracervical ganglion in abundant boutons around neuron somata and in the cervix in varicose nerve fibers of the myometrium, vasculature and epithelium. Double labeling immunocytochemistry revealed calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in subpopulations of synapsin I-immunoreactive endings in ganglia and nerve varicosities in the cervix. Injection of a retrograde axonal tracer, fluorogold, into the paracervical ganglion produced labeled neurons in dorsal root ganglia and spinal cord; however, fluorogold-labeled neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity were visualized only in dorsal root ganglia. Injections of fluorogold into the uterine cervix produced labeled neurons in the paracervical ganglion and dorsal root ganglia; however, only those in dorsal root ganglia contained immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide. These results suggest that immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide is present in a subpopulation of nerve endings in the paracervical ganglion and not merely in fibers of passage. The nerve endings in the ganglion and varicosities in the uterine cervix originate from sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia. The arrangement of endings in the ganglia could play a role in sensory/autonomic interactions for modulation of visceral activity.
Activation of GABAergic transmission within the substantia nigra has been shown to suppress several forms of generalized seizures in experimental models of epilepsy. More especially, such pharmacological manipulations suppress spontaneous and chemically-induced generalized non-convulsive seizures in the rat. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of the dopaminergic and GABAergic thalamic and collicular nigral outputs in this antiepileptic effect. For this purpose, we examined the effects of output destruction on the antiepileptic effect of intranigral injections of a GABA agonist or pharmacological blockade of the neurotransmission at the nerve terminal level in rats with spontaneous absence seizures. After selective destruction of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra with 6-hydroxydopamine (5 micrograms/side) or hemisection of the ascending nigral output, bilateral intranigral injection of muscimol (2 ng/side) still significantly suppressed generalized non-convulsive seizures. Bilateral lesioning of the ventromedial nucleus of the thalamus did not abolish the antiepileptic effects of intranigral muscimol (2 ng/side) and the GABA antagonist, picrotoxin, when given into this thalamic nucleus (10 ng/side) also failed to induce suppression of spike and wave discharges. The antiepileptic effects of intranigral injection of muscimol (2 ng/side) was reversed by bilateral electrolytic lesions of the superior colliculus. Blockade of the GABAergic transmission at this level with picrotoxin (40 ng/side) significantly suppressed generalized non-convulsive seizures. Finally, excitation of collicular cell bodies with low doses of kainic acid (4 and 8 ng/side) also resulted in a suppression of spike and wave discharges. These results demonstrate that the GABAergic nigrocollicular pathway is critical for the inhibitory control of the substantia nigra over generalized non-convulsive seizures. The data further suggest that antiepileptic effects observed following potentiation of GABAergic transmission in the substantia nigra result from a disinhibition of collicular cell bodies.
The effects of nicardipine and other organic Ca2(+)-channel antagonists on the responses induced by indirect train stimulation (3 s, 50-100 Hz) were studied in mouse phrenic nerve diaphragm preparations. Nicardipine at 1-10 microM, which alone did not affect single or tetanic contractions or the amplitude of evoked endplate potentials and spontaneous miniature endplate potentials, caused tetanic contraction to fade completely in the presence of 0.3 microM neostigmine or 50 microM diisopropylfluorophosphate. In combination with these anticholinesterases, nicardipine caused a severe run-down and shortening of endplate potentials in 1-2 s. This effect on endplate potentials was dependent on stimulus frequency and on extracellular Ca2+. The effect was accelerated by intracellular injection of Ca2+, but retarded by injection of EGTA. The amplitudes of miniature endplate potentials and the evoked endplate depolarization were also depressed during repetitive stimulation. On termination of repetitive stimulation, all postsynaptic responses, including evoked endplate potentials, miniature endplate potentials and single twitches, recovered to pre-train level in 3-10 s. These results suggest that the postsynaptic nicotinic receptors had lost the functional activity during repetitive stimulation. The time-courses of the aforementioned changes initiated by repetitive stimulation were similar to the fast phase of desensitization induced by acetylcholine. The irreversible action of alpha-bungarotoxin on acetylcholine receptor was attenuated in the presence of nicardipine and neostigmine if repetitive stimulation was applied. The same effects were observed with other organic Ca2(+)-channel antagonists (diltiazem, verapamil and nifedipine) as well as agonist (methyl-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3-nitro-4-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)-pyr idine- 5-carboxylate, BAY K8644), but not with Mn2+, theophylline or caffeine. It is inferred that organic Ca2(+)-channel antagonists interact directly with acetylcholine receptor ion channel, enhance its autodesensitization liability and thus cause extinction of endplate potentials on repetitive stimulation.
Unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system were induced in five monkeys by intranigral injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine. Following the lesion, all monkeys showed a transient reluctance in using the contralateral forelimb, accompanied, in two monkeys by semi-flexed posture of the disabled forelimb. Three of the monkeys that had been conditioned to perform a visually triggered goal-directed arm movement, showed an increase in latency and duration of contralateral arm movements. Task performance recovered spontaneously to preoperative levels within four months in two monkeys despite significant reductions of endogenous dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid contents in the caudate nucleus, putamen and globus pallidus ipsilateral to the neurotoxic nigral injection. The third monkey exhibited a persistent increase in movement latency associated with a near complete loss of dopamine in both the putamen and the caudate nucleus. In all cases, an increase the dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid to dopamine ratio was detected in the striatum and pallidum suggesting a compensatory increase in dopamine turnover in remaining intact dopaminergic nerve terminals. The level of serotonin was changed in all monkeys consisting of either a decrease or an increase, depending on the striatopallidal regions studied. Changes in choline acetyltransferase and glutamic acid decarboxylase activities in the same regions were only seen in some cases. The present results show that 6-hydroxydopamine-induced partial unilateral lesion of nigral dopaminergic neurons produced predominantly contralateral hypokinesia, accompanied by reductions of dopamine content in the ipsilateral striatum and pallidum. The use of this locally applied neurotoxin appears to be a suitable method for investigating neurophysiological mechanisms underlying hypokinesia since deficits in both initiating and executing movements can be expressed independently of other behavioral symptoms. The results show more persistent deficits in starting movements than in their execution and thus suggest that motor initiation is more dependent upon the functional integrity of the nigrostriatal dopamine system than movement completion.
Previous studies of the tuberal, or retrochiasmatic, portion of the supraoptic nucleus suggest its functional similarity to the more densely populated anterior supraoptic nucleus, but the basic electrophysiological and morphological features of tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons have not been described. Using the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial explant preparation in the rat, intracellular recordings and biocytin injections were made in tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons and the results indicate that the two parts of the nucleus are similar. The generally oval-shaped somata of tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons exhibited short, irregularly shaped appendages, and possessed 2-5 varicose, sparsely branching dendrites oriented in the horizontal plane. Many tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons could be antidromically stimulated (mean latency = 6.4 ms). Filled neurons had varicose axons which were traced to the median eminence and even as far as the neural stalk, but which did not bifurcate. Both axons and dendrites were sparsely invested with short, hair-like appendages. The input resistance of the recorded neurons (mean = 177.7 M omega) was positively correlated with the membrane time constant (mean = 13.1 ms; r = 0.83). Tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons displayed a prominent afterhyperpolarization following individual spikes or bursts of spikes, as well as firing frequency adaptation in response to positive current pulses. Although numbering far fewer than those of the anterior supraoptic nucleus, tuberal supraoptic nucleus neurons have axons which are more often intact in this preparation, and a dendritic tree which radiates within the plane of the explant. Thus these neurons should provide a useful model for further study of the electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of mammalian neurosecretory neurons.
Extracellular recordings were made from electrophysiologically identified nigrothalamic cells in the substantia nigra pars reticulata of anaesthetized rats. The firing rate, firing pattern and responses to striatal stimulation were investigated in normal animals and in animals in which dopamine concentration in the ipsilateral striatum was reduced by more than 90%. At relatively short times after the lesion (less than 10 days) the mean firing rate of the spontaneously active cells in the population was significantly reduced and there was an increase in the occurrence of bursting activity. There was also a significant increase in the number of silent cells, located by antidromic stimulation from the thalamus. In spite of this reduction in mean firing rate the responses of neurons to stimulation of either the ipsilateral striatum or ventromedial thalamus was much larger in cells from lesioned animals. At longer times after the lesion (more than six months) the average firing rate of the neurons had returned to normal but there was still a prevalence of bursting activity and a consequent reduction in mean inter-spike intervals. There was little evidence of the previous hyper-responsiveness to thalamic stimulation but the responsiveness to striatal stimulation was still significantly elevated.
Reactions of cortical suprasylvian gyrus neurons were investigated intracellularly after supracortical strychnine application in immobilized and anaesthetized cats. It was shown that paroxysmal depolarizing shifts of membrane potential could be accompanied by de- and hyperpolarizing afterpotentials. When passing from epileptiform to normal physiological activity, short afterhyperpolarizations, 300-500 ms in duration, were converted into inhibitory postsynaptic potentials which were also accompanied by a decrease in membrane potential. When the frequency of paroxysmal discharge was less than 1 s, prolonged (1-2 s) afterhyperpolarizations were observed; at a higher frequency their summation led to tonic hyperpolarization of the membrane. The ictal discharges were accompanied by postictal hyperpolarizations of up to 30 s duration. The intracellular injection of EGTA blocking Ca2(+)-dependent potassium conductivity eliminated prolonged after- and postictal hyperpolarizations and produced depolarizing afterpotentials and a gradual depolarization of cell membranes. Our results indicate that the development of short hyperpolarizing afterpotentials could be determined by the inhibitory synaptic effects. The activation of Ca2(+)-dependent potassium conductivity caused by the development of prolonged afterhyperpolarizations and postictal polarizations, as well as maintained tonic hyperpolarization of cell membranes. Obviously, the depolarizing afterpotentials are of a non-synaptic origin and can be induced by inward calcium current.
Homogenates of bovine splenic nerve and of vas deferens were subjected to differential and density gradient centrifugation to investigate their noradrenaline-storing organelles. The subcellular fractions obtained were analysed by immunoblotting in order to define the presence of various antigens in small dense-core and large dense-core vesicles. In both large granule and microsomal fractions from splenic nerve only one type of noradrenaline-storing vesicle was found, which represents the large dense-core vesicles. These organelles contained chromogranin A, chromogranin B, cytochrome b-561, carboxypeptidase H, glycoprotein II, glycoprotein III, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and the monoamine carrier which are also present in adrenal chromaffin granules. The subcellular distribution of synaptin/synatophysin was more complex since this protein was apparently present in two organelles: in a light vesicle which did not contain significant amounts of antigens found in large dense-core vesicles (dopamine beta-hydroxylase, cytochrome b-561 and the monoamine carrier) and in the dense fractions of the gradient, possibly within large dense-core vesicles. In the microsomal gradient from vas deferens several markers (catecholamines, synaptin/synaptophysin and dopamine beta-hydroxylase) were found in a bimodal distribution, which is consistent with their presence in small and large dense-core vesicles. When the larger granules were removed with higher centrifugation speed a microsomal fraction containing only light vesicles was obtained. After gradient centrifugation of this fraction several components (catecholamines, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, cytochrome b-561, the monoamine carrier and synaptin/synaptophysin) were concentrated in a peak at low density; apparently only small dense-core vesicles were now present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The presence of gamma interferon-like immunoreactivity in the peripheral nervous system and in some central nervous system neurons is described. The immunohistochemical evidence is based upon labeling of neurons with five different monoclonal antibodies against rat gamma interferon and one polyclonal antiserum. Immunoreactive material was abundantly present in the peripheral nervous system including small primary sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia and postsynaptic neurons of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system. Large neurons in dorsal root ganglia were not stained. Neurites stained with DB1 antibody against rat gamma interferon were found in most organs examined such as the gastrointestinal tract, heart, lungs, kidney, sexual organs and skin. In contrast, staining was weak in the central nervous system and restricted to a few neurons in the hypothalamus and in the midbrain. It is speculated that this newly discovered system containing a gamma interferon-like neuropeptide could be involved in the neuronal control of immunological processes in its target organs.
Two proteins immunologically related to porcine tau protein are found in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients. One is bound to microtubules and, after isolation by co-polymerization with tubulin, shows a size and tryptic peptide map, similar to the microtubule-associated tau protein, present in the brain of non-demented patients. The other tau-related protein is present as the major protein of a purified fraction of paired helical filaments. The paired helical filament-associated protein shows smaller molecular weight (33,000) than microtubule-associated tau; however, this 33,000 mol. wt protein reacts with a monospecific anti-tau antibody and with an antibody to a 19-amino acid peptide corresponding to amino acids 228-246 of human tau. Furthermore, the 33,000 mol. wt protein and the tau protein have similar tryptic peptide maps. These results suggest that the paired helical filament protein is a modified form of the microtubule-associated tau protein.
Limbic seizure status was induced by microinjection of kainic acid into a unilateral amygdala in rats. Two hours after kainic acid injection, distant neuronal cell damage was produced, especially in the hippocampal CA3 on the kainic acid-injected side. In order to elucidate the mechanism of this neuronal cell damage, local cerebral glucose utilization and local cerebral blood flow were studied by means of an autoradiographic method using [14C]2-deoxyglucose and [14C]iodoantipyrine during kainic acid-induced limbic seizure status. These studies were performed 2 h after kainic acid microinjection into a unilateral amygdala. Both local cerebral glucose utilization and local cerebral blood flow were remarkably increased in the limbic system, ventrobasal complex of the thalamus, septal nucleus, nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus, substantia nigra and hypothalamus on the kainic acid-injected side. In the hippocampus, local cerebral glucose utilization increased 2.6 times control in CA1 and 4.1 times in CA3, whereas the rates of increase in local cerebral blood flow were similarly low in CA1 and CA3: 1.2 and 1.4 times control, respectively. The results demonstrated that the degree of uncoupling of local cerebral glucose utilization and local cerebral blood flow were higher in CA3 than in CA1, and also suggested that relative hypoxia occurred in CA3 in this high degree of uncoupling, resulting in pyramidal cell damage in CA3 in kainic acid-induced limbic seizure status.
The effects of elevated CO2 (i.e. hypercapnia) on neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii were studied using extracellular (n = 82) and intracellular (n = 33) recording techniques in transverse brain slices prepared from rat. Synaptic connections from putative chemosensitive neurons in the ventrolateral medulla were removed by bisecting each transverse slice and discarding the ventral half. In addition, the response to hypercapnia in 20 neurons was studied during high magnesium-low calcium synaptic blockade. Sixty-five per cent of the neurons (n = 75) tested were either insensitive or inhibited by hypercapnia. However, 35% (n = 40) were depolarized and/or increased their firing rate during hypercapnia. Nine out of 10 CO2-excited neurons retained their chemosensitivity to CO2 in the presence of high magnesium-low calcium synaptic blockade medium. Our findings demonstrate that many neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii were depolarized and/or increased their firing rate during hypercapnia. These neurons were not driven synaptically by putative chemosensitive neurons of the ventrolateral medulla since this region was removed from the slice. Furthermore, because chemosensitivity persisted in most neurons tested during synaptic blockade, we conclude that some neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii are inherently CO2-chemosensitive. Although the function of dorsal medullary chemosensitive neurons cannot be determined in vitro, their location and their inherent chemosensitivity suggest a role in cardiorespiratory central chemoreception.
Rhythmic oscillation in neuronal systems may serve physiological purposes or may interfere with normal functions of the brain. In disorders of petit mal epilepsy and parkinsonian tremor, centrally and peripherally observable rhythmic patterns are due to network oscillations of thalamocortical cells. This article reviews the afferent mechanisms that might be critically involved in controlling the ionic conductances of thalamic neurons in the behaving organism. We propose that during active behavior the subcortical aminergic and cholinergic inputs to the thalamus act as anti-burst and anti-oscillation mechanisms. We suggest further that the thalamopetal GABAergic inputs (pars reticulata of substantia nigra, entopeduncular nucleus, pallidum) are burst- and oscillation-promoting systems, whose output is controlled by the striatum. Experimental or disease-related decrease of the striatal dopamine levels is hypothesized to increase the efficacy of the GABAergic burst-promoting systems resulting in rhythmic network oscillation of thalamocortical neurons during rest. The recognition of the overlapping neuronal mechanisms in petit mal epilepsy and parkinsonian tremor, and the multistage control of thalamic oscillation suggests that drugs effectively used in petit mal attacks may be effective in levodopa-refractory parkinsonian tremor, and conversely, epileptic patients may benefit from drugs acting on the extrapyramidal system.
Peroxidase-antiperoxidase electron microscope immunocytochemistry with an antiserum against noradrenaline-glutaraldehyde-protein conjugate was used to identify cortical noradrenaline terminals (axonal varicosities) from the upper layers of the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex in adult rat. A large number of immunostained varicosities were examined in serial thin sections, and compared with a control population of randomly chosen unlabeled terminals from the same sections. Both groups of varicosities were measured and scrutinized for the presence of a junctional complex indicative of synaptic specialization. Cellular elements juxtaposed to the membrane of both types of varicosities were also identified and counted. Noradrenaline varicosities in all three cortical regions averaged 0.65 microns in diameter. In contrast to their unlabeled counterparts, these profiles rarely showed a membrane differentiation characteristic of a synaptic contact (junctional complex). The rare junctional complexes formed by cortical noradrenaline varicosities were invariably symmetrical and almost always found on dendritic shafts. The microenvironment of noradrenaline varicosities also differed, exhibiting a greater number of apposed axonal varicosities and a smaller number of dendritic spines than that of the random population. The proportion of noradrenaline varicosities making a synaptic contact (synaptic incidence) was determined by plotting the incidence of visible junctions as a function of the number of thin sections available for examination. As extrapolated for whole varicosities after linear transformation (double reciprocal plot), this proportion was 17% or 26% depending on the stringency of the criteria used in identifying the junctional complex. The same analysis provided a figure of 98% for the control population. The present study largely confirmed our initial radioautographic characterization of the cortical noradrenaline innervation as a mostly non-junctional system, and also indicated that these varicosities are set in a particular microenvironment. These new data further support the eventuality of a diffuse release of cortical noradrenaline in the extracellular space, compatible with both its neuromodulatory role and multiplicity of actions on diverse cellular targets in the cerebral cortex. The functions assigned to the coeruleocortical noradrenaline system must therefore be viewed as the product of a widespread and ubiquitously distributed neuronal organization characterized by loose intercellular relationships. This system might be capable of selectivity and specificity of action, however, owing to the distribution of its receptors, and in view of intrinsically or extrinsically driven control mechanisms triggered by the release of its own or other transmitters and which may also involve target-initiated feedback mechanisms.
Changes in the innervation of the cardiovascular system, urinogenital tract and sympathetic and non-sympathetic ganglia have been examined following long-term sympathectomy. Patterns of innervation were investigated using histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques, while levels of noradrenaline and neuropeptides were measured by neurochemical assays. Large doses of guanethidine (50 mg/kg) were given daily for 3 weeks to 8-day-old rat pups, which were killed at 6 or 20 weeks of age. In both age groups noradrenergic nerves were severely depleted or absent, while in some regions dramatic increases of calcitonin gene-related peptide levels were demonstrated. This was revealed by an increase in the density of nerve fibres and in calcitonin gene-related peptide content (up to 18-fold), most notably in the right atrium and superior cervical ganglion. No changes in substance P- or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunolabelled nerves were seen. Conversely, short-term sympathectomy by 6-hydroxy-dopamine treatment caused a depletion of noradrenaline which was not accompanied by an increase in the number or content of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunolabelled nerves. The possibility that nerve growth factor is involved in the mechanism of hyperinnervation by calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing sensory nerves following long-term sympathectomy is discussed.
The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basal forebrain (which included the cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis of Meynert) were studied on three aspects of visual discrimination; learning, retention and reversal performance, in the marmoset. Neurobiological investigations revealed that the lesion produced large reductions in choline acetyltransferase activity within anterior regions of cortex, particularly prefrontal. In Experiment 1 lesioned animals showed impaired retention, one week after surgery, of a visual discrimination learned immediately prior to surgery and subsequently showed impaired performance over a series of reversals. The reversal deficit could be characterized as a tendency to perseverate on the previously correct stimulus on the first reversal and as a failure to show serial reversal learning on subsequent reversals. Acquisition of a novel discrimination was not impaired five weeks after surgery. As time of testing may have been a confounding factor, in Experiment 2 the effects of the same lesion on new learning were examined immediately following surgery and the effects on retention a month later. The lesion was found to disrupt new learning but did not affect retention. From the two experiments it is clear that, whereas disruption of retention and new learning was relatively transient, the impairments in reversal performance were more long lasting. In addition, lesioned animals exhibited behavioural hyperactivity and elevations in consummatory and schedule-controlled licking. The disinhibitory and preservative effects observed following lesions of the basal forebrain in this study are similar to those following lesions of the orbitofrontal cortex while the disruption of serial reversal learning is commonly seen following damage to the amygdala. Therefore, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that the range of behavioural effects of the lesion result from damage to the cholinergic afferents to orbitofrontal cortex and to the amygdala, two structures intimately connected to one another.
The aim of this study was to obtain indirect evidence of the presence of capsaicin-sensitive afferents in the human colon by studying the motor response to capsaicin of longitudinal strips from the human isolated taenia coli in parallel to the ability of capsaicin or KCl to induce peptide release from the human superfused colon. Capsaicin (1 microM) evoked a relaxation of the taenia, approaching 60-80% of the response to isoprenaline. Tachykinins evoked contractions of the taenia, while calcitonin gene-related peptide induced a relaxation. Neither tachyphylaxis to calcitonin gene-related peptide nor preincubation with an anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide serum did block the response to capsaicin which was also unaffected by tetrodotoxin, apamin, naloxone or an anti-galanin serum. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide produced a concentration-dependent tetrodotoxin-resistant relaxation which was shifted rightward in the presence of anti-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide serum. The anti-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide serum reduced the response to capsaicin and application of capsaicin prevented the ability of anti-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide serum to block exogenous vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Capsaicin (1 microM) evoked a significant release of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity from the superfused muscle but not mucosa of the human colon. A significant vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity release was also observed in response to KCl (80 mM). KCl but not capsaicin evoked a significant release of neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity from colonic muscle and mucosa. No significant release of either substance P-, neuropeptide Y-, galanin- or calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was detected in response to capsaicin or KCl although detectable levels of each peptide were evident in tissue extracts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study was designed to obtain information on the spinal processing of input from receptors in deep somatic tissues (muscle, tendon, joint). In anaesthetized rats, the impulse activity of single dorsal horn cells was recorded extracellularly. In a pilot series, the proportion of neurons responding to mechanical stimulation of deep tissues was determined: 46.7% had receptive fields in the skin only, 35.5% could only be driven from deep tissues (deep cells), and 17.7% possessed a convergent input from both skin and deep tissues (cutaneous-deep cells). In each category, neurons with low and high mechanical thresholds were encountered. Experiments employing a reversible cold block of the spinal cord showed that deep cells with high threshold were subject to a stronger descending inhibition than low-threshold deep cells. In cutaneous-deep neurons the input combination high-threshold cutaneous and high-threshold deep was the most frequent one (48.7% of the cutaneous-deep cells). In these presumably nociceptive cells the descending inhibition had a differential action in that the input from deep tissues was more strongly affected than was the cutaneous input to the same neuron. The recording sites of the neurons with deep input were located in the superficial dorsal horn and in and around lamina V. The results suggest that in the rat a considerable proportion of dorsal horn cells receives input from deep nociceptors and that this input is controlled by descending pathways in a rather selective way.
The single channel current amplitudes of &quot;maxi&quot; Ca2(+)-activated K+ channels from bovine chromaffin cell membranes are reduced when acetylcholine is applied to the internal surface of the membrane, which can be explained by a fast channel block. The block is concentration dependent with moderate affinity. It becomes progressively greater with depolarization although the voltage dependence is not pronounced. Acetylcholine reduces the probability of the open state in the same concentration range and in an essentially voltage independent manner. The changes in the channel kinetics are complex. Whilst the long component of the open intervals is shortened (by 48%; from 9.5 to 5.1 ms), the long component of the closed intervals is prolonged (by 96%; from 45 to 89 ms). The short components (open and closed) are essentially unaffected. Short open intervals are reduced by 4% (from 1.09 to 1.05 ms), whilst short closed intervals are reduced by 5% (from 2.3 to 2.2 ms). These changes in the channel kinetics can be explained at least partly if one assumes that acetylcholine, in addition to its fast channel blocking activity, acts also as a slow blocker. If so, both binding sites are expected to be located close to the mouth of the channel pore. Alternatively, acetylcholine may be affecting the gating mechanism, presumably by interfering with the Ca2+ binding.
Agonists acting at subtypes of glutamate receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and quisqualate, induce convulsions in rodents. Clonic seizures induced in mice by intracerebral administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate or quisqualate were used to study the anti- and proconvulsant potential of antiepileptic drugs and beta-carbolines. Systemic administration showed that the benzodiazepines clonazepam and midazolam blocked convulsions induced by kainate and had no effect on seizures triggered by N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate. In contrast, diazepam blocked convulsions induced by either excitatory amino acid, as did valproate. The benzodiazepine receptor agonist beta-carboline ZK 93423 blocked convulsions induced by kainate but had no effect on seizures induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate or quisqualate. The antagonist beta-carboline ZK 93426 did not affect convulsions induced by excitatory amino acids, while the inverse agonists FG 7142 and ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate increased the sensitivity of mice to kainate. Phenobarbital and 2-chloroadenosine protected mice against seizures induced by quisqualate and kainate, while baclofen was active against convulsions produced by kainate. MK-801 selectively blocked convulsions induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate, and enhanced the susceptibility of mice to seizures triggered by kainate and quisqualate. Ethosuximide increased the susceptibility of mice to N-methyl-D-aspartate and had little or no effect on other types of seizures. Diphenylhydantoin enhanced the convulsant potential of quisqualate. Trimethadione and carbamazepine did not affect convulsions induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate or quisqualate. Intracerebral administration of midazolam protected mice against seizures induced by kainate. Ethosuximide increased the susceptibility of mice to N-methyl-D-aspartate, while diphenylhydantoin to quisqualate convulsions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The changes in gene expression and protein synthesis induced in neurons by axotomy usually lead to increased production of axon constituents and decreased production of molecules related to neurotransmission. Exceptions to this generalization occur, however, and it is unclear whether the injury itself changes the pattern of synthesis or whether individual mechanisms regulate the synthesis of the various axonal components. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry to compare the changes in L4 and L5 rat dorsal root ganglion neuron levels of preprotachykinin mRNA and tachykinin peptides caused by sciatic nerve injury with those caused by dorsal root injury. Both lesions elicit regeneration, although only the axotomized peripheral processes re-establish functional contact with their targets. In the contralateral, intact dorsal root ganglia approximately 17% of neurons contained detectable levels of both mRNAs and peptides. Sciatic nerve section decreased by 70% the number of neurons labeled for preprotachykinin mRNA at three days post-operatively. Not all cells in the ganglion are axotomized by the sciatic nerve lesion; grain counts over the cells spared by the lesion showed an increased level of labeling, possibly a result of collateral sprouting by these spared cells. By two weeks, the number of cells labeled for preprotachykinin mRNA had decreased to 80% of control levels. The numbers of neurons labeled for tachykinin peptides decreased more slowly and reached approximately 50% of control numbers at two weeks. By six months post-operatively, when regeneration is largely complete, the number of neurons containing both mRNAs and peptides returned to normal. In contrast, dorsal root section did not elicit a decrease in the number of neurons labeled either for the mRNAs or the peptides at any of the post-operative intervals examined. These results indicate that axotomy is not the stimulus that elicits changes in the expression of genes coding for tachykinins. Evidence is considered indicating that interruption of the supply of peripherally derived nerve growth factor may be responsible for the changes in gene expression for tachykinins after axotomy.
Antibodies to oxytocin and noradrenalin were utilized in an immunocytochemical study of the caudal ventrolateral medulla of the rat brainstem. Noradrenalin was visualized by using antibodies to noradrenalin and by means of a silver-gold intensification of diaminobenzidine, whereas oxytocin could be demonstrated in the same section by using the diaminobenzidine precipitate as a marker. At the light microscopic level, oxytocin fibers were densely distributed around the A1 cell bodies. At the ultrastructural level, oxytocin-containing fibers were seen to terminate synaptically onto noradrenalin-containing neurons. Previous studies have shown that electrical stimulation of A1 neurons selectively activates vasopressin-secreting neurons in the supraoptic nucleus. Therefore, separate electrophysiological studies were set up, in which we observed that oxytocin infusions (100-200 pg) into the A1 area enhanced the activity of 16 out of 19 putative vasopressin-secreting neurons and elicited no response from any of 10 oxytocin-secreting neurons. This finding suggests that some of the parvicellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, from which the A1 neurons derive their oxytocin innervation, can activate the A1 cell group via this peptidergic neurotransmitter. One of the consequences of A1 neuronal activation is enhanced firing of hypothalamic supraoptic (and paraventricular) vasopressin-secreting neurons, and a consequent rise in plasma vasopressin.
The intracellular action on exocytosis of botulinum A toxin and constituent chains was studied using permeabilized isolated nerve endings from the rat neural lobe. The release of the neuropeptide vasopressin was measured by radioimmunoassay. In the presence of the reducing agent dithiothreitol, the two-chain form of botulinum A toxin inhibited vasopressin release induced by 10 microM free calcium. Half maximal inhibition was obtained with 15 nM botulinum A toxin. In the absence of the heavy chain the light chain of the toxin strongly inhibited exocytosis with a half maximal effect of 2.5 nM. The inhibitory effects on secretion could be prevented by incubating the light chain with an immune serum against botulinum A toxin. The heavy chain of botulinum A toxin did not affect vasopressin release. However, it prevented the inhibitory effects of the light chain on stimulated exocytosis. It is concluded that botulinum A toxin inhibits the calcium-dependent step leading to exocytosis by interfering with a target present in the isolated and permeabilized nerve terminals. The functional domain of this neurotoxin, which is responsible for the inhibition of vasopressin release, is present in its light chain.
The osmotic stress to rats of replacing drinking water with 2% NaCl for four days (salt loading) led to dramatic ultrastructural morphological changes in the neural lobe of the pituitary, including a decrease in the ratio of glial to neurosecretory terminal coverage of the pericapillary basal lamina. The decrease in the proportion of the basal lamina covered by pituicytes, the specialized astrocytic glial cells of the neural lobe, was due to a decrease in the number of pituicyte processes reaching the pericapillary spaces. The concomitant increase in the proportion of neuronal coverage was due to the combination of an increase in the length of individual nerve terminals and a change in the number of terminals. Similar structural changes to those seen in vivo were produced by incubation of the isolated neural lobe with the beta-adrenergic agonist isoprenaline. A decrease in the ratio of glial to neuronal coverage of the basal lamina was achieved within 1 h and could be blocked by inclusion of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol. It is proposed that the morphological plasticity is explained by the active movement of pituicyte cytoplasm.
Previous deafferentation studies have suggested that most hypothalamic GABAergic innervation originates from neurons within the hypothalamus. We have investigated the distribution of GABAergic cell groups in the rat hypothalamus by means of the in situ hybridization technique, using a cDNA probe for messenger RNA encoding glutamate decarboxylase. Several major GABAergic cell groups were demonstrated, including cells of the tuberomammillary nucleus, arcuate nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, medial preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic area, the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, perifornical area, and lateral hypothalamic area. The most prominent glutamate decarboxylase mRNA-containing cell groups were located in the medial preoptic area, anterior hypothalamic area and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, and were composed of small- to medium-sized neurons. Compared to previously well-characterized GABAergic cell groups in the tuberomammillary nucleus, reticular thalamic nucleus, and non-pyramidal cells of cerebral cortex, the cells of these GABAergic groups demonstrated only weak cDNA labelling, indicating that they contain lower levels of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA. Several types of control experiments supported the specificity of this cDNA labelling, and the GABAergic nature of these cell populations was further supported by detection of glutamate decarboxylase and GABA immunoreactivity. Abundance of GABAergic cells in many hypothalamic nuclei indicates that GABA represents quantitatively the most important transmitter of hypothalamic neurons, and may be involved in neuroendocrine and autonomic regulatory functions.
Locomotor stepping in the Nembutal-anesthetized rat was elicited by electrical stimulation of either of two sites in the right or left posterolateral hypothalamus. Essential midbrain loci were identified by reversibly blocking the elicited locomotion through local injections of the anesthetic procaine (15%, 0.5 microliter). Two types of critical midbrain sites were found. At ipsilateral block sites (n = 21), procaine blocked only that locomotion elicited by ipsilateral stimulation. These sites could be along the course of a direct descending ipsilateral pathway although a possible bidirectional pathway is not to be excluded. At bilateral block sites (n = 21), procaine blocked locomotion elicited by both ipsilateral and contralateral stimulation. These sites could be involved in functions prerequisite for the initiation of locomotion or in the generation of the stepping pattern. Procaine injections in 35 sites had no effect on locomotion. Ipsilateral and bilateral block sites were intermixed and generally located in regions ventral to the midbrain central gray: chiefly the anterior ventromedial midbrain, the pontis oralis nucleus and the pedunculopontine nucleus. Negative sites were located in both the dorsal and ventral midbrain. Ipsilateral block sites were relatively prevalent in the anterior midbrain, indicating that the locomotor initiation signals are lateralized at this level. Bilateral block sites were more prevalent in the posterior levels, suggesting that the initiation signals are proximal to, or interact with, circuits that have a bilateral influence on locomotion.
High performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection and differential pulse voltammetry were used to provide a direct measurement of tissue content of dopamine and its metabolites and extracellular dopamine levels, respectively, in the striata of BALB/c and CBA inbred strains of mice. We found that levels of striatal dopamine and its metabolite, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, were significantly higher in the CBA strain than in the BALB/c strain, whereas levels of homovanillic acid were not significantly different between the strains. Levels of the dopamine metabolite 3-methoxytyramine, on the other hand, were higher in the BALB/c mice. Dopamine turnover rates were significantly higher in the CBA strain when the homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio was used as an index of dopamine activity. Voltammetric recording showed that the local infusion of K+ in pargyline-treated mice resulted in the immediate appearance of a peak at +85 mV, which has been shown to correspond to extracellular dopamine in the rat. The mean height of this peak detected in vivo following K+ stimulation corresponds to in vitro dopamine concentrations of 25 +/- 8 microM for BALB/c mice and 7 +/- 2 microM for CBA mice. K(+)-stimulated dopamine release in the BALB/c mice could be evoked every 10-15 min with similar magnitude. In contrast, very little dopamine release in CBA mice could be evoked after the first stimulation. Since striatal dopamine levels are higher in CBA mice, these data suggest that (a) BALB/c strain may have more dopamine in the readily releasable pool, whereas the CBA mice have a larger storage pool of dopamine, and/or (b) that dopamine uptake in the CBA mice is much more avid than in BALB/c.
Using a push-pull cannula technique and an isotopic method for estimating [3H]serotonin continuously synthesized from [3H]tryptophan, the effects of changes in the release of serotonin in the dorsalis raphe nucleus on in vivo release of [3H]serotonin in the cat caudate nucleus were investigated. The increase in the release of serotonin in the dorsalis raphe nucleus caused by local application of parachlorophenylethylamine (10(-6) M) reduced striatal [3H]serotonin release. This inhibition in serotonin release in the striatum was blocked by the prior and continuous local superfusion of the dorsal raphe with methiothepin (10(-6) M), a serotonin autoreceptor antagonist. GABA (5 x 10(-5) M) applied to the dorsalis raphe reduced both local and striatal release of [3H]serotonin. However, picrotoxin (10(-5) M), a GABA A receptor antagonist applied locally in the dorsalis raphe nucleus increased [3H]serotonin release while decreasing striatal [3H]serotonin release. This decrease in serotonin release in the striatum was again blocked by continuous superfusion of the raphe with methiothepin. Furthermore, superfusion of serotonergic cell bodies of the dorsalis raphe nucleus with methiothepin alone never altered local release or striatal release of [3H]serotonin. These data strongly suggest that the release of serotonin from the cell body in the dorsalis raphe nucleus phasically controls release of the amine at the axonal nerve ending through serotonergic autoreceptors located on serotonergic nerve cell bodies in the dorsalis raphe nucleus. The origin of the serotonin released in the dorsalis raphe nucleus and the possibility that this type of regulation could be related to changes in nerve impulse conduction of the serotonergic raphe-striatal system are discussed.
We have utilized the brain microdialysis technique in an attempt to measure excitation-secretion coupled release of endogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine in rat brain in vivo and investigated the pharmacology of the voltage-sensitive calcium channel involved in this process. All experiments were carried out using chloral hydrate anaesthetized rats. Ascending serotoninergic neurons were electrically stimulated using an electrode implanted into the dorsal raphe nucleus. A dialysis probe was implanted into the ventral hippocampus and continuously perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake inhibitor citalopram (1 microM). Twenty-minute perfusates were analysed for endogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Electrical stimulation (cathodal monophasic 1 ms pulses, 300 microA, 2-10 Hz) of the dorsal raphe nucleus for 20 min induced an immediate release of 5-hydroxytryptamine which lasted for the duration of the stimulus and was frequency-dependent. The calculated amount of 5-hydroxytryptamine release per electrical impulse was constant over the frequency range used. Addition of tetrodotoxin (10 microM) to, or omission of calcium from, the perfusion medium reduced the spontaneous output of 5-hydroxytryptamine by 60-70% and caused a near complete inhibition of the effect of low frequency (3 Hz) electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus. Local perfusion with cadmium (30 and 300 microM), which is reported to antagonize both N- and L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels, also caused a pronounced decrease of basal output of 5-hydroxytryptamine and a marked, but not complete inhibition of the effect of nerve stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The olfactory bulb of the rat contains chromogranin A at a similar level as the adrenal gland or the hypophysis as revealed by immunoblots. Olfactory chromogranin A also displays the same size as chromogranin A of endocrine cells. In the hippocampus and other brain regions, we could not detect chromogranin A by immunoblotting. In contrast, chromogranin A messenger ribonucleic acid (using S1 nuclease protection assays) was observed in all brain regions examined, including the olfactory bulb. By in situ hybridization histochemistry with a complementary ribonucleic acid probe (280 nucleotides), and by immunocytochemistry, chromogranin A synthesis could be localized to cell bodies of the mitral cell layer, of the external plexiform layer and of the periglomerular region of the olfactory bulb. Immunocytochemically, chromogranin A was also detected in the central projection areas of mitral and tufted cells in the primary olfactory cortex and the anterior amygdaloid area but not in the olfactory glomeruli, where the incoming olfactory nerve fibers of the primary olfactory neurons establish synaptic contacts. Taken together the data show that chromogranin A, following biosynthesis in the perikarya of the mitral and tufted cells, is specifically transported into their axonal terminals but not into their primary dendrites. We propose that the rat olfactory system could serve as a model for the study of chromogranin A regulation and function in neurons.
Using arsenazo III as an intracellular indicator to monitor the calcium transients elicited by voltage-clamp depolarizing pulse, the effect of prolonged in vitro lithium treatment on excitation--contraction coupling in frog twitch muscle fibres was investigated. Incubation in 10 mM Li+ Ringer's solution for 2 days caused a 46% increase in the amplitude of the calcium transients, while treatment with 30 mM Li+ for 2 days produced a depression of 44%. Shortening the bathing time to 1 day, the decrease of calcium transients caused by 30 mM Li+ was reversed to a small increase. For the 2-day incubation, both the increase in the amplitude with 10 mM and the decrease with 30 mM Li+ were abolished by the presence of 1 mM myo-inositol in the bathing medium. These results imply that the turnover of inositol phospholipids is involved in regulating excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle fibres.
Intracellular recordings were made from L7-S1 type A spinal ganglion neurons of anesthetized cats while electrical stimulation was delivered repetitively to their associated dorsal root and the sciatic nerve. The general response pattern of these neurons changed during stimulation at progressively higher rates. The changes were observable as jitter in onset latency of the evoked spikes, inability of evoked responses to follow electrical stimuli in a 1:1 manner (spike failure), reduction in action potential amplitude, and decomposition of the full spike into its non-myelinated and myelinated components. The frequency following ability of these spike components was in the order of full spike less than non-myelinated less than myelinated. In jitter in onset latency and inability to follow high frequency stimulation was determined only for the full spike, as is typical for antidromicity criteria, a wide frequency following spectrum was obtained for our sample of spinal ganglion neurons. Less than a third of the cells were able to follow stimulation rates in excess of 200 Hz, and about a fifth of the neurons failed to follow any rates greater than 20 Hz. Most of the neurons activated from both the dorsal root and sciatic nerve responded with the same pattern of stimulus-evoked responses. However, some of these cells exhibited strikingly different patterns to dorsal root and sciatic stimulation, including the presence of prepotentials following stimulation of one, but not the other, process. These prepotentials occurred in the depolarizing direction, at threshold stimulation were all-or-none in nature, generated spikes that varied in onset latency, and failed to occur at even low-to-moderate rates of stimulation. The results indicate that the frequency following spectrum of cat type A ganglion neurons is wide, and that it is their somata that are most vulnerable to high frequency stimulation. It is possible that some of the observed prepotentials are functional manifestations of synaptic contacts in spinal ganglia.
The occurrence of peptide YY-like peptides in parts of the sympathetic nervous system of the rat was studied by immunocytochemistry and immunochemistry plus analysis by high performance liquid chromatography. Peptide YY-immunoreactive neurons and nerve fibers were detected in the superior cervical ganglion. Co-localization studies indicated that peptide YY and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivities co-exist in a subpopulation of neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. Immunochemical analysis revealed peptide YY-immunoreactive material, distinct from neuropeptide Y, in extracts of the superior cervical ganglion. On reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography, extracts of superior cervical ganglion revealed several peaks of peptide YY-like immunoreactive material, one of which eluted close to the position of authentic porcine peptide YY. Peptide YY-immunoreactive nerve fibers were also present in sympathetic target tissues including the auricula and atria of the heart, carotid body, submandibular salivary gland and the adrenal cortex. It is suggested that peptide YY and/or peptide YY-like peptides are present not only in endocrine cells, but also in a subpopulation of cell bodies and fibers of the peripheral sympathetic nervous system.
A cytochemical study was made of some metabolic enzymes in the cerebellar neurons during postnatal ontogenesis after injection of cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum into 10-day-old rats. The profiles during development of neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity (involved in the glycolytic pathway), dihydrofolate reductase activity (involved in the metabolism of nucleic acids and folate) and dipeptidylaminopeptidase II activity were determined in lobules V-VII of cerebellar vermis. At different developmental stages, treated rats had folia in which the morphology and cytochemical responses of Purkinje neurons were greatly affected. On postinjection day 1 (PD 11), only neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity was changed, reactions being more intense at the basal pole, which was abnormally enlarged in several neurons. Seven days after treatment (PD 17), the dihydrofolate reductase reaction showed weakly positive cells with small grains of formazan in the perinuclear regions and dipeptidylaminopeptidase II activity, which had appeared at this time in some cells of the controls, was not observed. On PD 25 and PD 35, Purkinje cells, probably undergoing clear degeneration, were negative or very weakly positive in all the reactions. Some tracts of folia had no Purkinje cells. These results suggest that cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum affects the differentiation of Purkinje neurons and interferes first with the glycolytic enzyme and then with some enzymes of the synthetic and catabolic machinery, leading to cellular dysfunction and degeneration.
The recently reported presence of alumino-silicates in the core of Alzheimer's senile plaques raises a number of questions concerning the little studied area of interactions between solid particles and neuronal tissue. In this preliminary study we report that contact between crystalline alumino-silicates and cultured neuroblastoma cells selectively caused a rapid increase in membrane electrical conductance and loss of excitable activity. Severe morphological deterioration was subsequently evident within 30 min of exposure. Similar effects were induced by a magnesium silicate mineral but not by aluminum hydroxides or by silicon in the form of quartz. Homogeneously charged synthetic particles did not induce changes in electrical function of the cells. These results suggest that a layout incorporating both negative and positive charges, as can be found on the broken edges of platy clay metallo-silicates, and the non-isodiametrical geometry of the particles may be necessary for the acute neurotoxic interaction observed.
We have examined the distribution of microglia in the normal adult mouse brain using immunocytochemical detection of the macrophage specific plasma membrane glycoprotein F4/80. We were interested to learn whether the distribution of microglia in the adult brain is related to regional variation in the magnitude of cell death during development and resulting monocyte recruitment, or whether the adult distribution is influenced by other local microenvironmental cues. We further investigated the possibility that microglia are sensitive to their microenvironment by studying their morphology in different brain regions. Microglia are present in large numbers in all major divisions of the brain but are not uniformly distributed. There is a more than five-fold variation in the density of immunostained microglial processes between different regions. More microglia are found in gray matter than white. Particularly, densely populated areas include the hippocampus, olfactory telencephalon, basal ganglia and substantia nigra. In comparison, the less densely populated areas include fibre tracts, cerebellum and much of the brainstem. The cerebral cortex, thalamus and hypothalamus have average cell densities. There was no simple relationship between the amount of developmental cell death and the adult distribution of microglia. An estimate of the total number of microglia in the adult mouse brain, 3.5 x 10(6), is comparable to that found in the liver on a weight for weight basis. However, microglia possess up to twice the surface area of membrane of Kupffer cells, the large resident macrophages of the liver. The proportion of cells that were microglia varied from 5% in the cortex and corpus callosum, to 12% in the substantia nigra. Microglia vary in morphology depending on their location. They were broadly classified into three categories. Compact cells are rounded cells, sometimes with one or two short thick limbs, bearing short processes (&quot;bristles&quot;). They resemble Kupffer cells of the liver and are found exclusively in sites lacking a blood-brain barrier. Longitudinally branched cells are found in fibre tracts and possess several long processes which are usually aligned parallel to, or more occasionally perpendicular to, the longitudinal axis of the nerve fibres. Radially branched cells are found throughout the neuropil. They can be extremely elaborate and there is wide variation in the length and complexity of branching of the processes. There was no evidence of monocyte-like cells in the adult CNS. The systematic variation in microglial morphology provides further evidence that these cells are sensitive to their microenvironment.
Thymopoietin, a polypeptide isolated from thymus and involved in immune regulation, potently inhibited [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in both pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells in culture (IC50 of 3.9 nM) and in PC12 cell membranes (IC50 of 2.2 nM). The degree of inhibition produced by thymopoietin was similar to that observed with alpha-bungarotoxin; in contrast, nicotinic receptor ligands affected alpha-bungarotoxin binding only at micromolar concentrations, in agreement with previous work. Binding of thymopoietin was reversible. Studies with PC12 cell membranes suggested that the interaction between alpha-bungarotoxin and thymopoietin at the receptor was competitive. The effect of thymopoietin was subsequently assessed on various morphological characteristics of PC12 cells in culture. Exposure of the cells to the polypeptide resulted in neurite extension, which was evident as early as 1-2 days in culture and was maximal after 4-6 days; this response was observed with concentrations of thymopoietin as low as 10(-8) M. Nerve growth factor also induced neurite extension in PC12 cells; however, the effects of nerve growth factor were qualitatively and quantitatively distinct from those which occurred with thymopoietin. Moreover, a monoclonal antibody to nerve growth factor completely prevented the nerve growth factor-induced process formation without affecting the thymopoietin-induced response. On the other hand, alpha-bungarotoxin resulted in the formation of processes which appeared morphologically similar to those induced by thymopoietin, although alpha-bungarotoxin appeared less potent than the thymic polypeptide. The effect of thymopoietin appeared to be specific; thysplenin, a polypeptide with approximately 80% homology with thymopoietin, did not elicit process formation. The thymopoietin-induced effect was reversed upon removal of the polypeptide from the culture medium. These results show that thymopoietin, a polypeptide endogenous to mammalian systems, potently interacted at the alpha-bungarotoxin site in a neuronal cell line. Furthermore, thymopoietin could elicit process formation in PC12 cells, suggesting that it may be a neuronotrophic factor.
Guinea-pig thalamocortical relay neurons can intrinsically generate action potentials in two distinct patterns: as high frequency bursts or as relatively independent single spikes. The burst firing mode is due to the presence of a low threshold Ca2+ current and imposes a marked non-linear transformation on depolarizing or hyperpolarizing inputs. In the burst firing mode, thalamic neurons respond to increasing frequencies of depolarizing inputs with progressively fewer action potentials such that they fail to respond to inputs arriving at rates greater than approximately 15 Hz. In this manner, the amplitude of the burst discharge relays little information concerning the characteristics of phasic excitatory postsynaptic potentials which may trigger them, but rather is determined by the membrane potential preceding the burst and the time interval since the last burst. In contrast to the behavior of neurons in the burst firing mode, the pattern of action potentials generated after depolarization into the single spike mode is a more faithful representation of the characteristics of incoming excitatory postsynaptic potentials or depolarizing inputs. The pattern of action potentials generated in the single spike mode is determined by the intensity, duration, and frequency of incoming excitatory inputs even when they arrive at rates in excess of 100 Hz. These, and other properties, allow thalamic neurons to possess two distinct states of neuronal activity: an oscillatory mode in which rhythmic bursts of action potentials are generated and in which responsiveness to stimulation of peripheral receptive fields is greatly reduced, and a transfer mode in which action potentials are generated in relative independence of one another and in which the ability to respond to barrages of phasic excitatory inputs is greatly enhanced. The presence of the rhythmic burst firing mode may therefore facilitate the filtering of sensory information during periods of drowsiness, inattentiveness, and slow wave sleep.
Voltammetric analysis was combined with single unit recording to measure the effects of endogenous dopamine, released by electrical stimulation of the median forebrain bundle, on neuronal activity in the rat striatum in vivo. Fast differential ramp voltammetry, a more sensitive form of fast cyclic voltammetry, was used to measure extracellular dopamine levels during a 50-ms scan epoch every 500 ms. Using the same carbon fibre microelectrode, neuronal activity was recorded in between the electrochemical epochs. A steady-state electrochemical signal equivalent to about 100 nM dopamine was seen in the unstimulated striatum. The responses of 122 striatal units to stimulated dopamine release were recorded in 37 acute experiments. Ninety-one units which displayed a large spike amplitude (greater than or equal to 50 microV) were recorded during stimulated release of dopamine initially to levels of between 100 and 500 nM. The majority (49) showed a profound excitation, 23 showed inhibition, and nine units gave complex responses. Only 10 units were unresponsive. All the responses of these large units outlasted the transient increase in dopamine levels, often for more than 1 min. In contrast, all the 31 units which displayed a small spike amplitude (less than 50 microV) were powerfully activated by dopamine release within this range. Administration of alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (250 mg/kg i.p.) abolished both dopamine release and the response of the five large units and four small units examined, indicating that the neuronal response was directly attributable to dopamine. Dopamine release was increased by increasing the stimulus duration over the range 0.25-10 s. With increasing levels of dopamine release the excitatory response of large units rose to a maximum and then decreased until it was eventually transformed entirely into an inhibition at dopamine levels above 1 microM. In contrast, the excitatory response of small units always increased in magnitude with increasing dopamine release to levels greater than 1 microM. The large units that showed inhibition at low levels of dopamine were also inhibited at high levels. Tail-pinch stimuli excited 21/23 large units and all seven small units tested, although this stimulus did not evoke a detectable rise in dopamine levels. We suggest that the fundamental action of dopamine in the striatum is excitation, whether involving D1 or D2 receptors. The small units described here could be inhibitory interneurons which convert the excitatory response of large units into inhibition. Dopamine may regulate striatal function by enhancing particular input-output pathways while also activating lateral inhibitory mechanisms serving to &quot;gate-out&quot; alternative outputs.
The development of Meissner-like lamellar corpuscles was studied in rat toe pads under normal conditions and after crushing the sciatic nerve in 1- to 15-day-old animals. During normal development, rat lamellar corpuscles begin to differentiate first by postnatal day 8. By this time, sensory axons have grown up to the apex of dermal papillae and form axon terminals beneath epidermis. The terminals are ensheathed by lamellar cells derived from Schwann cells. First thin lamellae are formed around the terminals 8-12 days after birth, and the number of lamellar layers increases until the corpuscles become structurally mature by 20 days after birth. A mature corpuscle consists of two or more terminals, each surrounded by approximately 10 lamellae, all components being enclosed by an incomplete capsule. No lamellar corpuscles develop in toe pads after crushing the sciatic nerve in newborn rats, and only occasional corpuscles regenerate after nerve crush at 5 days of age. The corpuscles fail to develop because dermal papillae remain permanently denervated after crushing the nerve early postnatally. After nerve crush in 10-day-old rats, lamellar corpuscles regenerate by 1 month after the operation, but they remain underdeveloped: their number and size are smaller than normal even 1 year after injury, and their terminals are encircled only by 1-3 lamellar layers. After nerve crush in 15-day-old rats, the corpuscles recover upon reinnervation and their size and lamellation become almost normal.
Local treatment of rat peripheral nerves with capsaicin induces permanent impairment of afferent C-fiber functions and changes in the response properties of spinal dorsal horn neurons. In this study a new experimental approach, the &quot;capsaicin gap&quot; technique, has been utilized in an attempt to unravel pathomorphological alterations which commence in the domain of primary sensory neurons as a consequence of perineural treatment with capsaicin. The technique relies on the facts that peripheral nerves in the spinal dorsal horn are represented in a strict somatotopic manner, and on the observation that in the adult rat systemic injection of appropriate doses of capsaicin results in a selective degeneration of primary afferent fibers within Rexed's laminae I and II of the spinal cord. We have assumed that, if treatment of a peripheral nerve with capsaicin results in an irreversible destruction of primary afferent terminals related to that nerve, then the corresponding spinal projection areas will be free of degeneration following a subsequent systemic injection of capsaicin. The topographical distribution of degenerating axon terminals, induced by a systemic injection of capsaicin, was studied within the lumbar spinal cord of rats whose sciatic nerves had been treated with capsaicin or its vehicle one to three months previously. In the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the vehicle-treated nerve, axon terminal degeneration was found in the entire mediolateral extent of Rexed's laminae I and II. In contrast, in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to the capsaicin-treated nerve, virtually no degeneration was observed in areas which correspond to the projection territories of sciatic afferents. It is concluded that the central terminals of capsaicin-sensitive sciatic afferents underwent transganglionic degeneration as a result of prior perineural treatment with capsaicin, and a subsequent systemic injection of this neurotoxin therefore failed to cause axon terminal degeneration in somatotopic areas served by the treated nerve. Comparative quantitative morphometric analysis of cell populations of dorsal root ganglia related to capsaicin- or vehicle-treated nerves disclosed (1) a marked reduction in the proportion of small-sized neurons, (2) a fall of about 80% in the percentage of neurons which undergo degeneration after the systemic injection of capsaicin, and (3) a marked decrease in the total number of neurons in ganglia ipsilateral to the capsaicin-treated nerves. Quantitative electron microscopic studies on saphenous nerves treated perineurally with capsaicin revealed a 32% reduction in the number of unmyelinated axons as compared with the controls, whereas the number of myelinated fibers was unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The cerebral neuroendocrine Light Green Cells of the pulmonate snail Lymnaea stagnalis, which control body growth and associated processes, stain positively with an affinity-purified antiserum raised to a large part of the C-chain of pro-molluscan insulin-related peptides. At the ultrastructural level, the rough endoplasmic reticulum is immunonegative, the Golgi apparatus is slightly positive and secretory granules in the process of budding from the Golgi apparatus are strongly positive. These observations indicate that the Light Green Cells synthesize molluscan insulin-related peptides, which are processed before packing by the Golgi apparatus into secretory granules. The two morphologically distinct secretory granule types, i.e. with pale and dark contents, respectively, are equally immunoreactive with antiserum raised to the C-chain of molluscan insulin-related peptides. Secretory granules within lysosomal structures reveal various degrees of immunoreactivity, indicating their graded breakdown. The Light Green Cells release secretory material by the process of exocytosis into the haemolymph from neurohaemal axon terminals located in the periphery of the median lip nerve. The electron-dense (tannic acid method) released contents are clearly immunopositive. The same holds for secretory granule contents released from Light Green Cells axon profiles in the centre of the lip nerve. Some immunoreactivity is also present in the intercellular space between these axon profiles. It is concluded that molluscan insulin-related peptides may act in two ways, namely (1) as neurohormones via the haemolymph at peripheral targets and (2) in a non-synaptic (paracrine) fashion at targets within the central nervous system.
The peptidergic caudodorsal cells of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis generate long lasting discharges of synchronous spiking activity to release their products. During caudodorsal cell discharges a peptide factor is released which induces similar discharges in silent caudodorsal cells [Ter Maat A. et al. (1988) Brain Res. 438, 77-82]. To identify this factor, the electrophysiological effects of putative caudodorsal cell gene products, calfluxin, caudodorsal cell hormone, four alpha caudodorsal cell peptides and three beta caudodorsal cell peptides, were tested individually and in various combinations. Calfluxin, alpha caudodorsal cell peptide and beta 1 caudodorsal cell peptide each had no effect on membrane potential or excitability of the caudodorsal cells. All other caudodorsal cell peptides caused excitatory responses, but did not induce discharges. Instead, only a specific combination of four caudodorsal cell peptides, caudodorsal cell hormone and alpha caudodorsal cell peptide (1-11, 3-11 and 3-10), evoked caudodorsal cell discharges with similar characteristics to electrically evoked discharges. Incomplete versions of this combination failed to cause a discharge. In addition, antibodies to caudodorsal cell hormone or alpha caudodorsal cell peptide reduced caudodorsal cell excitability and prevented the generation of discharges by electrical stimulation. These results suggest that excitatory autotransmission caused by four caudodorsal cell peptides provides a means to amplify excitatory inputs, thus leading to the generation of the all-or-nothing caudodorsal cell discharge.
The epileptic chicken is a genetic model of generalized epilepsy in which epilepsy is combined with megalencephaly. We have performed a morphometric study of the brains of adult epileptic hens, using heterozygous carrier hens as controls. There is no obvious disorder of cell form or of architectural arrangement in the megalencephalic brains. We have found that the enlargement of the epileptic brain is not uniform: it is most marked in the telencephalon, and is present to a lesser degree in the cerebellum, but neither the optic tectum nor the diencephalic nucleus rotundus shows a significant increase in size. The enlarged regions are characterized by a decrease in the packing density of neurons. There is an increase in the total neuron population in some of the enlarged areas (archistriatum), despite the lower density per unit volume, but in other enlarged areas (hippocampus) there is no difference in total neuron numbers. The glial cells, by contrast, show no significant alteration in packing density. These findings suggest that the megalencephaly of the epileptic chicken is due to an increase in neuron size, with a contribution from increased numbers of neurons and glial cells. The epileptic chicken may provide a valuable model for further dynamic studies of aberrant neuronal development, and of structural-functional relationships in epilepsy.
Regressive phenomena are common during the development of the nervous tissue. Among them, naturally occurring cell death has been observed in several regions of the nervous system. Cell death in the somatosensory cortex and medial cortical regions (hind limb, frontal cortex 1, frontal cortex 2, retrosplenial agranular, retrosplenial granular [Zilles K. et al. (1980) Anat. Embryol. 159, 335-360]) as well as in the cortical subplate (future subcortical white matter) in the rat mainly occurs during the first 10 days of postnatal life with peak values of 3.1 dead cells per 1000 live neurons at the end of the first week. Cell death progresses from birth to day 7 with a predominance of dead cells in the subplate and in layers II-III. Later, dead cells are more dispersed in the cerebral cortex, but a significant amount is still present in the subcortical white matter. This pattern correlates with the arrival and settlement of cortical afferents at the different cortical levels, as described in other studies, and points to the likelihood that transitory cellular populations are important clues in the modelling of the cerebral cortex during normal development. Transitory populations of macrophages (amoeboid or nascent microglial cells) that appear in great numbers during the same period and in the same regions are involved in the removal of dead cells.
The response of somatosensory cortical neurons to iontophoretic applications of monoamines was studied in unanesthetized rats. The animal's head was held in a stereotaxic apparatus by means of a painless head-restraining system implanted 8 days prior to the recording sessions. The electrodes consisted of a recording micropipette attached to a multibarreled iontophoresis micropipette. The electrode penetrations were reconstructed on camera lucida drawings of frontal brain sections. The percentage of cortical neurons responding to application of monoamines were 76% after noradrenaline, 58% after dopamine and 66% after serotonin. The differences observed among percentages of responses seemingly correlate with the relative abundance of terminal axons and receptors for each of the three monoamines in the somatosensory cortex. The vast majority of the responding neurons were inhibited by monoamines and this inhibitory effect was independent of the level of spontaneous activity. The depressant effect of the monoamines on glutamate and acetylcholine-evoked responses supports a modulatory role for these substances. Serotonin was the most potent, followed by noradrenaline and dopamine. The present study shows that when the influence of anesthesia is eliminated, the predominant effect of monoamines on cortical first somatosensory neurons is one of inhibition. These findings contrast with results obtained under some anesthetic conditions, as well as under in vitro conditions.
A semiquantitative electron microscopic immunocytochemical procedure was used to study the cellular and subcellular distribution of glutaraldehyde-fixed glutamate in rat hippocampal formation. Ultrathin plastic-embedded sections were incubated with a primary glutamate antiserum followed by a secondary antibody coupled to colloidal gold particles. A computer-assisted assessment of gold particle densities revealed that the axon terminals of all of the main excitatory pathways in the hippocampus were enriched with glutamate-like immunoreactivity relative to other tissue elements, including the parent cell bodies (granule and pyramidal cells). The different excitatory pathways showed slightly different labelling intensities: boutons in the termination zone of the lateral perforant path were covered by higher gold particle densities than boutons situated in the termination zones of the medial perforant path, the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway and the hilar associational/commissural pathway. The mossy fibre terminals were significantly less enriched in immunoreactivity than terminals of the lateral perforant path and the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway. Within the terminals, glutamate-like immunoreactivity was concentrated over synaptic vesicles and mitochondria. Terminals establishing symmetric junctions with cell bodies or dendritic stems displayed low particle densities, as did glial cell processes. These findings support the idea that glutamate is a major excitatory neurotransmitter in hippocampal excitatory synapses. Our observations are also in line with biochemical data pointing to the existence of a considerable neuronal and a smaller glial, metabolic pool of glutamate.
Intracellular recordings from the intermediolateral cell nucleus of the neonate rat thoracolumbar spinal cord slice preparation revealed a population of neurons which displayed three types of spontaneous rhythmic activity: burst firing, tonic beating and membrane oscillations. Most neurons displayed more than one of these types of activity. Neurons had mean resting potentials of -59 mV and input resistances ranging from 10 to 48 m omega. Spontaneous oscillations which were observed either independently or following hyperpolarization of neurons displaying tonic beating or bursting behaviour had a mean peak amplitude and frequency of approximately 14 mV and 1 Hz respectively. Oscillations were not obviously reversible as they were still apparent at potentials as negative as -120 to -140 mV. This suggests that the oscillations had a site of generation distant to the recording electrode. Neurons displaying tonic beating activity were characterized by low frequency firing activated at the peak of the depolarizing phase of the underlying oscillation and these neurons could be induced to exhibit burst behaviour by membrane depolarization. The frequency of firing in tonic beating neurons ranged from 0.1 to 8.8 Hz. Burst firing was characterized by: bursts of 3-17 action potentials; burst cycle frequency of approximately 1 Hz; an afterdepolarization potential mainly observed at the termination of a burst. Burst firing was abolished by cobalt and membrane hyperpolarization but not by barium, low calcium or tetraethylammonium chloride. The switch from tonic beating to burst firing may, in part, involve activation of a voltage- and calcium-dependent afterdepolarization potential. We conclude that a population of neurons in the lateral horn of the spinal cord are capable of rhythmic activity with underlying spontaneous pacemaker-like oscillations.
The ultrastructural distribution of glycine-like immunoreactivity in laminae I-III of rat spinal dorsal horn was examined by using pre-embedding immunocytochemistry. Immunoreactive axons, dendrites and cell bodies were observed in all three laminae, but were most common in lamina III. The axons were presynaptic at axodendritic and axosomatic synapses, but also at axo-axonic synapses in laminae II and III, where the postsynaptic boutons frequently resembled the terminals of myelinated primary afferents. Some vesicle-containing dendrites in lamina II also showed glycine-like immunoreactivity. Immunoreactive dendrites in laminae II and III were postsynaptic to the central axons of type II, but not type I glomeruli, which suggests that glycinergic neurons receive a major monosynaptic input from myelinated primary afferents. These results support the suggestion that GABA and glycine co-exist in some neurons in laminae I-III of rat dorsal horn, and confirm that glycine is involved in somatosensory processing involving low threshold myelinated cutaneous primary afferents.
The effect of carbachol microapplication (4 micrograms/250 nl per 90 s) on the discharge of neurons in the anterodorsal pons of four cats was studied using a newly devised microinjector-microelectrode assembly. Neurons were classified according to the magnitude of their discharge rate increases (or decreases) in physiological desynchronized sleep as desynchronized-on (or desynchronized-off) before injecting carbachol. When carbachol produced a desynchronized sleep-like state only half (15 out of 30) of the desynchronized-on cells were activated (desynchronized-on/desynchronized sleep-like state-on) while the other half were not (desynchronized-on/desynchronized sleep-like state-not on). Compared with the non-activated cells, the desynchronized-on/desynchronized sleep-like state-on cells had three features consistent with playing an active role in desynchronized sleep generation: these cells had a higher mean discharge frequency in desynchronized sleep and higher ratio of discharge frequency in desynchronized sleep compared with wakefulness; they did not fire in phase with electromyogram excitation of neck muscles; and they were concentrated in the short latency desynchronized sleep-like state induction zone described in the companion paper. The three-way correlation between the optimal anatomical site for short latency desynchronized sleep-like state induction, the selective neuronal discharge pattern in desynchronized sleep and the cholinergic activation pattern in the desynchronized sleep-like state suggest that we may have identified a neuronal population that is cholinoceptively activated as part of the physiological mechanism of desynchronized sleep generation.
Carbachol, a long-acting cholinergic agonist, was microinjected (4 micrograms/250 nl per 90 s) into 90 sites within the anterodorsal pontine tegmentum of four cats and the time to onset and percentage of time spent in a desynchronized sleep-like state during 40 min postinjection were calculated. Compared with more posteroventral pontine sites, the shorter latencies and higher percentages observed confirmed earlier predictions of a sensitive cholinoceptive zone in the anterodorsal pons. In 27 trials a desynchronized sleep-like state was observed within 5 min; in 31 trials the latency was 5-10 min and in the remaining 32 trials, greater than 10 min. Plotting the desynchronized sleep-like state latency and the desynchronized sleep-like state percentage as a function of the three-dimensional coordinates revealed that injection sites with short latency (less than 5 min) and high percentage (greater than 80%) were concentrated between the coordinates of P 1.0 to 3.5 and V -3.5 to -5.5, at the lateral coordinate L 2.0. On the frontal plane, the short desynchronized sleep-like state latency and high desynchronized sleep-like state percentage sites begin in the pontine tegmental region just lateral to the ventral tegmental nucleus and extend 3 mm ventrocaudally. A regression plot of the data in sagittal plane 2.0 revealed a short latency axis, around which the short latency sites cluster, running in a slightly dorsoventral direction from about P 1.0 to V -4.0 to P 4.0 to V -5.5. This observation suggests that the sensitive zone might approximate a cylinder in shape, a hypothesis supported by the correlation of longer latencies and lower percentages at increasing radial distance from the axis. The non-linear relationship between cholinergic potency and distance from the short latency axis suggests that the desynchronized sleep-like state latency is a function of two factors; a variable diffusion-based delay of carbachol to distant neuronal populations involved in the desynchronized sleep-like state production, and a fixed recruitment-based delay following activation of neurons in the sensitive zone. Interpretation of these findings in light of earlier studies involving microstimulation of the pontine tegmentum argue in favor of a distributed network of discrete neuronal populations as the source of desynchronized sleep generation.
The immunohistochemical distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide and somatostatin in rat lumbar spinal laminae VII-X was investigated using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. Within L1,2 laminae VII and X, calcitonin gene-related peptide and somatostatin fibers demarcate the location of preganglionic sympathetic neurons in a similar fashion in either sex but somatostatin is distributed in a sexually dimorphic manner in the lumbosacral (L5-S2) spinal cord with the male rat containing more somatostatin fibers and neurons than females. Within the ventral horn (lamina IX), calcitonin gene-related peptide has a sexually dimorphic distribution. Calcitonin gene-related peptide varicose fibers are found within the sexually dimorphic male cremaster nucleus but are virtually absent in the female cremaster nucleus. Calcitonin gene-related peptide varicose fibers are nearly absent in the remainder of the male and female lamina IX: this area includes the other two known sexually dimorphic spinal motonuclei: the dorsomedial and dorsolateral nuclei. Virtually all motoneurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord which are not sexually dimorphic contain calcitonin gene-related peptide. However, calcitonin gene-related peptide containing motoneurons have a heterogeneous distribution within sexually dimorphic nuclei. Calcitonin gene-related peptide containing motoneurons within the male and female cremaster nucleus are extremely rare. Some motoneurons within the male and female dorsomedial and dorsolateral nuclei contain calcitonin gene-related peptide with the female dorsomedial and dorsolateral nuclei containing a greater percentage of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing motoneurons (c. 50%) than males (c. 20%). Somatostatin fibers are preferentially located in sexually dimorphic nuclei of either sex and are distributed in a sexually dimorphic manner within these nuclei with males containing a greater amount of somatostatin fibers than females. The amount of somatostatin immunoreactivity is most dense in the medial aspect of the dorsolateral nucleus, dense in the dorsomedial nucleus, moderate in the cremaster nucleus, and sparse in the lateral portion of the dorsolateral nucleus. In addition, a small column of motoneurons, between the dorsomedial and dorsolateral nuclei at the L5 level, is outlined by somatostatin fibers in females but is absent in males. Somatostatin containing motoneurons were not observed within the lumbar sexually dimorphic nuclei of either sex.
In order to determine which neurotransmitters and neuropeptides are utilized by the neurons of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and by the fibres making synaptic contact with these primary sensory cells, we have set up an immunohistochemical study using antibodies against 17 major neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in the rat. Apart from some intracellular immunostaining for glutamate, no immunoreactivity to any of the tested neurotransmitters and neuropeptides could be detected inside mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve neurons. Our immunohistochemical observations indicate that mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve neurons receive input from various nerve fibres that appear to utilize serotonin, GABA, dopamine, noradrenaline (and likely glutamate) as transmitters. The innervation appeared randomly distributed over all mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve neurons. The presence of substance P, cholecystokinin, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, bombesin/gastrin releasing peptide, [Leu]enkephalin and neuropeptide Y observed in some fibres that contact with mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve neurons, presumably reflect the co-existence of these peptides with one of the neurotransmitters.
The autoradiographic distribution of D1 dopaminergic binding sites was studied in the human ventral mesencephalon using the D1 antagonist [3H]SCH 23390. [3H]SCH 23390 binding was characterized by a single class of sites with a Kd of 2.5 nM and a Bmax of 31 fmol/mg of tissue. The density of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites was high in the substantia nigra, moderate in the ventral tegmental area and low in the peri- and retrorubral field (catecholaminergic region A8). Binding densities were similar in pars compacta and pars reticulata of the substantia nigra, except for a peak value of high [3H]SCH 23390 in the pars reticulata, at a level just ventral to a zone of hyperdensity of melanized dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta. The anatomical organization of the human ventral mesencephalon was analysed on adjacent sections stained for acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and tyrosine hydroxylase, substance P, dynorphin B, somatostatin and methionine-enkephalin immunohistochemistry, respectively. The similarity in distribution of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites and substance P or dynorphin B immunoreactivity suggests that D1 binding sites are mainly located on the striatonigral projections. In accordance with these results: (1) the density of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites was reduced in the substantia nigra of a patient with Huntington's chorea, a disease associated with a degeneration of striatonigral neurons; (2) the density of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites was unaffected in the substantia nigra of a patient with Parkinson's disease, a disorder characterized by a marked loss in nigral tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites showed a characteristic, heterogeneous distribution within the human ventral mesencephalon, confirming data obtained in other species. The preferential localization of D1 dopamine receptors on striatonigral projections in human brain suggests that pharmacological manipulation of these receptors modulates the activity of striatonigral pathways, thereby affecting the various outputs of the nigral complex.
In the present study, binding affinity of glutamate and quisqualate to striatal synaptoneurosome membranes in the guinea-pig was compared with concentration-dependence of depolarizing responses induced by these agents. The displacement of radioactive glutamate from receptor binding site by unlabelled glutamate and quisqualate revealed a nonhomogeneous population of binding sites. A high affinity component of binding was observed with an inhibition constant of 0.04 microM for glutamate and 0.45 microM for quisqualate, as well as a low affinity component with an inhibition constant of 10 microM for glutamate and 87 microM for quisqualate. Changes of the membrane potential in striatal synaptoneurosomes induced by glutamate and quisqualate were detected by measuring the absorbance of a potential sensitive cyanine dye. Glutamate and quisqualate induced constantly a depolarization in synaptoneurosome particles. Concentration-response curves showed that half-maximal depolarization was obtained with 10 microM glutamate and 100 microM quisqualate. The comparison of the displacement data with the changes in the membrane potential in the present investigation indicate that in vitro glutamate and quisqualate depolarize striatal synaptoneurosome particles through low affinity binding to receptor site for glutamate.
A battery of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies raised against the triplet of identified neurofilament protein subunits was used to investigate neurofilament protein immunoreactivity in neurons of the guinea-pig coeliac ganglion. Using optimal conditions of fixation and tissue processing for each antibody we found that only 20% of the postganglionic sympathetic neurons in the guinea-pig coeliac ganglion contain neurofilament protein-triplet immunoreactivity. Double labelling with neurofilament protein-triplet antibodies raised in different species demonstrated that all of these antibodies labelled the same population of neurons. Double labelling using mouse monoclonal antibodies against neurofilament proteins in combination with rabbit polyclonals to neuronal markers showed that neurofilament protein-triplet immunoreactivity is restricted to specific chemically coded subpopulations of noradrenergic neurons. Approximately 52% of neurons in the ganglion contain neuropeptide Y and are presumed vasomotor neurons projecting to blood vessels in the submucosa of the small intestine. Virtually none of the neuropeptide Y-containing neurons were labelled with neurofilament protein-triplet antibodies. Neurons that contain somatostatin (21%) project to the submucous ganglia of the small intestine. Approximately two-thirds of neurons containing somatostatin are immunoreactive for the neurofilament protein-triplet. The other postganglionic neurons in the ganglion (27%) project to the myenteric plexus of the small intestine and do not contain either neuropeptide Y or somatostatin. Approximately a quarter of these neurons were labelled with neurofilament protein-triplet antibodies. These results suggest that the neurofilament protein-triplet may not be an intrinsic component of the cytoskeleton of all neurons. Furthermore the idea of a chemical coding of neurons should be extended to cytoskeletal proteins. The finding that these neurofilament proteins are confined to specific neuronal subpopulations has important implications for the search for a role of the neurofilament protein-triplet in neurons, for the interpretation of classical neurohistological silver impregnation techniques which appear to stain only neurofilament protein-triplet-containing neurons, as well as for neuropathological conditions that may involve these proteins in disease processes.
Responses of neocortical pyramidal cells to excitatory amino acids were recorded intracellularly. Agonists and antagonists were applied electrophoretically from a separate multibarrel pipette and care taken to ensure that the pipette was positioned to evoke optimal responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), or homocysteic acid, before control responses were recorded. Responses to NMDA, but not those to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazdepropionic acid (AMPA) or quisqualate, were enhanced when glycine was co-applied. Responses to AMPA, quisqualate and NMDA were reduced by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) applied either electrophoretically, or in the bathing medium, with responses to quisqualate being the least and those to AMPA being the most sensitive to CNQX. The blockade of NMDA responses by CNQX was selectively reversed by additional glycine confirming that CNQX blocks NMDA receptor-channel complexes at the glycine, rather than at the NMDA site. Under control conditions, responses to glutamate resembled responses to quisqualate, and were relatively insensitive to CNQX, 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-l-phosphonic acid and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, while responses to homocysteic acid resembled responses to NMDA and were blocked by these antagonists. This suggested that homocysteic acid acted at NMDA receptors, while glutamate acted primarily at non-NMDA receptors. However, responses to both glutamate and homocysteic acid were augmented by additional glycine when these transmitter candidates were applied close to a &quot;hot spot&quot; for NMDA receptor activation. The glycine enhancement of responses to glutamate was sensitive to NMDA antagonists, indicating that glutamate can activate NMDA receptors in an intact preparation if glycine levels are high enough.
Microinjection of amphetamine into the ventrolateral region of the striatum results in compulsive and intense oral stereotypies in the rat. Although these stereotyped behaviors are known to be a direct result of excessive stimulation of the striatal dopamine neurons, the relative roles of the D1 and D2 receptors in oral stereotypies are not clearly understood. It is reported here that microinjection of the selective D1 agonist, SKF 38393 (0, 0.3, 3.0, 30.0 micrograms in 0.5 microliters vehicle) into the ventrolateral striatum resulted in no observable changes in behavior during the 30-min test period. However, it was observed that intense self-biting emerged 3-4 h following injection. Examination of histology from these animals revealed extensive tissue damage and the delayed onset of biting was hypothesized to result from a neurotoxic effect of SKF 38393. Infusion of quinpirole (0, 0.3, 3.0, 30.0 micrograms in 0.5 microliter vehicle), a selective D2 agonist, resulted in a dose-dependent increase in orofacial behaviors such as licking, wood-chip eating, head-down sniffing and mouth movements. Intense oral stereotypies such as biting or gnawing were not observed following treatment with quinpirole. Infusion of the mixed agonist dopamine (0, 2.0, 10.0, 20.0 micrograms in 0.5 microliter vehicle) into the ventrolateral striatum was found to elicit intense oral stereotypy. This behavior consisted almost exclusively of self-biting similar to that observed following amphetamine microinjection into this region. Haloperidol, when given as either a systemic (0.2 mg/kg) or intra-ventrolateral striatum (2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliter) pretreatment, effectively blocked oral stereotypies induced by amphetamine microinjection into the ventrolateral striatum. Pretreatment with either the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0, 0.01, 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) or the D2 antagonist raclopride (0, 0.05, 0.50, 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) antagonized amphetamine-induced oral stereotypy in a dose-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that within the striatal site specifically implicated in oral behavior, concurrent stimulation of both receptor subtypes is necessary for the expression of intense oral stereotypies.
Corticotropin releasing factor, a 41 amino acid peptide, has been localized in climbing fibers and mossy fibers in the cat's cerebellar cortex. In the present study, corticotropin releasing factor was iontophoretically applied to Purkinje cells, isolated extracellularly, to assess the effect of this peptide on the firing rate of the neuron. By itself corticotropin releasing factor had little or no effect on cellular activity. However, this peptide potentiated the excitatory effects of aspartate and glutamate, the putative neurotransmitters of the climbing fiber and mossy fiber-parallel fiber systems, respectively. In addition, corticotropin releasing factor blocked the suppressive effects induced by the iontophoretic application of GABA. Finally, it shortened or eliminated the period of suppression produced by activation of climbing fibers in the cerebellar cortex. These data suggest that corticotropin releasing factor functions as a neuromodulator rather than as a neurotransmitter in cerebellar circuitry.
Using quantitative autoradiography, the anatomical distribution of the binding sites (kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate) for the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate has been established in the hippocampal formation from control and schizophrenic brains, post mortem. There is a loss of the kainate subtype particularly in schizophrenic hippocampi mainly from the CA4/CA3 mossy fibre termination zone of the cornu ammonis (CA4 and CA3; control and schizophrenic left hippocampus, respectively, 54.2 and 66.6 pmol/g; 18.3 and 17.9 pmol/g), as well as bilateral losses in the dentate gyrus (left 14.2 pmol/g and right 28.0 pmol/g; left 9.5 pmol/g and right 7.9 pmol/g, control and schizophrenic, respectively) and parahippocampal gyrus (left 50.8 pmol/g and right 41.7 pmol/g, left 27.7 pmol/g and right 25.3 pmol/g, control and schizophrenic, respectively). There is complete preservation of N-methy-D-aspartate sites in schizophrenic hippocampi, and a marginally significant loss of the quisqualate binding site in CA4/CA3 regions (left 249 fmol/g and right 306 fmol/g, left 157 fmol/g and right 148 fmol/g, control and schizophrenic, respectively). These findings reflect the possible importance of glutamate in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and represent novel targets for therapeutic manipulation in schizophrenia.
Experiments have been performed on unanesthetized rats using a chronic restraint system. The animal's head was held in a stereotaxic apparatus by means of two metallic tubes fixed on the skull with dental cement. Electrodes consisted of a recording micropipette (filled with 1 M NaCl and 2% Pontamine Blue) attached to a multibarreled micropipette for iontophoresis. Electrode penetrations were reconstructed on camera lucida drawings of frontal brain sections. The overall percentage of spontaneously active somatosensory neurons was 77% with a mean spontaneous activity of 5.9 impulse/s (n = 405). Yet differences were observed in the proportions of active cells as well as in the mean spontaneous activity between cortical layers (both parameters being significantly higher in layers V and VI). Comparison with results obtained under urethane anesthesia [Dykes R. W. and Lamour Y. (1988) J. Neurophysiol. 60, 703-724] shows that the percentage of the spontaneously active neurons and the mean spontaneous activity were both significantly higher in unanesthetized rats (77 vs 36%; 5.9 vs 2.6 impulse/s). Nevertheless, the laminar distribution of the most active cells was similar under both conditions. In the present study, 52.3% of the neurons (n = 380) were excited by acetylcholine and 46% (n = 198) by carbachol. Significantly larger percentages of neurons excited by acetylcholine were found in layers Vb and VIb. These effects of cholinergic agonists--observed for the first time in unanesthetized rats--differed significantly from those previously obtained under anesthesia (33 and 34% of neurons excited by acetylcholine and carbachol, respectively) [Lamour Y. et al. (1982) Neuroscience 7, 1483-1494].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The possible heterogeneity of extrahypothalamic somatostatin receptors was studied in rat brain by quantitative radioautography. The respective distribution and relative proportion of two somatostatin receptor sub-types (SS1 and SS2) were assessed by using two radioligands, the non-selective probe [125I]Tyr3-D-Trp8-somatostatin14 and the SS1 selective analogue [125I]Tyr3-SMS 201-995. For both ligands, adjacent brain sections were processed in the presence of micromolar concentrations of either a non-discriminative competitor (somatostatin14) or SS1-selective analogue (SMS 201-995). The comparative analysis of the specific binding remaining in the presence of each non-radioactive competitor permitted a semi-quantitative analysis of the proportion of SS1 and SS2 receptor sub-types in each brain region examined. Data obtained correlate well with homogenate binding results reported previously [Reubi J. C. (1984) Neurosci. Lett. 49, 259-263]. Although the distribution patterns obtained with both radioligands were similar, [125I]Tyr3-SMS 201-995 labelled only a fraction of [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8-somatostatin14-labelled sites in certain brain regions. For example, both superficial and deep cortical laminae, as well as the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus and CA1 hippocampal area exhibited different binding densities with [125I]Tyr0-D-Trp8-somatostatin14 depending on the competitor used in the assay (somatostatin14 or SMS 201-995). On the other hand, [125I]Tyr3-SMS 201-995 binding was eliminated in an identical fashion by either competitor in these very same brain areas. This suggests the existence of SS1 and SS2 somatostatin receptor sub-types in these regions. In all other brain areas examined, somatostatin receptor sites are apparently of the SS1 sub-type. The heterogeneity of somatostatin receptors observed in certain regions may have relevance for the various biological effects induced by somatostatin in the central nervous system.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate, kainate, and quisqualate released endogenous adenosine from superfused slices of rat parietal cortex. N-Methyl-D-aspartate-evoked adenosine release was blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphono-valeric acid and (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801), indicating that it was receptor-mediated, although it did not show the expected potentiation in the absence of Mg2+. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline from the same slices was markedly potentiated in Mg2(+)-free medium. Therefore, the lack of Mg2+ modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked adenosine release was not due to depolarization-induced alleviation of the Mg2+ block in the slices. Kainate-evoked adenosine release was diminished by the non-specific excitatory amino acid antagonist, gamma-D-glutamyl-glycine, and kainate- and quisqualate-evoked adenosine release was diminished by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, indicating that these agonists release adenosine by acting at non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Tetrodotoxin decreased N-methyl-D-aspartate- and kainate-evoked adenosine release by 40% and 19% respectively, indicating that release was mediated in part by propagated action potentials in the slices. Total release of adenosine by N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate or quisqualate was not diminished in the absence of Ca2+. A second exposure to kainate following restoration of Ca2+ to slices previously depolarized in the absence of Ca2+ resulted in an amount of adenosine release equal to an initial release by slices in the presence of Ca2+, a result suggesting the presence of separate Ca2(+)-dependent and Ca2(+)-independent pools of adenosine. The present experiments demonstrate that activation of all three major subtypes of excitatory amino acid receptors in the cortex releases adenosine, possibly from separate Ca2(+)-dependent and -independent pools. Adenosine released from the cortex following excitatory amino acid stimulation may, by acting at inhibitory P1 purinoceptors, diminish excitatory neurotransmission and protect against excitotoxicity.
In rat striatal slices, the autoradiographic analysis of [3H]naloxone binding allows one to define highly labelled patches corresponding to the striosomes and representing about 17% of the total striatal volume, surrounded by a poorly labelled zone, the matrix. Previous studies have shown that the density of these mu-opiate receptor binding sites is decreased by about 28% following destruction of the striatal dopamine innervation suggesting a partial localization of these receptors on dopamine presynaptic nerve endings. These results were confirmed but, in addition, we have shown that a chronic (30 days) blockade of dopamine transmission obtained by treatment of the animals with a long acting neuroleptic induces a similar decrease of mu binding sites. Further experiments made with D-Pen2,D-Pen5-[tyrosyl-3-5(n)-3H] enkephalin, a selective delta opiate receptor agonist, have revealed that the density of delta opiate binding sites is decreased (30%) in rats with striatal dopamine denervation but not in those treated with the long acting neuroleptic. These data indicate that part of these delta receptors is located on dopamine nerve terminals but are not in favour of the presence of mu receptors on these nerve terminals. The decrease in [3H]naloxone binding sites induced by prolonged interruption of dopamine transmission can be attributed to postsynaptic events.
A push-pull cannula supplied with an artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing the tritiated precursor of dopamine, [3H]tyrosine, was implanted in the caudate nucleus of rats anesthetized with halothane. The extracellular dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were measured in successive 20 min fractions (both in their tritiated and unlabeled form) and the ratio between the two forms calculated. Glutamate was added to the superfusing cerebrospinal fluid to investigate its role in the process of dopamine release. The release of dopamine and the efflux of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were activated by a low concentration (10(-8) M) of glutamate. In contrast, a higher concentration (10(-4) M) of the amino acid reduced the release of dopamine. These results first confirmed the presence of a dual mechanism of control, by glutamate, of the dopamine release in the striatum depending on the extracellular concentration. Secondly, these treatments affected the dihydroxyphenylacetic acid amount and predominantly the tritiated form of dopamine, suggesting that the glutamate induces an important increase of the amine synthesis, in spite of a moderate effect on the release. The reversal of the inhibition by applications of tetrodotoxin (5 x 10(-7) M) and bicuculline (10(-4) M) confirmed that it was mediated by an indirect mechanism involving a GABAergic neurotransmission. In addition, the increase of the spontaneous dopamine release during bicuculline application suggested the existence of a tonic mechanism of inhibition of dopamine release in the striatum. This was confirmed by the fact that local xylocaine-induced anesthesia of the sensory motor cortex increased the spontaneous release of dopamine in the striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Isolated segments of guinea-pig small intestine were set up in a partitioned bath to study the enteric excitatory reflex evoked by distension. The gut was distended by a rubber balloon inserted at the aboral end and contractions of the circular muscle were recorded at the oral end. The oral and aboral ends of the gut were separated by an intermediate compartment of the bath. Inflation of the intraluminal balloon with 0.075-0.35 ml water elicited reproducible and distension-dependent contraction. This enteric orally directed (ascending) excitatory reflex was abolished by tetrodotoxin irrespective of the compartment in which it was applied. Hyoscine (0.3 microM) almost abolished the enteric excitatory reflex when it was applied to the oral compartment. This indicates that the transmission from the final motor neurons to the circular muscle is mainly cholinergic, acting via muscarinic receptors. Hyoscine had no effect on the enteric excitatory reflex when added to the intermediate compartment. When hyoscine was added to the aboral compartment, it decreased the enteric excitatory reflex elicited by low distension stimuli to 70% of control and decreased the enteric excitatory reflex elicited by higher distension stimuli to 95% of control. This indicates that ganglionic transmission involving muscarinic receptors at the site of distension in the aboral bath contributes to the enteric excitatory reflex. Hexamethonium (100 microm) greatly depressed the enteric excitatory reflex when applied to any compartment indicating that nicotinic transmission is most important in the afferent, intermediate and efferent components of the reflex and that the reflex pathway involves a polysynaptic chain of cholinergic interneurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The intradermal injection of adenosine produces a dose-dependent decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold in the hindpaw of the rat that is not attenuated by elimination of indirect pathways for the production of hyperalgesia. Adenosine-induced hyperalgesia is mimicked by the A2-agonists, 5'-(N-ethyl)-carboxamido-adenosine and 2-phenylaminoadenosine but not by the A1-agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine and antagonized by the adenosine A2-receptor antagonist, PD 081360-0002 but not by the A1-antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-(2-amino-4-chlorophenyl)xanthine. The latency to onset of adenosine and 2-phenylaminoadenosine hyperalgesia is similar to that produced by prostaglandin E2, a directly acting hyperalgesic agent but shorter than that produced by leukotriene B4, which acts indirectly. 2-Phenylaminoadenosine hyperalgesia is prolonged by rolipram, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Both 2-phenylaminoadenosine and prostaglandin E2 hyperalgesia are antagonized by the A1-agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine and the mu-agonist, [D-Ala2, NMe-Phe4, Gly-ol]enkephalin. However, 1-acetyl-2-(8-chloro-10,11-dihydrodibenz[b,f]oxazepine-10-ca rbonyl) hydrazine, a prostaglandin-receptor antagonist, inhibits prostaglandin E2 (Taiwo and Levine, Brain Res. 458, 402-406, 1988) but not 2-phenylamino-adenosine hyperalgesia and PD 081360-0002, the adenosine receptor antagonist, inhibits 2-phenylamino-adenosine but not prostaglandin E2 hyperalgesia. These data suggest that adenosine is a directly acting agent that produces hyperalgesia by an action at the A2-receptor and that this hyperalgesia is mediated by the cAMP second messenger.
Glutamate release has been examined from cultured cerebellar granule neurons in the rat using the technique of prelabelling the releasable pool of glutamate with [3H]glutamine. Glutamate release was stimulated in control neurons by 2-min incubation with 50 mM K+, or in neurons continuously depolarized in Ca2(+)-free 50 mM K+ medium, by 2-min incubation with medium containing 5 mM Ca2+. The ability of the Ca2(+)-channel agonist (+)-202-791 to increase the stimulated release of [3H]glutamate was approximately doubled in the depolarized condition. The antagonist enantiomer (-)-202-791 produced a small inhibition of K(+)-stimulated release, whereas (-)-202-791 completely inhibited Ca2(+)-stimulated release from depolarized neurons at concentrations greater than 10 nM. (-)-Baclofen (100 microM) inhibited transmitter release similarly (25-30%) under the two conditions. Calcium-channel currents were recorded from cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons under control conditions at a holding potential of -80 mV, or in neurons depolarized to -30 mV. (-)-202-791 produced a greater effect at -30 than at -80 mV although even at -30 mV the inhibition was slow in onset and incomplete. (-)-Baclofen (100 microM) inhibited the amplitude of the calcium-channel current at both holding potentials by 30-50%, although it did not clearly slow activation of the current at the depolarized holding potential. The GABAB receptors associated with inhibition of glutamate release and of calcium-channel currents were both markedly blocked by phaclofen but not by 2-OH-saclofen. These findings suggest that the GABAB receptor associated with inhibitory modulation of transmitter release, and that associated with inhibition of calcium-channel currents show pharmacological similarities, and are able to exert their action even at levels of steady depolarization at which most N-type channels should be inactivated.
There is presently no consensus as to the nature of the catecholaminergic influence on the regulation of corticotropin-releasing factor. The potential role that the alpha-adrenergic system plays was investigated by measuring hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactivity and plasma adrenocorticotropin, following manipulation of alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor activation. Administration of the alpha-1 agonist methoxamine did not significantly alter either plasma adrenocorticotropin or hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor. Administration of the alpha-2 agonist clonidine resulted in a 24-fold increase in plasma adrenocorticotropin and a significant decrease in median eminence corticotropin-releasing factor, consistent with its release. Corticotropin-releasing factor in the remainder of the hypothalamus was not altered. Concurrent administration of clonidine with the selective alpha-2 antagonist yohimbine prevented the clonidine-induced changes in plasma adrenocorticotropin and hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor, consistent with the clonidine effect being mediated through alpha-2 receptors. Concurrent administration of clonidine with methoxamine did not prevent these effects, suggesting that the effect of clonidine was not mediated through presynaptic inhibition of noradrenergic adrenergic neurotransmission. Inhibition of protein synthesis by anisomycin induced changes in corticotropin-releasing factor and adrenocorticotropin which were not altered by combined treatment with methoxamine or clonidine. These data suggest differential roles for alpha-1 and alpha-2 systems in the regulation of corticotropin-releasing factor. Results from alpha-2 adrenergic activation were consistent with stimulation of corticotropin-releasing factor release, an effect mediated by a postsynaptic alpha-2 mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There is little information about major constituents of the brain in Alzheimer's disease. In the case of amino acids most of the previous data are contradictory. These have been interpreted in an anatomic and neurotransmitter as well as a metabolic context. To help clarify this, the contents of 14 amino acids and ethanolamine were determined in samples of neocortex from diagnostic craniotomies of 15 demented patients (10 with Alzheimer's disease) and other neurosurgical procedures (57 patients, 18 with intractable depression). A comprehensive survey of the effects of possible complicating factors on the concentrations of amino acids showed that artefacts were few; this was in contrast to a post mortem series of brains (16 with Alzheimer's disease and 16 controls; six regions assayed). We have used the ante mortem data to provide the basis for an accurate comparison of amino acid values between Alzheimer and control samples. In Alzheimer's disease, the mean contents of many amino acids were slightly higher (sum of the increases of those significantly affected was 15 nmol/mg protein) whereas glutamate content alone was significantly reduced (by 16 nmol/mg protein). This was not a feature of depression or a group of patients with other dementias. Glutamate content of Alzheimer samples was related to pyramidal neuron density in cortical layer III. These alterations were detected relatively early during the course of Alzheimer's disease and are considered to be due to loss of corticocortical glutamatergic association pathways.
Studies were performed to examine the relation of dopaminergic cells and radial glia in the developing mesencephalon of the rat at ages E12-E20. Dopaminergic cells were immunolabelled with an antiserum which recognizes tyrosine hydroxylase, and radial glia were immunolabelled with a monoclonal antibody which recognizes vimentin. The vimentin-immunoreactive fibres of radial glia were noted at E12. At E12, and more clearly at later time points, the radial glia extended from the aqueduct to the pial surface, and this pattern persisted throughout the prenatal period. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells were located along the ventral surface of the mesencephalon at age E13. At age E15, E16, and E18 the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells were present from the aqueduct to the ventral pial surface of the mesencephalon and were aligned along radial glia. Our study suggests that radial glia provide paths for migration of dopaminergic cells in the mantle layer from E15 to E18 of the developing mesencephalon. It also suggests that some dopaminergic cells between E15 and E18 may express tyrosine hydroxylase during their migration through the mantle layer and prior to reaching the location they occupy in the adult brain.
The distribution of somatostatin-immunoreactive fibres and cells has been analysed in the rat spinal trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. Immunoreactive fibres are most concentrated in lamina II outer but fibres and terminals occur also in lamina I, lamina II inner, and scattered in the magnocellular region and neighbouring lateral reticular area. Immunoreactive cells occur in laminae I and II and in the magnocellular region of the nucleus but are most abundant in lamina II inner. The lamina II immunoreactive cells are morphologically heterogeneous and include types which are similar to cells described in Golgi studies such as stalked and islet cells. In order to distinguish somatostatin-immunoreactive primary afferents from intrinsic sources of somatostatin such as the lamina II neurons, we have used a monoclonal antibody (LD2) which is specific for primary afferents. Using dual-colour immunofluorescence we have shown that all somatostatin-immunoreactive cells in the trigeminal ganglia express LD2 immunoreactivity. Quantitative immunostaining density profiles indicate that LD2- and somatostatin-immunoreactive fibres overlap mainly in lamina II outer and dual-colour immunofluorescence confirms that this region contains somatostatin and LD2 double-labelled fibres. In contrast, lamina I contains more somatostatin- than LD2-immunoreactive fibres and fewer double-labelled fibres. The presence of double-labelled fibres in outer lamina II indicates that somatostatin-immunoreactive primary afferents terminate largely in this sublamina. However, the small number of double-labelled fibres found suggests that somatostatin-immunoreactive fibres in laminae I and II are derived mainly from intrinsic sources such as the various types of lamina II neurons.
The prosomatostatin-derived peptides, somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28, are believed to function as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators in the cerebral cortex. To investigate the molecular mechanisms by which these peptides induce their physiological effects in the cerebral cortex, we have examined the effects of somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 on voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents in rat neocortical neurons in culture. Ca2+ currents were recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques under conditions in which K+ and Na+ currents were blocked. Ca2+ currents were induced by depolarization from the holding potential of -80 mV. Somatostatin-14 (100 nM) and somatostatin-28 (100 nM) did not significantly affect low-voltage activated Ca2+ currents, but blocked high-voltage activated Ca2+ currents and slowed the activation of this current. The effects of both peptides were concentration-dependent and reversible. Furthermore, the effects of somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 on the high-voltage activated Ca2+ currents were not additive, suggesting that both peptides regulate this ionic current through similar cellular mechanisms. When patch pipettes used to record the Ca2+ currents contained 100 microM cAMP and 0.5 mM isobutylmethylxanthine, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, somatostatin-14 and somatostatin-28 still inhibited Ca2+ currents, indicating that the effects of these peptides on the Ca2+ currents were cAMP-independent. Inclusion of the non-hydrolysable guanine triphosphate analogue, guanine triphos-somatostatin-14 or somatostatin-28, suggesting the involvement of guanine nucleotide binding proteins in the actions of the peptides on the Ca2+ currents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Removal of excitatory amino acids from the extracellular space is now postulated to occur through at least two distinct transport systems that are distinguished by their ionic dependency. Thus, both sodium-dependent and chloride-dependent systems have been described in the mammalian central nervous system. In this report we attempt to characterize these sites by autoradiography, using D-[3H]aspartate and L-[3H]glutamate as ligands. Previous studies have shown that sequestration of radioligand into membrane vesicles can be a potential artifact when examining transport sites. We have found that sequestration can be alleviated by incubation of tissue sections in xylenes prior to incubation with radioligand. Using in vitro autoradiography we have characterized the two binding sites with respect to their distribution, kinetics and pharmacology. Both appeared to have a single, saturable binding site with Kds in the low micromolar range. Sodium-dependent D-aspartate binding predominated, having a Bmax that was five times greater than chloride-dependent L-glutamate binding in whole brain. The levels of binding to the two sites varied between brain regions. Sodium-dependent D-aspartate binding was highest in the cerebellar molecular layer greater than dentate gyrus molecular layer greater than entorhinal cortex. Chloride-dependent L-glutamate binding was highest in the outer layers of cerebral cortex greater than dentate gyrus molecular layer greater than entorhinal cortex greater than striatum. Pharmacological characterization of these sites also showed major differences. Sodium-dependent D-aspartate binding was most potently inhibited by L-aspartate greater than threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate greater than L-cysteine sulfinic acid greater than L-cysteic acid. Chloride-dependent glutamate binding was most potently inhibited by L-glutamate greater than L-alpha-amino adipic acid greater than quisqualate greater than L-serine-o-sulfate. The differences in distribution, ligand binding properties and pharmacology of these sites suggest that a significant variable in excitatory amino acid circuitry may include heterogeneity in transporters associated with excitatory pathways.
Ion-selective microelectrodes can be used to evaluate the characteristics and laminar distribution of excitatory amino acid agonist-induced K+ and Ca2+ shifts in the extracellular environment of brain cells. This report describes the pattern of K+ increases and Ca2+ decreases elicited by glutamate and aspartate at 100 microns intervals in the isolated turtle cerebellum. These responses were compared to ion shifts evoked by kainate, quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate. Glutamate and aspartate produced indistinguishable laminar patterns of ion shifts, with the greatest [K+]o and [Ca2+]o shifts in the granular layer. The average maximum granular and molecular layer increases in [K+]o were, respectively, 130% and 24% larger than the increase in the Purkinje cell layer. Kainate-induced increases in [K+]o also followed this granular greater than molecular greater than Purkinje cell layer pattern; however, the corresponding [Ca2+]o decreases were smaller and more variable. Quisqualate-evoked ion shifts in the molecular layer closely mimicked the shape of glutamate- and aspartate-induced responses. In the granular layer, however, quisqualate caused little ion change during iontophoresis followed by large [K+]o and [Ca+]o shifts after the end of the pulse. The minimal ion shifts induced during quisqualate application in the granular layer gave this agonist the distinction of being the only agent tested to have its greatest direct effect in the molecular layer. N-Methyl-D-aspartate caused large, two-phase [K+]o and [Ca2+]o shifts in the granular layer, only small [K+]o rises in the Purkinje cell and ventral molecular layers, and no response in the dorsal molecular layer. The lack of similarity between glutamate- and aspartate-induced ion shifts in the granular layer and those of any one agonist demonstrate the mixed agonist action of glutamate and aspartate in the cerebellum. These studies provide new information about the dynamics of excitatory amino acid receptor activation that is complementary to autoradiographic receptor mapping data and to single cell electrophysiological studies.
A post-embedding immunogold procedure was used to analyse, in a semiquantitative manner, the distributions of aspartate-like and glutamate-like immunoreactivities in the inferior olive and climbing fibre system in rats and baboons. The neurons in the inferior olive were uniformly labelled for aspartate as well as glutamate, indicating a 100% co-localization of these two amino acids in the cell bodies. The level of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the climbing fibre terminals was similar to that in the parent cell bodies, as judged by a computer-assisted calculation of gold particle densities. In contrast, the level of aspartate-like immunoreactivity in the climbing fibre terminals was only one-seventh of that of the olivary neurons. No differences were found between the hemispheres and vermis. Nerve terminals in the inferior olive were generally moderately labelled with the aspartate antiserum, as were cell bodies of astrocytes. With a few exceptions, the results obtained in baboons were similar to those in rats. Notably, no evidence was found of an enrichment of aspartate-like immunoreactivity in climbing fibres. The present results do not support previous data suggesting that aspartate is the transmitter of the climbing fibres but indicate that glutamate or another excitatory compound should be considered as candidate for this role. Our findings show that the presence of aspartate-like immunoreactivity in cell bodies is an unreliable indicator of transmitter identity.
Parkinson's disease is associated with a massive loss in melanized dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra resulting in a severe striatal dopaminergic denervation. The hyperactivity which develops in the remaining striatal dopaminergic terminals may be related to an increased rate of tyrosine hydroxylation. This could be related to changes in the level of expression of the gene coding for tyrosine hydroxylase. Thus, the detection of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA was looked for at cellular levels by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Image analysis shows that the hybridization signal was significantly reduced in the surviving neurons when compared to control. The subnormal tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA content may express a change in level of tyrosine hydroxylase gene transcription, possibly in relation to sustained suffering of the neurons still present at late stages of the disease.
The cellular localization of preprosomatostatin mRNA in the rat brain and sensory ganglia has been examined in detail using a newly developed highly sensitive non-radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry procedure. An alkaline phosphatase labelled anti-sense 30mer oligodeoxynucleotide probe was used for detection of somatostatin mRNA. This probe readily demonstrated somatostatin gene expression throughout the rat CNS with very high contrast and good cellular localization. As a result, we visualized numerous somatostatin mRNA-positive cells in many CNS areas which had previously not been shown to contain a mRNA signal. This method detected a number of somatostatin mRNA-positive cells, in the mitral cell layer of accessory olfactory bulb, the glomerular layer of the main olfactory bulb, the dorsal part of the lateral septum, superficial gray layer of superior colliculus, inferior colliculus, anterior ventral cochlear nucleus, granular layer and Purkinje cell layer of cerebellum, and substantia gelatinosa of medulla and spinal cord, all areas where signal detection using radiolabelled in situ probes has previously been rather difficult. The principle advantages of the present method include the very precise cellular resolution of signal, the rapid reaction time and low background. The sensitivity of the present method seems to be at least equivalent to most immunocytochemical procedures and more sensitive than most isotopic in situ hybridization methods.
Rat cerebellar granule cells, when subjected to a glucose-free environment for 4 h, developed extensive degeneration of neuronal cell bodies and their associated neurite network over the following 24 h. This neuronal damage was quantitated with a colorimetric assay using the metabolic dye 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide. Hypoglycemic neuronal injury could be markedly reduced by the presence of both competitive (3-(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) and non-competitive (phencyclidine) N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, but not by kainate/quisqualate preferring antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Glucose deprivation neuronal injury was also reduced by adding glutamate-degrading enzymes to the incubation medium. Monosialoganglioside GM1, but not its asialo derivative (lacking sialic acid), was also effective in protecting against hypoglycemic neurodegeneration when included during the period of glucose deprivation. These results suggest that the neuronal injury to cerebellar granule cells resulting from glucose deprivation is mediated predominantly by activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of excitatory amino acid receptor, perhaps through the action of endogenously released glutamate. Furthermore, the monosialoganglioside GM1, a member of a class of naturally occurring sialoglycosphingolipids, is able to attenuate this neuronal injury--as already observed for glutamate neurotoxicity and anoxic neuronal death in cerebellar granule cells. Gangliosides may thus prove to be of therapeutic utility in excitatory amino acid-associated neuropathologies.
The present paper contains a description of a prolonged potentiation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential in the CA1 region of the hippocampal slice preparation following afferent tetanization. In contrast to long-term potentiation, this novel potentiation is not specific to the activated synapses, and manifests itself as a change in the shape of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential with a prolongation of the rising phase and an increased peak amplitude. The potentiation is fully developed within minutes after tetanization and shows no decrement for at least an hour. Although it can appear together with long-term potentiation following tetanization at moderate strength (single volley excitatory postsynaptic potential below threshold for spike initiation), it is more readily seen following tetanization at higher strengths. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate prevents the induction but not the maintenance of the shape modification. The potentiation is observed in the presence of the GABAA antagonist picrotoxin (100 microM) and is thus not secondary to changes in postsynaptic inhibition. 4-Aminopyridine (50-100 microM) produced changes in the field excitatory postsynaptic potential resembling the shape modification produced by afferent tetanization, suggesting that the potentiation may be due to a blockade of potassium channels, pre- or postsynaptically located. The potentiation is also found to be associated with an increase in the population spike for a given initial slope of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential, and may thus contribute to the excitatory postsynaptic potential-spike potentiation that can be observed following afferent tetanization.
In CA3 hippocampal neurons of the rat, brief anoxic episodes produce a depolarization which is probably due to a synaptic release of glutamate. Diazoxide, an activator of ATP-sensitive K+ channels (K+ ATP), blocks the anoxic depolarization and has no effect in control oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The hormone somatostatin which activates K+ ATP channels in the pancreas also reduces the anoxic depolarization in CA3 neurons. We suggest that drugs that open K+ ATP channels may constitute a novel approach to selectivity reducing the deleterious effects of excessive release of glutamate during anoxia without producing a generalized blockade of glutamatergic synaptic transmission.
Physiological release of endogenous opioids in the rat hippocampus was detected by an in vitro radioligand displacement assay using [3H][D-Ala2,N-methyl-Phe4,glyol5]enkephalin ([3H]DAGO), a mu selective opioid agonist. In this assay, radioligand binding to opioid receptors in the in vitro hippocampal slice was reduced by competition with endogenous opioids released following tissue depolarization. Veratridine-induced opioid release caused displacement of [3H]DAGO that could be blocked by either tetrodotoxin addition or calcium removal from the incubation buffer. Maximal displacement of [3H]DAGO also required the presence of peptidase inhibitors in the incubation buffer. None of the buffer composition changes directly affected [3H]DAGO binding to rat brain membranes. Calcium-dependent displacement of [3H]DAGO binding from mu receptor sites elicited by focal electrical stimulation depended on the intensity and frequency of stimulation and positioning of the electrode in the slice. Maximal displacement of [3H]DAGO binding was observed following high intensity (150-300 microA), high frequency (10-50 Hz) stimulation of the perforant path, a major afferent fiber system to the hippocampus previously shown to contain proenkephalin-derived opioids. Low frequency stimulation (0.1-1 Hz) was ineffective. Stimulation of the mossy fibers (containing both dynorphins and enkephalins) also significantly reduced mu receptor binding, but to a lesser extent. Electrical stimulation of the hippocampal slice at sites not containing opioid peptides did not cause mu receptor displacement. These results demonstrate that under physiological conditions, the release of endogenous opioids from the major opioid containing pathways can be detected in a single hippocampal slice following high frequency stimulation.
The termination pattern of septohippocampal axons visualized by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin was studied in the hippocampal formation in the rat, with special reference to the innervation of neurons immunoreactive for the neuroactive peptides cholecystokinin, somatostatin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The type I, GABAergic, septohippocampal afferents were shown to terminate on neurons immunoreactive for each of the three peptides. The cholecystokinin-like immunoreactive neurons in all regions, and the somatostatin-immunoreactive cells in stratum oriens of CA1 region were the most preferred targets. Cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells, especially those in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, were often seen to be contacted by type II (presumed cholinergic) axons as well. The somatostatin-immunoreactive cells in the hilus were also innervated by type I septohippocampal axons, although less frequently than those in stratum oriens of the CA1 subfield. Each type of peptidergic neuron received multiple symmetrical synaptic input from the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled septal afferents, as confirmed by correlated electron microscopy. The majority of these neuropeptide-containing cells are known to be GABAergic, and to have distinct input and output relationships. Thus, the present results demonstrate that the GABAergic septohippocampal pathway can control a wide range of putative inhibitory circuits, and thereby influence the pattern of electrical activity in the hippocampal formation.
The avian ciliary ganglion is a parasympathetic ganglion derived from the neural crest whose neurons provide cholinergic innervation to the eye. Here, we describe the time course of appearance and the morphology of cholinergic cells in the ciliary ganglion, as assessed by antibodies against choline acetyltransferase. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was first observed in 5.5-day-old quail embryos, 1 day after condensation of the ciliary ganglion. Both the intensity of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity and size of the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells increased with ganglionic age. By 12 days, a second population of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells, possibly corresponding to choroid neurons, was observed whose cells were smaller and less intensely stained than earlier differentiating choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells. The percentage of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells was initially high, constituting approximately 50% of the total cell population. As a function of time, the proportion of cholinergic cells decreased, probably due to proliferation of non-neuronal cells and naturally-occurring cell death. Our results confirm the existence of two morphologically distinct populations of cholinergic neurons in the avian ciliary ganglion and demonstrate that these neuronal subpopulations express choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity at different times in development. Because choroid neurons innervate their targets later than ciliary neurons, this finding is consistent with the hypothesis that target interactions regulate expression of choline acetyltransferase.
To determine how transmitter release is related to presynaptic nerve activities, pre- and postsynaptic electrical events of the vas deferens in the guinea-pig were recorded with a suction electrode. Stimulation of the hypogastric nerve elicited excitatory junction currents and nerve action potentials. Intermittence of excitatory junction currents was observed. In some instances, this was related to the absence of nerve action potentials, suggesting failure of impulse propagation into the nerve terminals. Facilitation of both the nerve action potentials and the excitatory junction currents was also observed. Internal perfusion of the recording electrode with tetrodotoxin blocked the nerve impulse, and the polarity of the excitatory junction current became positive. Similar effects on the polarity of the excitatory junction current were observed with alpha, beta-methylene ATP. Perfusion of the suction pipette with 4-aminopyridine or tetraethylammonium increased the amplitude of the excitatory junction currents and prolonged the nerve action potential duration. These experiments show that: (1) transmission failure in some cases can be related to conduction block into the terminal region: (2) facilitation of excitatory junction currents may be related to facilitation of the nerve action potentials; (3) enhancement of transmitter release by potassium channel blockers may be related to prolongation of the duration of the nerve action potential. It is concluded that transmitter release is intimately related to presynaptic nerve activities.
In the present investigations, we used a superfusion system to study the effect of simultaneous activation of D2 dopamine receptors and so-called muscarinic &quot;autoreceptors&quot; on the K(+)-evoked in vitro release of [3H]acetylcholine from rat striatal tissue slices. Activation of D2 receptors with the selective agonist LY 171555 (0.01-1 microM) clearly decreased the evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine. This effect was markedly attenuated in the presence of either the selective muscarinic receptor agonist oxotremorine (3 microM) or the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine (1 microM). Conversely, D2 receptor activation with LY 171555 (1 microM) completely abolished the muscarinic receptor mediated inhibition of evoked [3H]acetylcholine release induced by oxotremorine (0.03-10 microM). These results show that the inhibitory effects of D2 dopamine receptor and muscarinic receptor activation on striatal acetylcholine release are non-additive and therefore are interdependent processes. In addition, we investigated some aspects of the signal transduction mechanism by which the muscarinic receptor mediates inhibition of K(+)-evoked in vitro release of [3H]acetylcholine from rat striatal tissue slices. It appeared that the effect of muscarinic receptor activation was not significantly influenced either by a lowering of the extracellular Ca2+ concentration from the usual 1.2-0.12 mM or by an increase of the intracellular cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate content. However, increasing extracellular K+ strongly decreased the inhibition of evoked [3H]acetylcholine release mediated by activation of muscarinic receptors. This set of results indicates that the muscarinic &quot;autoreceptor&quot; mediates the decrease of depolarization induced [3H]acetylcholine release from rat striatum to a large extent through stimulation of K+ efflux (opening of K+ channels) in a cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate independent manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study evaluated, using behavioral and electrophysiological methods, the involvement of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the processing of noxious information in the spinal cord of the mouse. The selectivity of the excitatory amino acid antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and glutamylaminomethylsulphonate was assessed behaviorally, using their ability to reverse the biting behavior elicited by intrathecal excitatory amino acid administration as a tool. 2-Amino-5-phosphonovalerate at concentrations up to 1 mM was shown to be selective for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, while glutamylaminomethylsulphonate was selective for the kainate and quisqualate receptors at similar concentrations. At these concentrations, intrathecal administration of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate to awake mice produced significant analgesia on a battery of tests, as well as a dose-related motor impairment, while glutamylaminomethylsulphonate was without effect. Proof that 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate exerts its effects via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is that glutamylaminomethylsulphonate, at concentrations which also block this receptor (greater than 1 mM), also produced analgesia and motor effects. Furthermore, N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not kainate or quisqualate, reversed the analgesic effects of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. In fact, significant potentiation of analgesia could be seen with quisqualate. In accordance with the behavioral pharmacological data, topical application of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate onto the spinal cord of anesthetized mice significantly depressed the response of spinal sensory neurons to noxious mechanical and electrical stimulation, but did not affect the activity of neurons which showed no preferential reaction to noxious stimulation. Glutamylaminomethylsulphonate at non-analgesic concentrations was without effect. Based on these and other studies we conclude that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor bearing interneurons participate in nociception, and that N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists exert their analgesic and motor effect by changing the tone of spinal neural action in the spinal cord, rather than direct intervention in primary afferent transmission.
The results appear to support the following tentative working hypothesis. (1) Nerve impulse-induced transmitter release from sympathetic nerve varicosities is monoquantal and highly intermittent (probability range: 0-0.03). (2) Nerve impulses invade varicosities as all-or-none, Na+ channel-dependent action potentials; invasion failure may be rare. (3) The release probability is not controlled by properties (amplitude or duration) of the invading action potential or the resulting Ca2+ current, but by the availability of an as yet unidentified permissive factor. (4) The permissive factor is actively transported intra-axonally, probably in association with organelles (LDVs?). (5) The activation and/or transport of the permissive factor are controlled &quot;upstream&quot; of the varicosity; they depend on Ca2+ influx through channels insensitive to nifedipine (hence, not of L-type) but blocked by Cd2+ and apparently opened by slight depolarization of the resting membrane, in this respect behaving more as T- than N-type channels. (6) A high resting K+ efflux &quot;upstream&quot; of the varicosity restricts the availability of the permissive factor; it is the main mechanism maintaining the (economically necessary) low release probability. (7) Prejunctional agonists do not inhibit transmitter secretion by causing a conduction block or by reducing the action potential-induced Ca2+ influx into the varicosity itself, but by depressing the Ca2(+)-dependent activation and/or transport of the permissive factor; they act at least in part via receptors &quot;upstream&quot; of the varicosity. (8) This hypothesis for regulation of the release probability in sympathetic nerves may apply, at least in part, to other neurons as well.
The monoaminergic innervation of the amygdala of the squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) was studied by using immunohistochemical methods with primary antisera raised against serotonin, and the catecholamine synthesizing enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase. Serotonin was widely distributed within the amygdala including profuse terminal labeling in central, basolateral and cortical nuclear groups. The accessory basal and medial nuclei were the only two areas receiving relatively poor serotoninergic innervation. Tyrosine hydroxylase was more discretely distributed, with very dense to moderate terminal labeling in central, basal and lateral nuclei, but only scant labeling within accessory basal and corticomedial nuclei, except at the cortical transitional area where dense terminal labeling was noted. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity was moderate in central and corticomedial nuclei, but comparatively light in other nuclear groups. Phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase was only sparsely distributed in the amygdala. The findings of the present study reveal that the monoaminergic innervation of the primate amygdala is similar to that reported in rodents, although some conspicuous exceptions do exist. Whereas the noradrenergic and serotoninergic neuronal systems ramify profusely within the amygdala, the dopaminergic system appears to be more discretely and topographically organized.
Experimental animal studies have demonstrated a number of receptor localizations on specific cortical afferents and neurons. The present study of human posterior cingulate cortex evaluates the laminar distributions of particular receptors and their likely association with components of the neuropil. Coverslip autoradiographic and single grain counting techniques were used followed by heterogeneity analysis in which the layer of peak binding and an index of heterogeneity were determined for each ligand. The index was calculated by determining specific binding by layer as a percentage of binding in all layers. The differences from an absolutely homogeneous distribution, i.e. 11.1% for each of nine layers, were subtracted and the absolute laminar differences summed to form the index. High indices of over 15 reflected heterogeneous binding patterns in neocortex. The binding of ligands for muscarinic acetylcholine, serotonin, opioid, GABA and beta adrenoceptors was evaluated. Pirenzepine binding peaked in layer II of area 23a but was extremely homogeneous with an index of heterogeneity of 8.9. In contrast, oxotremorine-M binding had a peak in layer IIIc and an index of 16.4, while AF-DX 116 binding peaked in layer IIIa-b and had an index of 30.6. Of the ligands for serotonin uptake and receptor binding paroxetine binding was evenly distributed in layers I-III and had a low index of heterogeneity of 9.8. Ketanserin binding was also homogeneous and, since it had an index of 8.9, this pattern was virtually the same as that for paroxetine. In contrast, serotonin and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding peaked in layer II and had very high indices of 20.8 and 50.3, respectively, suggesting only a limited association with that of the paroxetine distribution. Finally, there were three layers which contained peaks in binding for ligands for opioid, GABA and beta adrenoceptors. Firstly, layer Ia had peak dynorphin-A binding, the latter of which had an index of 22.6. Secondly, Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly-ol and 2-D-penicillamine-5-D-penicillamine-enkephalin binding peaked in layer II and had indices of 8.6 and 17.4, respectively. Thirdly, muscimol and (-)-cyanopindolol binding peaked in layer IIIa-b and had indices of 29.6 and 11.1, respectively. When viewed in the context of experimental animal studies, it is likely that heterogeneities in oxotremorine-M and paroxetine binding are associated with the termination of the thalamic and raphe nuclei, respectively. While serotonin 2 receptors are co-distributed with serotonin uptake sites, serotonin 1A receptors have a significant mismatch with these sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In this commentary, we will briefly discuss the potential regulatory role of atrial natriuretic factor in peripheral autonomic nervous system function. The focus will be on atrial natriuretic factor's involvement in cardiovascular homeostasis through its peripheral effect on sympathetic nervous activity, which may complement its humoral role. [Kuchel et al. (1987) Life Sci. 40, 1545-1551; Lang et al. (1985) Nature 314, 264-266]. We will attempt to support the hypothesis of its neuromodulatory action on efferent autonomic outflow. Specifically, the role of atrial natriuretic factor in the regulation of the synthesis and release of neurotransmitters and in synaptic transmission at the level of the sympathetic ganglia will be outlined. Its potential usefulness in neurobiological studies will also be indicated.
The glutamate analogue, alpha-aminoadipic acid was intravitreally administered in the D-, DL- and L-forms to carp (Cyprinus carpio) retina in vivo. To make a quantitative assessment of its gliotoxic action, the activity of glutamine synthetase, whose localization was confirmed in glial Mller cells by an immunohistochemical technique, was examined at various intervals over one month. Intravitreal injection of 8 mumol alpha-aminoadipic acids reduced the glutamine synthetase activity within 4 h and maximally by 24 h. The maximum reduction evoked by L-, DL- and D-forms was about 65, 45 and 28% in reduction, and their minimum effective dose was 0.8, 1.5 and 2.0 mumol, respectively. At three to four days after alpha-aminoadipic acids injection, sodium dodecyl sulphate gel electrophoresis suggested that some retinal proteins including glutamine synthetase were significantly reduced, whilst others were increased. These biochemical changes were fully reversed one to two weeks after administration of the D- or DL-forms, but not until one month with the L-form. The electroretinographic b-wave, reflecting glial activity, was completely blocked by 8 mumol alpha-aminoadipic acids within 4 h. The electroretinographic b-wave was recovered first in the case of D- and then of DL-form at two to three weeks after injection, but only 50% recovery was seen in the case of L-form even two months later. A high dose of DL-alpha-aminoadipic acid (16 mumol) induced as long lasting a suppression in the glutamine synthetase and electroretinographic b-wave activities as 8 mumol L-alpha-aminoadipic acid. Therefore, the gliotoxic efficacy of L-alpha-aminoadipic acid at micromol orders was two-fold higher than that of DL-alpha-aminoadipic acid. Differences in the time-course of recovery of the suppression of glutamate synthetase and electroretinographic b-wave activities induced by alpha-aminoadipic acids are discussed in terms of its gliotoxicity.
The properties of D-aspartate release were studied in cerebellar astrocytes (14-15 DIV) in primary cultures in the rat. The spontaneous release of D-aspartate from astrocytes was fast, being further enhanced in Na- and Ca-free (EDTA-containing) media. Kainate, quisqualate, D-aspartate and L-glutamate stimulated the release, whereas L-glutamatediethylester was inhibitory. The release was enhanced by veratridine and high K (50 mM). Substitution of chloride by acetate in the experimental medium did not change the basal release but slightly decreased the potassium-induced release, indicating that the high K-induced D-aspartate release is primarily due to depolarization of cells. The K-stimulated release was independent of extracellular Ca2+ and potentiated by kainate and quisqualate. The effect of kainate was reduced by kynurenate, and that of quisqualate by L-glutamatediethylester. Glycine, taurine and GABA were equally effective in depressing the stimulated release of D-aspartate. The inhibition of GABA could be blocked by GABA antagonists. The results suggest that inhibitory amino acids may be involved in the regulation of glutamate release from cerebellar astrocytes. A further implication is that cerebellar astrocytes possess functional glutamate receptors of kainate and quisqualate subtypes.
The actions of (+)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-(1-propyl)piperidine [(+)3-PPP] on sympathetic neurons of the mouse isolated hypogastric ganglion were studied using the current clamp and single electrode voltage clamp techniques. In neurons studied under current clamp (+)3-PPP (10(-5) to 3 x 10(-4) M) evoked a concentration-dependent depolarization, which was fully reversible on washout of the drug. The depolarization was associated with an increase in membrane input resistance. At membrane potentials between -43 and -65 mV the amplitude of the depolarization was inversely related to the membrane potential. (+)3-PPP had no effect on membrane potential at potentials negative to -65 mV. The effect of (+)3-PPP on the M-current was studied in cells voltage clamped at -40 mV and stepped to -60 mV for 300-500 ms. The slow current relaxations seen during and after the voltage step are largely due to the M-current. (+)3-PPP (3 x 10(-5) to 3 x 10(-4) M) inhibited the M-current and produced an inward current in a concentration-dependent manner. (-)3-PPP (3 x 10(-5) M) had similar effects, but was less potent than (+)3-PPP. (+)3-PPP (3 x 10(-5) M) also inhibited the A-current and a calcium-dependent potassium current, but to a lesser degree than the M-current.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous research has implicated hippocampal rhythmical slow activity in the mechanisms of action of the anxiolytic drugs. In this study ethanol and a putative ethanol antagonist, Ro 15-4513, were investigated with reticular elicitation of rhythmical slow activity. Doses of ethanol between 0.6 and 3.1 g/kg were used. Ethanol reduced the frequency of reticular-elicited rhythmical slow activity in the same way as has been reported for anxiolytic barbiturates and benzodiazepines. This effect was linearly related to log dose of ethanol in the range of 1.7-3.1 g/kg. Ro 15-4513 at a dose of 2 mg/kg reduced the effect of ethanol (2.0 g/kg) but had no action itself. Ethanol also decreased the slope of the stimulation voltage-rhythmical slow activity frequency function but this effect was not reduced by Ro 15-4513. These results show that ethanol acts in a similar manner to conventional anxiolytic drugs but that only one component of this action can be reduced by Ro 15-4513.

The release of endogenous glutamate and aspartate from corticostriate neurons in the anaesthetized rat was investigated. Efflux of glutamate, aspartate and leucine in push-pull cannula perfusates of the striatum was measured in 1 min fractions collected before, during and after a 4 min stimulation period of ipsilateral frontal cortex. Efflux of the putative excitatory amino acid transmitters, glutamate and aspartate, determined during the first minute of stimulation, was significantly elevated above prestimulation resting level (by 167% and 316%, respectively), while efflux of leucine, a non-transmitter amino acid, remained unchanged. Efflux of glutamate and aspartate during the last 3 min of stimulation dropped rapidly, indicating the activation of a regulatory mechanism, presumably re-uptake. The data further support the hypothesis that glutamate and/or aspartate act as transmitters or are metabolites of transmitters in the corticostriate pathway.
Previous studies have demonstrated that tetanization of hippocampal mossy fibers induces a long-term potentiation of non-tetanized (heterosynaptic) non-mossy fiber afferents (Schaffer collateral/commissural and fimbrial fibers). Tetanization of these non-mossy fiber afferents, in contrast, does not induce mossy fiber long-term potentiation, but induces a long-term depression of mossy fiber responses (Bradler and Barrionuevo, Synapse 4, 132-142, 1989). The synaptic activity necessary to evoke these heterosynaptic alterations of efficacy is not known. Specifically, the dependence of heterosynaptic efficacy on the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors has not been assessed. In addition, the capability of different afferents to CA3 neurons to support alterations in heterosynaptic efficacy remains largely unknown. In the present study, heterosynaptic alterations of efficacy in the rat did not require the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Mossy fibers supported N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent heterosynaptic long-term depression, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation. In contrast, non-mossy fiber afferents expressed N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent heterosynaptic long-term potentiation induced by a mossy fiber tetanus, and an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term depression, in addition to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent homosynaptic long-term potentiation. The possibility that non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity in non-tetanized afferents is necessary for heterosynaptic long-term potentiation induction is discussed. Heterosynaptic long-term depression was induced in the absence of homosynaptic long-term potentiation, suggesting that these concomitant forms of synaptic plasticity rely on different mechanisms.
Using a push-pull device, we have analysed, in vivo, the release of endogenous excitatory amino acids and proteins induced by the mast cell degranulating peptide in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Local application of the mast cell degranulating peptide (20 microM) for 5 or 10 min produced a long-term potentiation of the slope of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (70 +/- 40%, 3 h after the drug application). This long-term potentiation was associated with (i) a transient increase (10 min) in the release of endogenous glutamate and aspartate and (ii) a late transient enhanced release of proteins and newly secreted proteins. In cases in which the mast cell degranulating peptide induced recurrent interictal activity, there was a sustained enhanced release of glutamate. These observations suggest that mast cell degranulating peptide induced long-term potentiation is not associated with a sustained enhanced release of excitatory amino acids.
The ontogeny of radioligand binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate receptors in rat forebrain was studied quantitatively using in vitro receptor autoradiography. Specific binding to both receptors could be detected by postnatal day 1 in hippocampus and striatum. The adult pattern of binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors emerged by postnatal day 14 with high densities of binding in CA1 (stratum oriens and stratum radiatum), dentate gyrus (molecular layer) and striatum (caudate-putamen). Binding to the outer laminae of frontal cortex was as much as 45% above adult levels during development. Binding of [3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid to quisqualate receptors showed a similar overshoot during development, but also manifested a unique distribution with CA3 and medial aspects of the amygdala exhibiting transient, intense labeling. Homogenate binding studies with [3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid demonstrated a 73% increase in quisqualate receptors in whole brain at postnatal day 21 compared with adult levels. The selectivity of excitatory amino acid binding to the quisqualate site in development was similar to the selectivity in adult brain. These data taken with other recent reports, suggest that quisqualate receptors may have a role in development distinct from their function in the adult brain.
Amitotic [3H]thymidine-labeled C6 glioma cells, which are known to produce neurotrophic factor(s), were grafted alone and with adrenal chromaffin cells in an attempt to improve chromaffin cell survival and phenotypic differentiation. Long-Evans rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway were divided into four groups: (1) those receiving adrenal medullary cells co-transplanted with C6 glioma cells; (2) those receiving adrenal medullary graft alone; (3) those receiving C6 glioma grafts alone; and (4) those serving as a vehicle control group. All rats were killed one month after transplantation. Immunohistochemical, neurochemical, and autoradiographic methods were used to identify and characterize the grafted cells. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells were found in all animals that received grafts of the adrenal medulla alone or of adrenal medulla co-transplanted with C6 glioma cells. The cograft recipients had more tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells than the hosts receiving just adrenal chromaffin cells (P less than 0.05). Additionally, more grafted chromaffin cells formed processes in the former group. All three tissue recipient groups (adrenal medullary, C6 glioma cell, and cografted animals) had a significant reduction (P less than 0.05) in ipsilateral rotations after amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) injections as compared to the control vehicle recipient group. Moreover, the reduction in rotation was more marked in the cografted hosts than in the other two implanted groups (P less than 0.05). Significantly higher dopamine levels were found in the transplant sites of both cograft and adrenal medullary graft recipients than in sham grafted control animals.
This study utilized the technique of in situ hybridization histochemistry to identify cells expressing neurotransmitter mRNAs in embryonic striatal tissue grafts implanted into the ibotenic acid-lesioned rat neostriatum. Synthetic 32P- or 35S-labelled oligodeoxyribonucleotide probes specific for prosomatostatin, proneuropeptide Y. proenkephalin, prodynorphin and preprotachykinin mRNAs and a 32P-labelled cRNA probe specific for glutamate decarboxylase mRNA were used to study the regional and cellular changes in these mRNA levels in the normal, lesioned and grafted neostriatum. The levels of neuropeptide Y mRNA and somatostatin mRNA were substantially increased in the striatal grafts compared with the intact control striata. The levels of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA in the grafts also appeared to be slightly elevated over those in the control striata. However, the levels of proenkephalin mRNA, prodynorphin mRNA and preprotachykinin mRNA were significantly lower in the grafts. The increased levels of neuropeptide Y mRNA and somatostatin mRNA in the grafts were due both to an increase in the number of labelled cells and to an increase in the cellular levels of each neuropeptide mRNA. In contrast, the cellular levels of proenkephalin mRNA, prodynorphin mRNA and preprotachykinin mRNA in the grafts were comparable, or elevated relative, to those in the intact striata but the density of cells expressing each of these mRNAs was reduced. Since neuropeptide Y and somatostatin are known to be present in medium to large aspiny striatal neurons (interneurons) and enkephalin, dynorphin and tachykinin peptides and GABA are localized in medium spiny striatal projection neurons, the above findings would indicate that there is a divergence in the levels of activity between these two neuronal populations in the striatal grafts. Our data suggest that the levels of gene expression and hence the functional neurotransmitter-synthesizing and releasing activity in the grafted neuron are different from those in the normal mature striatum.
A controversy exists concerning the role of the neuropeptide somatostatin for the transmission or inhibition of nociceptive information in the spinal cord. To better correlate electrophysiological effects of somatostatin at single cell level with results obtained with intrathecal injections of somatostatin in behaving animals and human pain patients we applied somatostatin to the spinal cord by controlled superfusion of the recording segment in vivo. The hypothesis of an opioid link and possible neurotoxic effects of somatostatin were also addressed. In cats deeply anaesthetized with pentobarbitone, halothane and nitrous oxide, extracellular recordings were made from 27 neurons located in laminae I-VI. All neurons responded to both innocuous mechanical and noxious radiant heat stimuli applied to the glabrous skin of the ipsilateral hindpaw. The dorsal surface of the spinal cord was superfused at the recording segment by means of a Perspex chamber (7 x 7 mm). Somatostatin superfusions at 1.2 microM had no effect on responses to noxious heat. Responses were, however, depressed by somatostatin at 61 microM to 59.7 +/- 5.1% of control and by somatostatin at 1.53 mM to 39.9 +/- 9.5% of control. This inhibition was not antagonized by the mu-opiate antagonist naloxone applied to the spinal cord at concentrations of 2.7 mM, either together with somatostatin, or after the inhibition by somatostatin had fully developed. Neuronal responses were linear functions of the skin temperatures for stimulation intensities between 42 degrees C and 52 degrees C. The slopes of these stimulus response functions were reduced during somatostatin superfusion at 61 microM to 46.8 +/- 9.3% of control, without changing the temperature thresholds for responding (42.5 +/- 0.6 degrees C). Somatostatin superfusion at 61 microM had no effect on the number of action potentials evoked by innocuous skin brushing, or by electrical stimulation of primary afferent A-fibres in cutaneous nerves. The amplitude of intraspinally recorded field potentials evoked by these electrical nerve stimuli was also unaffected by somatostatin. The inhibition of nociceptive spinal dorsal horn neurons by spinally administered morphine was assessed in eight experiments. Morphine reduced noxious heat-evoked responses to 42.1 +/- 9.6% of control at 0.3 mM and to 51.8 +/- 6.9% of control at 3.0 mM. The slopes of the stimulus-response functions were reduced by morphine at 0.3 mM to 53.1 +/- 11.3% of control, without changing the temperature thresholds (42.7 degrees C). Naloxone superfusion (2.7 mM) reliably antagonized the inhibition by morphine. Brush-evoked responses were not, or much less, affected by spinal morphine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Kainic acid was injected into the hippocampus of rats and glutamine synthetase was measured to determine whether astrocytes are involved in the early effects of this neurotoxic agent. Glutamine synthetase was reduced by 38%, 24 h after the stereotaxic application of 4 nmol of kainic acid to this region. The reduction in glutamine synthetase by kainic acid was not due to direct inhibition of the brain enzyme. This effect also was not due to seizure activity since rats peripherally injected with a convulsant dose of kainic acid were found to have normal hippocampal glutamine-synthetase activity. Exposure of astrocyte cultures to kainic acid for 24 h produced no evidence of gliotoxicity and no change in glutamine synthetase activity. The effect of intrahippocampal kainic acid on glutamine synthetase appears to be indirect, most likely produced secondarily to its neuronal effects. Several studies have shown that endogenous glutamate is involved in kainate neurotoxicity. A reduction in glutamine synthetase by kainic acid may impair the capacity for astrocytes to metabolize glutamate. Such an impairment could contribute to the glutamate-mediated cell death following kainic acid exposure.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid and the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione have been iontophoretically applied to cells in the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and their effects on the visual response compared. The objective was to examine the possibility of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors being involved in the transfer of the retinal input to X and Y cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The results show that selective blockade of either N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors can block the visual response of both X and Y cells. Overall, the most potent reductions of visual responses across the population of cells studied were obtained with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist with X cells showing a slightly greater reduction on average (80%) than Y cells (66%). The relatively smaller overall reductions in visual responses obtained with the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade reflected the lower levels of blockade that were compatible with selectivity using iontophoretic applications of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. It is concluded that N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are critically involved in the visual response of both &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; centre X and Y cells.
Neurotoxic properties of quinolinic acid following intracerebroventricular application were investigated in the hippocampal formation of 12- and 30-day-old rats. Quinolinic acid neurodegenerative potency was found to depend on the survival time, the dose applied and the developmental stage of the animal. Pretreatment with kynurenic acid and ketamine as well as the transection of the perforant path were noted to protect major parts of the hippocampal cell layers from quinolinic acid-induced degenerative effects. The results are interpreted in view of a putative dependence of quinolinic acid neurotoxicity on the presence of established synaptic, in particular glutamatergic, processes which play a major role in the hippocampal formation and mature during the first postnatal weeks. For comparison, we studied local effects of quinolinic acid on superior cervical and dorsal root ganglia in which glutamate inputs obviously do not occur; no signs of neuronal vulnerability were seen.
Intrastriatal injection of the excitatory amino acid analogue DL-alpha-aminoadipate (100 micrograms in 2 microliters saline, pH 7.4) into anesthetized rats caused a significant reduction in striatal glutamine synthetase activity in the ipsilateral compared to the contralateral striatum 6 h after the injection. Striatal neurons were unaffected by this treatment, and by 24 h after the injection, glutamine synthetase activity had returned to normal. In contrast to the situation in vivo, incubation of coronal slices (which included the striatum) in vitro with DL-alpha-aminoadipate (1-3 mM) for periods of up to 1 h caused no change in glutamine synthetase activity. Increased doses of DL-alpha-aminoadipate coupled with longer incubation times led to widespread neuronal degeneration within the striatum. Preparation of coronal slices from striata which had been injected 6 h previously with DL-alpha-aminoadipate, and subsequently incubated with 300 microM kainate, showed a marked survival of some neurons particularly those ordering the injection tract. The toxicity of 500 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate in similar slices was unchanged. Conversely, co-incubation of DL-alpha-aminoadipate with excitotoxins in vitro provided protection of striatal cells against degeneration by N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not kainate. These findings suggest that, in vivo, DL-alpha-aminoadipate has a specific effect on glial cell metabolism which, in contrast to incubation of coronal slices with the compound in vitro, is not related to the amino acid antagonist properties associated with the D-isomer. Thus, the reduced toxicity of kainate observed in striatal slices following DL-alpha-aminoadipate injection in vivo may indicate a non-neuronal site of action of kainate.
The alpha 2-agonist tizanidine, clinically used as an antispastic drug, also strongly reduces polysynaptic flexor reflexes. The hypothesis was tested that the noradrenergic coerulespinal system exerts a tonic facilitation on spinal reflexes and that the depressant effects of tizanidine may be explained by an alpha 2-mediated autoinhibition of the tonic activity of locus coeruleus neurons, resulting in a disfacilitation of the spinal reflexes. The following results support this working hypothesis: (1) systemic injections of tizanidine markedly decreased the spontaneous activity of locus coeruleus neurons, but not of non-locus coeruleus neurons. The alpha 2-antagonist yohimbine reversed this effect. (2) The time course of diminished locus coeruleus activity paralleled that of depressed flexor reflexes. (3) Flexor reflexes were also markedly depressed by the alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist prazosin, administered alone, which is in line with the proposition that the noradrenergic system exerts a tonic facilitation on spinal neurons by way of alpha 1-adrenergic receptor activation. (4) Flexor reflexes were facilitated by conditioning microstimulation of locus coeruleus neurons, and this effect was reversed by prazosin. (5) Flexor reflexes significantly diminished in size following placement of an irreversible lesion in the ipsilateral locus coeruleus. Although these results strongly support the above hypothesis regarding a descending modulatory function of the descending locus coeruleus system on spinal reflexes, possible additional mechanisms, perhaps also involving the ascending projection of the locus coeruleus to supraspinal motor structures, remain to be elucidated.
To elucidate the mechanisms involved in the inhibition of synaptic transmission by ammonium ions, the effects of NH4Cl on glutamate release and on synaptic transmission from Schaffer collaterals to CA1 pyramidal cells were measured in fully submerged slices of rat hippocampus. The large, Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate evoked by electrical-field stimulation or by 56 mM K+ was not reduced by 5 mM NH4Cl. In contrast, 5 mM NH4Cl decreased the smaller, field stimulation-induced release of glutamate observed in the presence of low concentrations of Ca2+ (0.1 mM), as well as the spontaneous release of glutamate both in normal and low Ca2+. Unlike the Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate, synaptic transmission was reversibly depressed even by 1 mM NH4 Cl. Firing of CA1 pyramidal cells evoked by iontophoretically applied glutamate was significantly inhibited by 2 or 5 mM NH4Cl. This depression was increased in the presence of 25 microM bicuculline. Results suggest that ammonium ions do not depress the Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate originating from synaptic vesicles, which is involved in synaptic transmission. Rather, ammonium ions inhibit synaptic transmission by a postsynaptic action, a conclusion strengthened by the inhibitory effect of NH4Cl on glutamate-induced firing. However, NH4Cl may inhibit the formation of cytoplasmic glutamate, the source of spontaneous and Ca(2+)-independent release.
Rats injected with haloperidol, which binds to both D2 dopamine and sigma receptors or the specific D2 dopamine receptor antagonist YM 09151-2, but not the specific D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390, showed induction of c-fos protein and c-fos-related antigens in striatal neurons. This effect of haloperidol and YM 09151-2 was inhibited by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK801 but was not affected by 1,3-di-O-tolylguanidine, a selective sigma receptor ligand. Two different antisera were used to detect c-fos protein: one was specific for c-fos protein itself while the other recognized c-fos protein as well as c-fos protein-related antigens. In time-course immunocytochemical studies, the c-fos protein was induced maximally by 1 h and had returned to baseline by 24 h. However, c-fos protein-related antigens were induced maximally after 2 h and remained elevated for at least three days after haloperidol injection. Furthermore, the c-fos protein-specific antiserum detected two to three times fewer immunopositive striatal cells than the antiserum which detected both c-fos protein-related antigens and c-fos protein in haloperidol-treated rats. This result suggests that some striatal neurons express c-fos protein-related antigens but not c-fos protein after haloperidol injection. In some striatal sections from haloperidol-injected rats immunostained with the antiserum which recognizes both c-fos protein and c-fos protein-related antigens, there were large areas of immunopositive neurons interspersed with &quot;areas&quot; of striatum devoid of immunostaining. The implications of these results for theories concerning the biochemical mechanism of action of haloperidol are discussed.
The following receptors were assessed post-mortem in the hippocampi (anterior region) of eight patients with Alzheimer's disease and nine age-matched controls, using autoradiography: N-methyl-D-aspartate (including glutamate, phencyclidine and glycine binding sites), quisqualate, kainic acid, adenosine A1, benzodiazepine, serotonin (1 and 2), muscarinic cholinergic, beta-adrenergic, neurotensin and opioid receptors. In CA1 there were significant parallel losses of binding to the three N-methyl-D-aspartate-linked sites (average reduction 46%) and also losses of quisqualate (38%) and serotonin2 (58%) receptor binding, with a 47% loss of binding to A1 sites. Binding to all of these receptors was also reduced in CA3 (except binding to A1 sites which was normal) but only the serotonin2 receptor binding loss reached significance (52%). A significant reduction in binding was also observed in the entorhinal area to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-linked sites (average reduction = 39%), benzodiazepine (40%) and serotonin2 receptors (45%), and there was a loss of binding to neurotensin (57%) and opioid receptors (42%). Significant reductions in the dentate gyrus molecular layer were seen for serotonin2 receptors (44%), and binding to opioid (44%) and A1 receptors (46%). Levels of ligand binding to muscarinic cholinergic, serotonin1, beta-adrenergic and kainic acid receptors were not significantly different from control values in any of the four areas examined. These results provide support for observations of selective receptor changes in Alzheimer's disease involving a broad range of receptor types which encompass both excitatory amino acid and other receptors (notably serotonin2, A1, benzodiazepine, neurotensin and opioid receptors). The implications of the pattern of receptor changes for the suggestion that excitotoxicity plays a role in the disease are discussed, as is the possible contribution of the receptor changes to the symptomatology of Alzheimer's disease.
Reinnervation and recovery of the mouse soleus muscle were studied 2-10 months after denervation periods of about 7 months. To maintain denervation the right sciatic nerve was frozen 14 times at 2-week intervals. Though initially intermittent muscle reinnervation occurred, contractile force of denervated muscles was reduced to less than 10% of the contralateral muscles by the fifth nerve freezing and further declined thereafter. Following reinnervation, recovery of soleus muscle force proceeded slowly to reach plateau values after 5-6 months. Tetanic muscle force reached on average 72% (range 58-86%, n = 12) of contralateral muscles after 5-10 months, (P less than 0.01, t-test for absolute values) and 87% of unoperated animals after 10 months (P less than 0.05, n = 5). Muscle fibre diameters were significantly reduced in reinnervated muscles, but frequency distributions were normal and similarly shaped in reinnervated and control muscles, suggesting complete muscle reinnervation and the absence of denervated fibres even at 2 months of reinnervation. Total numbers of muscle fibres were similar in reinnervated (842 +/- 73 S.D., n = 15), contralateral (854 +/- 104 S.D., n = 15) and control soleus muscles (853 +/- 77 S.D., n = 5). The number of myelinated axons in regenerating soleus nerves reached control values by 3 months after the last freezing, continued to increase till 6 months (150% of control), and declined thereafter (125% at 9-10 months). In the contralateral soleus nerves the number of myelinated axons remained constant during this period. Nerve fibre diameters remained abnormally small; even after 10 months of reinnervation fibre diameters were unimodally distributed with a mean diameter of 3.3 microns in contrast to the bimodal distribution in intact nerves (mean values 3.9 and 9.0 microns, respectively). Total fibre cross-section area per nerve increased with time but reached only 54% +/- 6 S.D., (n = 3) of contralateral nerves by 10 months. The relative thickness of the myelin sheath (g-ratio) returned to normal after 9-10 months. Anatomically, muscle reinnervation appeared to be complete by 7-8 weeks since unusually small muscle fibre profiles were absent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The regional, cellular and subcellular distribution of GABA, GABA receptors and benzodiazepine receptors was investigated by light and electron microscopy in the human lumbar spinal cord taken post-mortem from eight cases aged 20-76 years. Firstly, the regional distribution of GABA receptors and benzodiazepine receptors was studied using autoradiography following in vitro labelling of cryostat sections with tritiated ligands. This was followed by a detailed study of the cellular and subcellular distribution and localization of GABA and benzodiazepine/GABAA receptors by light and electron microscopy using immunohistochemical techniques with monoclonal antibodies to GABA and to the alpha and beta subunits of the benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor complex. The results showed a close correspondence in the regional distributions of GABA, GABA (GABAA and GABAB) receptors and benzodiazepine receptors. The highest density of GABA-like immunoreactivity, GABA receptors and benzodiazepine receptors was localized as a dense band within lamina II of the dorsal horn (especially inner lamina II) with moderately high densities in laminae I and III. The remaining laminae of the spinal gray matter showed much lower levels of labelling. A close correspondence was also seen in the distribution of GABA-like immunoreactivity and of benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor immunoreactivity at the cellular and subcellular levels. At the cellular level, the greatest number of GABA-immunoreactive cells was found in lamina II; they comprised small, round to oval cells and, on the basis of soma size, shape, orientation and dendromorphology, they corresponded to previously described islet and filamentous cells. Benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor immunoreactivity was also localized on the same cell types in lamina II. At the subcellular level in lamina II, GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals mainly established axodendritic synaptic contacts. Small numbers of GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals appear to form possible axo-axonic contacts in complex synaptic arrays. Benzodiazepine/GABAA receptors were localized within the same types of synaptic complexes in which GABA-immunoreactive axon terminals were found. In these synaptic complexes, benzodiazepine/GABAA receptor immunoreactivity was associated with presynaptic and postsynaptic membranes and on apparent non-synaptic membranes. These results show a high concentration of GABA, GABA receptors and benzodiazepine receptors in lamina II of the dorsal horn of the human spinal cord and suggest a possible role for GABA in spinal sensory functions.
The technique of receptor autoradiography was used to study the distribution of neurotensin receptors in post mortem brain tissues from patients affected by Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy and from age-matched controls. [125I]Neurotensin was used as ligand. Significant receptor decreases were found in the substantia nigra, both pars compacta and reticulata, and in the putamen in Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. In addition, significant decreases of neurotensin receptors were found in the ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens and dorsal part of caudate head in patients with Parkinson's disease but not in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy, indicating differential involvement of neurotensin receptors in these two neurological disorders. In addition, both in Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy the decrement of striatal neurotensin binding sites was less than expected from the reported decrease of dopamine content in this nucleus, suggesting only partial localization of neurotensin receptors on mesostriatal dopaminergic projections.
Tardive dyskinesia has been connected with regional reductions of GABA functions in the basal ganglia. In view of the possibility that peptides are involved in neuroleptic-induced dyskinesias substance P and dynorphin A levels were measured in the basal ganglia of the Cebus apella model for tardive dyskinesia. In addition, regional glutamate decarboxylase activities, dopamine, homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels were monitored. A significant dyskinesia-related decrease in glutamate decarboxylase activity was found in the subthalamic nucleus, the medial segment of globus pallidus and the rostral part of substantia nigra in accordance with earlier findings. Cebus monkeys with an intact GABA system (neuroleptic-treated controls without dyskinesia) showed increased levels of substance P and homovanillic acid in the caudate nucleus. The changes were confined to the caudal part of the body of the caudate and the nucleus accumbens. On the other hand, the dyskinetic monkeys, with a defective GABA system, did not demonstrate a similar substance P rise in the caudate or nucleus accumbens, but showed a depression of homovanillic acid levels in the caudal part of the body of the caudate nucleus. Dynorphin A, dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid showed no dyskinesia-related changes. In conclusion, the difference in glutamate decarboxylase activity between animals developing dyskinetic symptoms vs those who did not, was reflected by regional changes in substance P and homovanillic acid levels.
We have compared the ability of capsaicin and resiniferatoxin, a natural diterpene present in the latex of plants of the Euphorbia family to excite and desensitize capsaicin-sensitive primary afferents in a variety of models. Both capsaicin and resiniferatoxin inhibited the twitch contractions of the rat isolated vas deferens and prevented, in a concentration-related manner, the effect of a subsequent challenge with 1 microM capsaicin (desensitization). Resiniferatoxin was 1000-10,000 times more potent than capsaicin in both cases. The time course of action of resiniferatoxin was much slower than that of capsaicin, suggesting a slower penetration rate in the tissue. The action of resiniferatoxin was blocked by Ruthenium Red, a proposed antagonist at the cation channel coupled to the capsaicin receptor. Both capsaicin and resiniferatoxin produced a contraction of the rat isolated urinary bladder. Resiniferatoxin was about as potent as capsaicin in this assay although it was 500-1000 times more potent than capsaicin in desensitizing the primary afferents to a subsequent challenge with capsaicin itself. Resiniferatoxin did not affect motility in the isolated vasa deferentia or urinary bladder from capsaicin-pretreated rats. After topical application onto the rat urinary bladder both resiniferatoxin (10 nM) and capsaicin (10 microM) increased bladder capacity as assessed in a volume-evoked micturition reflex model in rats without affecting micturition contraction. Intrarterial injection of resiniferatoxin or capsaicin in the ear of anesthetized rabbits evoked a systemic depressor reflex due to activation of paravascular nociceptors, resiniferatoxin being about three times more potent than capsaicin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The influence of unilateral removal of the adult rat's vibrissae on crossed and uncrossed tuberomammillary-striatal projections was examined with the horseradish peroxidase tract tracing technique. Striatal afferents from the caudal magnocellular and the postmammillary caudal magnocellular subnuclei of the tuberomammillary nucleus were investigated. Between four and 20 days after clipping the vibrissae on one side, more retrogradely labeled cells were found in the crossed and uncrossed projections from both subnuclei to the caudate-putamen of the hemisphere opposite to vibrissae removal (i.e. the sensory deprived hemisphere) than in the projections to the caudate-putamen on the vibrissae-clipped side. In contrast, between one and three days after clipping the vibrissae no asymmetries in cell-labeling in these projections were found. This time-course of changes in the tuberomammillary-striatal projections is similar to the time-course of behavioral recovery reported after unilateral removal of vibrissae. Thus, the neural changes in these projections appeared at the point in time when rats recovered from behavioral asymmetries induced by vibrissae removal.
It is generally accepted that transplanted fetal neurons can, after several weeks to months, establish connections with the host CNS. Host afferent systems seem, however, to show different types of responses to the presence of grafted fetal neurons. The present study is a preliminary step to identify mechanisms involved in the reactions of adult axons to transplanted fetal neurons. The right ventrobasal thalamus of adult rats was depleted of neurons by in-situ injection of kainic acid and cell suspensions from homotopic thalamic embryonic primordia which were injected into the lesioned area. After various post-implantation delays, ranging from five to 30 days, two types of experiments were performed: (i) noradrenaline and serotonin immunohistochemistry with specific antibodies on alternate sections; and (ii) anterograde tracing using wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase from the dorsal column nuclei and the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus. Five days after transplantation, host monoaminergic fibers (either noradrenergic or serotoninergic) had already grown into the transplants. Ingrowing fibers were thin and poorly varicose, exhibiting endings morphologically similar to the growth cones observed during axogenesis. Seven days after grafting, growth cones were no longer visible and monoaminergic fibers exhibited either normal-sized or very large varicosities. Large varicosities progressively decreased in number and, after three weeks, the fibers displayed a normal adult morphology, forming a dense network all over the transplants. In contrast, host somatosensory afferents, labeled by anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, did not grow into the transplants. Intermingling of somatosensory afferents and transplanted cells was observed only after 10 days, when grafted neurons extended outside the original transplantation site into the neuron-depleted area containing the somatosensory afferents. The present results demonstrate that adult monoaminergic and somatosensory afferents, when deprived of their usual target, do not react in a similar way to the addition of fetal neurons. It is proposed that adult monaminergic fibers have the ability to regain morphological (and probably functional) immature forms which were considered to be restricted to the period of axogenesis or to lesion-induced regeneration. In contrast, fetal transplants do not seem to induce, by themselves, a similar alteration of genetic expression in adult somatosensory neurons. It has been proposed that &quot;diffuse&quot; and &quot;point-to-point&quot; axonal systems may be differentiated in the CNS on anatomical bases. The present results add to the identification of two different systems by demonstrating that, in the thalamus, they present dissimilar responses to the implantation of fetal cells.
The combination of immunolabelling at the electron microscope level and enhanced silver staining has been used to demonstrate the colocalization of neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide in perivascular nerves supplying cerebral arteries of the rat. This has been shown in control tissue, but it is easier to demonstrate after long-term sympathectomy since that leads to an enhancement of neuropeptide Y in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing parasympathetic nerves supplying these vessels. Immunolabelling of the antigens for these peptides was performed sequentially with the biotin streptavidin diaminobenzidine method, and the end product to the first antiserum was gold-silver intensified before the visualization of the second antigen. Using this technique, it was shown that all the neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity present in the rat cerebral vessels after long-term sympathectomy with guanethidine was localized in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing nerves. Furthermore, an immunohistochemical analysis of the parasympathetic pterygopalatine ganglia in guanethidine-treated rats showed an increase in the percentage of neurons displaying neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. In order to clarify if the pterygopalatine ganglion was the origin of those neuropeptide Y/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive cerebrovascular nerves, which had increased in number after sympathectomy, a fluorescent neuronal tracer (Fast Blue) was applied to the right middle cerebral artery of rats which had undergone guanethidine treatment for six weeks. Immunohistochemical analysis of the ipsilateral ganglion 72 h after application of the tracer revealed the presence of immunoreactivity to both these peptides in retrogradely labelled neurons. It is concluded that neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide are colocalized in perivascular parasympathetic nerves supplying the middle cerebral artery of the rat, which have their origin in the pterygopalatine ganglion. Furthermore, long-term sympathectomy with guanethidine leads to an increase in the expression of neuropeptide Y in these vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neurons.
Rats chronically implanted with intrathecal catheters received intrathecal injections (10 microliters followed by 10 microliters saline flush) of either saline (n = 5), somatostatin (100 micrograms, n = 10), the somatostatin analog BIM 23003 (100 micrograms, n = 5), the somatostatin analog SMS 201-995 (100 micrograms, n = 5), the substance P analog [D-Pro2, D-Trp7,9] SP (10 micrograms, n = 10), or dynorphin A (1-17) (20 nmol, n = 8). These doses (somatostatin, substance P and dynorphin A) were selected based on previous studies in which they caused significant motor deficits. Effects on thermal cutaneous nociception, behavior, motor function and spinal cord histopathology were evaluated. All peptides caused severe neurotoxicity, evidenced by flaccid hind leg paralysis and lumbar spinal neuronal degeneration, which was accompanied by an inflammatory reaction in meninges and spinal gray matter. Histopathological changes had developed within 24 h after injection of somatostatin, substance P analog and dynorphin A, showing mild to severe neuronal degeneration and mild inflammatory responses in spinal cord and meninges. Significant antinociceptive effects, due to severe neurotoxic effects, were only observed following intrathecal injection of SMS 201-995 and the substance P analog. Potential neurotoxic mechanisms of the different peptides are discussed.
We have studied the effects of the unilateral intranigral microinjection of Ruthenium Red and 4-aminopyridine in the rat, as compared with that of muscimol. The three drugs produced contralateral turning when injected into the central nigra reticulata. Muscimol was the most effective but its effect disappeared in 3-4 h, whereas that of Ruthenium Red lasted for up to 3 days. When injected into the caudoventromedial nigra, Ruthenium Red produced intense ipsiversive turning, 4-aminopyridine weak ipsiversive turning and muscimol intense contraversive turning. Pretreatment with haloperidol (i.p.) abolished the effect of Ruthenium Red after injection into the caudoventromedial nigra but only partially reduced it after administration into the central nigra. The effect of muscimol, when injected into either of the nigral regions studied, was only slightly diminished by haloperidol. The release of [3H]GABA in slices of the Ruthenium Red-injected substantia nigra was not altered. Histological examination showed that the microinjected Ruthenium Red was located mainly inside the soma of nigral neurons. It is concluded that alterations of transmitter release are probably responsible for the circling behavior induced by 4-aminopyridine, but the effects of Ruthenium Red seem to be secondary to its penetration into the neuronal somas. Dopaminergic neurons seem to play an important role in the ipsilateral turning induced by Ruthenium Red when injected into the caudoventromedial nigra.
The rat brain and spinal cord have been mapped for Type II glucocorticoid receptor-like immunoreactivity in neurons and glia, using a monoclonal antibody, BUGR2, which recognizes an epitope close to the DNA-binding domain of the rat Type II receptor. The study revealed a widespread distribution of Type II-like immunoreactive neurons and glia, and a heterogeneity of densities and intensities of immunoreactive elements. Our results corresponded to a large extent with previous immunocytochemical mapping using Ig2a, a monoclonal antibody against a different epitope in the variable domain, with some notable differences in the hippocampus, hypothalamus and cerebellum. There was also a good correlation between immunocytochemical mapping and binding studies, [3H]steroid autoradiography and mRNA localization of the Type II receptor.
A protocol that involved a combination of two orthogradely transported tracer substances, wheat agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injected at separate locations in the same animal was utilized to investigate the possible congruence of axonal projection fields formed by the cerebral cortical and cerebellar afferents to the basilar pontine nuclei. When large placements of tracer material were made in the cerebellar nuclei to label the cerebellopontine projections and a second tracer was injected in one of several cerebral cortical areas to visualize certain corticopontine projections, it was noted that axon terminal zones of the cortical and cerebellar systems occupied greater or lesser amounts of the same basilar pontine territory depending on the location of the cerebral cortical injection. Cerebellopontine terminal fields exhibited their greatest congruency with projections from the motor cortex containing the representation for facial musculature and with projections from the forelimb sensorimotor cortex. A lesser degree of overlap was observed when cerebellar projection zones were visualized in combination with basilar pontine projections from sensory face cortex, hindlimb sensorimotor cortex, visual cortex and auditory cortex. In addition, it was apparent that portions of the cerebellopontine and corticopontine terminal fields did not overlap at all. A related series of electron microscopic experiments was undertaken to establish that within the zones of overlapping cerebellar and cortical projections, there was in fact a convergence of the two afferent systems on single basilar pontine neurons. Boutons of the corticopontine system were labeled by the orthograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase injected into the sensorimotor cortex while cerebellopontine terminals were marked for electron microscopic identification in the same animal by transecting the brachium conjunctivum and allowing sufficient time for boutons in the pontine nuclei to exhibit degeneration. Although the number of definitive examples of convergence was small, nonetheless it was possible to observe single basilar pontine neuron dendrites receiving synaptic contacts from both the cortical and cerebellar afferents systems. Taken together these observations indicate that some basilar pontine neurons receive a dual or convergent input from the cerebral cortex and cerebellar nuclei. It is difficult to estimate the prevalence of such convergence since cortical and cerebellar inputs typically contact distal and proximal pontine neuron dendrites, respectively, thus limiting the chances that both types of boutons can be observed in contact with a single basilar pontine neuron dendrite.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The thalamic neurons projecting to the superficial layers of areas 5 and 7 in the cat, and area 5 in the monkey, were investigated by using superficial deposits of either horseradish peroxidase or Fast Blue in one hemisphere. In the contralateral hemisphere injections of the same tracer involving the full cortical depth were made in homotopical locations, and the distribution and soma size of retrogradely labeled thalamocortical neurons in each side of the thalamus were compared. It was found that, in the cat, labeled neurons in the lateral posterior pulvinar complex, and in paralaminar regions of the ventrolateral complex, were fewer in number and smaller in size in cases of superficial deposits than in cases of deep injection. In more lateral portions of the ventrolateral complex, however, there were no size differences. In the monkey, similar differences in number and size appeared in the caudal division of the ventrolateral complex and in the lateral posterior and pulvinar nuclei, whereas no such differences were found for neurons labeled in the oral and medial divisions of the ventrolateral complex, and in the ventral posteroinferior nucleus. In all cases the intralaminar and midline nuclei exhibited retrogradely labeled neurons only when deep layers were injected. These and previous findings point to the existence of a widely distributed layer I-projecting system of neurons which, in most nuclei, are interspersed among neurons projecting mainly to middle or deep layers. In some nuclei, however, as is the case with the ventromedial nucleus proper, layer I-projecting system neurons would make up the whole nucleus. The cell groups located in a paralaminar position, which would be but a part of this system, could provide through their projections to layer I in the posterior parietal and frontal cortical regions a final path for recruiting responses and spontaneous spindling activities.
The incidence of aberrant innervation of the lateral geniculate nucleus by ascending somatic sensory axons was examined following injections of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase into the dorsal column nuclei of adult mice which were: (1) normal; (2) normal, but bilaterally enucleated on the day of birth; (3) normal, but received a large unilateral lesion of the rostral cortex on the day of birth; (4) normal, bilaterally enucleated, as well as unilaterally lesioned in the rostral cortex on the day of birth; (5) homozygous for an ocular retardation mutation (orj/orj); or (6) homozygous for the orj mutation and received a large unilateral lesion of the rostral cerebral cortex on the day of birth. In the phenotypically normal animals which were untreated, no somatic sensory inputs enter into the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. A few labeled axons enter into and arborize within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in normal animals which received bilateral enucleations or unilateral rostral cortical lesions on the day of birth. However, in congenitally blind animals and in phenotypically normal animals which received bilateral enucleations as well as unilateral rostral cortical lesions on the day of birth, a significant number of labeled axons enter into and arborize within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Among all these experimental groups, the densest innervation of the lateral geniculate nucleus occurred in congenitally blind animals which received rostral cortical lesions on the day of birth. In these, robust arborizations of labeled somatic sensory axons occupy a substantial extent of the lateral geniculate nucleus. These results not only demonstrate that ascending somatic sensory axons can be rerouted to the lateral geniculate nucleus, but also indicate that the ability of a thalamic afferent pathway to undergo extensive reorganization and to innervate inappropriate thalamic targets following early perturbations is not unique to the retinal projection (in which this has previously been demonstrated), and may be a more general characteristic of the major thalamic afferent systems.
Localization of acetylcholinesterase positive neurons and substance P and enkephalin fibers were studied by histochemistry and immunohistochemistry in the intermediate sympathetic zone of the spinal cords of 39 human embryos/fetuses from gestation ages five to 40 weeks. Acetylcholinesterase positive neurons were observed in the nucleus intermediolateralis pars principalis as early as the fifth week of gestation. By the ninth to 13th weeks of gestation, positive neurons were also seen in the nuclei intermedialis pars funicularis, intercalatus spinalis and intercalatus pars paraependymalis. Increase in amount of these positive acetylcholinesterase neurons was demonstrated till term. Substance P and enkephalin fibers were initially observed by the eighth gestation week in the intermediolaterlis pars principalis nucleus and positive fibers were then detected in the nucleus intermedialis pars funicularis as well as the nucleus intercalatus spinalis by the 14th week of gestation. By the 26th week of gestation, all the major nuclei intermediolateralis par principalis, intermedialis pars funicularis, intercalatus spinalis and intercalatus pars paraependymalis has substance P and enkephalin fibers. Initial demonstration of acetylcholinesterase positive neurons appeared to be at an earlier stage than that of our substance P and enkephalin positive fibers.
We have employed immunohistochemical and computerized morphometric procedures to study substance P-containing neurons in the tegmentum of adult humans. An estimated 192,500 +/- 40,500 substance P-containing neurons were found in three main cytoarchitectural regions: the mesencephalic reticular formation, the central gray, and the pontine reticular formation. The morphology of the immunoreactive neurons varied according to the region in which they were found. On the basis of size alone two types of substance P-containing neurons, large and small, were readily distinguishable by eye and measurement. Within each of the three main regions it was possible to distinguish distinct subgroups using cell size, morphology and position. Large neurons were concentrated in the caudal midbrain (pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei), in the oral pontine reticular nucleus and in the lateral dorsal tegmental nucleus. In contrast, small neurons were concentrated in the rostral mesencephalic reticular formation (cuniform nuclei). Both small and large neurons were found in the midbrain and pontine raphe nuclei. In addition, small neurons were concentrated in discrete midline regions (the periaqueductal gray, the tegmental nuclei of the pontine central gray, and the interpeduncular nucleus). The findings suggest that the majority of neurons in the brainstem tegmental nuclei previously identified as cholinergic also contain substance P in humans.
The expression of tachykinin-like and opioid-like peptides was studied in medium-sized neurons of the caudate nucleus in tissue from adult cats pretreated with colchicine. Two methods, a serial thin-section peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique and a two-fluorochrome single-section technique, were applied. Quantitative estimates were made mainly with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. The numbers of neurons expressing substance P-like, dynorphin B-like, and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were recorded in regions identified, respectively, as striosomes and extrastriosomal matrix. Striosomes were defined by the presence of clustered substance P-positive and dynorphin B-positive neurons and neuropil. Tests for the co-existence of enkephalin-like peptide and glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactivity were also made with the peroxidase-antiperoxidase method. Co-expression of substance P-like and dynorphin B-like immunoreactivities was the rule both in striosomes and in the matrix. In striosomes, substance P-like immunoreactivity was found in 96% of dynorphin B-immunoreactive neurons, and in the matrix 89% of dynorphin B-positive cells contained substance P-like immunoreactivity. Substance P/dynorphin B-positive neurons corresponded to over half (57%) of the neurons in striosomes but only 39% of the neurons in the matrix. Both in the matrix and in striosomes, about two-thirds of all neurons (63% and 65%, respectively) were identified as enkephalin-positive. Among all substance P/dynorphin B-positive medium-sized neurons, 76% also contained enkephalin-like antigen. The enkephalin-positive neurons characterized by triple peptide co-existence (enkephalin/substance P/dynorphin B) represented a mean of 63% of striosomal enkephalin-positive neurons (41% of all striosomal neurons) and 35% of matrical enkephalin-positive neurons (26% of all matrical neurons). Finally, nearly all enkephalin-positive neurons were immunoreactive for glutamate decarboxylase, and therefore probably GABAergic, but only about half the glutamate decarboxylase-positive population was enkephalin-immunoreactive. These findings suggest that neuropeptides from three distinct precursors may be co-localized in single medium-sized neurons in the striatum, and that the differential patterns of co-expression of substance P-like, dynorphin B-like, and enkephalin-like peptides may confer functional specializations upon subpopulations of GABAergic neurons giving rise to the efferent projections of the striatum. The linked expression of substance P-like and dynorphin B-like peptides in single neurons both in striosomes and matrix suggests that some regulatory mechanisms controlling peptide expression apply regardless of compartment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Mast cells, known for their involvement in allergic reactions where they secrete numerous chemicals in response to immunoglobulin E and specific antigens, have recently been localized in the central nervous system. The function of these brain mast cells has remained speculative as they have not been the subject of any combined functional or detailed morphological studies. Here it is shown that these cells are primarily perivascular and stain metachromatically with Toluidine Blue, but red with Alcian Blue counterstained with Safranin, indicating that they contain proteoglycans quite similar to those of peritoneal, but not mucosal mast cells. Intracardiac administration of the classic mast cell secretagogue, compound 48/80, or the acetylcholine analog, carbachol, caused ultrastructural changes in brain mast cells consistent with secretion, but without exocytosis. However, it is known that the same concentration of carbachol has no effect on homogeneic peritoneal mast cells. These results indicate that brain mast cells share histochemical characteristics with serosal mast cells, but differ in their reactivity to secretagogues, and apparently in the mechanism of secretion. Their ability to respond to neurotransmitters and their distinct mechanism of secretion, which may be selective, expands their possible role in brain pathophysiology.
Mast cells are primarily localized in connective tissues, where they secrete numerous mediators. They have also been identified in the mammalian central nervous system on the basis of their histochemical and morphological properties, but their role there remains unknown. A perfusion system was used to investigate in vitro mediator release from rat brain mast cells. Compound 48/80, the classic mast cell secretagogue of connective tissue mast cells, induced dose-dependent and non-cytotoxic release of serotonin, histamine and beta-hexosaminidase from mast cells in the rat thalamus and hypothalamus, but not in the cerebellum which was used as a negative control. Detailed studies were performed on thalamic mast cells, which were identified on the basis of metachromasia with Toluidine Blue and Safranin-positive staining with the Alcian Blue/Safranin technique. Their secretion was characterized by: (a) parallel release of serotonin, histamine and beta-hexosaminidase; (b) lack of dependence on extracellular calcium; (c) susceptibility to inhibition by disodium cromoglycate; and (d) lack of lactate dehydrogenase release. These results indicate that the morphology and secretory characteristics of thalamic mast cells resemble those of connective tissue mast cells. The ability of brain mast cells to secrete their mediators is discussed in the context of their possible involvement in brain pathophysiology.
Galanin is a neuropeptide that is widely distributed throughout the rat central nervous system. It is co-localized with vasopressin in magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Vasopressin biosynthesis is increased there by various hyperosmolar stimuli, including drinking 2% saline. We previously demonstrated that the chronically hyperosmolar Brattleboro rat has increased biosynthesis of galanin in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. In this report we show using hybridization histochemistry that drinking 2% saline also increased galanin transcripts in these nuclei. We also demonstrate using hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry that knife cuts that sever hypothalamo-hypophysial fibers transiently elevated galanin expression in the supraoptic nucleus ipsilateral to the lesion and depressed vasopressin expression ipsilaterally. Pituitary stalk transections also elevated galanin and decreased vasopressin transcripts. In addition, various knife cuts in the caudal hypothalamus were able to dissociate the expression of vasopressin and galanin, although co-localized and similarly affected by hyperosmolality in the supraoptic nucleus. Unilateral sagittal knife cuts that divided the posterior hypothalamus but avoided the hypothalamo-hypophysial pathway, as well as hemisections at the level of the premammillary area, resulted in ipsilateral elevations of galanin transcripts without significantly affecting vasopressin expression. These results indicate that independent intracellular signal transduction pathways exist for regulating expression of the two genes.
Distribution patterns of activity and immunohistochemical staining for glutamate dehydrogenase were compared during the postnatal development of rat hippocampal formation and cerebellar cortex. On postnatal day 5, dendritic layers of the hippocampal formation showed only a very weak enzyme activity. Similarly, when studied at the same age, the external granule cell layer and Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex exhibited a very faint and moderate staining, respectively. With advancing age, in both brain regions a marked postnatal increase in glutamate dehydrogenase activity occurred in neuropil area as glutamatergic structures matured. However, compared to activity staining, both brain regions of early postnatal stages showed a relatively high level of glutamate dehydrogenase-like immunoreactivity. In this case, the immunohistochemical staining of hippocampal dendritic layers and of the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex was rather diffuse, being not very similar to parameters of the maturation of the respective glutamatergic structures. In contrast to the activity staining for the enzyme, the immunohistochemical labelling in adult rats revealed a selective predominance of immunoreactivity in astroglial cells from postnatal day 5 onwards. The Bergmann glia in the cerebellar cortex exhibited the strongest intensity of immunoreactivity. Generally, the patterns of immunoreactivity were found to depend on the fixation procedure adopted. Concluding from our results, glutamate dehydrogenase is demonstrable in glial and in neuronal cell elements as well. Therefore, it is recommended that activity staining and the immunohistochemical procedure be combined to study qualitative and quantitative aspects of glutamate dehydrogenase in nervous tissues.
Peptidergic fibers in the globus pallidus of the monkey appear in the morphological form referred to as woolly fibers. These fibers are composed of a dense plexus of thin beaded axons which ensheath an unstained central core. Such structures are not confined to the globus pallidus, but are also present in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the hypothalamus, the dorsal part of the amygdala, and ventrally in the basal forebrain. The present study describes the relationship between projections from the rostral and ventral striatum and the enkephalin- and substance P-positive woolly fibers. Following injections of either tritiated amino acids or the lectin Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin in the ventral striatum, anterogradely labeled fibers and terminals in the forebrain were visualized simultaneously with enkephalin- or substance P immunoreactivity in the same tissue section in order to determine: (i) the extent to which the woolly fiber distribution represents striatal output systems; (ii) whether woolly fibers can be considered as a marker for the entire striatal forebrain projection; and (iii) whether enkephalin and substance P are involved differentially in distinct ventral striatopallidal pathways. Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin labeling is seen in the globus pallidus and adjacent structures either as single, beaded fibers or in a profile strikingly similar to that of woolly fibers. In tissue sections treated for a double immunohistochemical protocol, following which the Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-immunoreactive fibers turn black and the peptidergic woolly fibers brown; many of the lectin-positive fibers are seen to enter the peptide-positive woolly fiber plexus. Likewise, following the injections with tritiated amino acids in the ventral striatum, coarse structures that have dimensions resembling those of the woolly fibers are identified. In sections immunohistochemically stained and subsequently treated for autoradiography, peptide-positive woolly fibers can be identified underlying the silver grains. In sections stained for both peptide immunoreactivity and tracer substances, enkephalin or substance P-positive woolly fibers are present in all pallidal regions that receive ventral striatal input. However, the ventral striatum also sends fibers to the hypothalamus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the dorsal part of the amygdala, the septum, the preoptic area, and other areas of the basal forebrain. In these nuclei the peptide-positive woolly fiber distribution is less extensive than the terminal labeling. The distribution of substance P-positive fibers in the subcommissural pallidal region is more limited than the distribution of enkephalinergic fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The use of in vitro preparations such as brain slices poses difficulties in determining the correct identity of cells under study. To circumvent this problem, we first used a fluorescence pre-labeling technique (rhodamine-dextran-lysine) to identify cranial motoneurons projecting to the tongue (hypoglossal motoneurons) in the guinea-pig. Following preparation of slices, cells were recorded intracellularly and their electrophysiological properties determined. The cells were then intracellularly stained with both a fluorescence label (Lucifer Yellow) and with the stable, non-fading label biocytin. Under fluorescent illumination, the great majority of recorded cells within the hypoglossal nucleus were double-labeled (rhodamine and Lucifer Yellow) suggesting that most are indeed motoneurons. Biocytin injected into the same motoneurons provided permanent and detailed images of their morphology. Intracellularly stained cells surrounding the hypoglossal nucleus were not labeled with rhodamine and had distinct electro-physiological properties. The use of the retrogradely transported marker rhodamine-dextran-lysine allows the unambiguous identification of motoneurons in a brainstem slice. The combined intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow and biocytin provides a simple means of melding the advantages of a fluorescent label (compatible with other fluorescence labels and with immunocytochemistry) with the benefits of a stable, non-fading, electron-dense marker. Application of this technique should prove useful in establishing morphological and functional correlates in other areas of the CNS.
Transient forebrain ischemia of 30 min duration was produced in anaesthetized rats by four-vessel occlusion. After survival periods of 3 h to three days brains were perfusion-fixed and sections through the mid-dorsal hippocampus were processed for conventional staining and immunohistochemical analysis. Neuronal damage in the hilus was manifested 3-8 h after ischemia; neurons in the CA1 and CA2 sector suffered delayed neuronal death after 48-72 h whereas the dentate gyrus and the CA3 sector were normal. Vasogenic edema formation was visualized using antibodies against rat serum-proteins, serum albumin and immunoglobulins. By 3 h after ischemia, only faint and diffuse serum-staining was detected. At 8 h survival, weak astrocytic-staining was present. After 24-72 h CA1-CA2 exhibited massive serum extravasation. The molecular layer of the dentate gyrus showed edema formation in the absence of granule cell damage. The glial reaction was studied using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and S-100 protein. Glial fibrillary acidic protein and S-100 protein-staining increased in areas with either edema or neuronal damage. In contrast, changes in vimentin were only detected in areas with neuronal necrosis. The observations demonstrate that following 30 min of ischemia neuronal damage is accompanied by changes in blood-brain barrier function and reactive glial alterations. The dissociation between neuronal necrosis and astroglial hypertrophy and hyperplasia reflects differences in cellular responsiveness which constitute inherent features of postischemic hippocampal injury.
Synaptosomal-associated protein, 25 kD, (SNAP-25) is a novel protein containing a possible transition metal binding site and encoded by a neuronal-specific mRNA. We examined the distribution of SNAP-25 mRNA and protein in the hippocampal formation of the adult rat following kainic acid, colchicine, and entorhinal lesions. The results show that destruction of granule cells of the dentate gyrus and CA3 pyramidal cells did not diminish SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in the dendritic fields of these cells. In contrast, lesioned neurons exhibited an extensive loss of immunoreactivity at the site of their axonal projections. These results support the identification of SNAP-25 as a novel presynaptic protein. In addition, SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was increased in afferent fibers which project to areas adjacent to the deafferented region, and expression of SNAP-25 mRNA was increased in neurons deafferented by the lesion. Examination of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity and mRNA expression may provide a useful marker of major hippocampal pathways and of axonal plasticity in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and temporal lobe epilepsy.
The pars distalis of the adenohypophysis has recently been proved to be innervated by substance P-like immunoreactive nerve fibers in the monkey and the dog. The present study investigated immuno-electron microscopically the morphology of these nerve fibers and their relationship to anterior pituitary gland cells in the dog. The nerve fibers were unmyelinated and varicose. Direct contacts between them and every cell type of the gland could be ascertained, including folliculostellate cells. Typical synapses were identified on somatotropes and corticotropes. Most of them were of asymmetrical type with round to oval small clear vesicles and scattered large dense-cored vesicles. Occasional symmetrical type synapses were also seen. The results imply that substance P-like immunoreactive nerve fibers have an effector role in the pars distalis of the dog.
The neural innervation of the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary of the amphibian Xenopus laevis has been studied at the light and electron microscopic level. In the pars intermedia melanotropes and stellate cells are abutted by varicosities originating from GABA- and neuropeptide Y-producing neurons. The varicosities contain two types of vesicle: electron-lucent vesicles (mean diameter 50 nm) which are immunopositive for GABA and larger (80 nm) electron-dense vesicles which are immunopositive for neuropeptide Y. Double immunogold labeling established that GABA and neuropeptide Y co-exist within the varicosities. In the pars nervosa similar varicosities, though low in number, occur. They are associated with neurosecretory nerve terminals, pituicytes and blood vessels. The possible significance of GABA and neuropeptide Y for the neural regulation of melanophore stimulating hormone-release from the pars intermedia is discussed.
The morphology and distribution of somatostatin-immunoreactive synaptic boutons was studied in the rat trigeminal subnucleus caudalis using pre-embedding electron microscopic techniques. Immunoreactive terminals were found in lamina I and throughout lamina II but were more concentrated in outer lamina II. All immunoreactive terminals contained many round or pleomorphic agranular small synaptic vesicles and some large dense-cored vesicles. Lamina I terminals were all simple dome-shaped and relatively small. They established one asymmetric or slightly asymmetric synapse over a dendritic spine or a small, medium or large dendritic shaft. The large dendrites are probably derived from Waldeyer neurons. Many lamina II immunoreactive terminals were also simple dome-shaped terminals and established asymmetric synaptic contacts with one postsynaptic structure, usually a dendritic spine or a small to medium-sized dendritic shaft. However, other lamina II immunoreactive terminals were larger and displayed more complex morphology and synaptology. Complex immunoreactive terminals had scalloped or smooth contours and made synaptic contacts with more than one postsynaptic profile. In outer lamina II they sometimes constituted the central terminals of typical glomerular synaptic complexes. We conclude that many of the immunoreactive simple terminals probably originate from intrinsic somatostatin-immunoreactive interneurons while some of the more complex ones and the central glomerular terminals are likely to originate from primary afferents. These results are consistent with our accompanying light microscopic study (Alvarez and Priestley, Neuroscience 38, 343-357, 1990) which indicates that somatostatin-immunoreactive primary afferents project preferentially to outer lamina II while the lamina I somatostatin-immunoreactive plexus is likely to originate largely from laminae I and II interneurons. In addition somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies were found in lamina II. The heaviest immunoreactivity in these cells was in the Golgi apparatus. Also some vesicles containing dendrites were immunostained, and these were most abundant in inner lamina II. Thus, in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis, somatostatin may be derived from primary afferent synaptic boutons, interneuron synaptic boutons and interneuron dendrites. However, each of these sites probably makes a proportionately different contribution to the total amount of somatostatin released in each lamina or sublamina.
The distribution of substance P was determined in the rat spinal cord and brain after a focal traumatic injury to the thoracic region (T10-11) of the spinal cord. There was at 1 and 2 h after the injury a statistically significant increase of the substance P content not only in the injured segment but also in samples removed 5 mm proximal (T9) and distal (T12) to the lesion. At 5 h the substance P content of the injured segment of the cord was reduced by 30% compared with controls. However, there was a significant increase in the concentration of this peptide in segments located 5 mm cranial and caudal to the injury (65% and 22%, respectively). Interestingly, the whole brain content of substance P showed a statistically significant 22% increase from control values at 5 h after the injury. At 1 and 2 h after the spinal cord injury there was a significant decrease in whole brain substance P concentration by 25% and 65%, respectively. Pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (a serotonin synthesis inhibitor) markedly reduced the endogenous content of substance P in whole brain of normal animals. In these animals, the spinal cord content of the peptide was elevated by 83-123% as compared to untreated control animals. Spinal cord trauma inflicted on p-chlorophenylalanine-treated animals did not affect the brain peptide level at all. However, a profound decrease was noted in all the spinal cord segments at 5 h as compared to the untreated traumatized group. The decrease in this peptide was more pronounced in the cranial and the injured segments as compared to the caudal one.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The mechanisms of a cutaneous nerve-evoked inhibition of monosynaptic reflex were investigated in an isolated spinal cord-peripheral nerve preparation of the neonatal rat. Conditioning stimulation of the saphenous nerve, with five pulses at 50 Hz and a strength sufficient to activate C fibers, evoked an inhibition lasting about 20 s of the monosynaptic reflex that was elicited by stimulation of the nerve branch to quadriceps femoris muscle and recorded from the L3 ventral root. This inhibition of monosynaptic reflex was potentiated by an anticholinesterase, edrophonium, and mostly blocked by atropine. Application of acetylcholine, muscarine, bethanechol, carbachol, arecoline and oxotremorine induced an inhibition of monosynaptic reflex. From the effects of muscarinic antagonists, pirenzepine, AF-DX 116, and 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine on the agonist-evoked and primary afferent-evoked inhibition of monosynaptic reflex it was concluded that the muscarinic receptors involved in the cutaneous nerve-evoked inhibition of monosynaptic reflex are of M2 type. When monosynaptic reflexes were evoked by two successive stimuli with intervals of 15 ms to 1 s, the second response was smaller than the first. This depression of monosynaptic reflex became less pronounced when the reflex was reduced by application of oxotremorine or arecoline or by conditioning stimulation of primary afferents, suggesting that the inhibition of monosynaptic reflex is presynaptic in nature. The late phase of the cutaneous nerve-evoked inhibition of monosynaptic reflex (5-20 s after conditioning stimulation) was markedly depressed by a tachykinin antagonist, spantide. Perfusion of the spinal cord with capsaicin (1 microM) for 1 h also abolished the late phase of the inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The hippocampus provides a suitable area in the brain for the analysis of neuronal plasticity after application of a selective lesioning technique. Using histochemistry and autoradiography, we studied synaptic reorganization in the rat hippocampus with selective CA1 pyramidal cell lesioning caused by transient forebrain ischemia after long-term survival. An autoradiographic study was performed on second messenger systems ([3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, [3H]forskolin and [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate binding). One-hundred days after ischemia, depletion of CA1 pyramidal cells and marked shrinkage of the CA1 subfield was noted in spite of unaltered thickness of the CA3 band and of the dentate molecular layers. Although neuronal density in the CA3 region of animals killed seven days after ischemia was not different from the normal group, 78% of animals showed neuronal loss of 30-50% in the stratum pyramidale of the CA3b 100 days after recirculation. Sixty-seven per cent of animals exhibited supragranular mossy fiber sprouting in the dentate gyrus. However, CA3 neuronal loss did not correlate with mossy fiber sprouting. Succinic dehydrogenase was depleted in the CA1 100 days after ischemia, and animals with CA3 damage showed a reduction of succinic dehydrogenase activity in the CA3. In contrast to the unaltered acetylcholinesterase in the animals killed seven days after ischemia, high density bands of acetylcholinesterase activity in the stratum pyramidale of the CA1 were found to be broadened 100 days after ischemia. In the CA1 subfield, subnormal activity of [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate and [3H]forskolin binding were observed in spite of the depleted [3H]inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate binding. [3H]Forskolin binding in the hilus had increased by 62% 100 days after ischemia, although binding in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 and in the stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus was unaltered. However, no visible supragranular increase in [3H]forskolin binding was observed. These results indicate that long-term survival after CA1 pyramidal cell depletion caused by transient forebrain ischemia induced the modulation of neuronal activity and synaptic rearrangements in the whole hippocampal formation.
Functional properties of terminal sprouts elicited by an in vivo injection of Clostridium botulinum type A toxin were studied in endplates of the Levator auris longus muscle of the mouse poisoned from a few days to 28 days beforehand. For this purpose, morphological observations of the extent of terminal sprouts and localization of acetylcholine receptors was performed in whole mount preparations. Sprouts appeared as thin unmyelinated filaments that run usually parallel to the longitudinal axis of the muscle fibres; labelling acetylcholine receptors revealed their line-shaped accumulation co-localized with the sprouts. In addition, presynaptic membrane currents elicited by nerve stimulation were recorded by external electrodes applied under visual control onto the membrane of pre-existing motor endings and newly formed sprouts. These recordings showed the presence of widespread triphasic waveforms which indicated active impulse propagation of the action potential over most of the length of the poisoned endings. Ca2+ influx and Ca2(+)-dependent K+ currents in the sprout membrane were found to be similar to those described in unpoisoned endings. The presence of normal Ca2+ influx, upon active depolarization, in the terminal sprout membranes together with the localization of acetylcholine receptors in front of these membranes, indicates that the terminal sprouts may play a role in the recovery of neuromuscular transmission after Clostridium botulinum poisoning.
Immunocytochemical methods were used to study 28,000 mol. wt calbindin and tachykinin immunoreactivity in the monkey cerebral cortex. Calbindin and tachykinin immunoreactivity give rise to a generally different pattern of staining of cell bodies and terminal-like puncta. However, the staining of long, vertically-oriented bundles of processes--identical to classical double bouquet cell axonal arborizations--is the most prominent feature of the pattern of both calbindin- and tachykinin-immunoreactive staining. These bundles form a widespread and regular columnar system descending from layer II to layers III-V. The bundles are most evident in layer III where, in tangential sections, they have a density of 7-15 bundles/10,000 microns 2 with a center-to-center spacing of 15-30 microns. The distribution of immunoreactive bundles through the cortex is not homogeneous; somatic sensory, auditory, and visual areas display a large number of calbindin-immunoreactive bundles while tachykinin-immunoreactive bundles are only numerous in the auditory areas and in area 18 of the visual cortex. In the motor cortex (area 4) few or no immunoreactive bundles are visualized with either antibody. Correlative light and electron microscope analysis of tachykinin immunoreactive bundles in the primary auditory cortex shows that the tachykinin-positive axons of the bundles form symmetrical synaptic contacts with dendritic shafts (57%) and spines (43%). Frequently, several immunoreactive boutons that arise from the same fiber are seen climbing along the surfaces of vertically-oriented, non-immunoreactive processes which include myelinated and unmyelinated axons and probably glial processes. The same ultrastructural features and a similar synaptic distribution were found in a previous study [DeFelipe et al. (1989) Brain Res. 503, 49-54] of calbindin-positive bundles in the somatic sensory cortex (areas 3a and 1). Despite the virtually identical morphological features of tachykinin- and calbindin-immunoreactive bundles, colocalization studies demonstrate little coexistence of the two antigens in somata and none in the axonal bundles of double bouquet cells. These data suggest that the double bouquet cell is a chemically heterogeneous, but ubiquitous morphological type of cortical interneuron, whose uniquely bundled axonal system, which is probably GABAergic, imposes a fundamental microcolumnar organization upon the cerebral cortex.
Indirect immunofluorescence histochemistry was used to investigate the distribution and extent of co-localization of chemical messengers in magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. In order to increase the number of neurons immunoreactive to the antisera used, experimental manipulations were employed. The homozygous Brattleboro (diabetes insipidus) rat was also investigated. In untreated rats, only vasopressin- and oxytocin-like immunoreactivities could be observed. Colchicine treatment alone resulted in appearance of galanin-, dynorphin-, cholecystokinin-, [Leu]enkephalin- and thyrotropin-releasing hormone-positive cells. In hypophysectomized rats, all these markers, except tyrosine hydroxylase, showed substantial further increases. In addition, peptide histidine-isoleucine-immunoreactive cell bodies could now be seen. After salt-loading alone, tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity was markedly increased, whereas vasopressin- and oxytocin-like immunoreactivity were very weak or undetectable. When salt-loaded rats received colchicine, corticotropin-releasing factor- and peptide histidine-isoleucine-like immunoreactivity in addition increased, whereas galanin- and dynorphin-like immunoreactivity markedly decreased. The Brattleboro rats resembled untreated rats, except their lack of vasopressin-like immunoreactivity, the marked increase in tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity, and smaller increase in galanin- and dynorphin-like immunoreactivity. Addition of colchicine to Brattleboro rats resulted in some distinct further changes in that dynorphin-like immunoreactivity decreased in some neurons and that [Leu]enkephalin-, corticotropin-releasing factor- and peptide histidine-isoleucine-like immunoreactivity increased substantially. Several similarities could be observed between the salt-loaded and Brattleboro rats, with or without colchicine. However, a marked difference in immunoreactive [Leu]enkephalin levels was observed with no difference in dynorphin-like immunoreactivity, and opposite changes in galanin-like immunoreactivity. The results confirm the traditional view that hypothalamic magnocellular neurons in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei contain two separate cell populations, characterized by vasopressin and oxytocin, respectively, and that they contain additional messenger molecules in specific patterns. Vasopressin-containing neurons primarily express tyrosine hydroxylase, galanin, dynorphin, [Leu]enkephalin and peptide histidine-isoleucine, and to a minor extent cholecystokinin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Oxytocin-containing neurons mainly have cholecystokinin and corticotropin-releasing factor, and to a minor extent galanin, dynorphin, [Leu]enkephalin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Furthermore, our results detail individual co-existence situations among these putative messenger molecules. Thus, magnocellular neurons respond in a differential way to various stimuli and they store multiple bioactive substances in specific combinations.
The superior colliculus has been used to study principles of sensorimotor transformation underlying the guidance of orienting movements by multimodal sensory stimuli. We have previously suggested that there may be two different classes of mechanism which can produce orienting-like movements towards a novel event; one that locates a stimulus on the basis of remembered position, and another which uses continuous feedback relating to target velocity. The crossed descending pathway of the superior colliculus is widely considered the projection most likely to relay signals associated with the production of orienting movements. However, if different neural mechanisms are used to produce functionally distinct types of orienting, we might expect this pathway to have separate anatomical components related to function. The purpose of the present experiment was to see if collicular fibres innervating two important pre-motor targets of the crossed descending pathway, the periabducens area and the caudal medulla-spinal cord, come from the same population of tectal cells. One of the retrogradely transported fluorescent tracers (Diamidino Yellow) was injected into the periabducens area, and another (True Blue or Fast Blue) was injected into tectospinal fibres at the level of the ventromedial caudal medulla. Under these conditions we found: (i) less than 10% of labelled cells within the superior colliculus contained both tracers; (ii) the bulk of singly labelled cells projecting to the periabducens area or the caudal medulla were concentrated at different locations within the colliculus, (iii) in regions of the superior colliculus where there was overlap of singly labelled cells, neurons projecting to the periabducens area or the caudal medulla could be distinguished morphologically. These data provide three classes of evidence which indicate that the crossed descending projection in rat can be subdivided into at least two relatively independent anatomical components. This conclusion may, in part, provide an anatomical substrate for the functional dissociations proposed for orienting movements.
It has been recently shown that frog motoneurons and their nerve terminals contain calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in large dense-core vesicles (Matteoli et al., Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85, 7366-7370, 1988). We report here by an immunofluorescence approach that the same neurons and nerve terminals also contain substance P-like immunoreactivity. The demonstration of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the frog motor nerve endings supports previous data suggesting a physiological role for this peptide in the modulation of cholinergic transmission.
Rat brain synaptosomal membranes that are depleted of endogenous excitatory amino acids cannot bind [(+)-5-methyl-10, 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d]cyclohept-5,10-imine maleate] ([3H]MK-801). However, they do so upon the restoration of excitatory amino acid agonists such as L-glutamate. [3H]MK-801 provides a molecular probe which is specific for a binding site located within the ionophore of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-type excitatory amino acid receptor, [3H]MK-801 does not bind to non-N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory amino acid receptors. Exploiting [3H]MK-801 binding as a quantitative measure of agonist activity with respect to ability of inducing the open channel conformation, the present study demonstrates that L-homocysteate is an agonist almost equivalent to L-glutamate in terms of efficacy (maximal N-methyl-D-aspartate response) as well as potency (EC50). The effect of L-homocysteate was dose-dependent, stereospecific (L-homocysteate greater than DL-homocysteate greater than D-homocysteate), suppressible by the N-methyl-D-aspartate-selective competitive antagonist (+/-)-3(2-carboxy-piperazine-4-yl)propyl-l-phosphonate, and potentiated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate-selective &quot;allosteric&quot; modulator glycine. The demonstrated inactivity of L-homocysteine (and virtually all naturally occurring, non-acidic amino acids) implies that the omega-sulphonic acid moiety is an acceptable substitute for the omega carboxyl group for activating the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. While the potency of L-homocysteate at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was by a factor of only 1.6 smaller than that of L-glutamate, the affinity of L-homocysteate for kainate-type excitatory amino acid receptors was approximately four-fold lower than that of L-glutamate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
By means of antisera to cytoplasmic components of nerve fibres and neuropeptides which are known to be present in sensory or sympathetic nerves we have examined the distribution of both total and different types of nerve fibres in normal and inflamed human synovial tissue. Samples of synovia were obtained at surgery from five normal and five rheumatoid patients (age range 10-77 years). In order to map the overall neural innervation of the synovium, antiserum to the general neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 was employed. Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide antisera were employed to identify sensory fibres and antisera to the C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y to distinguish sympathetic nerves. In normal synovium protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive fibres were numerous, in particular, the vasculature was densely innervated. Free protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive fibres were less numerous but were present in all synovia examined, and in many cases these extended to the intimal layer. Neuropeptide immunostaining was predominantly found in perivascular networks. Fibres immunoreactive for the C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y were exclusively located around blood vessels whereas free fibres were immunoreactive for substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide. As with free protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive fibres, fibres expressing substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity were often seen in the intimal cell layer. In rheumatoid arthritis a similar innervation to that seen in normal synovium was apparent in the deep tissue but fibres immunoreactive for protein gene product 9.5, the C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide were not visible in the more superficial tissues or the intimal cell layer. In addition, immunostaining of neuropeptides in the deep tissue was weaker in the diseased tissues than in normal controls. The data unequivocally demonstrate that synovial tissues are richly innervated and confirm the presence of both sensory and sympathetic nerves. The absence of nerves which innervate the superficial synovium in rheumatoid arthritis might suggest that there is increased release of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and the C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y, reducing the stores in the nerves to levels below that detectable by immunocytochemistry. However, since protein gene product 9.5-immunoreactive nerves were not seen in the inflamed tissue it is probable that synovial growth outflanks neural growth and consequently as the disease progresses neural structures become restricted to deeper tissues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent publications have demonstrated an important role for olfactory afferent innervation in maintenance of the dopamine phenotype of olfactory bulb target neurons. The mechanisms underlying the control of phenotypic expression in this system are not known. These studies employed the model of unilateral neonatal olfactory deprivation to investigate the effects of lack of odorant stimulation on dopamine expression in the rat. Immunoreactivity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the first and rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine biosynthesis, used as a marker of the dopamine system, exhibited a large decrease both 40 and 70 days following olfactory deprivation. The losses were region specific suggesting that the deprivation was not complete. The number of immunoreactive GABAergic neurons was not reduced. The number of neurons containing aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (the second enzyme in the dopamine biosynthetic pathway) was also not decreased. Olfactory marker protein immunoreactivity in the glomeruli, a marker for afferent innervation, was not significantly altered indicating that the olfactory bulb was not denervated. These data demonstrate that neonatal deprivation, and the resulting lack of odorant stimulation, produces a transneuronal alteration in dopamine expression without neuronal loss. The studies also suggest that neuronal activity or the activity-dependent release of a trophic factor is necessary for the expression of the dopamine phenotype.
[Met]Enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 is an endogenous opioid peptide, first isolated from the bovine adrenal medulla. Because this octapeptide is specifically contained in the amino acid sequence of preproenkephalin A but not in other opioid precursors like preproopiomelanocortin or preproenkephalin B, [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 has been regarded as a specific marker for preproenkephalin A and its derivatives. In this study, we examined the occurrence and origin of [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive nerves in the guinea-pig and rat lung by immunohistochemical techniques, using a specific antiserum against this peptide. In addition, we investigated the possible co-existence of [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity in neuronal elements of the respiratory tract. In both species, [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 immunoreactivity was localized in nerve fibers chiefly distributed to the trachea and major bronchi, where they were prevalent in smooth muscle bundles, in the lamina propria, around airway glands, and in the walls of pulmonary vessels, but were absent in airway epithelium. Slight differences in the distribution pattern of immunoreactive nerve fibers were noted between the two species: immunoreactive nerve fibers in the smooth muscle bundles were much more abundant in guinea-pigs than in rats, while those in the mucous glands were richer in rats than in guinea-pigs. Neither chemical sympathectomy by 6-hydroxydopamine, nor chemical sensory denervation by capsaicin, changed the density or distribution of [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the airway, suggesting an intrinsic source for these nerve fibers. Colchicine injection into the tracheal wall, to promote the accumulation of neuropeptides in nerve cell bodies, led to the visualization of [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 immunoreactivity in some neuronal cell bodies within airway ganglia. Immunostaining for [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 and for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide on serial adjacent sections of airway ganglia obtained from colchicine-treated tracheae, demonstrated the co-existence of these immunoreactivities in a population of nerve cell bodies in these ganglia. The immunohistochemical localization of immunoreactive [Met]enkephalin-Arg6-Gly7-Leu8 in nerve elements in guinea-pig and rat lungs provides a morphological basis for the possibility that preproenkephalin A-related opioid peptides may have a neuromodulatory role in mammalian airways and pulmonary vessels.
Thermal injury to one hind limb of rats was induced by immersion into water at 62 degrees C. Both a mild (15 s) or severe (30 s) lesion caused inflammation of the limb when observed 24 h later; but at this time the animals used the injured limb when they walked. Animals with a severe lesion of the injured limb subsequently withdrew it from use when walking. Limb withdrawal did not occur following a mild lesion. At 24 h following the lesion, lumbar spinal cord levels of [Met]enkephalin, as measured by radioimmunoassay, were elevated (70%) bilaterally in both hemisegments, ipsi- and contralateral to the lesion. At seven days following either mild or severe hind limb lesion [Met]enkephalin levels were elevated only in the ipsilateral lumbar hemisegment. At that time no changes in thoracic [Met]enkephalin levels were observed. Substance P levels were decreased (20-25%) bilaterally in the lumbar cord 24 h following a severe limb lesion, but no change was observed at seven days in any cord segment following a mild or severe lesion. Changes in spinal cord [Met]enkephalin content occur in response to thermal injury to one hind limb. However, the changes do not appear to be related to the withdrawal of the damaged limb from use following a severe lesion. Peptide changes in the spinal cord may reflect pain or injury to the damaged limb following a thermal lesion. In contrast, limb withdrawal may be a physiological rest mechanism related to altered basal ganglia peptide function.
The time course of degeneration of chick retinal ganglion cells was examined with Nissl stains and immunohistochemical methods for detection of substance P-like immunoreactive and nicotinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactive neurons. Small lesions were made in the retinae, adjacent to the optic nerve head, and were subsequently sectioned parallel to the vitreal surface, permitting direct comparison of normal and axotomized retinal ganglion cells distal to the site of axon damage. At four and six days after surgery, a large number of degenerating cells with clear cytoplasm and pyknotic nuclei were seen. After eight, 10 and 14 days, many retinal ganglion cells displayed a chromatolytic response with dispersed Nissl granules, eccentric nuclei and the cells appeared crenulated. The number of apparently normal neurons in the ganglion cell layer in the axotomized region was reduced by about 50% six days following surgery, by about 70% on the 10th day and by about 75% on the 17th day. The remaining neurons in the ganglion cell layer were identified as displaced amacrine cells. From day 2 onwards, increased numbers of glial cells were present in the optic fibre, ganglion cell and inner plexiform layers. Many glial cells were enlarged and displayed extensive cytoplasmic processes, while others showed mitotic activity. Somata and proximal dendrites of retinal ganglion cells were intensely stained for substance P-like immunoreactivity at two and four days following surgery. At six, eight and 10 days, staining intensity was markedly reduced though still evident and at 14 and 17 days, substance P-like immunoreactivity had virtually disappeared. The persistence of limited substance P-like immunoreactive ganglion cells 10 days after surgery indicates that these cells have a relatively protracted response to axotomy. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like immunoreactivity in the ganglion cells at two and four days following axotomy was substantially reduced. The majority of faintly stained nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like immunoreactive ganglion cells, as visualized in counterstained sections, did not exhibit pyknosis in the immediate period following axotomy. Double label studies demonstrated that substance P-like immunoreactive ganglion cells were distinct from the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-like immunoreactive ganglion cells. In a second set of experiments, nerve growth factor was then placed into the vitreous humor following intra-retinal axotomy. The somata, dendrites and proximal axons of lesioned substance P-like immunoreactive ganglion cells in these retinae were more intensely stained for a longer period of time and appeared more robust than cells from untreated retinae.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The functional roles of striatonigral neurokinins were studied by analysing the effects of intranigral injections of substance P and neurokinin A on the extracellular levels of dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum, as measured by in vivo microdialysis in rats. An opioid antagonist, naloxone, and a GABAergic antagonist, bicuculline, were tested and analysed for their ability to modify the neurokinin effects. Unilateral injections of substance P (0.07 nmol) or neurokinin A (0.09 nmol) into the substantia nigra, pars reticulata of halothane anaesthetized rats produced long-lasting increases in ipsilateral striatal dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels. Intranigral injections of naloxone (30 and 300 nmol) produced short-lasting decreases in striatal dopamine, concomitant with an increase in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Intranigral injections of 7.0 nmol bicuculline produced an increase, while 70 nmol produced a decrease in striatal dopamine, however, both doses produced an increase in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. When co-administered intranigrally, the high dose of naloxone (300 nmol) completely blocked the dopamine stimulation of substance P (0.07 nmol), but only moderately inhibited that of neurokinin A (0.09 nmol). The high dose of bicuculline (70 nmol) completely blocked the dopamine stimulation of neurokinin A, but only moderately inhibited that of substance P. Naloxone (30 and 300 nmol) enhanced the dihydroxyphenylacetic acid response to substance P, while bicuculline (70 nmol) inhibited the dihydroxyphenylacetic acid response to neurokinin A. These findings complement and extend the findings in the preceding paper, demonstrating that intranigral substance P and neurokinin A stimulate striatal dopamine via different neuronal mechanisms. We suggest that opioid drugs have a greater influence over substance P while GABAergic drugs have a greater influence over neurokinin A.
The functional role of striatonigral neurokinins were studied by analysing the effects of intranigral injections of substance P and neurokinin A on the extracellular level of dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the striatum, as measured by in vivo microdialysis in rats. Two substance P antagonists, substance P D-Pro2 D-Trp7,9 and substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 were tested and analysed for their ability to block the neurokinin effects. Unilateral injections of substance P (0.00007-7.0 nmol injected in 0.2 microliter) as well as neurokinin A (0.009-9.0 nmol) into the substantia nigra, pars reticulata of halothane anaesthetized rats produced long-lasting increases in ipsilateral striatal dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels. The dose-response relationship for substance P on dopamine was biphasic, with maximal effects occurring after the middle dose (0.007-0.07 nmol). The dose-response relationship for neurokinin A was monophasic. Intranigral injections of substance P D-Pro2 D-Trp7,9 (0.07-0.7 nmol) or substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 (0.07-0.7 nmol) produced a decrease in striatal dopamine, but an increase in striatal dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. At a low dose (0.07 nmol) substance P D-Pro2 D-Trp7,9 enhanced the dopamine increase produced by intranigral substance P (0.07 nmol) or neurokinin A (0.09), while at a high dose (0.7 nmol) it blocked both substance P and neurokinin A effects. Both doses of substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 (0.07 and 0.7 nmol) blocked the substance P- but not the neurokinin A-induced increase in striatal dopamine. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that high doses of substance P (7.0 nmol) and neurokinin A (0.9 and 9.0 nmol), as well as substance P D-Pro2 D-Trp7,9 and substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 (0.07 and 0.7 nmol), induced a restricted loss of tyrosine hydroxylase in dendrites and cells, and neuropeptide K in terminals, at the site of injection. Further analysis shows that co-administration of substance P (0.07 nmol) or neurokinin A (0.09 nmol) did not modify the extent of the depletion of both immunoreactivities induced by substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 (0.7 nmol). The extent of the effect produced by substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11 (0.7 nmol) was, however, smaller than the spread of intranigral injection of [125I]Bolton-Hunter-labelled substance P D-Arg1 D-Trp7,9 Leu11, and it is suggested that the &quot;neurotoxic&quot; effects of the substance P antagonists are not primarily involved in their abilities to inhibit striatal dopamine release and block the stimulation of dopamine after intranigral substance P and neurokinin A.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Electrical stimulus intensity, capsaicin, excitatory amino acid antagonists and the substance P antagonist, spantide, have been used to investigate the roles of primary afferent C fibres and excitatory amino acid receptors in the generation of long duration (half time 9.1 s +/- 1.1 S.E.M., N = 24) contralateral reflexes recorded in ventral roots of immature rat spinal cords in vitro. The relationship between C fibre compound action potentials recorded in the dorsal root and duration of the dorsal root-evoked contralateral ventral root potential appeared to be coincidental rather than causal. Dorsal root-evoked contralateral ventral root potentials of greater than 2 s in duration could not be evoked in mature mouse spinal preparations. Application of capsaicin (1 microM for 15-120 min) produced a long lasting increase in spontaneous activity of ventral roots as well as blockade of C fibre conduction in dorsal roots. The dorsal root potential evoked following stimulation of adjacent dorsal roots at intensities insufficient for activation of C fibres was depressed by capsaicin. Dorsal root-evoked contralateral ventral root potentials were abolished by kynurenate (EC50 56 +/- 13 microM, N = 3) and depressed to 38.2 +/- 6.9% S.E.M. (N = 7) of pre-drug levels by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (20 microM) or to 51.8 +/- 9.0% (N = 7) by the substance P analogue spantide (33 microM). Spantide consistently antagonised substance P-induced, but not capsaicin-induced, depolarizations recorded in ventral roots (+-)-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (10-50 microM) depressed both substance P- and capsaicin-induced depolarizations. The depressant effect of spantide, unlike that of (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, was associated with a long lasting excitatory action. In the presence of tetrodotoxin (0.1 microM), spantide (33 microM) failed to antagonize substance P-induced depolarizations. It is suggested that long duration of the dorsal root-evoked contralateral ventral root potential is a consequence of the activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor operated ion channels by excitatory amino acid transmitters.
Intrathecal injection of mice with substance P or its C-terminal fragments evokes a well documented behavioral syndrome characterized by caudally-directed biting and scratching. We have previously shown that repeated injections of substance P result in naloxone-sensitive desensitization to this substance P-induced behavior, possibly through interactions of N-terminal fragments of substance P with mu opiate binding sites. The present investigation tests the hypothesis that substance P metabolites play a role in the development of desensitization to substance P by using the biting and scratching behavioral paradigm. While substance P-induced behaviors are produced by as little as 1 pmol of substance P, repeated injections of 7.5 pmol at 60-s intervals was found to be the minimum dose capable of causing desensitization. The C-terminal peptides, substance P3-11 and substance P5-11, elicited substance P-like behaviors, but repeated injection of these compounds did not result in desensitization to this behavior. In contrast to C-terminal fragments, intrathecal injection of N-terminal fragments, (substance P1-4, substance P1-7 and substance P1-9), did not elicit any overt substance P-like behaviors when administered alone, but when co-administered with substance P, decreased the magnitude of substance P-induced behaviors in a dose-related fashion. Various peptidase inhibitors significantly inhibited the catabolism of co-administered substance P. Co-administration of substance P with peptidase inhibitors enhanced and prolonged the substance P-induced behavioral episode, but also prevented the development of substance P-induced desensitization. Together these results support the hypothesis that the accumulation of endogenously generated N-terminal metabolites of substance P mediate desensitization to substance P-induced behaviors in the spinal cord. Substance P metabolism may therefore decrease ongoing substance P activity both by the hydrolysis of the C-terminal portion of substance P as well as by the production of N-terminal metabolites that are capable of inhibiting the effects of substance P.
The distribution and origin of nerves with calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P or neurokinin A immunoreactivity in the walls of the cerebral arteries were investigated in three microchiropteran species. The supply of nerves immunoreactive for substance P and neurokinin A to the bat cerebral arteries is confined mostly to the vertebral and basilar arteries. The density of innervation of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerves and that of nerves with substance P or neurokinin A immunoreactivity in the vertebrobasilar system differ among species: the Japanese large footed bat is innervated with nerves with calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P and neurokinin A immunoreactivity with about the same density, whereas in the greater horseshoe bat, there are many substance P-immunoreactive nerves with very weak or no calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity, and in the bent-winged bat, calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity is not found in all nerves with substance P immunoreactivity in the pial arteries of all parts of the brain. Nearly all cells immunoreactive for substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide or both in the trigeminal and cervical dorsal root ganglia were small. In the greater horseshoe bat and the bent-winged bat, there is a correlation between the level of expression of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the cervical dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia and the cerebral perivascular nerves supplying the vertebrobasilar system. The cerebrovascular innervation of nerves with substance P immunoreactivity in small bats is similar to that of cats and guinea-pigs in which the trigeminal ganglia have been destroyed. These observations, in addition to absence of nerve cells showing substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in the pial artery and in the nerve bundles accompanying the extracranial internal carotid and vertebral arteries, suggest that substance P-immunoreactive nerves with or without immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide in the vertebrobasilar system of small bats originate exclusively from the cervical dorsal root ganglia. The remaining fibres probably originate in the trigeminal ganglia.
The localization of dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neuronal perikarya sending axons to the median eminence was investigated in the cat by using two colour double-immunostaining techniques. Unconjugated cholera toxin and wheat germ agglutinin were used as retrograde tracers and injected respectively into the median eminence and the neuro-intermediate pituitary of the same animal. As controls, cholera toxin was also injected into the arcuate (infundibular) nucleus or third ventricle. The retrograde labelling of one of the tracers was combined with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry as a marker for dopaminergic neurons. The retrograde labelling studies of cholera toxin alone and the double-immunostaining of cholera toxin and wheat germ agglutinin on the same sections revealed that the cat median eminence receives major afferent projections originating in midline hypothalamic nuclear groups such as the anterior periventricular nucleus, the periventricular part of the paraventricular nucleus and the arcuate nucleus; minor afferent projections arise from the anterior hypothalamic area, the rostral part of the medial preoptic area around the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and to a lesser extent from the posterior hypothalamic region. We further determine that the rostral part of the parvocellular arcuate neurons constitutes the main source of dopaminergic afferents to the median eminence in the cat brain.
A monoclonal antibody against the rat liver L-tri-iodothyronine nuclear receptor and acetylcholinesterase cytochemistry were used for the localization of thyroid hormone nuclear receptors in acetylcholinesterase-positive cell nuclei in fetal rat cerebral hemisphere neuronal cultures. After 3 days in vitro, the ratio of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells that were immunoreactive for the thyroid hormone nuclear receptor to those not stained for this receptor (74-26%, respectively) remains unchanged despite an increase in the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells with time (from day 3 to day 21) in culture. Furthermore, the addition of 3 X 10(-8) L-tri-iodothyronine in culture did not modify this ratio or have an effect on the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells, but significantly increased the neurite density in those acetylcholinesterase-positive cells that were immunoreactive for the thyroid hormone receptor. Conversely, no difference in the neurite densities of those acetylcholinesterase-positive cells not stained for this receptor was observed when cultured in the presence or absence of thyroid hormone. In other experiments with the same fetal brain cultures, treatment of cultures for 8 days with L-tri-iodothyronine, beginning on culture day 20, demonstrated the presence of a critical period which occurs in vitro around day 20, since the stimulatory effect of L-tri-iodothyronine on immunoreactive acetylcholinesterase-positive cell neurite density is lost after 20 days in vitro. These results demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of L-tri-iodothyronine nuclear receptors in fetal rat acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons and the existence of a cellular heterogeneity in the distribution of the thyroid hormone receptor. The presence of these receptors in fetal brain acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons suggests that some effects of L-tri-iodothyronine on the maturation of a subpopulation of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons may result from a direct effect of this hormone through an interaction with its specific nuclear receptors.
We examined the distribution of acetylcholinesterase and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase enzyme activity in the human amygdala using histochemical techniques. Both methods revealed compartments of higher or lower enzyme activity, in cells or neuropil, which corresponded to the nuclear subdivisions of the amygdala as defined with classical Nissl and myelin methods. The boundaries between the histochemical compartments were usually so sharp that the identification of these nuclear subdivisions was enhanced. There was also variation of staining intensity within many of the nuclear subdivisions, such as the lateral and central nuclei, anterior amygdaloid area and the intercalated groups. This histochemical difference corresponded to more subtle differences in Nissl and myelin staining patterns, and suggests further structural subdivisions of potential functional significance. We present a revised scheme of anatomical parcellation of the human amygdala based upon serial analysis with all four techniques. Our expectation is that this will allow the delineation of a clearer homology between the cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of the human amygdala and those of experimental animals.
Although the existence of receptor transport has been clearly demonstrated in peripheral nerves, there is no clear cut evidence in the brain of such a process for neuropeptide receptors. Because of the localization of neurotensin receptors on dopaminergic terminals, the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway appears to be the system of choice for studying the axonal transport of neuropeptide receptors in the brain. When labelled neurotensin was injected into the rat striatum, a delayed accumulation of radioactivity in the ipsilateral substantia nigra was observed about 2 h after injection. An essential requirement to clearly observe this phenomenon was the pretreatment of animals with kelatorphan in order to prevent the labelled neurotensin degradation. The appearance of this labelling was prevented by injection of an excess of unlabelled neurotensin or of neurotensin 8-13, an active neurotensin fragment, but not by neurotensin 1-8, which had no affinity for neurotensin receptors. This process was saturable, microtubule-dependent and occurred only in mesostriatal and nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons as identified after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion and by autoradiography. These results demonstrate that neurotensin was retrogradely transported by a process involving neurotensin receptors. The retrograde transport of receptor-bound neuropeptide may represent an important dynamic process which conveys information molecules from the synapse towards the cell body.
The effects of treatment with reserpine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) a monoamine depleting agent, on neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity were studied immunohistochemically in neurons of two rat brain structures: locus coeruleus and caudate-putamen nucleus. It was found that reserpine after 24 h increased neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity level but no significant changes were observed 4 and 72 h or 5 days after the injection. The results indicate that despite the known co-existence of neuropeptide Y and noradrenaline in some neurons of the locus coeruleus no concomitant decrease in neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity level was found after reserpine when noradrenaline was depleted from nerve cell bodies and terminals. The increase in neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity observed 24 h after reserpine injection may suggest that the neuropeptide Y-containing neuronal systems of the locus coeruleus and caudate-putamen nucleus are controlled by monoaminergic afferents.
Fibers forming reciprocal connections between the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and primary visual cortex run in separate tracts in the white matter. The corticofugal fibers are organized into bundles which project through the coronal plane at an oblique angle. We have examined the organization of corticofugal fiber tracts within the white matter of the rat using cortical slices which encompassed the predicted trajectory of these fiber bundles. Field potentials were evoked in layer VI of visual cortex by focal stimulation of subcortical white matter using microbipolar electrodes. Two major responses were elicited: a short-latency and a longer-latency response. The short-latency response was elicited in the superficial strata of white matter with proximal stimulation sites and was obtained in deeper strata for more distant, lateral sites. The longer-latency response was associated with superficial strata in white matter at both proximal and distant stimulation sites. Based on the electrophysiological properties and the white matter location for eliciting these responses, it is likely that the short-latency response is due to antidromic activation of corticogeniculate fibers, whereas the longer-latency response probably arises from orthodromic activation of geniculocortical fibers. These findings provide an electrophysiological demonstration that cortical afferent and efferent pathways are segregated within the white matter and that they can be selectively activated by focal stimulation. The fact that the fiber bundle model successfully predicted the trajectory of corticofugal fibers provides additional support for this model of white matter organization. A double labeling technique which combined orthograde axonal transport and neuronal degeneration was used to examine the topographic arrangement of corticofugal fibers in the white matter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of specifically-labeled neurotensin binding sites was examined in relation to that of cholinergic neurons in the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis at both light and electron microscopic levels. Lightly prefixed forebrain slices were either labeled with [125I](Tyr3) neurotensin alone or processed for combined [125I]neurotensin radioautography and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. In light microscopic radioautographs from 1-microns-thick sections taken from the surface of single-labeled slices, silver grains were found to be preferentially localized over perikarya and proximal processes of nucleus basalis cells. The label was distributed both throughout the cytoplasm and along the plasma membrane of magnocellular neurons all of which were found to be cholinesterase-positive in a double-labeled material. Probability circle analysis of silver grain distribution in electron microscopic radioautographs confirmed that the major fraction (80-89%) of specifically-labeled binding sites associated with cholinesterase-reactive cell bodies and dendrites was intraneuronal. These intraneuronal sites were mainly dispersed throughout the cytoplasm and are thus likely to represent receptors undergoing synthesis, transport and/or recycling. A proportion of the specific label was also localized over the nucleus, suggesting that neurotensin could modulate the expression of acetylcholine-related enzymes in the nucleus basalis. The remainder of the grains (11-20%) were classified as shared, i.e. overlied the plasma membrane of acetylcholinesterase-positive neuronal perikarya and dendrites. Extrapolation from light microscopic data, combined with the observation that shared grains were detected at several contact points along the plasma membrane of cells which also exhibited exclusive grains, made it possible to ascribe these membrane-associated receptors to the cholinergic neurons themselves rather than to abutting cellular profiles. Comparison of grain distribution with the frequency of occurrence of elements directly abutting the plasma membrane of neurotensin-labeled/cholinesterase-positive perikarya indicated that labeled cell surface receptors were more or less evenly distributed along the membrane as opposed to being concentrated opposite abutting axon terminals endowed or not with a visible junctional specialization. The low incidence of labeled binding sites found in close association with abutting axons makes it unlikely that only this sub-population of sites corresponds to functional receptors. On the contrary, the dispersion of labeled receptors seen here along the plasma membrane of cholinergic neurons suggests that neurotensin acts primarily in a paracrine mode to influence the magnocellular cholinergic system in the nucleus basalis.
To investigate the role of cyclic adenosine-3'5'-monophosphate on the inhibitory actions of opioids in guinea-pig ileum, we made intracellular recordings from the two electrophysiologically defined classes of neurons (S and AH) in the myenteric plexus. The selective opioid mu agonist (D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol)-enkephalin caused a membrane hyperpolarization in 34 out of 67 S neurons but did not affect the membrane potential of AH neurons. The mean amplitude (+/- S.E.M.) of the hyperpolarization was 8.2 +/- 0.8 mV. Forskolin, which activates adenylate cyclase and increases intracellular cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate levels, caused a membrane depolarization in AH neurons (9.4 +/- 1.9 mV) but did not alter the resting membrane potential of S neurons. Similarly, neither the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, isobutylmethylxanthine, nor the membrane permeable analogue of cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine-3'-5'-monophosphate, altered the resting membrane properties of S neurons. Furthermore, none of these agents affected significantly the amplitude of the hyperpolarization of S neurons by (D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol)-enkephalin. The experiments indicate that changes in intracellular cyclic adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate are not important in the processes that link occupation of mu receptors to the opening of potassium channels on myenteric neurons.
Responses to [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin, a selective agonist for mu-receptors, were recorded intracellularly from 26 neurons in slices of guinea-pig hypothalamus. Of eight cells tested in the supraoptic nucleus, all of which had electrical properties characteristic of magnocellular neuroendocrine cells, four were sensitive to the agonist applied in the perfusion bath or with microdrops. The main effect was a decrease or suppression of spontaneous firing. In the paraventricular nucleus, seven of 18 cells tested also had electrophysiological characteristics similar to magnocellular neurons: two of them were sensitive to the mu-agonist and the effect was similar to that observed in the supraoptic nucleus. The remaining paraventricular neurons displayed low-threshold Ca2+ spikes, and thus had electrophysiological characteristics different from putative magnocellular neurons. Ten of 11 cells with low-threshold Ca2+ spikes were hyperpolarized by more than 10 mV by the mu-agonist, and showed a 33 +/- 1.9% (S.E.M.) decrease in input resistance. In both types of cells, when synaptic transmission was blocked with tetrodotoxin, the mu-agonist could still induce a hyperpolarization, suggesting that the effect was in part direct. Hyperpolarization was also obtained when the Cl- reversal potential was shifted to more positive values by using KCl electrodes, thus excluding a Cl- conductance mechanism. These results provide evidence that opioid peptides can directly inhibit hypothalamic neurons, that the mechanism is an increase in K+ conductance, and that two types of hypothalamic neurons appear to have different sensitivities to a mu-agonist.
Several lines of evidence indicate that L-glutamate may be a neurotransmitter of fine myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferent fibres in the spinal cord. The aim of the present study was to determine if L-glutamate was enriched in the terminals of these fibres. We performed the post-embedding immunogold technique on sections taken from the superficial regions of the lumbar cord in two cats. An antiserum, raised against protein-conjugated L-glutamate, was employed. Several tests on tissue and on a model system indicated that the antiserum recognized a glutaraldehyde-fixed L-glutamate-like substance. Terminals of fine afferent fibres were identified in the substantia gelatinosa as central boutons of synaptic glomeruli. Central boutons were examined through serial sections following immunogold reactions and were found to be heavily labelled with gold particles in consecutive sections. Quantitative analysis indicated that central boutons were more than two and a half times as densely labelled with gold particles than the tissue average. It was concluded that this represents a genuine enrichment of L-glutamate in these structures. Comparisons were made between L-glutamate-immunoreactive properties of central terminals and immunoreactivity for GABA, aspartate and glutamine. Statistical analysis revealed that central boutons in sections incubated in GABA antiserum and glutamine antiserum were associated with significantly lower densities of gold particle labelling than the average for the same tissue. Particle densities of central boutons in sections incubated in aspartate antiserum were not significantly different from average tissue densities. It was concluded that central boutons were not enriched with these three amino acids. Central boutons of synaptic glomeruli were classified into three groups on morphological criteria: (1) dense sinusoidal boutons; (2) large dense-core vesicle-containing boutons; and (3) regular synaptic vesicle-containing boutons. Quantitative analysis revealed that all of these groups were enriched in glutamate immunoreactivity, however, there were differences between the groups; large dense-core vesicle-containing boutons were associated with significantly lower densities of particles than regular synaptic vesicle-containing and dense sinusoidal terminals. The evidence indicates that central boutons, which most probably originate from fine myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferent fibres, are enriched with L-glutamate which may serve as a neurotransmitter in such fibres.
A combination of intracerebral grafting and intraventricular infusion of nerve growth factor was used to attempt to reconstruct the cholinergic component of the septohippocampal pathway following fimbria-fornix lesions in the rat. Four groups were tested: lesion only, lesion plus fetal hippocampal graft, lesion plus nerve growth factor, and lesion plus graft plus nerve growth factor. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, acetylcholinesterase fiber staining and behavior-dependent theta activity on electroencephalogram were used to assess the extent of pathway reconstruction. Nerve growth factor was infused for the first two weeks following the fimbria-fornix lesion, while electrophysiological measurements and histological analysis were conducted six to eight months later. The lesion plus graft plus nerve growth factor infusion group had long-term savings of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cells as compared to the lesion only or lesion plus graft groups. In addition the lesion plus graft plus nerve growth factor infusion group had more extensive reinnervation of the hippocampus compared to all other groups. Behavioral-dependent theta activity on electroencephalogram was observed in some animals of both lesion plus graft and lesion plus graft plus nerve growth factor infusion groups, but not in other groups; however, unlike intact animals, the restored theta could be blocked completely by scopalamine. These results demonstrate that a combination of short-term intraventricular nerve growth factor infusion and fetal hippocampal grafts enhances reconstruction of the damaged septohippocampal circuit.
Immunocytochemical double and triple staining techniques were employed on whole mounts of the submucosal plexus from normal Wistar and non-diabetic BB rat jejunum and ileum, to determine the patterns of co-localization of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, peptide histidine-isoleucine-, somatostatin-, neuropeptide Y-, calcitonin gene-related peptide-, substance P-, and galanin-immunoreactive nerves. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was found in 38% of submucosal plexus neurons, within the same neuronal elements as vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity (39% of submucosal plexus neurons) and peptide histidine-isoleucine immunoreactivity. A small population (1% of submucosal plexus neurons) containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and peptide histide isoleucine-like immunoreactivity without NPY-like immunoreactivity was also observed. A significant population of fibers containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin immunoreactivity were observed in the mucosa and submucosa, although no cell bodies were detected which contained both neuropeptides. Galanin-like immunoreactivity was seen in a small (2% of submucosal plexus neurons) population, not co-localized with any of the other neuropeptides examined. All somatostatin-immunoreactive neuronal elements (18% of submucosal plexus neurons) contained calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity, just over half of which also contained substance P immunoreactivity. An additional 25% of submucosal plexus neurons contained calcitonin gene-related peptide- without somatostatin-like immunoreactivity and 28% of submucosal plexus neurons contained substance P without somatostatin-like immunoreactivity. Some degree of co-localization was seen between calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like immunoreactivity, however, this could not be directly quantified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypothalamic magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei contain several peptides and non-peptide putative neurotransmitters co-existing with vasopressin and oxytocin. However, the functional role of these substances is still unknown. In the present paper the temporal course of changes in the expression of vasopressin, oxytocin, galanin, cholecystokinin, dynorphin and tyrosine hydroxylase in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons of rats subjected to hypophysectomy was examined. Following different survival times the animals were processed either for immunohistochemistry with antibodies against the above mentioned peptides or for in situ hybridization with synthetic oligonucleotide probes complementary to the mRNAs encoding for the peptides. The results obtained showed a marked rise in vasopressin mRNA levels at two days followed by a decrease up to 36 days of survival. Oxytocin mRNA responded to the lesion with a transient decrease, with its lowest values between five and seven days. This was followed by a recovery which almost reached normal values at 36 days of survival. The results also showed a marked, transient activation of the synthetic pathway for galanin and cholecystokinin. The numbers of cells expressing these peptides were maximal between five and seven days, and the respective mRNA levels were significantly increased at these survival times. This was followed by a decrease in the amount of galanin- and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity as well as in the levels of their respective mRNAs. Dynorphin-like immunoreactivity showed a course similar to that of galanin and cholecystokinin in operated animals. However, the amounts of dynorphin mRNA were significantly increased at two days, but were followed by a reduction at five days and remained low throughout the different survival times tested. The experiments performed with the tyrosine hydroxylase antibodies and probe showed undetectable levels of the enzyme and its mRNA in normal and hypophysectomized animals. These results demonstrate that, in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons, expression of several peptides occur in differential ways after hypophysectomy. The possibility is discussed that these changes represent part of the mechanisms underlying the process of degeneration and regeneration known to occur in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons after hypophysectomy.
We use the method of retrograde transport of colloidal gold with silver intensification to map locations of brainstem neurons projecting to various nuclei of the medial and lateral thalamus (Menetrey, Histochemistry 83, 391-395, 1985; Seeley and Field, Brain Res. 449, 177-191, 1988). In rats injections of less than 1.0 microliters of a gold-wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase complex were restricted to the centrum medianum, centralis lateralis, medialis dorsalis, zona incerta, ventrobasal thalamic complex, or medial or lateral hypothalamus. Injections in the centralis lateralis, with some involvement of centrum medianum and medial medialis dorsalis, labeled numerous neurons throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the midbrain periaqueductal gray, and adjacent reticular formation, dorsal raphe nucleus and substantia nigra. These labeled neurons were distributed bilaterally, but with a preponderance ipsilaterally. Numerous neurons in the deep layers of the ipsilateral superior colliculus and in the anterior pretectal nucleus were also labeled. Many neurons in the pontomedullary raphe nuclei (including nucleus raphe magnus), locus coeruleus and dorsolateral parabrachial nuclei, and in the pontomedullary reticular formation, were labeled bilaterally. Fewer were seen bilaterally in the lateral reticular nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract, with relatively few in the dorsal aspect of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. Injections restricted largely to the centrum medianum labeled fewer cells in the brainstem, but with similar distributions. An injection restricted to the centralis lateralis also resulted in a similar distribution of labeled neurons in midbrain and nucleus raphe magnus but did not label neurons at more caudal medullary levels. An injection restricted to zona incerta labeled numerous neurons in a distribution similar to that following medial thalamic injections, except that many more were observed in the contralateral sensory trigeminal nucleus and in the dorsal column nuclei. Injections of the ventrobasal thalamic nucleus labeled many neurons in the trigeminal and dorsal column nuclei, but many fewer neurons in the midbrain, periaqueductal gray and reticular formation compared with medial thalamic injections. Labeled neurons were also seen in the superior and inferior colliculi, due presumably to involvement by the injection of the lateral posterior and magnocellular medial geniculate nuclei, respectively. Injections in the lateral hypothalamus labeled numerous neurons in a distribution similar to that seen following medial thalamic injections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Dysfunction of subcortical serotoninergic neurons has been implicated in some behaviour disturbances. The serotoninergic neurons in the dorsal and median raphe project widely in the brain. They innervate the olfactory bulbs and can be targets for exogenous agents attacking the olfactory epithelium and bulbs. We report here an injury to the serotoninergic neurons after intranasal infection in 12-day-old rats with a temperature-sensitive mutant of vesicular stomatitis virus. The brain infection was focal and transient. Viral antigens could no longer be detected 13-15 days after infection. In spite of this the animals, as adults, had a severe serotonin depletion in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and showed abnormal locomotor and explorative behaviour as well as learning deficits. The neocortex was histologically intact and parameters related to other neurotransmitters such as dopamine, noradrenaline, GABA and acetylcholine showed no marked changes. A relatively selective damage to serotoninergic nuclei as a result of virus neuroinvasion through a natural portal of entry, may constitute a new pathogenetic mechanism for cortical dysfunction and behavioural deficits.
The retinal topography of the neonatal transient projection to the inferior colliculus was investigated in pigmented rats by injecting the retrograde fluorescent tracer Fast Blue into the colliculi. The results show that the projection arises from a small population of ganglion cells scattered across the entire contralateral retina, and that the transient projection is therefore not merely an overshoot of axons from the peripheral nasal retina whose appropriate target is the caudal pole of the superior colliculus.
A transient aberrant projection from the retina to the contralateral inferior colliculus was demonstrated in pigmented rats in both whole-brains and sections following intra-ocular injection of horseradish peroxidase. The projection was prominent on the day of birth but reached its maximum density and extent after injection on day 1, when it covered at least a third of the inferior colliculus. It was absent or nearly absent by day 5. Its consistency, size, orderliness and systematic retraction suggest that it is not merely a developmental accident.
The relationship between 5-hydroxytryptamine release, metabolism and unit activity has been investigated in the anaesthetized rat. 5-Hydroxytryptamine release and metabolism were monitored in vivo by the measurement of extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the frontal cortex using in vivo voltammetry combined with nafion-coated and uncoated electrically pretreated carbon fibre electrodes. The monoamine oxidase inhibitor pargyline (100 mg/kg) increased extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine and decreased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. The 5-hydroxytryptamine releaser fenfluramine (10 mg/kg i.p.) acutely increased extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine while having no effect on 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and the effect on extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine was markedly reduced in rats pretreated (four weeks) with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. 8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propyl-amino) tetralin (10 micrograms/kg i.v.), an agonist at the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A somatodendritic autoreceptor, inhibited 5-hydroxytryptamine neuronal firing in the dorsal raphe nucleus and decreased extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine during the period when firing was inhibited but did not alter extracellular 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. In contrast 5-methoxy-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridin-4-yl) (RU 24969), which is an agonist at the terminal autoreceptor in the rat, had no effect on 5-hydroxytryptamine neuronal firing but decreased 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. The results support the view that extracellular 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid is not a good index of 5-hydroxytryptamine release and that under specific circumstances 5-hydroxytryptamine neuronal firing, release and metabolism are independent of one another.
Tail pinch was administered through a paper clip attached to the rat's tail. The ex vivo changes in the metabolite/transmitter ratio were used as a measure of changes in the turnover of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine. After a 2-min tail pinch dopamine turnover was increased in the striatum but not in the frontal cortex, hypothalamus or olfactory tubercle; 5-hydroxytryptamine turnover was increased in frontal cortex and hippocampus and was unchanged in striatum, hypothalamus and olfactory tubercle. Microdialysis was used to monitor the changes in extracellular neurotransmitter and metabolite concentrations during and after tail pinch. A 5-min tail pinch caused a rapid rise of both dopamine in the striatum and 5-hydroxytryptamine in the hippocampus. There was a smaller increase in the 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and only a non-significant increase in the dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid.
The present study was conducted to determine if substance P-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and/or serotonin-immunoreactivities coexist in ventral medullary neurons that project to the intermediolateral cell column in the rat. Neurons that projected to the intermediolateral cell column were identified by the presence of retrogradely transported rhodamine bead-labeled microspheres in the cell body after an injection of the microspheres into the intermediolateral cell column of the third thoracic spinal cord segment. Co-existence was determined by using a combination of dual color immunohistochemistry and serial 4-microns sections that were immunostained with different antibodies. Antibodies to substance P, serotonin, and pre-pro-thyrotropin releasing hormone160-169 were used to identify substance P, serotonin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, respectively. Neurons that contained substance P-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and/or serotonin-immunoreactivities and that projected to the intermediolateral cell column were present in the nucleus raphe magnus, the nucleus raphe pallidus, the nucleus reticularis magnocellularis pars alpha, the paragigantocellular reticular nucleus and the parapyramidal region. Neurons that projected to the intermediolateral cell column, in each of these regions, were found to contain each of the following combinations of immunoreactive neurochemicals: substance P and thyrotropin-releasing hormone: substance P and serotonin; thyrotropin-releasing hormone and serotonin; or substance P, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and serotonin. In addition, most of the regions also contained neurons that appeared to contain only one of the neurochemicals and that also projected to the intermediolateral cell column. The greatest number of neurons that projected to the intermediolateral cell column and that also contained two or more co-existing neurochemicals was present in the midline regions. This study demonstrates the presence of neurons in the ventral medulla that project to the intermediolateral cell column and contain three co-existing neurochemicals. This study also demonstrates the use of a new method for the localization of three neurochemicals in single projection-specific neurons.
The mesodiencephalic and cerebellar afferents in the rostral medial accessory and principal olive of the cat and rat were studied following anterograde transport of tritiated leucine combined with anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin coupled horseradish peroxidase in the same animals. In all studied areas at least one-third of the labelled glomeruli appeared to contain both mesodiencephalic and cerebellar terminals. In many of these cases it was found that the terminals from both afferent systems contacted the same dendritic spines. Therefore, these olivary spines may be, as will be discussed, well suited for being involved in a timing process.
Light and electron microscopic immunocytochemical methods were used to study the distribution and the morphology of substance P-positive fibers and axon terminals in the dorsal column nuclei of rats and cats, and to determine whether they are part of an ascending input to these nuclei. In rats, substance P-positive fibers and axon terminals are present throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the dorsal column nuclei. In cats, immunostained fibers and terminals are mostly confined to the ventral region of the caudal and middle portions of these nuclei but they are more homogeneously distributed at rostral levels. In both species, substance P-positive neurons are not present in the same nuclear complex. At the electron microscope level, substance P-positive terminals are small- to medium-sized and dome-shaped; they form asymmetric contacts on dendrites and contain many round, agranular vesicles and sparse dense core vesicles. In double-labeling experiments, visualization of substance P-immunoreactivity in the dorsal root ganglia and dorsal horn of the spinal cord was combined with the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase or of colloidal gold-labeled wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to enzymatically inactive horseradish peroxidase. These experiments show that substance P-positive axon terminals may originate from both small dorsal root ganglion neurons and from spinodorsal column nuclei neurons in lamina IV. Although quantitative evaluation of the contribution of these two pathways to the substance P innervation of the dorsal column nuclei has not been performed and other sources cannot be discarded on the basis of the present evidence, it is proposed that non-primary afferents to the dorsal column nuclei account for most of the substance P-positive fibers and terminals in the dorsal column nuclei. The experiments support previous findings suggesting that nociceptive input may access the dorsal column nuclei and that this may be mediated, though to a very limited extent, directly by way of small dorsal root ganglion neurons.
The morphological features of lamina I neurons labelled from the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus with free or wheat germ agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase and cholera toxin subunit B, were studied in the three standard anatomical planes in the rat. Orientation and way of branching of the dendritic arbors were further analysed by the method of Sholl in cells labelled with cholera toxin subunit B. Most marginal cells belong to the multipolar type (70%) of our Golgi-based classification, and a minority to the pyramidal (15%) and flattened (15%) types. Following unilateral lesions severing the greatest part of the cuneate fasciculus, a considerable decrease of the numbers of labeled cells of the three types was observed caudal and ipsilaterally to the lesion. Contralateral labelling of multipolar and pyramidal cells was less decreased, and that of flattened cells was apparently unchanged. While multipolar cells, which make up the bulk of marginal spinobulbar neurons, appear to have no other supraspinal target, pyramidal and flattened cells have been labelled from the mesencephalon and the thalamus, respectively. It is suggested that the three structural cell types subserve different aspects of the spinofugal nociceptive output.
Spinal afferents to the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus were studied using the following retrograde tracers: horseradish peroxidase (diluted in dimethylsulfoxide), wheat germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase, and cholera toxin subunit B. Spinal cord cells projecting to that medullary region were located predominantly in medial lamina I and lamina X. Cell labelling was moderate in the medial part of laminae II-IV and sparse throughout laminae V-VII. Labelling was predominantly ipsilateral in the dorsal horn and bilateral in laminae VII and X. After mechanical lesions of the dorsal white matter which severed most of the ipsilateral cuneate fasciculus, the numbers of superficial dorsal horn cells that were labelled from the dorsal reticular nucleus were considerably decreased caudal to the lesion, which suggests that their axons utilize mostly the cuneate fasciculus. Since the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus of the rat has a predominant population of nociceptive specific neurons, it is suggested that this spino-dorsomedullary reticular pathway is involved in pain processing.
The distribution of acetylcholinesterase and of two neuropeptide (substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide) immunoreactivities has been investigated in sensory neurons of lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia during chick embryo development, combining immunolocalization of neuropeptides with simultaneous histochemical detection of acetylcholinesterase, in order to study co-localization of the two peptides and their relations with acetylcholinesterase. Acetylcholinesterase at E7 of development appears in only a few neurons, usually the larger ones located in the lateroventral region of the ganglia. As development proceeds the number of neurons and intensity of staining increase. Until E12-13 acetylcholinesterase positivity is limited to the region of the ganglion containing larger neurons. At later stages (E20) it spreads progressively, leading to staining of cells over the whole ganglion. Substance P-like immunoreactivity appears at E6 and for calcitonin gene-related peptide at E7. These immunoreactivities progressively increase with development, remaining limited to the small neuron compartment of the dorsomedial region of the ganglion. Immunoreactivity for both neuropeptides reaches a maximum around E10-13 and then declines. Using simultaneous double immunostaining, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P-like immunoreactivities are largely co-localized, although their distribution is not completely coincident. Neuropeptide-positive cells are usually devoid of any acetylcholinesterase activity until E15. They become positive for the enzyme at later stages. The significance of acetylcholinesterase expression in sensory neurons and the possible relation of its appearance and neuron size is discussed.
The presence of enkephalin and substance P-positive neurons and fibers were studied by immunohistochemistry (peroxidase-antiperoxidase or avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex methods) in 26 human fetuses ranging from 11 weeks of gestation to 40 weeks of gestation. Enkephalin-positive neurons were localized in the commissural, medial and intermediate subnuclei as early as 11-12 weeks' gestation. Positive enkephalin fibers were localized around 12 weeks' gestation and in many subnuclei, notably the medial, commissural, intermediate, ventrolateral, ventral and dorsolateral subnuclei. Substance P-positive neurons were localized in the commissural and medial subnuclei around gestation age 13 weeks. Positive substance P fibers appeared even earlier, around 11 weeks of gestation in many subnuclei, notably the medial, intermediate, ventral, ventrolateral and dorsolateral subnuclei. Increase in both enkephalin- and substance P-positive fibers was evident in the later stages of development (e.g. around 26 weeks of gestation). The importance of the early appearance of enkephalin and substance P neurons and fibers of the pain pathways in the major subnuclei connecting with the cardiovascular, gastrointestinal and respiratory functions in the human has to be stressed.
H(+)-selective microelectrodes and a two- or three-microelectrode voltage clamp were used to examine the influence of weak-acid, carboxylate anions on the actions of GABA on postsynaptic intracellular pH, surface pH and on membrane potential in fibres of the crayfish leg opener muscle. Substitution of 30 mM Cl- by formate or acetate promoted a GABA-induced decrease in intracellular pH, which was coupled to an increase in surface pH and to a depolarization. Such effects were not seen in the presence of an equivalent amount of lactate, methanesulphonate or glucuronate. Both the GABA-induced depolarization and the fall in internal pH promoted by formate and acetate were blocked by picrotoxin, and the fall in pH was reversibly inhibited by a K(+)-induced depolarization. The rate of the fall in intracellular pH produced by GABA (0.2 mM) was about 0.02 pH units/min in the presence of formate and 0.03 pH units/min in the presence of acetate. Under steady-state conditions, both 30 mM formate and acetate (but not lactate) induced a positive shift in the reversal potential of GABA-activated current, which was accounted for by a relative permeability vs Cl- of formate and acetate of 0.5 and 0.15, respectively. The conductance sequence of the anions was identical to the permeability sequence, i.e. Cl- greater than formate greater than acetate greater than lactate approximately equal to 0. This sequence is strictly correlated to the Stokes diameter of the anions. The relative permeabilities of the anions indicate that the effective diameter of the GABA-gated channel is about 0.5 nm. The fact that the GABA-induced acidosis was slower in the presence of formate than in the presence of acetate suggests that, in the former case, the rate-limiting step in the fall in internal pH is the entry of non-dissociated formic acid. All the above results are consistent with a scheme where GABA induces a channel-mediated efflux of permeant weak-acid anions, which gives rise to an inward (depolarizing) current and to an intracellular acidosis. A comparison of the permeability properties of crayfish and vertebrate GABA-gated channels suggests that effects similar to those seen in this work are likely to occur in mammalian and other vertebrate neurons in the presence of permeant weak-acid anions.
The atoxic fragment C of tetanus toxin reliably undergoes retrograde direct and transneuronal transport, but the full extent of its transport capabilities has not been examined. The primary visual pathways provide an excellent system for investigating, for the first time, the possibility of anterograde direct and transneuronal transport of fragment C. Following injection into the eye of the rat and rabbit, fragment C, localized with a monoclonal antibody, underwent anterograde direct transport to all retinorecipient areas. From these areas, fragment C exhibited retrograde transneuronal transport, strongly and reliably labeling regions that project to retinorecipient areas, including layers V and VI of visual cortex, the parabigeminal nucleus, the suprageniculate nucleus, and the reticular thalamus. In contrast, the absence of fragment C in regions receiving only input from, but not projecting to, retinorecipient areas, most notably layer IV of visual cortex, provides strong evidence for the lack of anterograde transneuronal transport. Thus, while fragment C can be induced to undergo anterograde direct transport by injection into the eye, it exhibits only retrograde transneuronal transport. These characteristics suggest that fragment C of tetanus toxin is a consistent and reliable retrograde transneuronal marker for the elucidation of central nervous pathways.
Changes in concentrations of the tachykinins substance P, neurokinin A and neurokinin B were investigated in rat brains after kainic acid-induced seizures. Two different antisera, one detecting substance P specifically and one recognizing neurokinins A and B but not substance P, were used. Subsequently to the acute seizures (3 h after kainic acid) significant decreases (by 25-40%) in total neurokinin (A + B) and substance P immunoreactivities were observed in the frontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus and striatum. Depending on the brain area neurokinin immunoreactivity recovered 1-3 days after injection of the toxin and was significantly increased in the frontal cortex (by 40-60%) and the hippocampus (by 100-300%) after 10-60 days. Further analysis by high pressure liquid chromatography revealed that increases in both neurokinin A and neurokinin B concentrations contributed to the increases in total neurokinin immunoreactivity 30 days after kainic acid. At the same time significantly increased levels were also observed for substance P in the frontal cortex (by 30%). Furthermore, increases were also observed in the concentrations of neuropeptide K and gamma-preprotachykinin-A(72-92) in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus 30 days after the kainic acid treatment.
Using the retrograde tracers horseradish peroxidase-wheatgerm agglutinin and gold particles conjugated to wheatgerm agglutinin apo-horseradish peroxidase in combination with an antiserum against glutaraldehyde-fixed GABA, it was examined whether the pontine nuclei of the cat receive projections from GABA-like immunoreactive neurons in the brainstem, diencephalon, or deep cerebellar nuclei, contributing to the GABA-like immunoreactive fibre plexus previously demonstrated in the pontine nuclei [Brodal et al. (1988) Neuroscience 25, 27-45]. Following tracer injections that covered both the pontine nuclei and the reticular tegmental nucleus in two cats, it was found that 125 out of 1166 (10.7%) and 29 out of 294 (9.9%) retrogradely labelled neurons in the cerebellar nuclei were GABA-like immunoreactive. In the same two experiments only six out of 2029 (0.3%) and 10 out of 1398 (0.7%) retrogradely labelled neurons in the brainstem and diencephalon were GABA-like immunoreactive. Among the regions in the brainstem and diencephalon known to project to the pontine nuclei, double-labelled cells were seen in the reticular formation, the periaqueductal gray, and the nucleus praepositus hypoglossi, but not in the zona incerta or the anterior pretectal nucleus, regions that have been shown to contain glutamate decarboxylase-like immunoreactive neurons projecting to the pontine nuclei in the rat [Border et al. (1986) Brain Res. Bull. 17, 169-179]. In order to test whether this is due to species differences, the same experimental approach was used in the rat, and it was found that 54 out of 3249 (1.7%) retrogradely labelled neurons in the brainstem and diencephalon were double-labelled. Notably, in the zona incerta 2% of the retrogradely labelled cells were also GABA-like immunoreactive, and in the reticular formation there was a higher proportion of double-labelled cells than was found in the cat. Additional sources were identified, that may contribute to the GABA-like immunoreactive fibre plexus in the pontine nuclei of the rat. This, in conjunction with the previous finding that the pontine nuclei of the rat contain only very few putative GABAergic neurons [Border and Mihailoff (1985) Expl Brain Res. 59, 600-614; Brodal et al. (1988) Neuroscience 25, 27-45], lead to the suggestion that the GABA-like immunoreactive fibre plexus in the pontine nuclei of the rat is predominantly of extrinsic origin, possibly representing a mosaic of the terminal fields of several subcorticopontine projections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study provides a detailed report of the distribution and density of substance P-like immunoreactive fibres and terminals within the human infant medulla. Seven brains with no signs of macroscopic alteration fixed usually within 24-48 h after death were used. Free floating transverse sections (50-60 microns) were then immunostained with a monoclonal antibody against substance P using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. Morphologically three types of substance P-like immunoreactive fibres were observed: those with small varicosities of less than 1 micron, those with medium varicosities of 1-2 microns and those with large varicosities of 2-4 microns. Very dense substance P-like immunoreactivity was present within the spinal trigeminal nucleus, parts of the gracile and cuneate fasciculi and the paracommissural subnucleus of the solitary nucleus; dense substance P-like immunoreactivity was present within the dorsal nucleus of the vagus nerve, commissural, medial, dorsal, dorsolateral ventral and ventrolateral subnuclei of the solitary nuclear complex, parasolitary nucleus, raphe obscurus, inferior olivary complex (medial, dorsal, dorsomedial nuclei) and ventrolateral part of the dorsal reticular nucleus; moderate substance P-like immunoreactivity was present within the gelatinosus nucleus of the solitary tract, lateral reticular nucleus proper, intermediate reticular zone and parvocellular reticular nucleus; sparse substance P-like immunoreactivity was present within the hypoglossal nucleus, retroambigual nucleus and much of the reticular formation (dorsal, parvocellular, ventral gigantocellular, dorsal paragigantocellular nuclei): and very sparse substance P-like immunoreactivity was present within the nucleus ambiguus, medial vestibular nucleus and parts of the reticular formation (ventral, medial, gigantocellular, ventral gigantocellular, dorsal paragigantocellular nuclei). Substance P-like immunoreactivity was absent in the area postrema, intercalated nucleus, gracile and cuneate nuclei, in the epiolivary, subtrigeminal and parvocellular divisions of the lateral reticular nucleus, spinal vestibular nucleus, and in the solitary and pyramidal tracts. In several regions the substance P-like immunoreactive fibres formed distinct pericellular arrays around the somata and dendrites of neurons (hypoglossal nucleus, dorsal nucleus of the vagus nerve, retroambigual nucleus, intermediate reticular zone). The results indicate the high specificity of the localization of substance P in various structures of the brainstem and underline the presumed significance of this peptide in autonomic and sensorimotor functions of the brain.
The organization of striatopallidal projection neurons in the primate was studied by injecting horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin and fluorescent markers (latex microspheres, Fluorogold, Diamidino Yellow or Nuclear Yellow) into the globus pallidus of 20 adult squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus). Single injections of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin were placed so as to involve predominantly either one or both pallidal segments. In the double-tracer experiments, fluorescent tracer injections were centered in the external pallidum and deposits of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin were made in the internal pallidum. In control cases, injections were made in nearby parts of the internal capsule or striatum. Distributions of retrogradely labeled neurons in the striatum were analysed in relation to its striosomal architecture as demonstrated by histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. Three principal findings emerged. (1) Both the external and the internal segments of the primate pallidum receive input from both the caudate nucleus and the putamen, but different sets of striatal cells within these nuclei project to the two segments. (2) The striatopallidal projection in the primate originates mainly in the extrastriosomal matrix, although striosomes in the fields of labeling almost always contain some labeled neurons. (3) Heterogeneous groupings of striatopallidal projection neurons exist in the matrix and appear to be parts of three-dimensional projection-neuron arrays. We conclude that in the primate, separate lines of conduction lead from the striatum to the external and the internal pallidal segments, and raise the possibility that the cells of origin of these pathways form a mosaic in the extrastriosomal matrix.
Monosodium-L-glutamate (MSG)-induced behavioural deficits were examined under two housing conditions. Male Wistar rat pups were cross-fostered at birth and injected with MSG on days 2 to 11 postpartum. Control pups were injected with saline (Sal) of equivalent volume. Following weaning at day 25 the rats were allocated to either &quot;enriched&quot; (EC) or &quot;impoverished&quot; (IC) housing, thus forming four treatment groups: MSG-EC, MSG-IC, Sal-EC, and Sal-IC. Thirty-five days later all rats were tested in the open field and in the place navigation task. Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) revealed a significant two-way interaction of the housing x drug variables. While the MSG-IC rats were deficient in the water maze, the performance of the MSG-EC approached that of saline-injected controls. Although the Sal-IC rats developed higher body weights than the Sal-EC rats the MSG-EC and MSG-IC rats did not differ in body weight. The housing by drug treatment interaction was not apparent in the open field.
The ventral hippocampi of male, Fischer-344 rats were implanted with microdialysis probes and the effects of systemically administered kainic acid (KA) (8 mg/kg, s.c.) on the in vivo release of amino acids were measured for four hours after administration. In order to measure GABA release in vivo, gamma-vinyl-GABA (GVG), an irreversible inhibitor of GABA transaminase, was injected intrahippocampally prior to perfusion. GVG pretreatment resulted in measurable levels of GABA in the perfusate without significant effects on the release of aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine or taurine. Following GVG pretreatment systemic administration of KA produced a time-dependent increase in GABA, as well as all other amino acids except glutamine, which was initially decreased. These results show for the first time that systemically administered KA increases extracellular GABA levels, an effect previously reported only in vitro. These data suggest that prior to destruction of GABA-containing interneurons in the hippocampus, there is an increased activity of those GABA interneurons reflected as an increase in extracellular GABA levels.

Administration of morphine as a subcutaneous implant inhibits the initial influx of calcium (Ca2+) induced by mitogens in mouse splenocytes. This effect was not reproduced by incubation of splenocytes with morphine (10(-8)-10(-4)M). Within T cell subpopulations, CD4+, but not CD8+ cells were affected. Adrenalectomy abolished this effect of morphine in CD4+ but not B cells. Moreover, simultaneous administration of the opiate antagonist naltrexone blocked the effect of morphine in B cells, but not in CD4+ cells. These data indicate that inhibition of Ca2+ influx by morphine may be mediated through distinct glucocorticoid-dependent and independent mechanisms. The morphine-induced inhibition of Ca2+ influx in immune cells reported here may be an early event mediating opiate-induced immunosuppression.






Many authors described the clinical importance of asymmetry of the laryngeal framework. However, its pathogenesis is generally unknown. In this study, CT images of 315 Japanese subjects were investigated to define the laryngeal position relative to the midline of the cervical vertebra. The CT slice of each subject within 5 mm cephalad of the cricoarytenoid joint was traced. Then, the deviation and rotation angles were measured using our method. Seventy one percent of the subjects' larynges deviated and/or rotated to the right side, while 17% to the left side. Six percent showed neither deviation nor rotation. As to the rest of 6%, deviation and rotation were in opposite directions. Besides, the length of the thyroid alae were measured in 282 subjects. Left ala was longer in 55%, and right was in 23%, and almost equal in 22%. The conclusions are as follows, 1. The majority of the subjects' CT images showed deviation and/or rotation of the laryngeal framework to the right side. 2. So called idiopathic laryngeal deviation is a case which observed in those cases with remarkable deviation and/or rotation of the laryngeal framework. 3. Aging seemed to be an important factor in acceleration of the laryngeal deviation and rotation. 4. The type of diseases and the side of mass lesions had no statistical significance in deviation and rotation of the larynx.
The nuclear proto-oncogene, c-fos, has been implicated in the coordinated regulation of gene expression during cell proliferation and differentiation. In this study, we have demonstrated the induction of the c-fos gene products in differentiated cells of the adrenal medulla by non-mitogenic signals. Activation of adrenal medullary cells in vivo by insulin-induced hypoglycemia, and in vitro by nicotine or angiotensin resulted in the rapid and transient elevation of c-fos mRNA levels. Induction of the c-fos mRNA by angiotensin and nicotine were accompanied by the appearance of the c-fos protein. The increase in c-fos protein occurred initially in the cytoplasm and, later, in the nucleus, and it was co-localized with tyrosine hydroxylase. Nuclear expression of the c-fos protein was also induced by veratridine, forskolin and the calcium ionophore A231287. The role of calcium in the regulation of the c-fos gene by angiotensin with nifedipine and inhibition of the effects of angiotensin with nifedipine and sphingosine, a protein kinase C inhibitor. Activation of the c-fos gene may play a role in the coordinated induction of genes involved in the long-term adaptation of adrenal medullary cells to increased functional demands.
Cyclo(His-Pro) (CHP) is a cyclic dipeptide that is ubiquitously distributed through the central nervous system, including striatum. Many biologic effects of CHP seem to be mediated through a dopaminergic mechanism. To further examine the mechanism of action of this peptide, we have studied effects of chronic CHP treatment on the properties of nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons in rats. Chronic CHP administration elicited significant increase in both KD and Bmax of striatal mazindol-binding sites (labelling DA transporter complex), but no change in either D1- or D2-type DA receptors. Chronic treatment with DA uptake blockers (e.g., benztropine, GBR 12909, bupropion, and mazindol) also produced changes in striatal mazindol-binding sites that were similar to that of chronic CHP. Furthermore, CHP led to a dose-dependent inhibition of [3H]-DA uptake by striatal synaptosomes, reaching to maximal inhibition of uptake (30%) at CHP dosage of 10 nM. The dose-response curve for CHP inhibition of DA uptake, unlike DA uptake blockers that led to a total inhibition, was partial and V-shaped. Again unlike DA uptake blockers, CHP did not inhibit the binding of [3H]-mazindol to striatal membranes. On the basis of these data we hypothesize that while CHP may inhibit DA uptake by modifying mazindol-binding locus at DA transporter complex, its primary action may be at a site other than mazindol-binding site.
A simple hanging-drop technique has been developed for examining the effects of reagents available in limited quantities such as some proteolytic enzymes and site-directed antibodies on single sodium channel activities in patches excised from hippocampal neuronal membranes. The advantages of the technique are as follows: 1. a very small volume (2-4 microliters) of the buffer solution containing the agents to be tested; 2. recording under static conditions without using continuous perfusion systems; 3. reduced background current noise. The use of the technique for studying modifications of single channel parameters under the influence of agents available in limited amounts is illustrated by modification of single sodium channels by treatment with papain.

A patient is described with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (SIAD) and renal sodium retention secondary to a lymphoma. The basal atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) level and the ANP response to volume expansion were normal (age adjusted) but the natriuretic effect of ANP was attenuated by an unidentified factor. The case emphasizes the dominance of circulating volume over plasma tonicity in the regulation of ANP secretion.
The antagonist effect of (+/-)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (HA-966) at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor occurs through a selective interaction with the glycine modulatory site within the receptor complex. When the enantiomers of (+/-)-HA-966 were resolved, the (R)-(+)-enantiomer was found to be a selective glycine/NMDA receptor antagonist, a property that accounts for its anticonvulsant activity in vivo. In contrast, the (S)-(-)-enantiomer was only weakly active as an NMDA-receptor antagonist, but nevertheless it possessed a marked sedative and muscle relaxant action in vivo. In radioligand binding experiments, (+)-HA-966 inhibited strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding to rat cerebral cortex synaptic membranes with an IC50 of 12.5 microM, whereas (-)-HA-966 had an IC50 value of 339 microM. In electrophysiological experiments, (+)-HA-966 selectively antagonized NMDA receptor responses in rat cortical slices, whereas the (-)-enantiomer was much weaker. On cultured cortical neurones (+)-HA-966 inhibited glycine-potentiated NMDA responses with an IC50 = 13 microM compared with (-)-HA-966, which has an IC50 = 708 microM. In agreement with findings with racemic HA-966, even high concentrations of (+)-HA-966 did not completely inhibit NMDA responses, suggesting that (+)-HA-966 is a low-efficacy partial agonist. (+)-HA-966 produced parallel shifts to the right of the glycine concentration curve for potentiation of NMDA responses, resulting in an estimated pKb = 5.6. In mice, (+)-HA-966 antagonized sound and N-methyl-DL-aspartic acid (NMDLA)-induced seizures with ED50 values of 52.6 mg/kg of body weight (i.p.) and 900 mg/kg (i.v.), respectively. The coadministration of D-serine dose-dependently (10-100 micrograms into the cerebral ventricles per mouse) antagonized the anticonvulsant effect of a submaximal dose of (+)-HA-966 (100 micrograms administered directly into the cerebral ventricles) against NMDLA-induced seizures. The sedative/ataxic effect of racemic HA-966 was mainly attributable to the (-)-enantiomer, which was greater than 25-fold more potent than the (+)-enantiomer. It is suggested that, as in the case of the sedative gamma-butyrolactone, disruption of striatal dopaminergic mechanisms may be responsible for this action.
Nitric oxide mediates vascular relaxing effects of endothelial cells, cytotoxic actions of macrophages and neutrophils, and influences of excitatory amino acids on cerebellar cyclic GMP. Its enzymatic formation from arginine by a soluble enzyme associated with stoichiometric production of citrulline requires NADPH and Ca2+. We show that nitric oxide synthetase activity requires calmodulin. Utilizing a 2',5'-ADP affinity column eluted with NADPH, we have purified nitric oxide synthetase 6000-fold to homogeneity from rat cerebellum. The purified enzyme migrates as a single 150-kDa band on SDS/PAGE, and the native enzyme appears to be a monomer.

While a variety of sprouting and regenerative responses have been investigated in the hippocampus, the cellular and molecular events responsible for these plastic responses have not been determined. One transmitter system, the cholinergic system, shows several distinct responses to damage in the septohippocampal circuit. Present evidence strongly supports a role for nerve growth factor (NGF) in these responses. NGF is not only important for the survival of the adult cholinergic neurons, but can also induce regrowth of the damaged fibers given an appropriate substratum for growth. These reparative effects of NGF can manifest themselves in functional recovery in the aged rat and the young rat with fimbria-fornix lesions. Finally, a role for glia cells is proposed to clarify how NGF availability may be regulated during the degenerative and regenerative events. While all plasticity events certainly cannot be explained by the coincidence of NGF and the cholinergic system, their interaction may provide a template for other transmitter/trophic factor interactions.
Based on a review of anatomical and physiological findings, we suggest that the hippocampus may be viewed as a positive feedback device (autoassociator), which is capable of modifying the activity of the neocortical neurons. We examine the three-dimensional organization of evoked and spontaneous physiological patterns of the hippocampus and suggest rules how these patterns emerge during different behaviors from a hard-wired structural network. The high spatial coherence of theta activity is due to an external pacemaker, while the high synchrony of population bursts underlying hippocampal sharp waves is explained by the similar probability of recruitment of neurons by the burst-initiator cells along the whole extent of the hippocampus. We suggest that the burst-initiator cells are a group of CA3 neurons whose excitability is increased by a transient potentiation action of the neocortical activity during theta-concurrent exploratory behaviors. We hypothesize that sharp wave-concurrent population bursts result in a highly synchronous hippocampal output, converging preferentially on those entorhinal neurons which were instrumental in the creation of the burst-initiator neurons. The feedback action of population activity thus provides a selective mechanism for potentiation of connections between information-carrying neurons in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. The state-dependent operations of the anatomical hardware also point to the importance and advantage of studying the physiological activity of the intact brain.




The major conclusion to be drawn from the above-described research on the role of the PFCag in classical conditioning is obviously that it plays a primary and perhaps necessary role in the establishment of visceral cues associated with exposure to classical conditioning contingencies. Specifically, these visceral changes appear to be of an inhibitory character. This is significant, since we have postulated that inhibitory cardiac changes invariably accompany initial processing of sensory stimuli for informational value. Such visceral changes are thus not epiphenomena associated with other simultaneously occurring physiological events. A variety of lesion experiments implicate the PFCm as a central structure in this process, since damage to this area greatly attenuates, and in the case of hypothalamic knife cuts, completely eliminates learned bradycardia. Neuroanatomical tract-tracing experiments revealed that the PFCm and lag have direct projections to the NTS and DVM in the dorsomedial medulla and the nucleus ambiguous in the ventral medulla, all of which provide medullary output control of visceral activities. The nucleus ambiguous and DVM have been specifically implicated in vagal control in the rabbit (Ellenberger et al., 1983). Electrical stimulation of the PFCm provides additional evidence that this area of the brain participates in parasympathetic activities, including cardiac inhibition, since stimulation of the entire MD projection cortex, including the PFCm, produces HR decelerations accompanied by depressor responses. However, since lesions of the Iag produced relatively little effect on conditioned bradycardia, this part of the PFCag does not appear to play a major role in the development of conditioned bradycardia. Electrophysiological recording studies, including both multiple unit as well as extracellular single unit studies reinforce these conclusions. A short latency (40-180 msec) CS-evoked increase in MUA was recorded from cells in both the dorsomedial as well as central PFCm. The magnitude of these CS-evoked neuronal changes (a) was correlated with the magnitude of concomitantly occurring conditioned bradycardia; (b) was trial-related; (c) was not obtained in a similar pseudoconditioning group; and (d) declined to pretraining levels during subsequent experimental extinction. Similar, but not identical, CS-evoked changes in neuronal activity were recorded from MD. Although tone-evoked increases in MUA were also obtained from the Iag, this activity did not show the characteristics of associative learning. Single unit analysis also suggests the importance of the PFCm in elicitation of conditioned bradycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Grafting cells to the CNS has been suggested and applied as a potential approach to CNS therapy through the selective replacement of cells lost as a result of disease or damage. Independently, studies aimed at direct genetic therapy in model systems have recently begun to suggest conceptually new approaches to the treatment of several kinds of human genetic disease, especially those caused by single gene enzyme deficiencies. We suggest that a combination of these two approaches, namely the graftment into the CNS of genetically modified cells, may provide a new approach toward the restoration of some functions in the damaged or diseased CNS. We present evidence for the feasibility of this approach, including a description of some current techniques for mammalian cell gene transfer and CNS grafting, and several possible approaches to clinical applications. Specifically, we report that fibroblasts, genetically modified to secrete NGF by infection with a retroviral vector and implanted into the brains of rats with a surgical lesion of the fimbria-fornix, prevented the degeneration of cholinergic neurons that would die without treatment.















As the first known of the mammalian brain's neuropeptide systems, the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system has become a model. A great deal is known about the stimulus conditions that activate or inactivate the elements of this system, as well as about many of the actions of its peptidergic outputs upon peripheral tissues. The well-characterized actions of two of its products, oxytocin and vasopressin, on mammary, uterine, kidney and vascular tissues have facilitated the integration of newly discovered, often initially puzzling, information into the existing body of knowledge of this important regulatory system. At the same time, new conceptions of the ways in which neuropeptidergic neurons, or groups of neurons, participate in information flow have emerged from studies of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. Early views of the SON and PVN nuclei, the neurons of which make up approximately one-half of this system, did not even associate these interesting, darkly staining anterior hypothalamic cells with hormone secretion from the posterior pituitary. Secretion from this part of the pituitary, it was thought, was neurally evoked from the pituicytes that made the oxytocic and antidiuretic &quot;principles&quot; and then released them upon command. When these views were dispelled by the demonstration that the hormones released from the posterior pituitary were synthesized in the interesting cells of the hypothalamus, the era of mammalian central neural peptidergic systems was born. Progress in developing an ever more complete structural and functional picture of this system has been closely tied to advancements in technology, specifically in the areas of radioimmunoassay, immunocytochemistry, anatomical tracing methods at the light and electron microscopic levels, and sophisticated preparations for electrophysiological investigation. Through the judicious use of these techniques, much has been learned that has led to revision of the earlier held views of this system. In a larger context, much has been learned that is likely to be of general application in understanding the fundamental processes and principles by which the mammalian nervous system works.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)




Channel proteins are transmembrane symmetric (or pseudosymmetric) oligomers organized around a central ionic pore. We present here a molecular model of the pore forming structures of two channel proteins with different primary structures and oligomeric size: the voltage-sensitive sodium channel and the nicotinic cholinergic receptor. We report low-energy arrangements of alpha-helical bundles calculated by semiempiricial potential energy functions and optimization routines and further refined using molecular dynamics. The ion-conducting pore is considered to be a symmetric or pseudosymmetric homooligomer of 3-5 amphipathic alpha-helices arranged such that the polar residues line a central hydrophilic pathway and the apolar residues face the hydrophobic bilayer interior. The channel lining exposes either charged (Asp, Glu, Arg, Lys) or polar-neutral (Ser, Thr) residues. A bundle of four parallel helices constrained to C4 symmetry, the helix axis aligned with the symmetry axis, and the helices constrained to idealized dihedral angles, produces a structure with a pore of the size inferred for the sodium channel protein (area approximately 16 A2). Similarly, a pentameric array optimized with constraints to maintain C5 symmetry and backbone torsions characteristic of alpha-helices adopts a structure that appears well suited to form the lining of the nicotinic cholinergic receptor (pore area approximately 46 A2). Thus, bundles of amphipathic alpha-helices satisfy the structural, energetic, and dynamic requirements to be the molecular structural motif underlying the function of ionic channels.
We examined the effects of cholinergic receptor blockers on changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep components. M1 and M2 muscarinic receptor antagonists or atropine were microinfused before an M2 muscarinic receptor agonist, and the effects on individual REM sleep components were assessed. All drugs were microinjected into the same locus within the medial pontine reticular formation in cats, and sleep recordings were made for at least 3 hours postinjection. Results suggest that desynchronized electroencephalogram (EEG) is influenced by the M1 muscarinic receptor, muscle atonia is influenced by the M2 muscarinic receptor, and ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) waves are affected by the nicotinic receptor.

Lithium enjoys wide clinical use in the treatment of affective disorders, but the mechanism of its action in these conditions is still controversial. Recent studies have shown that lithium can interact with other antidepressant drugs to enhance their efficacy, perhaps by specific effects on serotonin (5-HT) function. A large body of independent evidence suggests that 5-HT function is abnormal in depression. This review documents preclinical evidence of lithium's effects on 5-HT function at the levels of precursor uptake, synthesis, storage, catabolism, release, receptors, and receptor-effector interactions. The weight of this evidence suggests that lithium's primary actions on 5-HT may be presynaptic, with many secondary postsynaptic effects. Studies in humans, using very different methodological approaches, generally suggest that lithium has a net enhancing effect on 5-HT function. These actions of lithium may serve to correct as-yet unspecified abnormalities of 5-HT function involved in the pathogenesis of depression.
Intermittent treatment with L-dopa over a 2-year period induced abnormal involuntary movements in MPTP-treated squirrel monkeys. Dyskinesias included a choreic and dystonic component. Dose-response curves for chorea and dystonia revealed that the same dose of L-dopa (30 mg/kg) induced the highest score for both dyskinesias: however, the severity was much greater for chorea. Choreic movements were always most prevalent at the time of peak effect, whereas dystonia was apparent at the time of peak effect and at &quot;end-of-dose&quot;, and was occasionally observed spontaneously. Our findings indicate that squirrel monkeys treated with MPTP develop L-dopa-induced dyskinesias which closely resemble those observed in Parkinson's disease. This species provides a valuable animal model to develop improved therapeutic agents.
Exploratory behavior of a complex novel environment was examined 3 and 14 days following treatment with the noradrenergic-selective neurotoxin, DSP-4. This toxin significantly decreased norepinephrine concentrations in neocortex and hippocampus but not hypothalamus. DSP-4 significantly increased exploratory behavior in animals tested 3 days after treatment. In contrast, exploratory behavior was decreased in animals tested 14 days after treatment. The effect of DSP-4 at 3 days is similar to treatments that act to inhibit noradrenergic function such as administration of the alpha 1-antagonist, prazosin, or the alpha 2-agonist, clonidine. The effect of DSP-4 at 14 days resembles that observed following treatment with the alpha 1-agonist, phenylephrine, or the alpha 2-antagonist, idazoxan. These data provide additional support for a role of noradrenergic systems in exploratory behavior. The simplest explanation for the time dependent effects of DSP-4 on exploratory behavior is the occurrence of the slow development of a supersensitivity of cerebral systems affected by norepinephrine.
Tianeptine, an antidepressant substance devoid of sedative action, was investigated for its effects on focalization of attention in cats, using combined behavioural and electrocorticographic (ECoG) observations. The ECoG index was the presence of 40 Hz frontoparietal rhythmic cortical activities, developing while the animal displayed a behaviour suggesting focused attention. Cats were observed in two conditions: a &quot;neutral&quot; one, with no specific target, and another one, &quot;of focused attention&quot; where a live mouse placed in a transparent box was present in the recording room, each test lasting for 90 min. After treatment the animals displayed increased attention even in the neutral situation, where the cat, instead of sleeping like during control sessions, payed sustained attention to its environment. Conversely, at corresponding doses, amitriptyline, another antidepressant drug chosen as a reference, induced uninterrupted slow sleep even in the situation of focused attention.
Mice withdrawn from exposure for 14 days to ethanol inhalation showed the expected signs of ethanol withdrawal including convulsive behaviour. Injection of chlormethiazole (100 mg/kg) 5 h after the start of withdrawal, at the time that the convulsive behaviour was near maximal, resulted in the virtual disappearance of the withdrawal-induced behaviour within 30 min, with its reappearance by 60 min. A dose of chlormethiazole of 40 mg/kg was without effect. The time course of the effect of chlormethiazole (100 mg/kg) in the withdrawal test was similar to its effect in raising seizure threshold and decreasing locomotor activity. Chlormethiazole did not alter in vitro binding of [3H]-PN 200-110 to the dihydropyridine sensitive Ca2+ channel. Chlormethiazole, a drug used clinically to treat ethanol withdrawal, has therefore been shown to be effective in this animal model of withdrawal. Dihydropyridine calcium antagonists are also active in the model but chlormethiazole is likely to work by a different mechanism and it is suggested that this may be by increasing GABAergic function.
This study examined the effects of acute administration of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, on extracellular efflux of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites as measured by in vivo microdialysis in nucleus accumbens of conscious, freely-moving rats. delta 9-THC, at low doses (0.5-1.0 mg/kg), which significantly enhance brain stimulation reward (intracranial self-stimulation), significantly increased DA efflux in nucleus accumbens. Augmentation of DA efflux by delta 9-THC was abolished by removal of calcium (Ca++) ions from the perfusion fluid, indicating a Ca(++)-dependence of delta 9-THC's action. Augmentation of DA efflux by delta 9-THC was either totally blocked or significantly attenuated by doses of naloxone as low as 0.1 mg/kg. Given the postulated role of mesocorticolimbic DA circuits in mediating and/or modulating brain stimulation reward, the present data raise the possibility that marijuana's rewarding effects, and hence its euphorigenic effects and abuse potential, may be related to pharmacological augmentation of presynaptic DA mechanisms. Additionally, the DA mechanisms enhanced by marijuana appear to be modulated by an endogenous opioid peptide system.
Drug-induced purposeless chewing movements in rodents are often considered to represent movement disorders or dyskinesias. We have compared the ability of drugs to induce chewing and retching or emesis in squirrel monkeys; such studies are not possible in rodents, which do not vomit. Acute administration of oxotremorine (3.3-33 micrograms/kg IM), SKF38393 (1-30 mg/kg SC) or ipecacuanha (0.5-0.75 mg/kg PO) caused dose-related increases in purposeless chewing which was frequently associated with retching and emesis. Treatment with haloperidol (0.015-0.06 mg/kg IM) did not induce chewing. Rather, haloperidol decreased spontaneous chewing at doses of 0.03 and 0.06 mg/kg. Our findings indicate that at least some drug-induced oral behaviours in rodents may reflect nausea rather than dyskinesia.
GDEE, an antagonist of the AA2 or quisqualic acid category of excitatory amino acid receptor, decreases behavioral activity and locomotor stimulation induced by cocaine and amphetamine when locally injected into the nucleus accumbens. The present experiment was intended to examine the effects of systemic GDEE and other excitatory amino acid antagonists on stimulant-induced locomotor activity. GDEE markedly attenuated the stimulant effect of amphetamine, and partially blocked the effects of phencyclidine (PCP). Apomorphine-induced cage climbing behavior was partially decreased by lower dosages of GDEE, but was almost completely blocked by the highest dosage tested. Amphetamine-induced stimulation of locomotor activity was not decreased by any of the other excitatory amino acid antagonists that were tested, including MK-801, 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (APH), or CNQX. APH decreased stereotypy only at a high dosage (250 mg/kg), which also produces ataxia. Several other compounds, including L-glutamic acid gamma ethyl ester (GMEE), L-glutamic acid, glycine, and L-glutamine did not block amphetamine-induced stimulation in molar dosages equivalent to the highest dosage of GDEE (8 mmol/kg). It is concluded that the AA2 excitatory amino acid receptor is important in the expression of activating effects of stimulant drugs.

Following crush injury to rat sciatic nerves, a crude fraction of the 150,000 g supernatant can post-translationally incorporate [3H]Arg and [3H]Lys into endogenous proteins in amounts approximately 10 times uninjured control nerves. These increases occur in the proximal nerve stump within 2 h of injury and 2 weeks later in a distal segment of nerve containing the tips of the regenerating axons. In the present experiments, the endogenous nerve proteins modified by Arg or Lys in these nerve segments have been identified using two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The fraction used to assay for protein modification, the void volume of a Sephacryl S-300 column, was found to contain only a few proteins visible by Coomassie blue staining, one of which is likely to be albumin (68 kDa, pI 6.4). While this protein was modified by both Arg and Lys, the majority of label was found in areas not showing Coomassie blue staining. This indicates that of the many potential targets of post-translational arginylation and lysylation, most are proteins of relatively low abundance. A variety of proteins were modified by Arg or Lys alone while others were modified by both Arg and Lys. A high molecular weight protein (175 kDa, pI 9.0) was modified only by Lys and only at 2 h post crush. Of a variety of modified proteins of approximately 17 kDa one (pI 6.3) was modified by both Arg and Lys and at both time points, while another (pI 9.0) was modified at both time points, but only by Lys. The results show that Arg and Lys can be added post-translationally to a large number of low abundance, soluble sciatic nerve proteins, and that some of those proteins are modified only by Arg or Lys while others are modified by both Arg and Lys. Also, the modification of certain proteins appears to be associated specifically with the immediate response of a nerve to injury (e.g. 88 kDa, pI 7.1) while others are associated with the regenerative period (e.g. 56 kDa, pI 7.4).
Diazepam and other GABA-related agents can prevent or delay recovery from an otherwise short-term somatosensory asymmetry caused by unilateral cortical lesions. Postrecovery treatment does not affect behavior. One possible contributive site of action for these agents is remaining cortical tissue. In the present study, following unilateral anteromedial cortex (AMC) lesions or sham operations, the GABA agonist muscimol or saline was infused once a day for 7 days into the adjacent sensorimotor cortex (SMC) or, as a control, into the more remote occipital cortex (OC) of the ipsilateral hemisphere. Each day the animals were given somatosensory and motor coordination tests at 21 h postinfusion. The SMC-muscimol regimen, but not the SMC-saline or OC-muscimol, retarded recovery from somatosensory asymmetry. The disruptive effect on recovery was enduring, greatly outlasting the week of exposure to muscimol. In sham-operated animals, SMC-muscimoI did not yield a chronic effect on behavior, although during the first hour after each infusion, in which the muscimol presumably was still present in the SMC, somatosensory asymmetry could be observed. Although the AMC lesion created a vulnerability to muscimol in the SMC, no detectable difference in the extent of cortical damage in this group could account for the prolongation of behavioral asymmetry. SMC-muscimol (but not SMC-saline) led to atrophy of SMC projection areas in the ipsilateral thalamus. However, in sham-operated animals, SMC-muscimol did not affect thalamic size. These behavioral and anatomical data suggest that systemically delivered GABAergic drugs might interfere with restoration of function after AMC lesions in part by adversely influencing events in the SMC.
Both axonal and glial components of nerve are capable of carrying out reactions in which Arg, Lys, Leu, Pro, Val, AJa and Ser can be covalently linked to endogenous proteins in reactions which require tRNA but occur in the absence of ribosomes and ribosomal RNA. These posttranslational protein modifications appear to play important roles in nerve regeneration since they are increased more than 10-fold within 2 h of a crush injury in nerves which are capable of regeneration, but are not activated in nerves not capable of regrowth following injury. The regulation of the modification of proteins by Arg and Lys in vivo appears to be the function of separate peptides. The exogenous application of serine protease inhibitors (but not other protease inhibitors) mimics the effect of the endogenous peptides, suggesting that the endogenous regulators have serine protease inhibitory activity. The targets for modification are proteins of low abundance and thus far have been identified only in terms of their molecular weights and isoelectric points. The site of addition of Arg, but not the other amino acids, to target proteins is to the amino terminus. The addition of Arg to an amino terminus is likely to be involved in the ubiquitin mediated proteolysis of the modified protein. One of the most unusual findings in these series of experiments is that in regenerating sciatic nerves, amino acid modified proteins aggregate to form complexes of greater than 2  106 Da. The significance of this finding is not known. But we speculate that the aggregate may result from the assembly of an insoluble functional unit of the cell from soluble precursor proteins, and that the trigger for their assembly is amino acid modification.
Apomorphine, a dopaminergic agonist was given over a period of 12 months to 14 parkinsonian patients suffering from severe L-dopa induced on-off effects. Nine patients (mean age: 52 years; mean age at onset of the disease: 37 years), were treated by continuous infusion with a portable minipump, and 5 others by multiple injections with a penject. The mean duration of daily off periods was reduced by two thirds in all patients. The motor fluctuation intensity was only diminished in the 9 patients treated by continuous infusion. These patients received a mean apomorphine daily dose of 93 mg and L-dopa dosage was reduced by 53 p. 100. Red fibrous subcutaneous nodules occurred at the injection sites in all patients treated by infusion. This study confirms the effectiveness of subcutaneous apomorphine administration in the treatment of severe motor fluctuations.
Although the motor and sensory components of the neglect syndrome appear as dependent on a unitary attentional process, the clinical observation of pure motor neglect raises the possibility of segregation between attentional and intentional neural mechanisms. Neuroanatomical evidence suggests a separate role for the anterior and posterior cingulum. The anterior cingulum mainly projects to the supplementary motor area, the superior premotor area and the prefrontal granular cortex whereas the posterior cingulum mainly controls the inferior parietal lobule. The role of the intralaminar thalamic nuclei, together with the frontostriatal loops is considered. Behavioral neurology should strengthen its analytical approach in order to dissociate, by appropriate testing, the separate operations which contribute to relate perception and action. Several new hypotheses are presented.
Purposeful motor acts are subjected to two contradictory constraints. One is to move one or several body segments toward a goal, the other is to stabilize other segments in order to maintain posture and equilibrium. One of the major tasks of the central nervous system is to coordinate posture and movement. Human posture is built up from the superposition of several &quot;modules' from the ground to the head. Each module, tied to the next one by muscles, has its proper central and reflex regulation which permits to maintain its position in relation to the underlying one. In addition, a global regulation of posture is apparent (postural tone). Equilibrium is maintained under static conditions when the center of gravity projects onto the ground within the supporting surface (feet). Sensory error detecting signals (visual, labyrinthine, proprioceptive) are correcting, through a feedback loop, the reference regulated value according to a &quot;postural' body schema based on &quot;metric' and &quot;dynamic' inputs. Corrections are continuous (and slow) or discontinuous and phasic through a repertoire of synergies allowing fast corrections. During movement performance, posture and equilibrium are stabilized by &quot;anticipatory postural adjustments'. Some are aimed at maintaining the equilibrium notwithstanding the displacement of body segments due to the movement; others stabilize one or several segments such as the head, the trunk or the arm, which serve as reference value for the calculation of the movement trajectory and for the accurate performance of the movement. The anticipatory adjustments are learned during childhood or during training for specific tasks. The adaptative networks built up for a given movement are then controlled by the movement related command signals. The central organization of these anticipatory postural adjustments relies on central brain structures involved in movement execution and movement organization. Deficit is seen in spastic patients, to some extent in cerebellar patients. Basal ganglia and premotor areas, including the supplementary motor area, are of importance for coordination between posture and movement. This suggests that one of their function might be to stabilize posture during movement performance in order to ensure precise reaching of the goal. A specific pathology of the anticipatory postural adjustments should thus be considered.
A 65-year old male presented with selective amyotrophy of the right lower limb which, after a progressive course of some months, had stabilized 12 years previously. Physical examination showed amyotrophy involving the gastrocnemius and the quadriceps extensor femoris without sensory impairment. EMG suggested motor neuron disease. This case meets Hirayama and Serratrice's criteria for benign chronic monomelic amyotrophy. We support the hypothesis of a casual vascular factor, as proposed by Hirayama.
Lewis contends that the previously demonstrated finding of seasonality of schizophrenic births is a statistical artifact due to the age-incidence effect. If Lewis is correct, then (1) January should have the highest schizophrenic birthrate, (2) December should have the lowest schizophrenic birthrate, (3) the Southern Hemisphere should show the same pattern as the Northern Hemisphere, and (4) the age-incidence effect should be more marked in younger age cohorts. None of these findings have been borne out by studies to date. It is concluded that the seasonality of schizophrenic birthrates is a replicable finding, and should be considered one of the more intriguing clues to the etiology of this disease.
The geographic distribution of insanity and schizophrenia in the United States is examined for 9 separate years between 1880 and 1963. A concentration of these conditions in Northeastern and Pacific Coast States was remarkably consistent over the 83 years. States with a high prevalence rate had approximately three times more insanity and schizophrenia than those with a low prevalence rate. There is a direct regional correlation of insanity/schizophrenia with urbanization, which is consistent with previous studies. There is also a direct regional correlation of schizophrenia with socioeconomic status, which contradicts previous studies carried out in large cities in which the schizophrenic rates were inversely correlated with socioeconomic status. The apparent discrepancy can be explained by postulating that the direct regional correlations are due to correlations of urbanization and socioeconomic status (cities have higher mean incomes than rural areas) whereas, within a particular city, schizophrenia is more prevalent among lower socioeconomic groups because of drift and other factors. Social, stress and crowding, genetic, and biological factors are discussed as possible explanations for the urban factor associated with insanity/schizophrenia.

Twenty-three patients with hypesthetic ataxic hemiparesis underwent computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Twenty-two patients had infarcts of lacunar or slightly larger size in the contralateral posterior limb of the internal capsule. In 15 patients the infarct extended superiorly into the adjacent paraventricular region, and in seven it extended into the lateral thalmus. In eight patients the infarct was limited to the posterior limb of the internal capsule, and in only two patients was an ipsilateral to capsular pontine lacune found. Despite a location similar to that of pure motor and pure sensory lacunar stroke, hypesthetic ataxic hemiparesis correlates with larger infarcts, most often located in the posterior medial superior territory of the anterior choroidal artery. Some infarcts appeared to be localized immediately posterolateral to this region, in the posterior cerebral artery territory. The presence and extent of infarction is better detected by the addition of magnetic resonance imaging to computed tomography.
We have used a monoclonal antibody against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) to aid in the identification of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPNs) and to examine their ultrastructure in rat thoracic spinal cord. The clusters of ChAT-immunoreactive (ChAT-IR) preganglionic cell bodies and their distinctive bundles of dendrites give rise to a ladder-like appearance in horizontal light microscopic sections. This organization also produced a characteristic appearance of preganglionic neuropil when viewed electron microscopically. The intermediolateral (IML) nucleus contained numerous rostrocaudally oriented ChAT-IR dendrites. In addition, mediolaterally oriented ChAT-IR dendrites extended between the IML and the central autonomic region. Both the ChAT-IR dendrites and somata of preganglionic neurons were intimately associated with astroglial processes. The cell bodies were typically covered over a large proportion of their surface by a thin astrocytic sheath, and this was associated with a paucity of axon terminals forming axosomatic synapses. Instead, the vast majority of synapses upon SPNs were of the axodendritic type. The most frequently observed type of axon terminal contained numerous round, clear vesicles along with several dense-core vesicles (DCVs). In addition, some boutons contained a predominance of DCVs. Serial section analysis revealed that these apparently diverse morphological classes of synaptic boutons may simply represent variability of structure throughout a single terminal, with a greater proportion of DCVs being located distal to the synaptic specialization and a greater number of round, clear vesicles being present adjacent to the synapse. Analysis of the dendritic bundles revealed that individual dendrites, like the cell bodies, were often isolated from each other and the surrounding neuropil by astrocytic processes. This arrangement usually was interrupted only at regions of synaptic contact where astrocytic processes surrounded the synaptic complex as a whole. Thus, astroglial ensheathment of SPNs seems designed to minimize cross-talk between the bundled dendrites, as well as to isolate or segregate the diverse afferent inputs known to impinge on these cells.
The neuropeptide galanin coexists in 80-90% of the norepinephrine-containing neurons in the locus coeruleus. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to examine the effects of reserpine treatment or swim stress on tyrosine hydroxylase and galanin mRNA concentrations in locus coeruleus neurons. Reserpine administration significantly increased tyrosine hydroxylase and galanin mRNA levels in the locus coeruleus. The reserpine-induced increase in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was significantly correlated with the reserpine-induced increase in galanin mRNA. Three consecutive days of swim stress did not significantly alter either tyrosine hydroxylase or galanin mRNA concentrations in the locus coeruleus. These data suggest that both tyrosine hydroxylase and galanin gene expression in locus coeruleus neurons may be regulated by a reserpine-sensitive mechanism.
The origin and development of the dorso-ventral flight muscles (DVM) was studied by light and electron microscopy in Chironomus (Diptera; Nematocera). Chironomus was chosen because unlike Drosophila, its flight muscles develop during the last larval instar, before the lytic process of metamorphosis. Ten fibrillar DVM were shown to develop from a larval muscle associated with myoblasts. This muscle is connected to the imaginal leg disc so that its cavity communicates with the adepithelial cells present in the disc; but no migration of myoblasts seems to take place from the imaginal leg disc towards the larval muscle or vice versa. At the beginning of the last larval instar, the myoblasts were always present together with the nerves in the larval muscle. In addition, large larval muscle cells incorporated to the imaginal discs were observed to border on the area occupied by adepithelial cells, and are probably involved in the formation of 4 other fibrillar DVM with adepithelial cells. Three factors seem to determine the number of DVM fibres: the initial number of larval fibres in the Anlage, the fusions of myoblasts with these larval fibres and the number of motor axons in the Anlage. The extrapolation of these observations to Drosophila, a higher dipteran, is discussed.
There are many classes of chemicals widely used in a number of commercial and industrial processes having a potential to affect adversely the nervous system. Because of their relative sensitivity to some agents and general noninvasive characteristics, functional measurements of neurotoxicity are being used with greater frequency, especially at the level of hazard identification. The neurobehavioral test battery used by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) includes motor activity, fore- and hindlimb grip strength, acoustic startle response, responsiveness to an adverse thermal stimulus and general health and clinical measures (body weight, autonomic signs, tremor, convulsions). These tests have been used in nearly 40 studies involving various dosing regimens with rats and mice. The NTP battery shows several salient features of an effective screen, including the ability to differentiate known neurotoxicants from nonneurotoxicants, identify certain types of neurological sequelae or profiles of neurotoxic effects and construct dose- and time-response data in a screening context. The extent to which the NTP battery has predictive validity is still being evaluated.
The role played by Pavlov's principle of conditioned reflexes in neurosciences is discussed. The problem of interneuronal connections is shown to be key in the system of the sciences. The concept of formation of interneuronal connections underlying the conditioned reflex and long-term memory has been elaborated at the Department of Physiology of the Institute of Experimental Medicine named after Pavlov. Possible mechanisms of associations between the neural memory and cell genome are analysed and the problem of the engram localization and storage are discussed. Special attention is devoted to the role played by the subjective experience, mainly emotions, in the organization of the higher brain functions. The extensive experimental evidence gained by the authors during the recent 10-12 years is generalized.
Basic strategic and tactical principles of neuropharmacological studies are outlined, whose aim is to find and explore new synthetic neuro-blocking agents and substances simulating the structure of natural metabolites. The basic research has resulted in the development of new highly effective drugs and experimentally substantiated recommendations for their clinical application. The conceptions of the action mechanism of adrenergic and cholinergic agents, stimulants of tissue energy exchange, which have been formulated in the department, suggested new approaches to the pharmacological treatment of diseases of the central and peripheral nervous systems and neurogenic diseases of the gastrointestinal and cardiovascular systems.
Plasmids containing the varicella zoster virus (VZV) open reading frames (ORFs) 61 and 62 were used in a transient co-transfection assay to test for trans-activation of the VZV and herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) thymidine kinase (tk) promoters. The trans-activating potential of the polypeptides encoded by these VZV ORFs, designated p51 and p140, was compared to that of their HSV-1 homologs ICP0 and ICP4, respectively. VZV p51 was functionally inactive in this system while p140 appeared to be a much stronger transcriptional activator than ICP4. Co-transfection of plasmids encoding VZV p140 and HSV-1 ICP0 resulted in a synergistic activation of the reporter gene as has been shown for the combination of ICP4 and ICP0.
The responses of monkey retinal ganglion cells to sinusoidal stimuli of various temporal frequencies were measured and analyzed at a number of mean light levels. Temporal modulation tuning functions (TMTFs) were measured at each mean level by varying the drift rate of a sine-wave grating of fixed spatial frequency and contrast. The changes seen in ganglion cell temporal responses with changes in adaptation state were similar to those observed in human subjects and in turtle horizontal cells and cones tested with sinusoidally flickering stimuli; &quot;Weber's Law&quot; behavior was seen at low temporal frequencies but not at higher temporal frequencies. Temporal responses were analyzed in two ways: (1) at each light level, the TMTFs were fit by a model consisting of a cascade of low- and high-pass filters; (2) the family of TMTFs collected over a range of light levels for a given cell was fit by a linear negative feedback model in which the gain of the feedback was proportional to the mean light level. Analysis (1) revealed that the temporal responses of one class of monkey ganglion cells (M cells) were more phasic at both photopic and mesopic light levels than the responses of P ganglion cells. In analysis (2), the linear negative feedback model accounted reasonably well for changes in gain and dynamics seen in three P cells and one M cell. From the feedback model, it was possible to estimate the light level at which the dark-adapted gain of the cone pathways in the primate retina fell by a factor of two. This value was two to three orders of magnitude lower than the value estimated from recordings of isolated monkey cones. Thus, while a model which includes a single stage of negative feedback can account for the changes in gain and dynamics associated with light adaptation in the photopic and mesopic ranges of vision, the underlying physical mechanisms are unknown and may involve elements in the primate retina other than the cone.
Pigeons were trained to discriminate between spectral lights and additive mixtures in the 580-640 nm range. Two behavioral procedures were used: (I) a simultaneous instrumental discrimination and (II) successive &quot;autoshaping&quot; discrimination. Pigeons were able to make color mixture matches within this spectral range with satisfactory precision. Matchings determined by the animal correspond well to those predicted on the basis of the spectral sensitivities of two (or even three) pigment-droplet combinations present in the pigeon retina.
Directionality, orientation and spatial frequency tuning were determined for 108 neurones recorded extracellularly from the striate cortex of anaesthetized cats. Significant sharpening of orientation selectivity with increasing spatial frequency was seen in all simple neurones and the overwhelming majority of complex neurones. Orientation selectivity sharpened in 90 and broadened in only 10 of 100 fully characterized neurones. At least four distinct classes of neurone could be characterized on the basis of their directionality at optimal spatial frequency, and the presence or absence of changes in directionality over a range of spatial frequencies: in two classes, directionality was spatial-frequency dependent; in the remaining two it was invariant. With two exceptions Type A neurones (23 cells) were direction-selective; they were narrowly tuned for orientation and spatial frequency, and their directionality was invariant with spatial-frequency. The majority of neurones (52 cells) were Type B, most of which were direction-biased; their bias for direction varied systematically with spatial frequency. Type C were direction-biased and spatial-frequency selective (5 cells), but showed a clear reversal of bias with change in spatial frequency. Type D, a subset of direction-biased cells, were bidirectional and spatial-frequency invariant (8 cells), with comparable response strengths to motion in two opposing directions at all spatial frequencies. These response types crossed traditional boundaries between categories of simple and complex neurones, assigned on the basis of spatial summation, presence or absence of end-inhibition, and receptive field size.
We investigate the roles of spatial frequency content, flicker and higher-order elements of form (&quot;features&quot;) in the generation of motion percepts. These cues are separated through the use of dynamic visual stimuli based on stochastic textures. Flicker alone and spatial frequency content alone suffice to generate a strong motion percept, but higher-order elements of form alone generate a much weaker motion percept. Thus, even for achromatic stimuli, all pattern information is not equally available for motion processing. Furthermore, higher-order form information, which by itself does not provide a strong cue to motion, is shown to interact with other visual information to facilitate determination of direction of motion.



Influence of two novel enkephelinase inhibitors, Acetorphan and SCH34826, on the effect of electroacupuncture analgesia (EAA) has been observed in rats. Administered Acetorphan (2.0-4.0 mg/kg, i.p.) or SCH34826 (30-100 mg/kg, p.o.) potentiated and prolonged the effect of 2 Hz EAA significantly in the nonresponder in which an evident analgesic effect can not be induced by 2 Hz electroacupuncture. This means that che non-responder of 2 Hz EAA can be converted into the responder with these two drugs. The non-responder of 100 Hz EAA, however, can not be changed into the responder with Acetorphan. These results again support our previous reports that enkephelin plays an important role in low frequency EAA. Meanwhile, this suggests us a probable route for potentiating acupuncture analgesia in clinical practice.
Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) facilitates long-term potentiation (LTP), a model of memory, and increases its substrate protein F1 (aka GAP43) phosphorylation in direct relation to synaptic enhancement. Unsaturated fatty acids (c-FAs) which activate purified PKC, when injected into hippocampus, enhance LTP. To determine if dietary c-FAs could alter memory itself as well as brain PKC substrate (F1) metabolism, rats were maintained for 10 weeks on fatty acid diets enriched in mono-unsaturated oleic acid (OA; 20% olive oil, w/w), or a mono- and di-unsaturated mixture of oleate/linoleate (O/L; 20% corn oil), or a saturated fatty acid diet of laurate/myristate (L/M; 20% hydrogenated coconut oil). The O/L diet group was superior to the OA and L/M groups in spatial memory performance after the first two weeks of acquisition and in later achievement of criterion performance. The O/L diet had a significantly higher hippocampal protein F1 in vitro phosphorylation than in both the OA and L/M in trained and non-trained animals. Significantly, animals that made fewer errors showed higher F1 phosphorylation (r = -0.70). Diet both increases brain PKC substrate phosphorylation and enhances maze learning, confirming the feasibility of enhancing learning and memory by dietary regimens derived from basic neurochemical studies of synaptic plasticity.
We used gas chromatography in conjunction with flame ionization detection to quantitate nine polyols and aldo and keto sugars (as silyl derivatives) in human plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Rhamnose, not found in CSF or plasma, was used as an internal standard with a lower limit of quantitation of 0.4 mg/l. CSF polyol and sugar concentrations (mean +/- S.D.) in fourteen healthy subjects (age range 27.1-85.9 years) were: anhydroglucitol, 19.9 +/- 5.3 mg/l; arabitol, 4.8 +/- 0.9 mg/l; erythritol, 2.4 +/- 0.5 mg/l; myoinositol, 28.6 +/- 8.3 mg/l; ribitol, 1.6 +/- 0.1 mg/l; fructose, 25.5 +/- 11.1 mg/l; glucose, 587 +/- 70 mg/l; glucitol, 7.7 +/- 1.5 mg/l; and mannose, 10.6 +/- 2.4 mg/l. The respective plasma concentrations were 30.6 +/- 11.5, less than 0.4, 0.4 +/- 0.2, 6.3 +/- 2.6, less than 0.4, 23.4 +/- 21.4, 897 +/- 214, less than 0.4 and 13.7 +/- 6.3 mg/l. Polyol CSF-to-plasma concentration ratios greater than 2 were observed for myoinositol, erythritol, arabitol, glucitol and ribitol, indicative of active accumulation or synthesis of these polyols within the central nervous system.
Immunohistochemical screening of the cat limbic system using a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) revealed that MAb R2D5 specifically labeled a subset of layer 3 cells in the entorhinal cortex, while leaving layer 2 cells unlabeled. The apical dendrites of the R2D5-positive layer 3 cells tended to gather and formed columnar structures which penetrated layer 2 and climbed to the surface of entorhinal cortex.
Previous results have shown that kindled seizures increase N-acetyl-aspartylglutamate (NAAG) levels in the entorhinal cortex, while non-kindled convulsions have no effect. To further explore possible relationships between epilepsy and the physiology of NAAG, the effect of amygdaloid kindling on the activity of a NAAG-hydrolyzing enzyme was examined in specific brain regions associated with limbic seizures. NAAG is hydrolyzed into glutamate (Glu) and N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) by N-acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase), a membrane-bound peptidase. We found that convulsions decreased NAALADase activity and these effects were generalized to several brain regions. While small decreases in the hippocampus were specific to kindling, the decreases in other limbic regions were larger, non-specific, and appear to be aftereffects of convulsions; i.e. not specific to kindling. Although there is evidence that NAAG may be an excitatory neurotransmitter, it could also function as a storage form of Glu. Thus, a reduction in NAALADase activity could reduce the availability of Glu at certain synapses, which might be a homeostatic mechanism for lessening susceptibility to further seizures.
The present study investigated the cellular localization of mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors in the rat nucleus accumbens in relation to dopaminergic neurons. Dopaminergic terminals were destroyed by intra-accumbens injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Fourteen days after dopaminergic denervation, receptor binding assays and quantitative in vitro autoradiography with highly selective radioligands demonstrated that the density of mu opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens was decreased by 30 +/- 6%. There was no change in delta or kappa receptors in the accumbens, a finding which indicates that the loss of mu opioid receptors was specific. A time course study demonstrated that the loss of mu receptors lagged behind the depletion of dopamine by about 5 days. Destruction of intrinsic neuronal cell bodies and dendrites by injection of ibotenic acid into the accumbens resulted in a loss of 36 +/- 3% of mu opioid receptors. Co-injection of 6-OHDA and ibotenic acid decreased mu receptors by 41 +/- 4%, only slightly more than the loss caused by ibotenic acid alone. These results suggest that only a small number of mu opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens are located on dopaminergic terminals and are consistent with the possibility that the loss of opioid receptors following denervation of dopaminergic fibers in the accumbens is the result of transsynaptic degeneration.
DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphorprotein, Mr = 32,000 as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) is an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1 and is enriched in dopaminoceptive neurons possessing the D1 dopamine receptor. Purified bovine DARPP-32 was phosphorylated in vitro by casein kinase II to a stoichiometry greater than 2 mol of phosphate/mol of protein whereas two structurally and functionally related proteins, protein phosphatase inhibitor-1 and G-substrate, were poor substrates for this enzyme. Sequencing of chymotryptic and thermolytic phosphopeptides from bovine DARPP-32 phosphorylated by casein kinase II suggested that the main phosphorylated residues were Ser45 and Ser102. In the case of rat DARPP-32, the identification of these phosphorylation sites was confirmed by manual Edman degradation. The phosphorylated residues are located NH2-terminal to acidic amino acid residues, a characteristic of casein kinase II phosphorylation sites. Casein kinase II phosphorylated DARPP-32 with an apparent Km value of 3.4 microM and a kcat value of 0.32 s-1. The kcat value for phosphorylation of Ser102 was 5-6 times greater than that for Ser45. Studies employing synthetic peptides encompassing each phosphorylation site confirmed this difference between the kcat values for phosphorylation of the two sites. In slices of rat caudate-putamen prelabeled with [32P]phosphate, DARPP-32 was phosphorylated on seryl residues under basal conditions. Comparison of thermolytic phosphopeptide maps and determination of the phosphorylated residue by manual Edman degradation identified the main phosphorylation site in intact cells as Ser102. In vitro, DARPP-32 phosphorylated by casein kinase II was dephosphorylated by protein phosphatases-1 and -2A. Phosphorylation by casein kinase II did not affect the potency of DARPP-32 as an inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1, which depended only on phosphorylation of Thr34 by cAMP-dependent protein kinase. However, phosphorylation of DARPP-32 by casein kinase II facilitated phosphorylation of Thr34 by cAMP-dependent protein kinase with a 2.2-fold increase in the Vmax and a 1.4-fold increase in the apparent Km. Phosphorylation of DARPP-32 by casein kinase II in intact cells may therefore modulate its phosphorylation in response to increased levels of cAMP.
Neurons containing somatostatin (SOM) are enriched in the dentate gyrus. We sought to establish the ultrastructural localization of this peptide in the dentate gyrus of the rat brain with a double-bridged peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method localizing antisera directed against somatostatin (SOM)-28 and SOM-28. Initial light microscopic observations confirmed that the majority of perikarya and thick varicose processes with intense SOM-like immunoreactivity (SOM-LI) were observed in the hilus. Fine varicose processes with SOM-LI were found throughout all layers of the dentate gyrus but were most intense in the outer third of the molecular layer (ML), where an occasional perikaryon with SOM-LI was seen. By electron microscopy, SOM-LI was found in neuronal perikarya, dendrites, axons, and axon terminals. Two types of SOM-containing perikarya were observed. The first type was small (6-10 microns), round or avoid, and had a labeled cytoplasma with abundant Golgi complexes and a dense accumulation of PAP-reaction product. The second type of perikarya was larger (11-16 microns) and had a more abundant cytoplasm than the first type, but the Golgi complexes did not appear labeled. Most (96% of 374) of the synapses on the SOM-labeled perikarya and dendrites were from terminals without SOM-LI which formed nearly equal proportions of asymmetric and symmetric junctions. The remainder of the presynaptic terminals contained SOM-LI and made primarily symmetric synapses. Synaptic junctions from both unlabeled and labeled terminals were primarily on the shafts of the small (0.5-1.5 microns) SOM-immunoreactive dendrites. The terminals with SOM-LI (0.25-1.3 microns) contained many small, clear vesicles and from zero to four large dense-core vesicles. Terminals with SOM-LI were associated 1) with one unlabeled perikaryon or dendrite (49% of 215 in the hilus; 76% of 326 in the ML); 2) with two unlabeled perikarya or dendrites simultaneously (5% hilus; 4% ML); and 3) with one SOM-containing perikaryon or dendrite (6% hilus; 3% ML). In all three types of associations, synaptic contacts on perikarya were few while the majority were with small (distal) dendrites. Moreover, most of the terminals with SOM-LI formed symmetric junctions or lacked membrane specializations but were without any apparent glial intervention in the plane of section analyzed. The remaining SOM-labeled terminals (40% hilus; 17% ML) were without any apparent synaptic relations. However, a few of these terminals were in direct apposition to other terminals, some of which were also SOM-immunoreactive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Muscarinic agents produce a range of side effects including hypothermia and tremor. Although these responses can be used to estimate the in vivo activity of these muscarinic agents in the central nervous system (CNS), the approach is limited by compensatory feedback mechanisms and the difficulty of equating degree of receptor occupancy to effect. We have developed an ex vivo assay to measure the potency and penetration of muscarinic agents into the CNS. The muscarinic antagonists scopolamine and N-methylscopolamine dose dependently inhibited the ex vivo binding of [3H]oxotremorine-M to homogenates of mouse whole brain membranes. Following intraperitoneal administration these compounds had ED50 values of 2.6 and 26 mg/kg respectively, which were comparable to the doses which inhibited RS86 induced hypothermia in mice. Three muscarinic agonists RS86, pilocarpine and arecoline also demonstrated CNS activity in this assay with ED50 values of 11, 23 and 220 mg/kg. RS86 and pilocarpine additionally showed good penetration into the CNS with estimated values of 1.5 and 0.31% of the administered dose. These values were comparable with the ability of these compounds to induce a centrally mediated hypothermic response. These studies demonstrate a simple, quick and reliable biochemical means of assessing a muscarinic agent's potency and penetration within the CNS.
Neurotoxicity of tryptamine-4,5-dione (4,5-DKT), a partially oxidized form of serotonin, was assessed after microinjection into the lateral ventricle, hippocampus, or cingulate cortex of rats followed by Fink-Heimer staining for axon terminal degeneration. Intracerebroventricular injections of 4,5-DKT resulted in terminal degeneration which was most dense in layers I and III of insular cortex, layer I of cingulate cortex, and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Argyrophilic and probably degenerating neurons were most frequently subjacent to the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus, layers II, III, and IV of entorhinal cortex, and throughout the insula. Injections of 5-20 micrograms of 4,5-DKT directly into the hippocampus indicated that toxicity was dose-dependent. These injections produced axon terminal degeneration and neuronal argyrophilia in sectors CA1 and CA3 and in the dentate gyrus. Argyrophilic neurons were also observed in layers II, III, and IV of ipsi- and contralateral entorhinal cortices. Injections into anterior and posterior cingulate cortices produced degeneration in the caudate and anterior thalamic nuclei, and contralateral cortex. These results indicate that 4,5-DKT is a novel indole neurotoxin which exhibits a striking propensity for medial limbic system structures including some of those affected in dementia of the Alzheimer type.
We hypothesized that the afferent fibers in the ventral root of the rat are the third branches of dorsal root ganglion cells; these afferent processes in the ventral root are of varying length and end bluntly along the length of the root. In the case of an injury at either the central or the peripheral processes of the dorsal root ganglion cells in the neonatal stage, these fibers sprout at the blunt endings along the length of the ventral root. We cut either the sciatic nerve or the dorsal root on one side in neonatal rats. After the rats were fully grown, the number of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibers was counted in electron photomicrographs at multiple sites along the length of the ventral root. We observed a greatly increased number of unmyelinated fibers in the ventral root after the sciatic nerve had been cut at the neonatal stage. The magnitude of increase was more at the distal than at the proximal portion of the ventral root, suggesting that added fibers originated from the distal side. Neonatal dorsal rhizotomy, however, did not produce the same result. These results are consistent with our hypothesis that peripheral nerve injury at the neonatal stage triggers sprouting of the third branches of the dorsal root ganglion cells which end bluntly along the length of the ventral root in the normal animal.
The effect of lithium ion on the electrically stimulated 5-[3H]hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release from the rat hippocampal slices preloaded with [3H]5-HT was studied. Electrically stimulated [3H]5-HT release decreased when the slices were exposed to 5-HT in a concentration-dependent manner. Lithium (2.5 mM) did not affect [3H]5-HT release when added alone to the superfusion medium. However, the inhibitory effect of 5-HT (1 microM) on [3H]5-HT release was abolished by lithium. The results suggest that lithium may inhibit the regulation of 5-HT release via presynaptic 5-HT autoreceptors in rat hippocampus.
Much interest has been focussed recently on neuroactive peptides originally found in the peripheral nervous system, but now, increasingly, being shown to be present in considerable amounts in the mammalian CNS. One of these peptides, cholecystokinin (CCK), is present in large amounts in higher brain areas. Immunoreactivity to CCK has been demonstrated in the mammalian hippocampus and dentate gyrus, localised in nerve terminals, and increasingly this peptide is being suggested as having a role as a transmitter in the CNS. Generally, CCK appears to produce depolarisations of neurones: e.g. mesenteric ganglion cells, and hippocampal neurones [5], although the mechanism by which it does so remains unclear, there being reports of either a decrease in input resistance, an increase, or both.
The development of N-(1-[2-thienyl]-cyclohexyl)[3H]piperidine [( 3H]TCP) binding to phencyclidine (PCP) receptors in both brain homogenates and slices has been investigated in the rat. The specific binding sites for [3H]TCP in the homogenate were already detected at prenatal stages and steadily increased after birth. A similar developmental pattern was seen in the autoradiography of the [3H]TCP binding to the brain slice in which the distribution of the binding in the young is more homogeneous than that in adult. There was an increase in the Bmax without changes in the Kd of the [3H]TCP binding and there was no change in inhibition of the binding by TCP, PCP and D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate during postnatal maturation. These findings suggest an increase in the density with no change in the affinity of PCP receptors and the absence of a change in the interaction between the PCP and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the developing rat forebrain.
In the present study, Dynorphin A(1-8) (DYN)-immunoreactive cell bodies, dendrites and terminals are observed postsynaptic to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive terminals in laminae I and II. With the demonstration of axosomatic, axodendritic as well as axoaxonic interactions, we hypothesize that CGRP-containing primary afferent terminals can effect processing at the level of the cell body (possibly influencing the manufacture of DYN and/or the firing rate of DYN-containing cells) and also modulate the output of DYN terminals in laminae I and II of the monkey dorsal horn. These structural relationships may play an important role in the processing of noxious input at the spinal cord level.

Cocaine binds with high affinity to the dopamine transporter in both the striatum and the nucleus accumbens. We examined Na(+)-dependent [3H]cocaine binding, mazindol inhibition of [3H]cocaine binding and cocaine inhibition of [3H]dopamine uptake in both rat brain areas. The striatum and nucleus accumbens demonstrated Na(+)-dependent [3H]cocaine binding with similar densities. Mazindol inhibited [3H]cocaine binding with a similar IC50 in both the striatum and nucleus accumbens. Likewise, cocaine inhibited [3H]dopamine uptake in both brain regions with equivalent efficacy. From these data we conclude that the dopamine transporter is similar in both the striatum and nucleus accumbens.


Radiation inactivation technique has been used to measure the molecular sizes of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and the sigma recognition site. Target size analysis of [3H]MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate) binding to the NMDA receptor channel complex in rat cortical membranes has given a molecular size of 128,000 +/- 9,000 Da. This is in contrast to the target size of the sigma site in the same tissue as labelled by [3H]DTG (ditolylguanidine), giving a value of 36,000 +/- 2,900 Da. These studies have provided evidence for a clear difference in the molecular sizes of these two recognition sites.
The effects of intracerebroventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) on sodium-sensitive [3H]mazindol binding were investigated in the rat hypothalamus and corpus striatum. In the hypothalamus, specific [3H]mazindol binding was inhibited by low concentrations of sodium and stimulated by high-sodium concentrations, whereas in the corpus striatum, only a sodium-dependent stimulation of [3H]mazindol binding was observed. Lesions with 6-OHDA significantly reduced sodium-dependent [3H]mazindol binding in the corpus striatum, but had no effect on the binding of [3H]mazindol in the absence of sodium. Lesions of serotonergic neurons with 5,7-DHT, however, had no effect on [3H]mazindol binding in the striatum, but resulted in a significant increase in the number of [3H]mazindol binding sites in the hypothalamus. These data suggest that [3H]mazindol may bind to two anatomically distinct binding sites, one that is stimulated and the other inhibited by sodium. The sodium-stimulated binding sites appear to be located on dopaminergic terminals in the striatum, and in the hypothalamus, the sodium-inhibited sites appear to be regulated by serotonergic neuronal activity.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity (SPI) was observed in many axonal profiles within the gracile nucleus and fasciculus of 13-month-old mice. No SPI, however, was detected in the gracile nucleus and fasciculus in 3- and 6-month-old mice. The results suggest that the accumulation of SPI elements in axons of the gracile nucleus and fasciculus is one of the age-related changes in the central nervous system.
A 53-year-old woman with a history of chronic abuse of &quot;crack&quot; cocaine developed isolated complex partial status epilepticus after 3 days of frequent cocaine use. The electroencephalogram demonstrated focal epileptiform activity. Follow-up for 1 year during which she reported continuous abstinence from cocaine and anti-convulsants revealed no recurrence of seizures.
Bernhard von Gudden's life is commemorated as being exemplary for a generation of physicians who in the last century established some of the still valid approaches of modern neuroanatomy, neurology, and psychiatry. His personal contribution to neuroanatomy was the experimental method, major technical advances, and the clarification of the fiber course in the optic chiasm. As a psychiatrist he introduced the humanitarian principle of &quot;no restraint&quot; to German asylums. Although he did not attempt to develop a systematic nosology, he nevertheless founded an influential school of psychiatrists (eg, Forel, Kraepelin, and Nissl). For many years Gudden served as consulting psychiatrist to Bavaria's royal family and drowned together with his patient, King Ludwig II, whose sanity had been questioned.


myo-Inositol monophosphatase is inhibited by the arginine-specific reagent phenylglyoxal. The rate of inactivation is decreased in the presence of Pi, a competitive inhibitor of the enzyme. The effect of Pi is dependent on the presence of Mg2+, but is unaffected by Li+, an uncompetitive inhibitor. In the absence of Mg2+, the substrate, Ins(1)P, binds to the enzyme but is not converted into products, and affords only a small degree of protection against inactivation by phenylglyoxal. Li+ had no further effect under these conditions, but in the presence of Mg2+ caused a marked potentiation of the protective effect of substrate alone. In the absence of substrate, Li+ had no effect on activation by phenylglyoxal. Incorporation of 14C-labelled phenylglyoxal showed that inactivation was associated with modification of a single arginine residue per monomer in the dimeric enzyme. These findings support a mechanism in which Li+ inhibits monophosphatase by trapping a phosphorylated enzyme intermediate and preventing its hydrolysis.


1 Tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) is an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor which may have a greater therapeutic effect in Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD) than other cholinergic agents. This suggests possible non-cholinergic properties. We have therefore studied the effects of THA on the release of endogenous 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) from rat cortical prisms and dopamine from striatal prisms. 2 In the presence of K+ (1 mM), THA stimulated release of both 5-HT and dopamine. THA (100 microM)-evoked monoamine release was comparable, but not additive with the release produced by K+ (35 mM). The effect was not maximal at 1 mM THA. THA-evoked release of 5-HT was independent of the presence of Ca2+ in the external medium. 3 Drugs acting on the cholinergic system, nicotine, mecamylamine, atropine, oxotremorine, physostigmine and neostigmine (all 10 microM) had no effect on 5-HT and dopamine-release. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP), a potent acetylcholine-releasing agent, had no effect on 5-HT release and was approximately 100 fold less active than THA on dopamine release. 4 Both THA and reserpine enhanced the release of 5-HT in the presence of the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, pargyline. Reserpine- but not THA-evoked release was abolished in the absence of pargyline. Reserpine (5 mg kg-1, i.p.) markedly depleted brain monoamine concentrations 3 h after injection, while THA (15 mg kg-1, i.p.) had no effect. 5 Chloroamphetamine and fenfluramine both released 5-HT in a Ca2(+)-independent manner and with a similar potency to THA, while (+)-amphetamine released dopamine with a similar potency to THA. The effects of the amphetamines were not maximal at 1 mM. However, unlike THA, chloroamphetamine-evoked release of 5-HT was additive with release evoked by K+ (35 mM). 6 Clomipramine (IC50 = 0.036 microM) and THA (IC50 = 19.9 microM) all inhibited the uptake of [3H]-5-HT into a P2 membrane preparation. However, none of these compounds inhibited [3H]-5-HT uptake into tissue prisms during the release experiments in which the reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (5 microM) was present. 7 We conclude that THA does not release endogenous 5-HT through a cholinergic, reserpine- or amphetamine-like mechanism or through inhibition of reuptake. The possibility exists that the release may occur via blockade of 4-AP-insensitive K+ channels.


A new syndrome of 'pure agraphia for Kanji' is described in 3 Japanese subjects with lesions in the left posteroinferior temporal region. Kanji (ideogram or morphogram) can be compared with orthographically irregular or ambiguous words in some European languages, since it is impossible to write Kanji characters unless each one of them is learned and memorized. In contrast, Kana (phonogram or syllabogram) words are comparable with orthographically regular words or nonsense words, because the Kana writing system depends on strict phonological rules (almost one-to-one correspondence between syllable and syllabogram). We conclude that 'lexical agraphia' reported in European languages can also be observed in the Japanese language where it is expressed as 'pure agraphia for Kanji'. 'Lexical agraphia' is a useful concept with general application regardless of language system.
Fifteen minutes of bright, white light exposure at midsubjective night resulted in a marked increase in both the number and stain density of c-fos protein (Fos)-immunoreactive neurons in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). In all cells, peroxidase reaction product was confined to the nucleus. Most Fos-immunoreactive cells were concentrated in the ventrolateral third of the SCN, although a few immunoreactive cells were also observed diffusely distributed along the dorsal border of the nucleus and into the surrounding hypothalamus. Along the rostro-caudal extent of the SCN, the greatest density of Fos-immunoreactive cells was found at a level approximately 300-400 microns caudal of the rostral pole of the nucleus. The population of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the SCN lies within the terminal fields of both the retinohypothalamic and geniculohypothalamic tracts. In addition, a few Fos-immunoreactive cells were observed in the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus. The results suggest that retinal illumination induces transsynaptic c-fos expression in a select population of SCN neurons.
The effects of deep prepyriform cortex (DPC) kindling on the amount of proenkephalin and prodynorphin mRNAs, Met5-enkephalin (ME) and dynorphin (DYN) in rat brain were examined. Animals received electrical stimulation of the DPC until two consecutive stage 2 seizures (S2) or stage 5 seizures (S5) were attained. The proenkephalin mRNA and ME contents in the entorhinal cortex were increased 24 h after S2 and also 5 min and 24 h post S5. In the hippocampus, the proenkephalin mRNA level was reduced 24 h after S2 but increased 5 min and 24 h after S5. Elevated hippocampal ME concentration was observed 24 h after S2 and S5. Similarly, the ME level in the frontal cortex was increased 24 h after S2 and S5 but the proenkephalin mRNA content was only elevated at S5. In the striatum, the proenkephalin mRNA level was slightly increased 24 h after S2 and S5, but no change in ME content was found. The amount of prodynorphin mRNA in the hippocampus was attenuated only at 24 h after S5, whereas DYN concentration was reduced 5 min after S5. No change in striatal DYN concentration was observed despite a slight elevation of prodynorphin mRNA 24 h post S2 and S5. Six weeks after the last seizure, no difference in ME and DYN was found between kindled and control animals. These findings indicate that the enkephalin-containing perforant pathway in the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal region is particularly sensitive to electrical stimulations applied to the DPC. Its role and importance in the development of kindling are discussed.

An unusual case of temporal encephalocele is presented in this report. A large temporal mass was detected prenatally by ultrasound and following delivery by caesarian section. It was determined to be a large temporal encephalocele with extensive invasion into the subtemporal, facial and cervical regions. This case is presented because of the unique pathology of this congenital malformation and the extensive surgery that was required. The management and the clinical and radiological features are discussed.
Myotubes were isolated from enzymically disaggregated embryonic muscles and examined with light microscopy. Primary myotubes were seen as classic myotubes with chains of central nuclei within a tube of myofilaments, whereas secondary myotubes had a smaller diameter and more widely spaced nuclei. Primary myotubes could also be distinguished from secondary myotubes by their specific reaction with two monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against adult slow myosin heavy chain (MHC). Myonuclei were birth dated with [3H]thymidine autoradiography or with 2-bromo-5'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) detected with a commercial monoclonal antibody. After a single pulse of label during the 1-2 day period when primary myotubes were forming, some primary myotubes had many myonuclei labelled, usually in adjacent groups, while in others no nuclei were labelled. If a pulse of label was administered after this time labelled myonuclei appeared in most secondary myotubes, while primary myotubes received few new nuclei. Labelled and unlabelled myonuclei were not grouped in the secondary myotubes, but were randomly interspersed. We conclude that primary myotubes form by a nearly synchronous fusion of myoblasts with similar birthdates. In contrast, secondary myotubes form in a progressive fashion, myoblasts with asynchronous birthdates fusing laterally with secondary myotubes at random positions along their length. These later-differentiating myoblasts do not fuse with primary myotubes, despite being closely apposed to their surface. Furthermore, they do not generally fuse with each other, as secondary myotube formation is initiated only in the region of the primary myotube endplate.
The distribution of secondary myotubes and undifferentiated mononucleated cells (presumed to be myoblasts) within foetal IVth lumbrical muscles of the rat was analyzed with serial section electron microscopy. In all myotube clusters for which the innervation zone was located, every secondary myotube overlapped the end-plate region of the primary myotube. No secondary myotubes were ever demonstrated to occur at a distance from the primary myotube innervation zone. This indicates that new secondary myotubes begin to form only in the innervation zone of the muscle. Some young secondary myotubes made direct contact with a nerve terminal, but we cannot say if this is true for all developing secondary myotubes. Myoblasts were not clustered near the innervation zone, but were uniformly distributed throughout the muscle. Myoblasts were frequently interposed between a primary and a secondary myotube, in equally close proximity to both cell membranes. We conclude that specificity in myoblast-myotube fusion does not depend on restrictions in the physical distribution of myoblasts within the muscle, and therefore must reflect more subtle mechanisms for intercellular recognition.
The binding characteristics of CRF receptors in rat frontal cerebral cortex membranes solubilized in 1% digitonin were determined. The binding of [125I]Tyro-ovine CRF ([125I]oCRF) to solubilized membrane proteins was dependent on incubation time, temperature, and protein concentration, was saturable and of high affinity, and was absent in boiled tissue. The solubilized receptors retained their high affinity for [125I] oCRF in the solubilized state, exhibiting a dissociation constant (KD) of approximately 200 pM, as determined by direct binding saturation isotherms. Solubilized CRF receptors maintained the rank order of potencies for various related and unrelated CRF peptides characteristic of the membrane CRF receptor: rat/human CRF congruent to ovine CRF congruent to Nle21,38-rat CRF greater than alpha-helical oCRF-(9-41) greater than oCRF-(7-41) much greater than vasoactive intestinal peptide, arginine vasopressin, or the substance-P antagonist. Furthermore, the absolute potencies (Ki values) for the various CRF-related peptides in solubilized receptors were almost identical to those observed in the membrane preparations, indicating that the CRF receptor retained its high affinity binding capacity in the digitonin-solubilized state. Chemical affinity cross-linking of digitonin-solubilized rat cortical membrane proteins revealed a specifically labeled protein with an apparent mol wt of 58,000 which was similar to the labeled protein in native membrane homogenates. Although solubilized CRF receptors retained their high affinity for agonists, their sensitivity for guanine nucleotide was lost. Size exclusion chromatography substantiated these results, demonstrating that in the presence or absence of guanine nucleotides, [125I]oCRF labeled the same size receptor complex. These data suggest that either the guanine nucleotide-binding protein (Ns) is tightly associated with the CRF receptor after solubilization and is insensitive to guanine nucleotides, or that high affinity binding for soluble CRF receptors is not dependent on the coupling of a guanine nucleotide-binding protein. The solubilization of CRF receptors from membranes in digitonin should allow for the more complete molecular and functional characterization of CRF-mediated events and purification of the receptor.
LHRH and somatostatin or somatotropin-release inhibiting factor (SRIF) are produced by neurons whose cell bodies are located in telencephalic and diencephalic regions in the rat. Many, but not all, of these neurons project to the external zone of the median eminence (ME), where the peptides are released from the nerve terminals into hypophysial portal vessels. In the present study, we identified these neurons by in vivo injection of a retrograde tracer, the lectin wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), into the external zone of the ME. Subsequently, colchicine was given into the lateral ventricle 10-24 h after the WGA injection. The animals were killed 24-48 h after the WGA injection. Vibratome sections of the brains were stained for both WGA and LHRH or SRIF with a dual immunocytochemical technique. Approximately 70% of the LHRH neurons in the septum and the anterior hypothalamus and about 70% of the SRIF neurons in the medial preoptic area, the anterior periventricular area, and the paraventricular nucleus were double labeled, indicating that they projected to the ME. None of the SRIF neurons in the ventromedial and arcuate nuclei were labeled with WGA. Double labeled LHRH cells were either smooth and fusiform or spiny. WGA-accumulating LHRH or SRIF perikarya were intermixed with single labeled LHRH or SRIF cells, which apparently did not project to the ME. The results indicate that there are at least two populations of LHRH neurons in the preoptic-septal region and two populations of SRIF neurons in the medial preoptic and anterior periventricular areas and the paraventricular nucleus of the rat brain: one with access to the portal capillaries of the ME and, therefore, functionally related to the regulation of the pituitary, and another without access to portal capillaries, perhaps functionally related to intracerebral neurotransmission or modulation. Moreover, some hypophysiotropic LHRH and SRIF neurons may have axon collaterals reaching multiple targets within the central nervous system.
In immature rodent brain, unilateral intrastriatal injections of selected excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor agonists, such as N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), produce prominent ipsilateral forebrain lesions. In Postnatal Day (PND) 7 rats that receive a right intrastriatal injection of NMDA (25 nmol) and are sacrificed 5 days later, there is a considerable and consistent reduction in the weight of the injected cerebral hemisphere relative to that of the contralateral side (-28.5 +/- 1.9%, n = 6). In animals treated with specific NMDA receptor antagonists, the severity of NMDA-induced damage is markedly reduced. We have previously reported that the efficacy of potential neuroprotective drugs in limiting NMDA-induced lesions can be assessed quantitatively by comparison of hemisphere weights after a unilateral NMDA injection. In this study, we compared three quantitative methods to evaluate the severity of NMDA-induced brain injury and the degree of neuroprotection provided by NMDA receptor antagonists. We characterized the severity of brain injury resulting from intrastriatal injections of 1-50 nmol NMDA in PND 7 rats sacrificed on PND 12 by (i) comparison of cerebral hemisphere weights; (ii) assay of the activity of the cholinergic neuronal marker, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity; and (iii) measurement of regional brain cross-sectional areas. The severity of the resulting brain injury as assessed by comparison of hemisphere weights increased linearly with the amount of NMDA injected into the striatum up to 25 nmol NMDA. The magnitude of injury was highly correlated with the degree of reduction in ChAT activity (r2 = 0.97).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Androgens have been found to inhibit lordosis activated by estrogen treatment of ovariectomized female rats. In the present experiments, dihydrotestosterone propionate (200 micrograms for 3 days) inhibited the incidence of lordosis in ovariectomized females treated with estradiol benzoate (1 microgram for 3 days). This inhibition of lordosis was reversed 15 min after bilateral intraventricular infusion of physostigmine (10 micrograms/cannula), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, or carbachol (0.5 microgram/cannula), a cholinergic receptor agonist. This reversal of inhibition appears to be mediated by cholinergic muscarinic receptors since pretreatment with scopolamine (4 mg/kg, ip), a muscarinic receptor blocker, prevented the reversal of androgen inhibition by physostigmine. These results indicate that androgens may inhibit estrogen-activated lordosis through interference with central cholinergic muscarinic mechanisms.
The developmental potential of various teratocarcinomas of different origins was examined by making chimeras with mouse embryos. Of 7 teratocarcinoma lines examined, only 2 were found to contain stem cells having the ability to form live-born chimeras; one was experimentally induced OTTBALB-2 and the other was spontaneously occurring STT-3. The latter showed remarkable ability to colonize mid-gestational fetuses and adults. This result not only demonstrates that EC cells of male primordial germ cells have the ability to form viable chimeras but also suggest that this kind of tumor is a useful source of EC cells to make chimeras. The advantage of using pluripotent cell lines such as EC cells or embryonic stem (ES) cells as a vector for introducing foreign genes into mouse embryos was discussed in relation to the study on gene function and on gene regulation during development.
Accumulating lines of evidence indicated that glial cells play important roles in regulating the neuronal development. It has been reported by a number of authors that astroglia promote the survival of neurons and the neurite outgrowth by several diffusible factors and membrane-associated factors. In the present article, we have reviewed the astroglia-derived bioactive substances which possibly affect the neuronal development in the central nervous system.
The adrenergic innervation of the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) thoracic spinal cord was examined by means of peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical method using antisera directed phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase (PNMT). At light microscopic level the PNMT-positive profiles are seen as brown granules, presumably axon terminals, or varicose fibers. They are localized in the intermediolateral nucleus, central gray and the intermediate gray which connects the two. Occasional fibers are seen in ventral and dorsal horns. The descending adrenergic fiber tract is found in the lateral margin of the lateral funiculus. At electron microscopic level, the PNMT-positive presynaptic profiles exhibit densely packed small clear vesicles, a few large dense core vesicles and numerous mitochondria. They make synaptic contact with dendritic profiles (97%) and somatic profiles (3%) and demonstrate either symmetric or asymmetric synaptic specialization. The descending adrenergic fiber tract consists mainly of unmyelinated fibers and is located in the ventral half of the lateral funiculus.
Local cerebral blood flow was measured in five regions of rat cortex immediately following intravenous administration of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist muscimol. In contrast to recent observations, no increases in blood flow were found at either of the two time points analysed, and the data revealed that decreases in blood flow previously reported 30 min after muscimol treatment were in evidence as early as 30 s. These results are totally consistent with the conclusion that the overall effects of GABA agonists in the intact animal are to reduce blood flow in line with reduced metabolic demand in the neuropil. However, the heterogeneity of the reductions in cortical blood flow found here possibly suggests a biological role for vascular GABA systems in providing a mitigating influence on fluctuating tissue perfusion.
The ability of ventral inhibitory motor neurons of the nematode Ascaris to generate slow depolarizing potentials was investigated using intracellular recording and current injection. In quiescent cells, regenerative depolarizations with peak amplitudes of approximately 20 mV and durations of several 100 ms were evoked in response to brief depolarizing current pulses. Repetitive slow potentials were produced in response to sustained depolarizing currents in a threshold-dependent manner. Repetitive slow potentials also occurred spontaneously, exhibiting cycle periods of about 700 ms. The ability of inhibitory motor neurons to generate slow potentials was blocked by addition of Co++, Cd++, or other Ca-channel blockers to the saline but not by TTX or substitution of Na+ with Tris. The amplitude and duration of slow potentials were increased in the presence of Ba++, Sr++, and TEA. Spontaneous slow potentials exhibited characteristics expected of intrinsically generated oscillations, including frequency modulation by injection of prolonged offset currents, phase resetting by brief current pulses, and suppression by strong hyperpolarization. Slow potentials appear to be generated in the ventral nerve cord processes and/or cell body of the motor neuron, and they produce rhythmic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in ventral muscle cells. Slow potentials may therefore contribute to locomotory or other motor behaviors of the animal.
Abstract In a previous study, substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers were demonstrated in the pars distalis of the anterior pituitary in the monkey. The present work investigated their relationship with somatotropes. Pituitaries of Macaca mulatta monkeys were frozen, sectioned and double immunostained with antisera against substance P and human growth hormone. Substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers, with many varicosities, were found in close proximity to somatotropes. It is suggested that a direct neural factor may be involved in the regulation of growth hormone secretion.
In the cerebral cortex and caudate-putamen (CP) nuclei, neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivity is detectable within 1-2% of all neurons. The NPY-immunoreactive neurons are interneuronal and are believed to be mostly GABAergic in the cerebral cortex but not in the CP nuclei. Thus NPY and GABA may play different roles in the circuitry within these 2 regions. We tested this possibility by comparing the ultrastructure of NPY-containing neurons between (1) cortex (somatosensory and anterior cingulate areas) versus dorsolateral CP; and (2) GABAergic versus non-GABAergic NPY neurons within each area. Single coronal sections through the rat forebrain were dually labeled for GABA and NPY by combining immunoautoradiography with the immunoperoxidase method. NPY-containing neurons with or without GABA occurred throughout the rostrocaudal portions of CP and all laminae of somatosensory and anterior cingulate cortex. Comparisons between the areas confirmed that somata and terminals dually labeled for GABA and NPY were more prevalent in the cortex. NPY terminals lacking detectable GABA immunoreactivity also were found within the cortex, thus suggesting additional heterogeneity in cortical NPY innervation. The ultrastructural features of NPY perikarya in both regions were morphologically similar regardless of whether the cells also contained GABA. Most synaptic inputs to NPY neurons occurred at distal dendrites. In comparison to neighboring neurons, synaptic inputs to proximal dendrites and somata of NPY neurons of cortex and CP were rare, suggesting that fewer and weaker inputs may modulate the excitability of NPY-containing neurons. In both regions, nearly all NPY- and NPY-GABA-labeled terminals formed symmetric junctions suggestive of inhibitory action. The majority of these junctions were with dendrites containing neither NPY nor GABA. NPY terminals formed few contacts on proximal dendrites and somata of GABAergic neurons (8% of 179 contacts in cortex; 12% of 73 contacts in CP) which, unlike most singly-labeled GABAergic neurons, were sparsely innervated. Thus, NPY may play a more prominent role in modulation of certain GABAergic neurons than would be predicted by the observed frequency of NPY-to-GABA contacts in the two regions. One notable regional difference was the greater prevalence in cortex of axoaxonic associations between NPY-immunoreactive terminals and other terminals, some of which also contained NPY. These nonsynaptic associations may be involved in the modulation of (1) the release of NPY by another transmitter or (2) NPY's modulation of release of other transmitters in cortex.
Synapsin I, a neuron-specific, synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein, is thought to play an important role in synaptic vesicle function. Recent microinjection studies have shown that synapsin I inhibits neurotransmitter release at the squid giant synapse and that the inhibitory effect is abolished by phosphorylation of the synapsin I molecule (Llinas et al., 1985). We have considered the possibility that synapsin I might modulate release by regulating the ability of synaptic vesicles to move to, or fuse with, the plasma membrane. Since it is not yet possible to examine these mechanisms in the intact nerve terminal, we have used video-enhanced microscopy to study synaptic vesicle mobility in axoplasm extruded from the squid giant axon. We report here that the dephosphorylated form of synapsin I inhibits organelle movement along microtubules within the interior of extruded axoplasm and that phosphorylation of synapsin I on sites 2 and 3 by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II removes this inhibitory effect. Phosphorylation of synapsin I on site 1 by the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase only partially reduces the inhibitory effect. In contrast to the inhibition of movement along microtubules seen within the interior of the axoplasm, movement along isolated microtubules protruding from the edges of the axoplasm is unaffected by dephospho-synapsin I, despite the fact that the synapsin I concentration is higher there. Thus, synapsin I does not appear to inhibit the fast axonal transport mechanism itself. Rather, these results are consistent with the possibility that dephospho-synapsin I acts by a crosslinking mechanism involving some component(s) of the cytoskeleton, such as F-actin, to create a dense network that restricts organelle movement. The relevance of the present observations to regulation of neurotransmitter release is discussed.
Selective retrograde labelling with [3H]serotonin ([3H]5-HT) can be used to identify serotonergic cell bodies after specific [3H]5-HT uptake by the corresponding nerve terminals. In the present study, we demonstrate that autoradiography of this [3H]5-HT radiolabelling can be combined with immunocytochemical detection of endogenous serotonin, GABA or substance P on the same tissue section. The midbrain raphe serotonergic projections to the olfactory bulb and the spinal projections of medullary serotonergic nuclei were investigated. The specificity of retrograde labelling with [3H]5-HT was confirmed by immunoreactivity of the radiolabelled cells for serotonin, using an antiserum specific for formaldehyde-fixed serotonin. After spinal injections of [3H]5-HT, many retrogradely labelled cells in the medullary raphe were immunopositive for substance P, and a few for GABA. These results are in agreement with the available information on the co-existence of putative transmitters in the spinal projections of caudal raphe neurons. Therefore, autoradiography of [3H]5-HT retrograde labelling combined with immunocytochemistry offers a possibility to test the specificity of transmitter-selective retrograde labelling, to identify transmitter-defined neuronal interactions and to investigate the projection fields of multitransmitter containing neurons.
Writing a research proposal for a neuroscience nursing research project is much the same as writing a proposal for any other kind of research project. The same information is included in all proposals. Differences for the neuroscience nurse researcher include the nature of problems investigated (effects of various nursing care strategies on intracranial pressure, for example) and the nature of the target population, many of whom are cognitively impaired, very ill or both. More time may be involved in the collection of data from neurologically impaired persons than from normal persons.
The frequency and success rate of organ donation and transplant surgery has dramatically increased over the past several years. Since organ donors are drawn primarily from the traumatically brain-injured population this increase has a direct impact on neuroscience nurses. This article addresses the organ procurement process, nursing care of the organ donor and the interrelationship of organ donation and neuroscience nursing.
Cerebral vasospasm is currently recognized as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients surviving subarachnoid hemorrhage due to intracranial aneurysmal rupture. Effective management and possible prevention of the ischemic sequelae of vasospasm can occur if the clinical syndrome of vasospasm is detected in its earliest stages. This article acquaints the reader with the significant risk factors associated with development of vasospasm, the temporal profile of occurrence and the signs and symptoms of the clinical syndrome. A brief overview of some popular theories of vasospasm etiology and pathogenesis is presented. Additionally, a protocol for detection is provided incorporating the knowledge of population at risk, temporal profile and signs and symptoms of cerebral vasospasm.
Patients who have undergone unsuccessful medical treatment of trigeminal neuralgia may require some form of neurosurgical intervention. Injecting glycerol into the trigeminal cistern via the anterior percutaneous route has gained increasing acceptance as a method of relieving the excruciating paroxysmal pain of trigeminal neuralgia. The purpose of this article is to provide neuroscience nurses with an understanding of the rationale for selection of this particular procedure over other methods. The technique and potential complications will be briefly described. Nursing implications for the perioperative period will be discussed.
Aneurysm wrapping is an uncommon procedure used only when clipping or ligature is not feasible. This article contains a brief discussion of the various modalities of aneurysm wrapping in its early years, product options available today, characteristics and manifestations of intracranial aneurysms and a synopsis of the surgical procedure. In addition, perioperative nursing care is discussed.
Copper (6 ppm) was administered to pregnant heterozygous brindled and normal mice from 13 to 18 days gestation. The copper and zinc concentrations in the cerebrum, cerebellum, liver, and kidneys of mothers and their fetuses were determined. The placental concentrations in fetuses of heterozygous mothers administered copper were also determined. The heterozygous mothers had smaller numbers of live fetuses than the normal mothers, but had the same number as normal mothers when copper was administered. The hepatic copper concentration in the heterozygous mothers was lower than that in the normal mothers and was not increased by the administration. The body and tissue wet weights of all fetuses were unaffected by the maternal genotype or drinking fluid. The cerebral copper concentrations in hemizygous and heterozygous fetuses were increased by the copper administration but did not reach normal levels. The hepatic and renal concentrations remained unchanged. The cerebral copper concentrations in normal fetuses of both heterozygous and normal mothers were increased by the copper administration. The copper administration increased the copper concentrations in liver of normal fetuses of heterozygous mothers and in kidneys of normal fetuses of normal mothers. The placental copper concentration in hemizygous fetuses was higher than those in heterozygous and normal fetuses. These results suggested that oral copper administration to pregnant females could improve an abnormal copper distribution in hemizygous and heterozygous fetuses without affecting fetal growth.
A simple method of intravenous infusion of convulsant drugs (pentetrazol and bicuculline) into the tail vein of rats has been used to determine seizure threshold and construct log-dose seizure threshold response curves for several anticonvulsant drugs (diazepam, phenobarbitone, pentobarbitone, chlormethiazole and valproate). It has been shown that an index of the dose required to increase seizure threshold by 50% (TI50) can be obtained using small numbers of animals. The advantages of this method over that of the subcutaneous pentetrazol method are several: small numbers of animals required, speed and reproducibility. The data also demonstrate the concordance between TI50 values obtained using pentetrazol and bicuculline as the convulsant agent. It is suggested that this method can be used routinely in screens of anticonvulsant drugs thought to work through GABAergic mechanisms.
The effects of i.a. injected cholecystokinin (CCK)-octapeptide on pyloric and antroduodenal motility, measured with strain gauges and combined side hole-sleeve manometry, were investigated in 16 dogs in vivo. CCK-octapeptide (OP) induced strong pyloric contractions when injected into the pylorus (threshold of 2 x 10(-13) mol; ED50, 8 x 10(-13) mol). Similar responses were obtained in the distal antrum (threshold, 6 x 10(-13) mol; ED50, 3 x 10(-12) mol) and the proximal duodenum (threshold, 5 x 10(-13) mol; ED50, 3 x 10(-12) mol). The nonsulfated form of CCK-OP was about 2 to 3 log units less potent in eliciting these excitatory responses in the pylorus (threshold, 9 x 10(-10) mol). Atropine shifted the dose-response curve of CCK-OP in pylorus, duodenum and antrum to the right suggesting a neural action of CCK-OP. However, an excitatory effect of CCK-OP was still present after neural blockade with tetrodotoxin i.a. Therefore, there was probably a muscular as well as a neural site of action of CCK-OP in these tissues. Systemic application of the novel CCK-antagonist CR-1392 in a dose of 1.2 mg/kg i.v. plus 100 micrograms i.a. shifted the dose-response curve of CCK-OP 1 log unit to the right without affecting the dose-response curve to acetylcholine. This dose of CR-1392 did not interfere with the pyloric motor responses to duodenal field stimulation or to intraduodenal acid infusion. These results demonstrate the dual peripheral action on nerve and muscle of CCK-OP in the pylorus in vivo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol esters or diacylglycerols has been shown to modulate a number of ionic currents carried by Ca2+, K+ and Cl-. Recently, it has been demonstrated that PKC may be activated by cis-fatty acids in the absence of either phospholipid or Ca2+. We wished to determine if this new class of PKC-activating compound would also modulate ionic currents. To this end we applied the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique to N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. 2. Analysis of families of currents evoked under voltage clamp by depolarizing steps from a holding potential of -85 mV during external application of 5 microM-oleate (a cis-fatty acid) showed a 36% reduction of the peak inward current with no shift in either the peak or the reversal potential of the current-voltage relation and no alteration of outward current. 3. External application of the cis-fatty acids oleate, linoleate and linolenate reversibly attenuated voltage-dependent Na+ current with approximate half-maximal dose values of 2, 3, and 10 microM respectively. Oleate was approximately 2 times more potent when applied internally (ED50 = 1 microM). Externally applied elaidate (a trans-isomer of oleate) and stearate (a saturated fatty acid) which do not activate PKC, had no effect. Since cis-fatty acids are known to fluidize membranes, as well as to activate PKC, we sought to dissociate these functions by applying compounds that fluidize membranes but do not activate PKC: methyloleate and lysophosphatidylcholine. Neither compound affected Na+ current when applied externally at concentrations of 1-50 microM. 4. In contrast to cis-fatty acids, three classical PKC activators, phorbol-12.13-dibutyrate (PDB), phorbol-12.13-diacetate (PDA), and 1.2-oleoylacetylglycerol (OAG) were found to have no effect on the voltage-dependent Na+ current when applied externally at 10 nM-1 microM (phorbol esters) or 1-150 microM (OAG) for incubation periods up to 1 h. 5. External application of the PKC inhibitors polymyxin B, H-7, sphingosine and staurosporine blocked the attenuation of the Na+ current by cis-fatty acid in a dose-dependent manner, with maximal inhibition occurring at doses of 50, 10, 200 and 0.1 microM, respectively. The cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase inhibitor H-8 was much less effective in blocking the cis-fatty acid effect. Polymyxin B and staurosporine were more potent when applied internally. 6. Chronic (24 h) exposure to 1 microM phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (TPA) was employed to down-regulate PKC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We describe here the properties of tert-butyloxycarbonyl-Trp-Leu-Asp-Phe-NHNH2 (A-57696), a C-terminal hydrazide analogue of tert-butyloxycarbonyl-CCK4 (Boc-Trp-Met-Asp-Phe-NH2), at four cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor-bearing tissues, the guinea pig pancreas and gall bladder (Type A), guinea pig cortex (Type B), and NCI-H345 cells, a human small cell lung cancer cell line that expresses CCK-B/gastrin receptors. Using 125I-Bolton-Hunter-cholecystokinin octapeptide (26-33) (125I-Bolton-Hunter-CCK8) as the radioligand, A-57696 was found to be selective for cortical CCK-B receptors (IC50 = 25 nM), compared with pancreatic CCK-A receptors (IC50 = 15 microM). A-57696 behaved as a competitive antagonist in reversing CCK8-stimulated pancreatic amylase secretion and phosphoinositide breakdown. By Schild analysis, its Kd was determined to be 4.7 and 6.8 microM in amylase and phosphoinositide assays, respectively. A-57696 (100 microM) did not elicit gall bladder contraction, and it inhibited contractions induced by CCK8. The Kd of A-57696 at gall bladder CCK-A receptors was 19 microM. In contrast, A-57696 behaved as a partial agonist (80% of maximal CCK8 response) in stimulating calcium mobilization at CCK-B/gastrin receptors on NCI-H345 cells. A-57696 and CCK8 inhibited each other in calcium mobilization experiments utilizing the fluorescent dye Indo-1. Stimulatory actions of CCK8 and A-57696 were reversed by the CCK-B-selective (R)-L-365,260 (100 nM), whereas at the same concentration, the CCK-A-selective (S)-L-365,260 was ineffective. Binding studies using 125I-Bolton-Hunter-CCK8 and 125I-gastrin indicated that binding sites labeled by these two ligands displayed similar affinities for CCK8, desulfated CCK8, gastrin, A-57696, and both enantiomers of L-365,260. A-57696 represents a new class of CCK-A peptide antagonist at guinea pig pancreas a new class of CCK-A peptide antagonist at guinea pig pancreas and gall bladder. Its contrasting functional activities at guinea pig CCK-A and CCK-B/gastrin receptors in a human tumor cell demonstrate that, in addition to the previously described differences in binding specificity for selective agonists and antagonists, CCK-A receptors and CCK-B/gastrin receptors have different requirements for activation.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive glutamate receptors are known to be inhibited by 3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone (HA-966) and 7-chlorokynurenic acid (Cl-KYN), which act at the glycine-regulated allosteric modulatory center. In this work we show that, in synaptic membranes prepared from rat brain, Cl-KYN and HA-966 inhibit the binding of [3H]glycine. Moreover, Cl-KYN can also completely inhibit the binding of [3H]glutamate to the primary transmitter recognition site for the NMDA receptor, whereas HA-966 only partially reduces this binding. Cl-KYN also abolishes the binding of the NMDA receptor antagonist [3H]3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). In contrast, HA-966 increases [3H]CPP binding, affecting the affinity but not the maximal number of binding sites. This increase is inhibited by glycine and Cl-KYN. The binding of [3H] (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzocyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801), used as an index of NMDA receptor activation, is completely inhibited by Cl-KYN but only partially by HA-966. In addition, HA-966, but not Cl-KYN, increases the potency of CPP in inhibiting [3H]MK-801 binding. Our results demonstrate that Cl-KYN and HA-966 differ in their ability to modulate the NMDA receptor, perhaps acting at distinct but overlapping recognition sites. Furthermore, our results suggest that agonist and antagonist recognition sites of the NMDA receptor may be independently regulated by glycine and HA-966, which would result, respectively, in a positive and negative allosteric modulation of the NMDA receptor complex.
The effects of the putative, selective dopamine autoreceptor antagonist (+)-AJ 76 on yawning, penile grooming and mouth movements induced by small doses of apomorphine in male rats were examined. Yawning induced by 0.05mg/kg apomorphine was dose dependently blocked by (+)-AJ-76, significant decreases being observed at 0.86 and 3.5mg/kg of the drug. A dose of 0.86mg/kg (+)-AJ 76 caused a two fold shift to the right of the apomorphine dose response curve for yawning. In contrast, (+)-AJ 76 had no effect on penile grooming and vacuous mouth movements induced by small doses of apomorphine. This pattern of results is similar to that observed after bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the substantia nigra which also blocked apomorphine-induced yawning but spared penile grooming and mouth movements. Previous studies have suggested that (+)-AJ 76 is a selective dopamine autoreceptor antagonist that has little or no effect on behaviour mediated by post-synaptic dopamine receptors. Therefore, these data provide further support for the hypothesis that apomorphine-induced yawning is mediated by dopamine autoreceptors.
The formation of inositol phosphates, after stimulation of primary cultures of cerebellar neurons of the neonatal rat, in the presence of lithium chloride, by glutamate, carbachol, norepinephrine, histamine and Mg2+-free conditions, was measured by anion exchange high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with on-line radioactivity detection. All of the above agents caused a persistent, dose-dependent and calcium-sensitive preferential accumulation of inositol-4-phosphate, while the levels of inositol-1-phosphate were virtually unaffected. Agonist stimulation produced also a transient increase of a second peak which co-eluted with the standard for inositol 1,4-bisphosphate. However, no significant accumulation of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol-1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate was detected, possibly due to the fast kinetics of the metabolism of inositol phosphate. The results indicate that receptor-stimulated metabolism of inositol phosphate, in cultures of cerebellar granule cells, is due to a preferential hydrolysis of polyphosphoinositides and leads to the formation of inositol-4-phosphate through several calcium- and lithium-sensitive enzymatic steps.
We report a case of Balo's concentric sclerosis, a rare and acute variant of multiple sclerosis, which coexisted with an oligodendroglioma. The demyelinating lesion was clinically silent and was detected at necropsy. The pathogenesis of concentric sclerosis and the relationship of the demyelinating lesion to the evolution of the glial neoplasm is briefly discussed.
Current concepts in neurophysiology are discussed, with emphasis on neurotransmitters and electrodiagnosis. Specific neuronal mechanisms governing urine storage and expulsion are presented followed by clinical considerations of various neuronal dysfunctions.
11 tests were selected from two microcomputer-based performance test batteries because previously these tests exhibited rapid stability (less than 10 min, of practice) and high retest reliability efficiencies (r greater than 0.707 for each 3 min. of testing). The battery was administered three times to each of 108 college students (48 men and 60 women) and a factor analysis was performed. Two of the three identified factors appear to be related to information processing (&quot;encoding&quot; and &quot;throughput/decoding&quot;), and the third named an &quot;output/speed&quot; factor. The spatial, memory, and verbal tests loaded on the &quot;encoding&quot; factor and included Grammatical Reasoning, Pattern Comparison, Continuous Recall, and Matrix Rotation. The &quot;throughput/decoding&quot; tests included perceptual/numerical tests like Math Processing, Code Substitution, and Pattern Comparison. The output speed factor was identified by Tapping and Reaction Time tests. The Wonderlic Personnel Test was group administered before the first and after the last administration of the performance tests. The multiple Rs in the total sample between combined Wonderlic as a criterion and less than 5 min. of microcomputer testing on Grammatical Reasoning and Math Processing as predictors ranged between 0.41 and 0.52 on the three test administrations. Based on these results, the authors recommend a core battery which, if time permits, would consist of two tests from each factor. Such a battery is now known to permit stable, reliable, and efficient assessment.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) administered either systemically (IP) or centrally (ICV) suppresses several types of behavior in mice including exploratory locomotion, rearing and grooming. At doses equimolar to those active for CCK-8, neither desulfated CCK-8 (CCK-8-DS), nor the protected C-terminus tetrapeptide fragment, BOC-CCK-4, is behaviorally active when administered either centrally or systemically. A potent and selective antagonist to the peripheral type (Type A) CCK receptor, A-65186, when given systemically, blocked the effects of systemically administered CCK-8, but failed to block the effects of ICV administered CCK-8. Central administration of A-65186 blocked the effects of ICV administered CCK-8. These results demonstrate that administration of exogenous CCK-8 to mice can suppress exploratory locomotion by acting either centrally or peripherally and that in either case the demonstrated behavioral effects are mediated via a &quot;peripheral&quot; type (Type A) CCK receptor.
Lick sensors can be valuable tools in behavioral and neuroscience research on licking and drinking behavior. The focus of this discussion is the recording of licking in the rat. However, comments on the application of these sensors to the measuring of fluid intake are included as well. Lick sensors should be used with adequate precautions. Some constraint on the access of the animal to the drinking tube is necessary for the adequate recording of each single lick. Published drawbacks to the use of electrically operated lick sensors are discussed, and reduced to realistic proportions. With these latter sensors one can obtain behavioral and electrophysiological data that are directly related to the time of making and breaking contact of the tongue with the fluid that is drunk.
Recent observations on the steroid synthetic capability within the brain open the possibility that benzodiazepines may influence steroid synthesis in nervous tissue through interactions with peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites, which are highly expressed in steroidogenic cells and associated with the outer mitochondrial membrane. To examine this possibility nine molecules that exhibit a greater than 10,000-fold difference in their affinities for peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites were tested for their effects on a well-established steroidogenic model system, the Y-1 mouse adrenal tumor cell line. 4'-Chlorodiazepam, PK 11195, and PK 14067 stimulated steroid production by 2-fold in Y-1 cells, whereas diazepam, flunitrazepam, zolpidem, and PK 14068 displayed a lower (1.2- to 1.5-fold) maximal stimulation. In contrast, clonazepam and flumazenil did not stimulate steroid synthesis. The potencies of these compounds to inhibit 3H-labeled PK 11195 binding to peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites correlated (r = 0.985) with their potencies to stimulate steroid production. Similar findings were observed in bovine and rat adrenocortical cell preparations. These results suggest that ligands of the peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition site acting on this mitochondrial receptor can enhance steroid production. This action may contribute specificity to the pharmacological profile of drugs preferentially acting on the benzodiazepine recognition site associated with the outer membrane of certain mitochondrial populations.
The binding of 3H-spiperone to human peripheral lymphocytes (PBL) was characterized. The (+)-butaclamol displaceable binding of 3H-spiperone was not saturable, and both (+) and (-)-butaclamol were equally potent in displacing 3H-spiperone binding. We did not find evidence for the existence of a high-affinity specific binding site of 3H-spiperone on human PBL.
A culturally adapted Chinese version of the Blessed-Roth Information-Memory-Concentration test (CIMC) was used in a dementia screening survey of a probability sample of 5,055 elderly Shanghai residents. The individual items on the CIMC that best predicted the overall score were similar to the best predictor of an American version of the IMC. Performance on the CIMC was markedly affected by the level of education or lack thereof. In a subsample for whom clinical diagnoses were obtained, it was possible to establish cutoff values on the CIMC by stratifying the sample according to education.
Rats exposed to 30 minutes of four-vessel occlusion reliably develop severe bilateral CA1 hippocampal injury; under certain conditions of radial maze training, such rats perform the reference memory component as well as controls yet perform the working memory component worse than controls. Reference memory is thought to depend on invariable and working memory on variable spatial information. We assessed the effect of training before ischemia. In Experiment 1, rats trained for 36 trials on 12-arm radial mazes before ischemia demonstrated a persistent impairment on the working memory task but eventually performed the reference memory task comparable to controls. Ischemic rats made more working memory errors as the number of choices increased. This pattern of working memory errors was similar to that in controls except, as expected, ischemic rats made many more errors. In Experiment 2, training for 80 trials before ischemia in rats decreased the severity of both the working and the reference memory impairment. Ischemia did not affect motor behavior in either experiment. These results characterize the working memory deficit in ischemic rats and demonstrate the importance of experimental factors, particularly in the design of treatment strategies to reduce functional impairments caused by ischemia.
Developmental changes in the concentration of putative amino acid neurotransmitters were investigated in the forebrain of prenatal and postnatal rats. Glutamate and aspartate, which interact with three-typed agonist sites of excitatory amino acid receptors, decreased until birth and then increased with maturation. Agonists for strychnine-insensitive glycine sites, i.e., glycine, serine and alanine, showed progressive decreases in the postnatal period. Although alanine rapidly decreased in preterm, there was no change in glycine and serine contents in this period. These developmental patterns of the compounds related to EAA transmission differed from those of inhibitory amino acid transmitters. GABA showed a steady increase during ontogeny. Taurine increased until birth and then decreased to the adult level. These results suggested that the ontogenic profile for EAA is different from that for the glycine receptor agonists and that other inhibitory amino acid transmitters develop with patterns different from those of amino acids related to EAAergic transmission.
Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of racemic baclofen (10-40 mg/kg), a gamma aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) Receptor agonist, increased striatal and hippocampal 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) accumulation after inhibition of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase. The baclofen-induced increment of 5-HTP accumulation in the striatum showed a much greater magnitude and longer duration than that in the hippocampus. In contrast, systemic application of baclofen (10-40 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to modify the rate of serotonin (5-HT) disappearance during inhibition of tryptophan hydroxylase in the striatum and hippocampus. Acute cerebral hemitransection decreased striatal 5-HTP accumulation and completely blocked the ability of baclofen to enhance 5-HT synthesis in the striatum. Furthermore, there were no changes in striatal 5-HTP accumulation after intrastriatal infusion of baclofen and GABA. These findings suggested that systemically applied baclofen facilitates in vivo 5-HT synthesis in the striatum via primarily stimulating GABAB receptors located in the extra-striatal area(s).
The gene encoding the E2 peplomer glycoprotein of coronavirus mouse hepatitis virus JHM strain (JHMV) has been inserted into the genome of Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis baculovirus (AcNPV) in lieu of the coding region of the AcNPV polyhedrin gene. This recombinant virus produced E2 protein in insect cells under the control of the baculovirus polyhedrin promotor. The expressed E2 protein was shown in size and antigenic properties to be similar to the E2 protein produced in mouse cells infected by JHMV. The expressed E2 protein was glycosylated and transported to the cell surface; however, no proteolytic cleavage was detected in insect cells. The sera from rats immunized with partially purified E2 protein derived from insect cells reacted in immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence experiments with the E2 protein produced in JHMV-infected mouse cells. The antiserum failed to neutralize the infectivity of JHMV. These results suggest that the E2 protein expressed by the recombinant baculovirus in insect cells is similar but not identical to the E2 protein produced in JHMV-infected mouse cells. The inability of the E2 protein expressed in insect cells to produce neutralizing antibody is discussed.
Polyclonal antibodies were raised against a synthetic decapeptide (designated S3) predicted from a segment of the alpha-3 subunit cDNA (amino acid residues 130-139) encoding the rat brain nicotinic cholinergic receptor. This segment was selected because it may be proximate to the nicotine/acetylcholine-binding site of the receptor (1). By radioligand binding assays and sucrose density gradient centrifugation, these monospecific antibodies were shown to inhibit the binding of [3H]nicotine to both the large molecular weight rat brain receptor (240 kDa) and to an SDS-disaggregated nicotine-binding subunit species (80 kDa), in a dose-dependent manner. The neutralizing effect of the anti-S3 antibodies supports the view that this region of the protein is closely related to the agonist binding site.
The primate visual system is adept at identifying objects embedded within complex displays that contain a variety of potentially distracting elements. Theories of visual perception postulate that this ability depends on spatial selective attention, a mechanism analogous to a spotlight or zoom lens, which concentrates high-level processing resources on restricted portions of the visual field. Previous studies in which attention was pre-cued to specific locations in the visual field have shown that the spotlight has a single, unified focus, even in the disconnected hemispheres of patients who have undergone surgical transection of the corpus callosum. Here we demonstrate that an independent focus of attention is deployed by each of the surgically separated hemispheres in a visual search task, such that bilateral stimulus arrays can be scanned at a faster rate by 'split-brain' subjects than by normal control subjects. The attentional system used for visual search therefore seems to be functionally and anatomically distinct from the system that mediates voluntary orienting of attention.

A ligand affinity matrix has been developed and utilized to purify the dopamine D2 receptor approx. 2100 fold from bovine striatal membranes. 3-[2-Aminoethyl]-8-[3-(4-fluorobenzoyl)propyl]-4-oxo-1-phenyl-1,3,8- triazaspiro[4.5]decan-4-one (AES) was synthesized and used to prepare the affinity matrix by coupling to epoxy-activated Sepharose 6B (AES-Sepharose). AES (Ki approximately 1.7 nM) is similar in potency to the parent compound, spiperone (Ki approximately 0.8 nM), in competing for [3H]spiperone-binding activity. AES has no significant potency in competing for the dopamine D1 receptor as assessed by competition for [3H]SCH23390 binding (Ki greater than 1 microM). Covalent photoaffinity labeling of the dopamine D2 receptor in bovine striatal membranes with N-(p-azido-m-[125I]iodophenethyl)spiperone [( 125I]N3-NAPS) was prevented by AES at nanomolar concentrations. The dopamine D2 receptor was solubilized from bovine striatal membranes using 0.25% cholate in the presence of high ionic strength, followed by precipitation and subsequent treatment with 0.5% digitonin. Nearly 100% of the [3H]spiperone-binding activity in the cholate-digitonin solubilized preparation was absorbed at a receptor-to-resin ratio of 2:1 (v/v). Dopamine D2 receptor was eluted from the affinity resin using a competing dopaminergic antagonist molecule, haloperidol. Recovery of dopamine D2 receptor activity from the affinity matrix was approx. 9% of the activity adsorbed to the resin. The [3H]spiperone-binding activity in AES-Sepharose affinity purified preparations is saturable and of high affinity (0.2 nM). Affinity-purified preparations maintain the ligand-binding characteristics of a dopamine D2 receptor as assessed by agonist and antagonist competition for [3H]spiperone binding.
HRP was applied to the tooth pulp of 8 cats. Six were subjected to postoperative administration of the anti-inflammatory drug, prednisolone, whereas the remaining two were not. In all prednisolone-treated cats, labeled neurons were found in both the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus and trigeminal ganglion, ipsilaterally. On the other hand, no labeled neurons were observed in the mesencephalic nucleus in cats receiving no steroid.
Glutamate immunoreactivity was examined in the sympathetic intermediolateral nucleus (IML) of the thoracic spinal cord using an antibody (Hepler et al., J. Histochem. Cytochem., 36 (1988) 13-22) to hemocyanin-conjugated L-glutamate and the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) technique. Glutamate labeling was seen in punctate varicosities throughout the IML, in IML neurons and their dendritic processes extending into the lateral funiculus, and diffusely in the IML neuropil. Glutamate labeling was unaffected by preabsorption of the antibody with a conjugate of L-aspartate (100 micrograms/ml) to bovine serum albumin (BSA), but was abolished by similar treatment with a conjugate of L-glutamate (1.7 microgram/ml) to BSA. Glutamate immunoreactivity in the IML was eliminated caudal to T3 spinal transection, while that in the dorsal horn was preserved. Ultrastructural examination of the IML revealed that glutamate was localized within round clear vesicles in axon terminals ranging in diameter from 0.6 to 2.5 microns, and containing several mitochondria, but no dense-core vesicles. Glutamate-containing terminals made primarily asymmetric synapses on small dendrites of IML neurons. These synapses were usually enveloped by processes of astrocytic glia which could also contain glutamate immunoreactivity. The findings provide an anatomic substrate for glutamatergic excitation of sympathetic nerve discharge through a descending spinal pathway terminating in the IML. These data support the hypothesis that sympathoexcitation elicited by stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla may be mediated by a direct glutamatergic pathway to the IML.

A monoclonal antibody against the slow isoform of chicken skeletal muscle Ca2+-ATPase recognises, in nervous tissue, analogous membrane proteins which are most concentrated in the microsomal fraction. Histochemically, the immunoreactivity of the antibody is restricted to neurones where the staining is most intense in cell bodies and dendrites, weak in axons and absent from cell nuclei. The expression of the antigen varies greatly between different neuronal populations and is developmentally regulated. The antigen is also axonally transported.
Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) from the mediodorsal (MD), ventromedial (VM), ventroposterior (VP) and intralaminar (IL) nuclei of the dorsal thalamus revealed a topographical pattern of efferents from the frontal cortex. MD injections labeled the midline and insular regions of the prefrontal cortex (Pfc), including the anterior limbic, and most ventral part of the precentral agranular Pfc, as well as the agranular insular cortex. VM injections labeled only the most dorsomedial part of the granular insular cortex, whereas IL and VP injections labeled the dorsal precentral agranular Pfc and a strip of cortex that extended laterally across the superior aspect of the forceps minor. The IL injections also labeled cells that extended ventrally into the granular and agranular insular areas.
Reanalysis of an Old Order Amish pedigree, to include several new individuals and two changes in clinical status, markedly reduces the probability of linkage between bipolar affective disorder and the Harvey-ras-1 oncogene and insulin loci on chromosome 11. This linkage can be excluded using a large lateral extension of the original Amish pedigree.
Phenytoin, a potent antiepileptic drug, has been thought to stimulate Na+, K+ transport across cell membranes, but its influence on (Na+, K+)-ATPase activity remains highly controversial. We have investigated the effects of the drug on the phosphorylation level of (Na+, K+)-ATPase partially purified from mouse, cat and human brain. (Na+, K+)-ATPase catalytic subunits [alpha(+) and alpha(-)] were resolved by sodium dodecylsulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Previous experiments had shown that phenytoin dephosphorylates the (Na+, K+)-ATPase catalytic subunit by +/- 50% in C57/BL mice. In the present study, we showed that phenytoin (10(-4) M) decreases the phosphorylation level of (Na+, K+)-ATPase catalytic subunit by the same value in cat and human cortex. Moreover, that effect is predominant on the alpha(-) subunit, thought to be the predominant enzymatic form in non-neuronal or glial cells. The results are thus favoring the hypothesis that phenytoin stimulates the brain (Na+, K+)-ATPase. They further suggest that phenytoin mainly activates the glial enzymatic form, providing central nervous system with an enhanced ability to regulate extracellular K+.
cDNAs containing the entire coding regions of the alpha and beta subunits of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) were isolated from a rat cerebrum cDNA library, ligated into an expression vector under the control of SV40 early promoter and introduced into Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. To investigate the role of the alpha and beta subunits and their functional domains in CaM kinase II activity, the properties of the kinases expressed in the transfected cells were studied. CaM kinase II activity was detected in the transfected cells when the alpha and beta cDNAs were introduced into CHO cells simultaneously. RNA transfer blot and protein immunoblot analyses demonstrated the expression of the mRNAs and proteins of both alpha and beta subunits in the cloned cells. When alpha or beta cDNA was introduced into CHO cells separately, a significant level of the enzyme activity was also expressed, indicating that the alpha and beta subunits exhibited enzyme activity individually. The apparent Km values for ATP and MAP 2 were almost the same for the alpha subunit, beta subunit, alpha beta complex, and brain CaM kinase II. However, there was a slight difference in the affinity for calmodulin between the expressed proteins. The alpha and beta subunits expressed in the same cells polymerized to form alpha beta complex of a size similar to that of brain CaM kinase II. The alpha subunit also polymerized to form an oligomer, which showed almost the same S value as that of alpha beta complex and brain CaM kinase II. In contrast, the beta subunit did not polymerize. The alpha subunit, beta subunit, alpha beta complex, and brain CaM kinase II were autophosphorylated with [gamma-32P]ATP in the presence of Ca2+ and calmodulin, which resulted in the appearance of Ca2+-independent activity. The Ca2+-independent activity was 60-75% of the total activity as measured in the presence of Ca2+ plus calmodulin. To examine the functional relationship of peptide domains of the subunits of CaM kinase II, deleted cDNAs were introduced into CHO cells and the properties of the expressed proteins were studied. In cells transfected with alpha or beta cDNA from which the association domain was deleted, a significant level of kinase activity was expressed. However, the expressed proteins showed hardly any autophosphorylation and the appearance of Ca2+-independent enzyme activity was very low, indicating that the association domain was essential for the autophosphorylation and for the appearance of the Ca2+-independent activity.
We have intracellularly filled the dendritic arbors of 996 midget and parasol ganglion cells with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in macaque and baboon retinas. Only minor differences in the properties of these cell groups were found between species. Ninety of these cells were cut from their retinas, embedded in methacrylate, and transversely sectioned. According to their depth of stratification, there are two types of parasol cells (termed a-parasol and b-parasol), and two types of midget ganglion cells (a-midget and b-midget). Each of these four types stratifies at a different level within the IPL. The dendritic fields of midget ganglion cells lie either near the border of the ganglion cell layer (GCL) or near the border of the amacrine cell layer (ACL). The dendrites of the two types of parasol cells stratify closer to the center of the IPL, where they divide it into three approximately equal parts. There was no vertical overlap in the dendritic fields of a-parasols and b-parasols; they were always separated by at least 1 micron. The border between the a- and b-sublaminae of the IPL, defined in terms of this narrow gap between the stratification of the two parasol cell types, lies approximately at the center of the IPL. The dendritic-field thickness for each of these types, on average, is no greater than 30% of the IPL thickness. At a similar location, there is no significant difference between the dendritic-field diameters of the two parasol types or between those of the two midget types. As previously reported (Perry et al.: Neuroscience 12:1101-1123, '84) the dendritic fields of both parasol and midget ganglion cells are smaller in the nasal retina than at a position in the temporal retina equidistant from the fovea. Because dendritic-field diameters prove to depend upon local ganglion-cell density, the scatter in these diameters as a function of retinal eccentricity is due in part to the asymmetric distribution of ganglion cells. We have devised a measure, termed equivalent eccentricity, that allows data points of cells from regions having the same local ganglion-cell density to be plotted at the same position on this scale. The use of this measure, rather than eccentricity per se, significantly reduces the scatter of dendritic-field diameters. The dendritic-field diameters of parasol cells within the nasal quadrant of the retina are not fully brought into line with those of cells lying elsewhere in the retina.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
N-Ethylmaleimide, an agent which alkylates free sulfhydryls in proteins, has been used to probe the role of sulfhydryls in kinesin, a motor protein for the movement of membrane-bounded organelles in fast axonal transport. When squid axoplasm is perfused with concentrations of NEM higher than 0.5 mM, organelle movements in both the anterograde and retrograde directions cease, and the vesicles remain attached to microtubules. Incubation of highly purified bovine brain kinesin with similar concentrations of NEM modifies the enzyme's microtubule-stimulated ATPase activity and promotes the binding of kinesin to microtubules in the presence of ATP. These results suggest that alkylation of sulfhydryls on kinesin alters the conformation of the protein in a manner that profoundly affects its interactions with ATP and microtubules. The NEM-sensitive sulfhydryls, therefore, may provide a valuable tool for the dissection of functional domains of the kinesin molecule and for understanding the mechanochemical cycle of this enzyme.
Activity was recorded from rubrospinal neurons (RSNs) in anesthetized, paralyzed, artificially ventilated cats. Multiple-unit microelectrodes were used to simultaneously record the activity of neighboring RSNs. When antidromically activated, the RSNs responded forming 'stacks' of superimposed spikes. By using appropriate collision tests, it was found that the spikes forming a stack arose from different neurons. In addition, single extracellular and intracellular recordings were obtained from RSNs. The changes in the axonal excitability of rubrospinal axons were tested following synaptically evoked (by contralateral interpositus (IP) stimulation) and/or directly evoked (by injection of current through the intracellular electrode) action potentials at different postspike delays. Subthreshold stimuli for antidromic activation in absence of orthodromic activity were well suprathreshold for most fibers in a wide range of postspike delays. The supernormal axonal periods were longer-lasting when tested after synaptic spikes (up to an average delay of 100.4 ms; range, 10-500 ms) than after directly evoked spikes (mean delay, 78.8 ms; range, 10-296 ms). If synaptic stimulation fires more RSNs than direct stimulation, then the longer-lasting supernormal periods might be due to the activity of adjacent fibers. An additional increase in external potassium concentration in the vicinity of the axon would explain these results.
The responses of CA1 neurons to topical application of serotonin (5-HT) and selective 5-HT1a and 5-HT1b agonists were examined with intracellular recording in the hippocampal slice. 5-HT produced a uniform hyperpolarizing response associated with an increase in K conductance as previously reported. In addition a marked reduction was recorded in slow afterhyperpolarization (AHP) which follows a burst discharge. 8-OH-DPAT, ipsapirone and LY165,163 partially mimicked the hyperpolarizing response to 5-HT when first applied to the slice. However, these 5-HT1a ligands antagonized responses to subsequent applications of 5-HT. Topical application of the 5-HT1b ligand TFMPP on the slice did not produce the direct or antagonistic action seen with the 5-HT1a ligands. It is suggested that the physiological response to 5-HT in the rat hippocampus is mediated by a 5-HT1a receptor. The currently available 5-HT1a ligands show a low agonist potential and a high antagonist action towards the responses of hippocampal neurons to 5-HT. Definite classification of the hyperpolarizing response to 5-HT awaits development of more specific ligands having a pure agonistic activity.


We hypothesize that color vision depends on random connections between cones containing different pigments and neurons at higher levels in the macaque visual system. This hypothesis predicts the same types and proportions of chromatic receptive fields reported in the physiological literature at least up through the lateral geniculate nucleus. The results suggest that the specificity of connections demanded by the labelled-line model of color coding are unnecessary to account for current physiological data.
A cDNA library prepared from the poly(A)-rich RNA of the chicken pineal gland obtained at night was screened with the 32P-labeled cDNA of arylamine N-acetyltransferase from the chicken liver recently isolated in this laboratory. Two positive clones (p-NAT-3 and p-NAT-10) that cross-hybridized with the liver cDNA were isolated. The cDNAs did not cross-hybridize each other under a high stringency, indicating that they corresponded to different mRNAs. When the cDNAs were inserted into an expression vector pcDL1 under the control of the early promoter of simian virus 40 and introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells, both cDNAs expressed arylamine N-acetyltransferase activity in the transfected cells. The nucleotide sequences of the cDNAs were determined, from which amino acid sequences were deduced. Both cDNAs coded for 290 amino acids. Similarities in amino acid sequences were about 60% between p-NAT-3, p-NAT-10 and liver N-acetyltransferases. Poly(A)-rich RNA blot hybridization analysis indicated that p-NAT-3 cDNA detected a 2.2-kb band with the poly(A)-rich RNAs from the brain, gut and, less intensively, spleen, liver and kidney, while p-NAT-10 cDNA hybridized only with the poly(A)-rich RNA from the kidney. Neither cDNA detected any hybridization band with the poly(A)-rich RNA from the pineal gland, suggesting that the contents were low. Genomic Southern blot hybridization analysis showed that p-NAT-3, p-NAT-10 and liver N-acetyltransferases were encoded in a separate single gene. The properties of the enzymes expressed in the transfected cells were compared with N-acetyltransferases from the pineal gland, brain and kidney. On a DEAE-cellulose column, the kidney and p-NAT-10 enzymes appeared in the effluent fraction, whereas the brain and p-NAT-3 enzymes were eluted from the column with a gradient elution at 0.08 M NaCl. The supernatant of the pineal gland obtained in the daytime showed two peaks appearing in the effluent fraction and the eluate fraction at 0.08 M NaCl. The substrate specificity of these enzymes were examined with p-phenetidine, 2-aminofluorene, tryptamine and phenylethylamine as substrates. All the enzymes preferred arylamines to arylalkylamines, indicating that both p-NAT-3 and p-NAT-10 cDNAs encoded arylamine N-acetyltransferases.
The main characteristic changes observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are the presence of neurofibrillary tangles and the deposition of amyloid A4 peptides. The most abundant amyloid A4 peptide species in AD (which we tentatively named A4') is composed of 39 amino acids, which is devoid of the 3 N-terminal amino acids, Asp-Ala-Glu, of the originally reported A4 peptide. We synthesized a model peptide substrate, Suc-Ala-Glu-methylcoumarinamide (MCA), to identify the proteinase that splits the A4' peptide. DEAE-cellulose column chromatography of rat liver and porcine brain extracts showed that only one peak material digested the synthetic substrate at pH 8. The results for the final preparation indicate that the Suc-Ala-Glu-MCA-degrading enzyme is a high-molecular-mass proteinase, with a molecular mass of above 500,000, and is composed of several low-molecular-mass subunits. These results suggest that a non-lysosomal multicatalytic proteinase (we named this enzyme ingensin (ingens = large in Latin). Ishiura, S. et al. (1985) FEBS Lett. 189, 119-123) catalyzes the above reaction. Antiserum against the purified multicatalytic proteinase, ingensin, crossreacted with the purified Suc-Ala-Glu-MCA-degrading proteinase. It is likely that ingensin shows a similar action toward amyloid precursor protein (APP) in vivo.
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity increased in rat septum 2 weeks after a transient forebrain ischemia. Extracts were prepared from hippocampus in which CA1 pyramidal neurons had been selectively destroyed by the ischemic insult. ChAT activity in septal neuronal cultures treated with these extracts for 6 days was significantly higher than that in control cultures.
The specific binding sites for strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine were already demonstrable at prenatal stages and had increased to the adult level by postnatal day (PN) 10. This ontogenic increase was found to be due to an augmentation of Bmax without changes in kd of the [3H]glycine binding. Moreover, there was no shift in inhibition of the binding due to glycine, D-serine, L-serine and HA-966 (1-hydroxy-3-amino-pyrrolid-2-one) after birth. These findings are consistent with the view that there is an increase in density in the absence of the glycine recognition site associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/ion channel complex in rat forebrain during ontogenic development.

Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3), a second messenger molecule involved in actions of neurotransmitters, hormones and growth factors, releases calcium from vesicular non-mitochondrial intracellular stores. An Ins(1,4,5)P3 binding protein, purified from brain membranes, has been shown to be phosphorylated by cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase and localized by immunohistochemical techniques to intracellular particles associated with the endoplasmic reticulum. Although the specificity of the Ins(1,4,5)P3 binding protein for inositol phosphates and the high affinity of the protein for Ins(1,4,5)P3 indicate that it is a physiological Ins(1,4,5)P3 receptor mediating calcium release, direct evidence for this has been difficult to obtain. Also, it is unclear whether a single protein mediates both the recognition of Ins(1,4,5)P3 and calcium transport or whether these two functions involve two or more distinct proteins. In the present study we report reconstitution of the purified Ins(1,4,5)P3 binding protein into lipid vesicles. We show that Ins(1,4,5)P3 and other inositol phosphates stimulate calcium flux in the reconstituted vesicles with potencies and specificities that match the calcium releasing actions of Ins(1,4,5)P3. These results indicate that the purified Ins(1,4,5)P3 binding protein is a physiological receptor responsible for calcium release.
Serum dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) activity was determined in male adult psychiatric patients (n = 280) and age-matched male healthy controls (n = 100). Patients included in the study had no history of previous or current exposure to psychoactive drugs and were diagnosed according to Research Diagnostic Criteria. A significant decrease in serum DBH activity was noted in patients with psychotic major depressive disorder (n = 50) as compared with controls. In acute schizophrenics (n = 100), nonpsychotic major depressives (n = 45) and patients with manic disorder (n = 85), mean DBH activity did not differ significantly from the control values.
We employed 6-fluorodopa to study the integrity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic projection by positron emission tomography in 4 subjects with clinical features of mild parkinsonism caused by exposure to manganese. The 6-fluorodopa scans were normal. This finding suggests that in early manganism sufficient to cause parkinsonian deficits, damage may occur in pathways postsynaptic to the nigrostriatal system, probably involving striatal or pallidal neurons. Fluorodeoxyglucose scans showed decreased cortical glucose metabolism, the significance of which is discussed.
John Hunter was undoubtedly aware of the water content of normal brain tissue, and described cerebral oedema. The advent of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) shed new light on brain water, and the derivation of spatial information and hence images from NMR signals, has permitted studies of regional brain water in man in vivo. The initial study described here tested whether NMR longitudinal relaxation time (T1) correlates with brain water content in the cerebral cortex and white matter in man, and significant relationships have been demonstrated in cortex (r = 0.65, P less than 0.002) and white matter (r = 0.94, P less than 0.0001), the latter having narrow 95% confidence limits. The residual variance allows the prediction of water content from the T1 of white matter, measured from the image of a single patient, with an accuracy of +/- 4% of total tissue water with 95% confidence. In the further study described, the effects of dexamethasone and an infusion of 20% mannitol on brain water content has been assessed in patients with intrinsic cerebral tumours. Dexamethasone had no significant effect on the T1 of normal brain, oedematous peritumoural white matter, or tumour tissue. It must be concluded that the water content of these tissues is not changed by dexamethasone and that the clinical improvement seen in patients with cerebral tumours immediately after dexamethasone has to be explained by some mechanism other than a reduction in cerebral oedema. Mannitol did reduce the T1 of oedematous peritumoural white matter, and the T1 of tumour tissue, but did not change the T1 of normal brain significantly. Thirty minutes after starting the mannitol infusion,water content of the oedematous white matter had been reduced by 1.4%. John Hunter studied the structure and social habits of the honeybee extensively for almost 40 years before he eventually published his findings. Steroids and osmotic agents have been used to treat brain oedema for over 40 years, but their precise mechanisms of action still require further elucidation. Magnetic resonance will hopefully continue to shed further light on this clinically important area.
Abnormal protein kinase C levels and protein kinase C-dependent phosphorylation are biochemical alterations in brain tissue obtained from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Because many biochemical and biophysical abnormalities are found in peripheral tissues of patients with Alzheimer's disease, we studied protein kinase C levels and the in vitro phosphorylation of proteins under protein kinase C-activating conditions in fibroblasts derived from patients with Alzheimer's disease. The concentration of protein kinase C-like immunoreactivity was reduced in Alzheimer's disease samples, although the protein kinase C activity determined by the phosphorylation of exogenous histone was not. The degree of in vitro phosphorylation of an Mr 79,000 protein in the presence of protein kinase C activators was less in Alzheimer's disease than in control fibroblast cytosol, and a reduction was more prominent in cases of familial Alzheimer's disease than in sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the aberrant phosphorylation mediated by protein kinase C is found not only in the brain but also in fibroblasts.

Estrous cycle-dependent variation in amphetamine (AMPH)-stimulated behaviors and striatal dopamine (DA) release were determined for freely moving rats undergoing intracerebral microdialysis. There was greater AMPH-stimulated striatal DA release in the striatum of rats in estrus, during the period from 20 min to 100 min post-AMPH, compared with the response of rats in diestrus (P less than 0.05). Animals in estrus also showed less general activity and greater intensity of stereotyped behaviors than did animals in diestrus (P less than 0.05). Independent experiments examining estrous cycle-dependent differences in AMPH-stimulated striatal DA release in vitro also found that AMPH-stimulated striatal DA release was greater on estrus than on diestrus (P less than 0.05). Thus, striatal DA release and behaviors induced by AMPH are modulated by ovarian hormones. The heightened responsiveness to AMPH during estrus suggests that estrogen and/or progesterone potentiate the striatal DA response to AMPH.
The influence of the centrally active 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) on the exploration of objects was studied in hamsters, using a radioactographic method. This spatial paradigm allows the study of the behavioural expression of underlying locomotor and cognitive (attentional, mnemonic, representative) mechanisms. The drug was found to enhance the cognitive components of the exploratory process, i.e. object-oriented exploration, habituation and, under certain temporal conditions, response-to-change, in a dose-dependent manner. Since drug-injected animals did not differ from controls when no object was present, 8-OH-DPAT probably has no role in non-oriented exploratory activity. The influence of time was further investigated by varying the duration of successive trials and intertrial intervals. In situations where the durations were extremely shortened (3-min trials/3-min intertrial intervals), drug-treated subjects, in contrast to control ones, exhibited a 'hypernormal' time course: they explored and habituated. 8-OH-DPAT appears to increase the efficiency of exploration possibly via a positive effect on arousal or attention. 8-OH-DPAT is assumed to act on 5-HT somatodendritic autoreceptors, lowering 5-HT utilization in the hippocampus, which is the main structure implicated in spatial memory. This exploration paradigm could be employed in the study of time components of environmental adaptation without the need to restrain subjects.
In human brain extracts, most proteins of pathological interest in Alzheimer's disease are insoluble and their analysis is often performed on denatured and reduced samples by immunoblotting after electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel in presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. Because we needed to accurately compare the concentration of several proteins in brain extracts to investigate the etiology of the disease, the quantitative aspect of immunoblotting was assessed and the results compared for a soluble component with those obtained by electroimmunoassay. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and Tau proteins were analysed by immunoblotting in brain homogenates treated with the Laemmli sample buffer from 10 control and 25 Alzheimer's disease brains. The linearity of densitometric measures of dilutions for one given sample was demonstrated. A 8 to 16-fold GFAP increase in Alzheimer brain was established. With regard to Tau proteins it was possible to show the presence of two pathological Tau variants (Tau 64 and 69) in all the Alzheimer brain homogenates, furthermore, the amount of Tau 64 and 69 was proportional to the presence of neurofibrillary degeneration. As far as alpha 1-antichymotrypsin is concerned, we showed, in a second set of brain samples (14 control and 12 Alzheimer brains), discrepancies between the results obtained by immunoblotting and by electroimmunoassay while for a given sample linearity of immunoblotting measures of dilutions of this sample was demonstrated. Quantitation by immunoblotting of such components which can be quantified using other procedures is uncertain whereas the interest of immunoblotting is undoubted for the insoluble proteins in the brain extracts.
1. Phaclofen and delta-aminovaleric acid (delta-AVA) have been reported to be antagonists at gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptors. Phaclofen, delta-AVA and related compounds were examined for potency and specificity at GABAB and GABAA receptors in rat cortical membranes labelled with [3H]-(-)-baclofen and [3H]-muscimol, respectively. Additionally phaclofen and delta-AVA were examined in two functional tests of central GABAB activity in rat cortical slices, namely the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation, and the potentiation of isoprenaline-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation. 2. delta-AVA (IC50 = 11.7 microM) was 20 fold more potent than phaclofen (IC50 = 229 microM) on GABAB receptor binding. All compounds possessing a phosphonic acid group, including phaclofen, which were active at GABAB receptors were inactive at GABAA receptors, while delta-AVA was equally potent at both receptors. Several compounds exhibited Hill coefficients of less than unity in displacing [3H]-(-)-baclofen binding. 3. (-)-Baclofen inhibited forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation (IC50 = 7.9 microM) but this effect was not stereospecific. Phaclofen (1 mM) was inactive against this inhibition but produced a potentiation of the forskolin effect. delta-AVA (1 mM) failed to antagonize the effect of baclofen; rather it mimicked baclofen. 4. (-)-Baclofen (10 microM) potentiated isoprenaline-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation, an effect antagonized by phaclofen (1 mM). delta-AVA (1 mM) may be a weak antagonist but also potentiated basal cyclic AMP accumulation. 5. We conclude that neither delta-AVA nor phaclofen are potent specific GABAB receptor antagonists.
Electrical stimulation of trigeminal afferents increases expression of preproenkephalin mRNA in neurons of laminae I and II of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis in animals sacrificed 6 hours after the end of stimulation. More neurons express, and positive cells express at higher levels. These neurons thus express the mRNA corresponding to a major pain-modulating neurotransmitter gene with significant input-related plasticity.
We argue against the dominant status assigned to conventional microscopy in the categorization of disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and ALS. As an example we criticize the emphasis that has been placed on correlating the presence of Lewy bodies with the diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. In essence, we submit that Parkinson's disease can exist without Lewy bodies, and Lewy bodies can exist without Parkinson's disease. Nevertheless, we consider that the newer techniques available to histology have led to an important concept that constitutes a shared feature for Alzheimer's disease. Parkinson's disease and ALS; they are all characterized by the deposition of cytoskeletal debris in tissue, so they may perhaps be collectively termed the &quot;Cytoskeletal Disorders&quot;.
The smooth muscle of the avian amnion is unusual because it is normally never innervated. However, as assessed by contractile response, this tissue expressed at least 11 different types of receptor for neurotransmitter substances including acetylcholine, norepinephrine, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, vasoactive intestinal peptide, urotensin II, neurotensin, and somatostatin-28. Three neurotransmitters, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and norepinephrine, each acted via 2 separate and antagonistic types of receptors. The amnion also responded to prostaglandin E2. On the other hand, the tissue did not respond to substance P or bradykinin, 2 peptides that are known to affect smooth muscle contractility in a variety of other systems. Studies with organ-cultured amnion demonstrated that the smooth muscle can be cultured early in development and will differentiate in vitro. Some, but not all, of the amniotic responses developed in a defined medium. The results indicate that this novel smooth muscle preparation will be useful for identifying epigenetic factors that control the expression of functional receptors.
We have used the quinacrine labeling technique and electron microscopy to study the development of the Merkel cell population in the skin of the rat and how this is affected by denervation produced at birth and at various times thereafter. An unexpected difference was found between the Merkel cells of glabrous and hairy skin. In the paw pads of rats aged 1 day or older the Merkel cells differentiated normally and survived quantitatively in the absence of their nerves. In the touch domes however, denervation at 1-4 days prevented the differentiation of the normal Merkel cell population and led to the disappearance of all or most of the Merkel cells that were already present. The Merkel cells in touch domes of the lower leg were affected by denervation like those of the back skin, differing strikingly from the Merkel cells of the footpads, even though the hairy skin of the leg and the glabrous skin of the foot are innervated by the same anatomical nerve. In adult rats, axons regenerating to denervated paws reinnervated epidermal Merkel cells of the pads and restored essentially normal mechanosensitivity to them; thus the Merkel cells of mammalian glabrous skin, like their counterparts in the wholly glabrous skin of lower vertebrates (S. A. Scott, E. Cooper, and J. Diamond, 1981, Proc. R. Soc. London B211, 455-470; K. M. Mearow and J. Diamond, 1988, Neuroscience 26, 695-708), can act as targets for ingrowing nerves. However, even though the differentiation of Merkel cells in hairy skin is nerve dependent, they probably have in common with the Merkel cells of glabrous skin the role of acting as final targets for nerves during development and regeneration.
Nerve water content and the permeability-surface area product (PA) to [3H]-or [14C]sucrose at the blood-nerve barrier were determined in unanesthetized control rats fed a normal diet and in rats fed galactose with or without an aldose reductase inhibitor (Statil or AL 1576) or a thromboxane synthetase inhibitor (CGS 12970). Nerve water content was determined by taking the difference between dry and wet weights of whole tibial nerves. PA was determined by an intravenous bolus injection of radiotracer with multiple-time-point graphic and quantitative autoradiographic methods. The mean nerve water content in galactosemic rats was 15% higher than in control rats after 7-11 mo on the diet. Statil and AL 1576 prevented nerve edema, but CGS 12970 was only partially effective in preventing an increase in nerve water content in galactose-fed rats. In galactosemic rats, the mean PA to sucrose at the blood-nerve barrier, calculated from nerve dry weight, was twofold higher than in control rats. Treatment with Statil, AL 1576, or CGS 12970 prevented increased PA. Our results suggest that nerve edema and increased blood-nerve barrier PA are secondary to polyol production and can be prevented by inhibiting aldose reductase.
126 patients with multiple sclerosis and normal visual acuity were submitted to a battery of tests of visual function. The investigation included visual evoked potential, contrast sensitivity by three methods, and a segment of the Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test. 22 of the patients gave a history of unilateral acute optic neuritis and in these the abnormalities were greater in degree. Contrast sensitivity emerged as the most useful test and was abnormal in 92.2% of eyes. Visual evoked potential was delayed in 35.6% and colour vision was abnormal in less than a third. In general, contrast sensitivity was depressed at all frequencies and most of the abnormalities could be identified by testing at a single frequency of 4 cycles/degree.
The purpose of this study was to learn whether enriched populations of corticotropes could be grown without the other pituitary cell types. Corticotropes populations were enriched to 80-90% by counterflow centrifugation in an elutriator with the Sanderson chamber. After initial separation into small, medium, and large fractions, the cells were stimulated for 3 h with 0.5 nM corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and then re-eluted to remove the enlarged corticotropes. More ACTH (6- to 10-fold) was released in media with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS) than was released in media with no serum. The effects of FBS could not be mimicked by 0.3% BSA. Corticotropes grew in serum-containing media as long as they were plated at a density of at least 2500 cells per well. The corticotropes expanded in size and assumed two major morphological subtypes. Both stored ACTH and beta-endorphin. One subtype was flattened and pleomorphic. The other subtype was stellate with multiple processes. Cell counts showed a 2.5- to 3.8-fold increase in the number of labeled corticotropes during the first 21 days of culture. Then the numbers of cells declined rapidly. Basal secretion of ACTH rose 1.6-fold during the first week, plateaued after 14 days and then declined to less than 30% of first week levels. CRH stimulation produced dose-dependent increases in media ACTH. In 7 day cultures, both basal and stimulated levels of ACTH were similar to those in 7 day cultures of mixed pituitary cells (containing equivalent numbers of corticotropes). Stimulatory effects of CRH were evident for up to 42 days of culture. Arginine vasopressin enhanced CRH-mediated secretion in most cultures in the first week. Pretreatment with glucocorticoids (100 nM corticosterone) for 15 h blocked CRH-mediated secretion in all cultures. The studies showed that corticotropes do not need the other pituitary cell types for basic plating and basal and CRH-mediated secretory responses. Further tests of specific growth factors are needed to learn whether they will maintain function for longer periods.
Peptidyl-glycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) is present in a variety of tissues, where it plays a vital role in the processing of numerous peptide substrates, often conferring bioactivity. PAM is present in high amounts in heart atrial myocytes and the pituitary gland, where activity is present in both soluble and membrane forms. We used AtT-20 cells, a mouse corticotrope tumor cell line, and primary heart atrial cultures to establish the occurrence of tissue-specific regulation of PAM expression. In the AtT-20 cells, PAM expression is regulated in parallel with the source of its peptide substrate, pro-ACTH/endorphin. PAM mRNA levels are increased to 132 +/- 5% of control values by treatment with (Bu)2-cAMP and decreased to 55 +/- 7% of control values by treatment with dexamethasone. Treatment with (Bu)2cAMP decreases PAM specific activity in the AtT-20 cells to 68 +/- 4% of the control value, presumably due to secretion of enzyme from the cells; dexamethasone treatment decreases PAM specific activity to 57 +/- 1% of the control value. In contrast, in heart atrial cultures, dexamethasone stimulates PAM expression. In atrial cultures exposed to dexamethasone for 48 h, PAM mRNA and PAM specific activity are elevated to 230 +/- 50% and 220 +/- 20% of control values, respectively; secretion of PAM activity is increased to 230% of the control value. As for AtT-20 cells, treatment of atrial cultures with (Bu)2cAMP increases PAM mRNA levels. Thus, PAM expression is regulated in a tissue-specific manner by dexamethasone in the two tissues examined. In AtT-20 cells, time-course studies and studies with cycloheximide indicate that dexamethasone exerts its effects on PAM mRNA levels by an indirect mechanism involving protein synthesis.
Both chronic exposure to ethanol and aging are reported to result in a loss of hippocampal pyramidal neurons and an elevation in plasma corticosteroid concentration. Aging has also been reported to result in a reduction in corticosterone receptors and corticosterone-concentrating cells in the hippocampus. Since these aging-associated effects have been hypothesized to be due to the cumulative exposure to corticosteroids over the life span, in the present studies, we investigated the hypothesis that corticosteroids play a similar role in the loss of hippocampal neurons during chronic ethanol ingestion. In contrast to our expectations, when a liquid diet containing either ethanol or sucrose was administered to male Long-Evans rats for 20-24 weeks, a period of treatment found previously to result in hippocampal neuronal loss, there were no ethanol-associated effects on the specific binding of [3H]-aldosterone to Type I or of [3H]dexamethasone to Type II receptors in cytosol derived from either whole hippocampus or dorsal versus ventral hippocampus. Allowing the rats to withdraw from the chronic ethanol exposure for 12 weeks also failed to reveal any ethanol-associated effects on corticosteroid receptor concentrations in the hippocampus. The basal morning concentrations of corticosterone in blood plasma were not affected by any of these treatments. In view of these null findings we next investigated the effects of aging on hippocampal corticosteroid receptors in male Long-Evans and Fischer 344 rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


The mathematical descriptions of normalized power spectrum density function (NPSDF) for rapidly estimating quantitatively the characteristics of frequency domain of neural spike trains were created and the efficient analytical method was thus established. All the tests and practical applications showed that the method reflects the frequency domain accurately and can satisfy most cases of the analysis in both frequency resolution and calculation speed.
The garland cell of Drosophila is a nephrocyte which takes up waste products from the haemolymph. Endocytosis is thought to occur by the pinch-off of coated vesicles from deep invaginations of the plasma membrane called labyrinthine channels. Electron microscopic studies show that the length of these channels is variable, depending on the relative rates of membrane pinch-off and reinsertion (recycling). Thus, in wild-type garland cells, if the temperature is raised from 19 degrees C to 30 degrees C, the channels shorten, because at high temperature the pinch-off rate exceeds the reinsertion rate. On the other hand, in garland cells of the temperature-sensitive, single-gene mutant shibirets1 (shi), in which endocytosis is reversibly blocked at the pinch-off stage at 30 degrees C, the labyrinthine channels elongate considerably, as membrane insertion proceeds while pinch-off is blocked. The rates of membrane pinch-off and insertion were quantitated in living garland cells by observing the changes in the capacitance of the whole cell membrane which occur as a result of changes in the total area of the plasma membrane. In wild-type cells, the capacitance gradually decreased as the temperature was raised to 30 degrees C, reflecting the shortening of the channels. In shi cells, the capacitance decreased between 19 degrees C and 26 degrees C but then began to increase at higher temperatures as the blockage of endocytosis caused by the shi gene took effect, causing the channels to elongate. The observations suggest that in shi cells the surface area of the cell more than doubles in 12 min by channel elongation. Estimates of the amount of membrane which is pinched off and reinserted were made.
Immunocytochemical methods, both light and electron microscopic, were used to identify the cellular and subcellular locations of octadecaneuropeptide-like immunoreactivity (ODN-LI) in rat brains serially sectioned in total. ODN-LI includes a newly discovered family of rat brain neuropeptides that are processing products of a common endogenous neuropeptide precursor, diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI). The members of this neuropeptide family have been shown to displace benzodiazepines and beta carbolines from their specific recognition sites located on the allosteric modulatory centers of GABAA receptors. We have previously examined the distribution of DBI-LI in rat brain. The anti-ODN antiserum used in this study does not cross-react with rat DBI, and thus allows a distinct analysis of ODN-LI as opposed to DBI-LI, in rat brain. Neuronal perikarya with ODN-LI were located in many brain nuclei, such as the pontine n., reticular thalamic n., subgeniculate n., supraoptic n. and suprachiasmatic n., and also in brain areas such as cerebral and cerebellar cortex, hippocampus, inferior colliculus, olfactory bulb and subiculum. In addition to perikaryal labelling, a punctate or diffuse immunostaining with ODN antibodies was detected in many brain regions such as cerebellum, hippocampus, amygdaloid area, olfactory tubercle, some of the deep cerebellar nuclei and some circumventricular organs. At the electron microscopic level ODN-LI was identified in neuronal perikarya, processes and terminals. In the axon terminals, ODN-LI appears to be associated with synaptic vesicles. Whenever ODN-LI was detected within neurons, DBI-LI was also found in identical cells. In addition to neurons, DBI-LI was found in glia or glial-like cells, while ODN-LI was not found in these cells. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that ODN may be a neuron-specific processing product of DBI and that ODN-like peptides may act as putative endogenous allosteric modulators of various GABAA receptor subtypes.
The antipanic efficacy of alprazolam and lorazepam was evaluated in 48 patients meeting DSM-III criteria for agoraphobia with panic attacks or panic disorder in a double-blind random assignment study. On the basis of rating scale scores, both drugs demonstrated similar efficacy in reducing panic attacks and phobic behavior compared with placebo baseline. The doses required to achieve response were approximately double those required for the treatment of generalized anxiety. These results suggest that most, if not all, benzodiazepines may be effective antipanic drugs at high doses. The implications of these findings for drug treatments of choice for recurrent panic attacks are discussed.
We have examined the number and distribution of dying cells in the developing inner (INL) and outer (ONL) nuclear layers of sectioned quokka retinae (N = 31) from embryonic day (E)24 to postnatal day (P)192. Before birth, dying cells were seen in the optic fissure. Thereafter two major phases of cell death took place in the INL. The first phase was more pronounced within the vitread part with peak numbers of dying cells at P50. By contrast, during the second phase, cell death was more extensive in the sclerad portion; peak numbers of dying cells were recorded at P85 and P100 for the vitread and sclerad parts respectively. At these stages, photoreceptors were seen in the INL suggesting that these ectopic cells contribute to the pool of dying cells. The pattern of cell death broadly followed a central to peripheral sequence in the first phase but, in the second, was seen initially in mid-temporal retina and then became panretinal. Dying cells were seen in the ONL but in smaller numbers than in the INL. There was a peak of cell death at P26 which may represent death of mitotic cells at the ventricular surface. In the quokka, retinal cell genesis takes place in two phases (Harman and Beazley: Neuroscience 28:219-232, '89). The two major phases of cell death described here peak approximately 40 days after episodes of maximal cell genesis. These findings, together with data for the mouse, suggest that a biphasic pattern of cell genesis and cell death may be a feature of eutherian as well as marsupial retinal development.
Visual processing was investigated in judgments of relative line position. Stimulus continua were generated by bisecting a straight line and displacing the segments. Experiment 1 measured discrimination of pairs of longitudinally displaced segments at equal steps along the continuum. At long (2 s) durations discrimination fell smoothly, but at short (100 ms) durations it was sharp-peaked. In Experiment 2 the short-duration stimuli were labeled with subsets of the labels no gap, just a gap, and more than just a gap. Theoretical discrimination performances were computed and the one based on no gap and just a gap closely fitted observed performance. Experiments 3 and 4 were similar to 1 and 2, with lateral replacing longitudinal displacement. Similar &quot;categorical&quot; performance was obtained. It was concluded that there are discrete mechanisms for early detection of relative line position and that 2 labels can be used to characterize performance in each direction.
We measured manual reaction time in normal human subjects to confirm that an eccentric visual signal has a biphasic effect on covert attention and eye movements. First, it summons attention and biases a saccade toward the signal; a subsequent inhibition of return then slows responses to signals at that location. A temporal hemifield dominance for inhibition of return was shown; this finding converges with observations in neurologic patients to suggest that it is mediated by midbrain pathways. Endogenous orienting of attention, from a central arrow cue, did not activate inhibition of return, whereas endogenous saccade preparation did so as effectively as an exogenous signal, even when no saccade was made. Inhibition of return is activated by midbrain oculomotor pathways and may function as a location &quot;tagging&quot; mechanism to optimize efficiency of visual search.
The whole cell patch-clamp technique, in both standard and perforated patch configurations, was used to study the influence of Na+-Ca++ exchange on rundown of voltage-gated Ca++ currents and on the duration of tail currents mediated by Ca++-dependent Cl- channels. Ca++ currents were studied in GH3 pituitary cells; Ca++-dependent Cl- currents were studied in AtT-20 pituitary cells. Na+-Ca++ exchange was inhibited by substitution of tetraethylammonium (TEA+) or tetramethylammonium (TMA+) for extracellular Na+. Control experiments demonstrated that substitution of TEA+ for Na+ did not produce its effects via a direct interaction with Ca++-dependent Cl- channels or via blockade of Na+-H+ exchange. When studied with standard whole cell methods, Ca++ and Ca++-dependent Cl- currents ran down within 5-20 min. Rundown was accelerated by inhibition of Na+-Ca++ exchange. In contrast, the amplitude of both Ca++ and Ca++-dependent Cl- currents remained stable for 30-150 min when the perforated patch method was used. Inhibition of Na+-Ca++ exchange within the first 30 min of perforated patch recording did not cause rundown. The rate of Ca++-dependent Cl- current deactivation also remained stable for up to 70 min in perforated patch experiments, which suggests that endogenous Ca++ buffering mechanisms remained stable. The duration of Ca++-dependent Cl- currents was positively correlated with the amount of Ca++ influx through voltage-gated Ca++ channels, and was prolonged by inhibition of Na+-Ca++ exchange. The influence of Na+-Ca++ exchange on Cl- currents was greater for larger currents, which were produced by greater influx of Ca++. Regardless of Ca++ influx, however, the prolongation of Cl- tail currents that resulted from inhibition of Na+-Ca++ exchange was modest. Tail currents were prolonged within tens to hundreds of milliseconds of switching from Na+- to TEA+-containing bath solutions. After inhibition of Na+-Ca++ exchange, tail current decay kinetics remained complex. These data strongly suggest that in the intact cell, Na+-Ca++ exchange plays a direct but nonexclusive role in limiting the duration of Ca++-dependent membrane currents. In addition, these studies suggest that the perforated patch technique is a useful method for studying the regulation of functionally relevant Ca++ transients near the cytoplasmic surface of the plasma membrane.
Carboxypeptidase E (EC 3.4.17.10) is a carboxypeptidase B-like enzyme associated with the biosynthesis of many peptide hormones and neurotransmitters. Media collected from cultured astrocytes contain a carboxypeptidase E-like activity. Cultured astrocytes secrete approximately 73% of their cellular level of carboxypeptidase E per hour, and secretion is not substantially influenced by 35 mM KCl. In contrast, neurons secrete only 29% of their cellular carboxypeptidase E per hour, but secretion increases to 86% on stimulation with 35 mM KCl. Secretion of carboxypeptidase E activity from both neuronal and astrocyte cultures is relatively selective; neither acid phosphatase or acetylglucosaminidase is secreted in appreciable amounts. Cultured neurons and astrocytes express a carboxypeptidase E mRNA of a similar size. The levels of this mRNA differ in astrocytes cultured from different brain regions, with high levels in striatal, cortical, hippocampal, and hypothalamic astrocytes and low levels in cerebellar astrocytes. The level of carboxypeptidase E mRNA in hypothalamic astrocyte cultures is four- to fivefold higher than the level in hypothalamic neuronal cultures. These results indicate that cultured astrocytes express carboxypeptidase E mRNA and enzymatic activity and thus contain one of the enzymes required in the biosynthesis of many peptide hormones and neurotransmitters.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE; EC 3.1.1.7) isoenzymes in gracilis muscles from adult Sprague-Dawley rats were studied 24-96 h after obturator nerve transection. Results show a selective denervation-induced increase in the globular G4 isoform, which is predominantly associated with the plasmalemma. This enzymatic increase was (a) transient (occurring between 24 and 60 h) and accompanied by declines in all other identifiable AChE isoforms; (b) observed after concurrent denervation and inactivation of the enzyme with diisopropylfluorophosphate, but not following treatment with cycloheximide; and (c) more prominent in the extracellular compartment of muscle endplate regions. Aside from this transient change, G4 activity did not fall below control levels, indicating that at least the short-term maintenance of G4 AChE (i.e., at both normal and temporarily elevated levels) does not critically depend on the presence of the motor nerve. In addition, this isoform's activity increases in response to perturbations of the neuromuscular system that are known to produce elevated levels of acetylcholine (ACh), such as short-term denervation and exercise-induced enhancement of motor activity. The present study is consistent with the hypothesis that individual AChE isoforms in gracilis muscle are subject to distinct modes of neural regulation and suggests a role for ACh in modulating the activity of G4 AChE at the motor endplate.
Cholinergic neurons from the septum area, the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, and the nucleus basalis of Meynert of postnatal 13-day-old rats were cultured with or without nerve growth factor (NGF) conditions. Total choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activities, acetylcholine (ACh) contents, and survival numbers of cholinergic neurons in culture from each of three distinct regions were increased by NGF treatment, but little difference was found in cellular ChAT activities and ACh contents obtained in cultures with or without NGF. The result shows that NGF promotes the survival of cholinergic neurons from 13-day-old rats. Furthermore, the release of ACh from cultured neurons was investigated. The cells cultured with NGF showed a larger increase of the high K+-evoked ACh release than those cultured without NGF. However, NGF had no effect on spontaneous release. This suggests that NGF could regenerate and sustain the stimulation-evoked release mechanisms of ACh in cultured cholinergic neurons from postnatal rats.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is selectively expressed in catecholaminergic neurons and in chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. Constructs in which 5' flanking sequences of the rat TH gene directed expression of bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) were transfected into cell lines and assayed for transient expression of CAT. In most nonexpressing cell lines, CAT levels were less than 5% of that found in a TH-positive pheochromocytoma line (PC8b). In two lines described here, a rat anterior pituitary cell line (GH4) and a rat fibroblast line (Fr3T3), CAT expression reached 12 and 20%, respectively, of the PC8b level. Greater than 90% of the PC8b activity was lost when sequences between -212 and -187 (in relation to the transcriptional initiation site) were deleted. Further deletions that removed the cyclic AMP response element (CRE) (-45) and the TATA box at -29 reduced transcriptional activity to background in all three lines. These data suggest that 212 nucleotides of the 5' sequence are sufficient for pheochromocytoma expression and that information between -212 and -187, which includes an AP1 site (-206 to -200), is essential for full transcriptional activity. In addition, sites for other protein transcription factors (AP2, POU/Oct, SP1, and CRE) reside between -221 and -38 and are largely conserved between the human and rat gene.
The possibility that an increased intracellular concentration of cyclic AMP (cAMP) can regulate the extent of muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide (PPI) turnover in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH was examined. Addition of either forskolin (or its water-soluble analog, L-85,8051), theophylline, isobutylmethylxanthine, or cholera toxin, agents that interact with either the catalytic unit of adenylate cyclase, cAMP phosphodiesterase, or the guanine nucleotide binding protein linked to adenylate cyclase activation, resulted in a 45-181% increase in cAMP concentration and a 27-70% inhibition of carbachol-stimulated inositol phosphate release. Through the use of digitonin-permeabilized cells, the site of inhibition was localized to a step at, or distal to, the guanine nucleotide binding protein that regulates phospholipase C activity. In contrast, when intact SK-N-SH cells were exposed to prostaglandin E1, the ensuing increases in cAMP were not accompanied by an inhibition of stimulated PPI turnover. These differential effects of increased cAMP concentrations on stimulated PPI turnover may reflect the compartmentation of cAMP within SK-N-SH cells.
Disturbances of pyruvate metabolism have been implicated in the aetiology of several neurological disorders including Leigh's disease and familial ataxia. We have re-investigated a patient whose initial description documented intermittent ataxia, a presumed disorder of pyruvate metabolism and an X-linked pattern of inheritance. Recent studies showed he had slow oxidation of pyruvate, low pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC) activity and immunochemical evidence of E1 deficiency in skeletal muscle mitochondria. This is consistent with the recent finding that the gene for E1 alpha is on the X chromosome.
Myelin basic protein (MBP) as a cause of postvaccinal encephalomyelitis (PVE) due to Semple rabies vaccine (SRV) has been suggested in previous reports. No actual measurement of MBP in SRV was done. In this study we detected MBP and PLP in the vaccine using immunological methods. The vaccine was found to contain 28 micrograms MBP per ml vaccine. Inoculation with SRV plus adjuvant resulted in the development of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in 2 of 3 guinea pigs. For control, chick embryo vaccine (CEV) was used and MBP was not detected. EAE was not induced in animals inoculated with it. These results suggest that MBP in vaccines may play a decisive role in the production of PVE.
An epithelial preparation of the bullfrog sacculus was used to characterize the initial rate of the adaptation mechanism in hair cells and its dependence on displacement and calcium. The I(X) curve relating transduction current and bundle displacement shifted along the X-axis without substantial change in slope, as previously observed, suggesting that adaptation involves a change in the attachment point of the elastic element connected to ion channels. If the &quot;tip links&quot; model of transduction is correct, this implies that one end of the link moves along the side of the stereocilium. The rates were highly asymmetric: in the tensioning direction the rate was roughly constant at 1-2 microns/sec (calculated as motion along a stereocilium); this is similar to that of myosin on actin. In the relaxing direction it appeared linearly dependent on tension. Calcium preferentially potentiated the relaxation, and apparently reduced the resting tension in the elastic element. The calcium site appears specific for calcium, as other divalent cations inhibited its action. Dihydrostreptomycin inhibited the positive rate, but its effect could not be explained by a simple channel block, and it seems inconsistent with screening of negative charge in the mouth of the transduction channel.
We have examined the impact of partial injury to central noradrenergic terminals on whole tissue norepinephrine (NE) content in hippocampus and on the concentration of NE and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in extracellular fluid of that structure (using microdialysis perfusion). Partial unilateral depletions of hippocampal tissue NE content were produced by administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (2-10 micrograms) into the dorsal noradrenergic bundle, and 2 weeks later microdialysis probes were placed in hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion. The resting concentration of NE in hippocampal dialysates was unaffected by the lesion unless the reduction of tissue NE content exceeded 50%. In contrast, the basal concentration of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in hippocampal dialysates declined in proportion to tissue NE content. Tail shock or local perfusion with excess K+ increased NE in dialysates from sham-lesioned animals and produced equivalent changes in NE in dialysates from animals with moderate (less than or equal to 50%) depletions of tissue NE content. No significant increases of NE in dialysates were observed in response to these stimuli in animals with depletions of tissue NE content greater than 50%. To the degree that transmitter level in dialysates is representative of extracellular transmitter concentration, the results suggest that compensatory processes exist by which a normal extracellular concentration of transmitter can be maintained under both basal and stimulated conditions despite the loss of up to one half of a neuronal population. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate in adult animals the distribution and differentiation of the synapses made by axotomized CNS neurons whose regenerating axons are guided back to their natural targets in the brain, we attached an autologous peripheral nerve (PN) graft 2-3 cm in length to the ocular stump of a transected optic nerve (ON) in adult hamsters, inserted the distal end of the graft into the superior colliculus (SC), and, 6-8 weeks later, labeled the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons that entered the SC with HRP orthogradely transported from the eye. By light microscopy, regenerated RGC axons extended from the graft into the retinorecipient layers of the SC for up to 500 microns, distances that approximate the lengths of normal RGC arbors. We compared 698 control and 758 regenerated HRP-labeled axon terminals from 4 intact and 4 experimental animals by electron microscopy. The structure of the regenerated RGC terminals, the type of synaptic contacts formed, the ratios of contacts to terminal perimeter, and the domains of the postsynaptic neurons contacted were similar to those of controls. These results indicate that regenerated RGC axons can form well-differentiated synapses in the SC. Morphological differences between the regenerated and control synapses were the larger size of some regenerated terminals, the greater mean length of the regenerated synapses, and the higher proportion of contacts with dendrites that contained vesicles. The synaptic differentiation attained by these reformed retinocollicular projections suggests that regenerating CNS axons and their target neurons in the adult mammalian brain may retain or reexpress certain molecular determinants of normal connectivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Knifefish of the genus Eigenmannia (Gymnotiformes, Teleostei) are seasonal breeders that spawn only during the tropical rainy season. Both sexes modulate their otherwise constant wave-like electric organ discharges (EODs) in the context of courtship and aggressive behavior by &quot;chirps,&quot; abrupt frequency modulations with brief interruptions. Play-backs of recordings of male courtship chirps can induce spawning in gravid females (Hagedorn and Heiligenberg, 1985). The EOD, produced by a specialized electric organ, is under the control of a pacemaker nucleus (Pn) in the medulla oblongata. Injections of HRP into the Pn label only a small cluster of cells bilaterally at the boundary of diencephalon and mesencephalon, constituting the prepacemaker nucleus, PPn (Heiligenberg et al., 1981). Microstimulation experiments have shown that chirp-like EOD modulations can be elicited from a subnucleus of the PPn, the PPn-C (Kawasaki and Heiligenberg, 1988; Kawasaki et al., 1988). By retrograde HRP labeling, we investigated the dependence of the PPn's morphology upon the sexual maturity of the fish. The most prominent effect was that, during the breeding season, females developed an abundance of &quot;varicosities,&quot; swellings 1-4 microns in diameter in distal regions of dendrites at a density of approximately 1/10 microns. In contrast to mature females, immature females had none or only a few varicosities. Such a clear correlation between the abundance of varicosities and relative gonadal weight was not found in males, most likely because testicular and dendritic development are not strictly synchronized. After the onset of the simulated dry season, however, relative gonadal weight, as well as the number of varicosities, was reduced drastically in both sexes. This reduction in the number of varicosities is accompanied by a decrease in their diameter. Varicosities may represent growing buds or regions of synaptic input from afferent areas or both. Reconstruction of individual PPn-C neurons showed maturity-dependent changes in the pattern of dendritic proliferation in females. Such dynamic changes in the structure of neurons might subserve seasonal modifications in an animal's propensity to execute specific behaviors.
The definition of visual areas is one of the central problems in visual cortex research. Rodent extrastriate cortex offers a striking example of the complexity of this issue, in that different parcelation schemes identify within it from 2 to as many as 13 separate visual areas. In the experiments reported here, patterns of connections within rat visual cortex were studied in an effort to better define its organizational layout. The experimental paradigm used consisted of the following steps: first, the pattern of callosal connections was revealed in vivo with the fluorescent tracer bisbenzimide. Then, using the callosal pattern as a landmark, single injections of WGA-HRP were placed at various sites in striate and extrastriate cortex. Subsequently, the relation between the tangential distribution of ipsilateral corticocortical connections, the callosal connections, and the borders of striate cortex were examined in the flattened cortex preparation. The experiments revealed widespread, patchy connections within rat visual cortex. These connections appeared to reflect 3 organizational trends. First, neighboring sites were more extensively connected than distant ones. Second, extrastriate sites receiving common striate cortex inputs tended to be interconnected. Finally, projections from opposite poles in striate cortex tended to form interdigitating patterns of connections in regions of overlap. Altogether these trends suggest that the extrastriate band adjoining striate cortex has a single, global map organization. However, within the global map, a clear modular organization was evident, which appeared to correspond to the multiple visuotopic representations reported for this region. Based on its location, and some organizational similarities. it is suggested that the global map may constitute the rat homolog of area V2 in cat and monkey.
Adrenergic innervation of epiperineurial arterioles and of the endoneurium of the tibial and vagus nerves of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive controls (WKY) was studied by glyoxylic acid-induced fluorescence and paraformaldehyde-induced fluorescence methods. Adrenergic perivascular innervation of epiperineurial arterioles in both nerves was denser in SHR than in controls. Mean density in the endoneurium also was higher in SHR in both nerve types. These results suggest that adrenergic perivascular innervation, which may influence nerve blood flow, becomes greater in density in peripheral nerves during chronic hypertension.
An examination was made of the effects of ganglioside GM1 (i.m.) on the losses of membrane fatty acids (palmitic, stearic, oleic, linoleic, and arachidonic), the plasma membrane enzyme Na+, K+-ATPase, and the mitochondrial membrane enzyme Mg2+-ATPase, associated with global ischemia 24 hr after permanent unilateral occlusion of the carotid artery in Mongolian gerbils. While there was a significant loss of fatty acids in saline controls, no loss was detected in membranes from GM1-injected gerbils. Rather, we found an increase in membrane fatty acid content, indicative of altered turnover. A 38% loss of Na+, K+-ATPase and a 36% loss of mitochondrial Mg2+-ATPase observed in membranes from saline controls was reduced in membranes from GM1-injected animals to losses of 15% and 8% respectively. These effects are further described by analyses of enzyme kinetics (apparent Vmax and apparent Km). After 1 week of storage, the activities of both membrane ATPases from saline controls decreased substantially more than from GM1-injected animals, suggesting that the GM1 membranes were better &quot;preserved.&quot; Since there was a minimal loss in protein content after 24 hr of ischemia, these results indicate that systemically injected GM1 may protect structure and function of plama membranes during the acute phases of ischemic injury.
We examined the metabolic disposition and brain distribution of an unsaturated fatty acid, [1-14C]arachidonate, between 5 and 240 min following its intravenous bolus injection in unanesthetized adult rats. Injected [1-14C]arachidonate was cleared rapidly from plasma, with less than 10% remaining by 2 min. Total brain radioactivity, 0.2% of the injected dose, was near maximal by 5 min, reached a peak by 15 min, then slowly declined. Radioactivity in brain lipids constituted greater than 82% of the total brain radioactivity at all times. Radioactivity in aqueous-soluble metabolites was greatest at 5 min (13% of total) and declined to 5% by 240 min. Protein pellet-associated radioactivity gradually rose to a peak of 7% by 120 min. Within the lipid fraction, more than 92% of radioactivity was in glycerolipids, with greater than 81% in phospholipids. Radioactivity in inositol phosphoglyceride was maximal at 5 min (47% of phospholipid radioactivity); and declined to 34% by 20 min, whereas radioactivity in choline phosphoglyceride peaked at 15 min (41% of phospholipid radioactivity) and was constant thereafter. In contrast, radioactivity in ethanolamine phosphoglycerides increased from 7 to 17% during the course of the experiment. Quantitative autoradiography of brain sections indicated incorporation of [1-14C]arachidonate into gray-matter regions was 1.5- to threefold that into white-matter regions. The data were analyzed in terms of a model for brain fatty acid uptake from plasma. Estimates of unidirectional transfer constants, k, for [1-14]arachidonate from plasma to brain regions with an intact blood-brain barrier ranged from 0.0005 to 0.0015 ml.sec-1.g-1 and were correlated with those for [9,10-3H]palmitate. The results indicate that brain phospholipid metabolism in awake animals can be examined regionally and quantitatively using intravenous injection of [1-14C]-arachidonate combined with quantitative autoradiography and biochemical analysis.
Spermatozoa from C57BL/6NNia mice (7- and 25-month-old males that produced offspring and 25-month-old males incapable of producing offspring which either mated or did not mate after being paired for 1 month with proven-fertile females) were tested in in-vitro fertilization studies. The 7-month-old males fertilized the largest number of oocytes (80-86%) in vitro and 79% of them subsequently developed into blastocysts in culture. Aged males which failed to mate fertilized the lowest number of oocytes (11-19%) with 48% developing to blastocysts. This group of mice had the lowest number of spermatozoa in the cauda epididymidis (3.2 +/- 0.4 x 10(5)/mg tissue) with fewer motile spermatozoa (22.3 +/- 5.1%) than younger males. The percentage of spermatozoa retaining their acrosome after 3 h in culture was higher in aged males which had not mated when compared to younger males that had mated. After 4 h in culture, however, the number of spermatozoa that had lost their acrosome was almost identical in the two groups. Superovulated mice which were artificially inseminated with spermatozoa from 25-month-old mice that had not mated did not become pregnant. Testosterone concentrations were lowest in aged mice not mating. These concentrations may explain the poor behavioural response of these males, but whether they account for the inability of spermatozoa to fertilize ova in vitro or in vivo after artificial insemination is not known.
To determine the true survival of an exogenous substance in the circulation, it is requisite to assess that of the intact molecules. We studied the survival of chicken transferrin (Tf) in murine circulating blood after i.v. injection. With the aid of polyacrylamide-gel isoelectric focusing, direct immunofixation and densitometry, degradation products of chicken Tfs were found, and the disappearance rate of intact molecules was rather higher than that obtained by the single radial immunodiffusion method. These results strongly suggest that the degradation products must be taken into consideration in studies on the clearance of proteinous substances.
The effect of centrally administered dermorphin and a series of dimeric dermorphin analogs on gastric acid secretion was studied in pylorusligated rats. Dimeric dermorphin analogs consist of identical peptide chains either directly linked with a dihydride bond or a polyethyleneamine bridge at their carboxy termini. At a dose of 0.5 nmol dermorphin, and the dimeric analogs di-[D-Arg2,Sar4]-tetra-DM2, di-penta-DM0, di-[Sar4]-penta-DM0, di-[D-Arg2,Sar4]-penta-DM0, di-[D-Ala4]-penta-DM0 and di-DM0, and di-DM0, inhibited gastric acid output in a statistically significant manner (P less than 0.05). Furthermore, the binding characteristics of these peptides for the mu-type opioid receptor were analyzed using a brain synaptosomal fraction. Dermorphin and several dimeric dermorphin peptides bound to the mu-receptor: di-penta-DM0, di-[Sar4]-penta-DM0, di-penta-DM2 and di-DM0, had 3-to 5-fold greater affinity for the mu-receptor than the specific mu-agonist DAGO. These data indicate that a correlation exists between the central mediated gastric inhibitory effect of DM and several dimeric analogs and their affinity for the mu-type opioid receptor in rat brain.
Possible effects of GRF on somatostatin neurons and of somatostatin on GRF neurons were examined by measuring the effects of localised intracerebral injections of these peptides on growth hormone (GH) secretion. Serial GH concentrations were measured in plasma in unanaesthetized male rats chronically prepared with venous and intracerebral cannulae, before and after treatment with bilateral intracerebral injections of somatostatin or GRF in the preoptic anterior hypothalamic area (PO/AHA) and medial basal hypothalamus. Injections of 0.1 and 1 nmol of GRF in medial basal hypothalamus or 10 nmol somatostatin in the PO/AHA, respectively, had stimulatory or inhibitory effects on GH, which were assumed to be due to diffusion of the peptide from the injection site to the median eminence and pituitary gland. Injection of lower doses of somatostatin around GRF neurons in the medial basal hypothalamus were without significant effect on secretion of GH, but 0.1 nmol somatostatin in the PO/AHA resulted in an increase in GH concentrations from 128 +/- 61 to 524 +/- 103 ng/ml, p less than 0.02. Injections of GRF in lower doses amongst somatostatin neurons in the PO/AH or amongst GRF neurons in the medial basal hypothalamus were both without effect on GH secretion. We conclude that somatostatin may stimulate GH secretion by an effect on or close to somatostatin neurons in the PO/AHA. Somatostatin, though present in terminals on GRF neurons, is without effect at this site in our model. Furthermore, we have been unable to demonstrate any significant intrahypothalamic effect of GRF on GH regulation.
Combined immunohistochemical labelling for neurons containing growth hormone (GH) releasing factor (GRF) or somatostatin and single labelling immunohistochemistry combined with Fluorogold retrograde transport labelling were used to examine whether somatostatin or GRF neurons might be reciprocally innervated. Occasional somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons in the periventricular preoptic area were found to be closely approached by GRF-immunoreactive fibres, providing possible evidence of scant innervation of somatostatin neurons by GRF cells. In contrast, many GRF-immunoreactive neurons in the arcuate nucleus appeared to have somatostatin-immunoreactive fibres closely applied to their perikarya suggesting that GRF neurons might be innervated by somatostatin cells. Combined retrograde tracing and fluorescence immunohistochemistry revealed few somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons doubly labelled following injections of Fluorogold in the basal hypothalamus. Occasional GRF-immunoreactive neurons in the basal hypothalamus were doubly labelled following PO/AHA injections of Fluorogold. Numerous somatostatin-immunoractive perikarya were observed in the periventricular arcuate region in colchicine-pretreated animals. We conclude that GH-regulating neurons do not have strong reciprocal innervation. The innervation of GRF neurons by somatostatin fibres may be derived from local somatostatin neurons.
Several controlled-release carbidopa/levodopa preparations have been formulated to achieve a more stable and extended antiparkinsonian action. The most effective is Sinemet CR (Sinemet CR4), with an erodible polymer matrix that retards release of levodopa. In 19 parkinsonians with prominent dose-by-dose fluctuations, double-blind crossover trials comparing 8-week regimens of standard carbidopa/levodopa (25/100) to Sinemet CR (50/200) showed comparable clinical outcomes, with mean daily dosing for optimal control reduced from 10.2 to 5.4 (although mean daily levodopa dosage increased from 1,340 to 1,781 mg/day). Most patients improved on the Sinemet CR regimen in hours &quot;on&quot; and in ratings of clinical state and disability. With pharmacokinetic studies correlated to clinical ratings, plasma levodopa was less variable during Sinemet CR treatment, and clinical responses showed greater uniformity. Compared to standard Sinemet 25/100, time to peak levodopa concentration (2.3 versus 1.1 hrs), onset of maximal clinical improvement (2.2 versus 1.1 hrs), and other indices were significantly delayed with Sinemet CR. Levodopa bioavailability and clearance were similar between formulations. Although onset of clinical response is slower, the Sinemet CR formulation lessens peak-dose and &quot;wearing-off&quot; responses occurring with conventional carbidopa/levodopa and offers substantial improvement for some parkinsonians.
The safety and efficacy of Sinemet CR were studied in an open-label, 52-week trial. The study was completed by 156 mildly to moderately ill Parkinson's patients (primarily Hoehn and Yahr stage II to III) at 10 sites. Patients had their treatment optimized on standard Sinemet prior to beginning Sinemet CR treatment. Following titration, there was a median reduction in dosing frequency of 25% (from 4.1 to 3.2 doses/day) relative to the standard Sinemet baseline. Total daily levodopa dosage increased from 623 to 808 mg/day (+33%), a factor consistent with the lower bioavailability of the controlled-release formulation. Mean efficacy scores on the New York University Parkinson's Disease Scale decreased from 7.4 at the end of baseline to 5.8 at 12 weeks, a decline of 20%. The scores remained at this level throughout 52 weeks of treatment. At the end of 1 year of treatment, 60% of patients rated themselves as improved, while physicians rated 64% of the patients as improved. Adverse experiences were similar to those reported by patients taking standard levodopa preparations. Two thirds of the reported adverse experiences occurred within the 1st 3 months of Sinemet CR therapy, indicating that increased length of exposure to Sinemet CR was not associated with an increasing incidence of adverse experiences.
Chick pineal cells contain circadian oscillators that regulate a rhythm of melatonin biosynthesis. We explored the role of cAMP in regulating this melatonin rhythm. Chick pineal cells expressed a 24 hr oscillation of cAMP efflux with a waveform similar to that of melatonin. Elevation of cAMP in chick pineal cells stimulated melatonin. These results suggest that an oscillation of cAMP regulates the rhythm of melatonin. We investigated whether cAMP was a component of the circadian oscillator by determining the effects of 8-Br cAMP pulses on the phase of the circadian melatonin rhythm. Six hour pulses of 8-Br cAMP did not cause steady-state phase shifts of the rhythm. The acute regulation of melatonin by cAMP, the 24 hr oscillation of cAMP, and the inability of cAMP to phase-shift the melatonin rhythm strongly suggest that cAMP acts as an output signal of the circadian oscillator.
Two cases of calvarial tuberculosis associated with neurological involvement are presented. The radiological features and therapeutic management are discussed and the literature is reviewed.
The prognosis for patients with nonseminomatous germ cell tumor of the testis is good, even when extensive metastatic disease is present, because this tumor is very sensitive to chemotherapy with cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin (PVB). If a metastasis occurs in the brain, however, the prognosis is poor because the blood-brain barrier limits the entrance of these drugs into the brain and creates a sanctuary for tumor. The current treatment for a brain metastasis is either standard PVB chemotherapy plus whole brain radiation therapy or a rigorous chemotheraputic regimen that penetrates the blood-brain barrier better than PVB. Surgery is seldom used for brain metastasis, largely because of the poor results with surgical debulking in noncentral nervous system disease. This is the report of a patient with disseminated nonseminomatous germ cell tumor and multiple large brain metastases, who was treated with surgery, PVB, and whole brain radiation therapy and cured. Evidence is presented to support a role for surgical debulking in patients with large brain metastasis.
The results of two field studies in painters and spray painters, the outcomes of examinations of workers with suspected work-related disease due to solvents, as well as data from an evaluation of an epidemiologic study in painters with confirmed occupational disease, are presented and discussed. The results of these studies and the experiences in occupational medicine in the Federal Republic of Germany do not support the assumption of high neurotoxic risks in solvent-exposed workers, which can be postulated from various epidemiologic studies from Scandinavian countries. Several factors may explain the different conclusions: 1) lower solvent exposures of German painters in the past decades; 2) false positive diagnosis of a toxic encephalopathy; 3) aetiological misclassification; 4) differences in legislation relevant for the acknowledgement of occupational diseases. In conclusion, there is a need for further well-designed epidemiologic studies in occupationally solvent-exposed workers. Suggestions regarding assessment of exposure and neurobehavioral tests are given.
Each of 12 subjects set a binocularly viewed target to apparent eye level; the target was projected on the rear wall of an open box, the floor of which was horizontal or pitched up and down at angles of 7.5 degrees and 15 degrees. Settings of the target were systematically biased by 60% of the pitch angle when the interior of the box was illuminated, but by only 5% when the interior of the box was darkened. Within-subjects variability of the settings was less under illuminated viewing conditions than in the dark, but was independent of box pitch angle. In a second experiment, 11 subjects were tested with an illuminated pitched box, yielding biases of 53% and 49% for binocular and monocular viewing conditions, respectively. The results are discussed in terms of individual and interactive effects of optical, gravitational, and extraretinal eye-position information in determining judgements of eye level.

The intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of oxytocin at doses between 5 and 100 ng induced repeated episodes of penile erection and yawning, while at doses between 100 ng and 10 micrograms it induced motor disturbances often culminating in barrel rotation in rats. The intensity of motor disturbances was inversely correlated to the number of yawning and penile erection episodes. Pretreatment with the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine (80 and 240 micrograms/kg SC) failed to modify the incidence of motor disturbance induced by high doses of oxytocin, but markedly reduced the intensity of the symptomatology in a dose-dependent manner. The present results suggest that high doses of oxytocin induce motor disturbances which mask penile erection and yawning, and that brain dopaminergic systems have a protective role against this symptomatology.
The relationship between adaptation to stress and change in sensitivity of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neuronal system was studied in rats exposed to repeated foot shock stress for up to 10 days. Although hypolocomotion, freezing behavior and loss of weight were observed after in the initial stress, relief from these behavioral changes developed by the 3rd and persisted for another 7 days, indicating the development of stress adaptation. Following an IP injection of 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT), rats exposed to the stress for 10 days, but not for 5 days, displayed enhanced forepaw treading, tremor and Straub tail compared to control rats. These results suggest that the hypersensitivity of the 5-HT system after repeated stress may be in part related to the neuronal mechanism of stress adaptation. However, since hypersensitivity was not observed after exposure for 5 days, when adaptation was maximal, it is proposed that the 5-HT system may participate in the maintenance of adaptation rather than its development. On the other hand, no change in 5-HT1, 5-HT1a and 5-HT2 receptor binding assays was found after chronic stress, suggesting that the hypersensitivity of 5-HT system may not be accompanied with changes in the numbers of 5-HT receptor binding sites. The results of beta-adrenergic receptor binding determined simultaneously were also discussed with reference to previous reports of stress-induced reduction in beta-adrenergic receptor density.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and restraint-stress both decrease exploratory behavior in rats and mice. The involvement of pituitary-adrenal hormones in eliciting these behavioral effects was examined using hypophysectomized mice. Forty minutes of restraint decreased exploratory behavior in hypophysectomized mice just as it did in intact animals. Similarly, CRF (50 ng) injected into the lateral cerebral ventricles of hypophysectomized mice decreased exploratory behavior. Therefore, the restraint- and CRF-induced decreases of exploratory behavior are apparently independent of the activation of ACTH secretion from the pituitary. It seems likely that CRF acts intracerebrally to elicit this effect of restraint, especially because a CRF antagonist can reverse the effects of restraint.
Rats were given continuous subcutaneous amphetamine infusions (0, 2, 6, 10 and 20 mg/kg/day) via osmotic minipumps. The effects of these treatments on the locomotor activity of rats were determined over both light and dark phases of a 12-hr light/dark cycle for 336 consecutive hours. It was observed that tolerance to the locomotor stimulant actions of (+)-amphetamine is both dose- and light/dark cycle-dependent. Locomotor stimulation induced by the two highest doses remained high during both day and night throughout the period of treatment, except for the first few days and nights with the highest dose. Tolerance developed only to the effects of the two lower doses, and only during the day. Effects of the low doses on locomotor activity and on circadian patterns of locomotor activity are roughly similar to those previously observed with continuous administration of a selective dopamine D2 agonist. This behavioral similarity suggests that dopamine released by continuous administration of low doses of (+)-amphetamine may be producing its effects via selective actions on DA D2 receptors in vivo.


We examined the idea that female hamsters kill and eat their own offspring as part of an organized mechanism that balances litter size with metabolic energy supply. In Experiment 1, females fed diets that made them lighter and leaner cannibalized more offspring and maintained smaller litters than females fed diets that made them heavier and fatter. A greater supply of metabolic energy from the diet and/or from body fat stores may have attenuated cannibalism in heavier mothers. In Experiment 2, food restriction during lactation increased the level of cannibalism to a greater degree in lighter, leaner mothers. Heavier, fatter mothers may have eaten fewer offspring because they were better able to mobilize fatty acids from adipose tissue as an alternative fuel source during food restriction. These results suggest that an important factor influencing cannibalism of pups is the general availability of metabolic fuels from both external (food supply) and internal (adipose tissue) sources.
Olfactory marker protein (OMP) genomic clones were isolated from a Charon 4A phage lambda rat genomic library. A 16.5-kilobase (kb) fragment of the rat genome containing the gene was isolated and characterized. Sequence analysis of the gene showed the absence of introns and the lack of CAAT and TATA boxes in the 5' flanking region. The transcription initiation site was mapped, and two sites 55 and 58 base pairs upstream of the ATG were observed. The 5' flanking region is rich in G+C residues and contains a G+C-rich motif as well as direct and inverted repeats. Functional OMP regulatory sequences were demonstrated in transgenic mice. An 11-kb chimeric gene was constructed in which the coding region for OMP was replaced with that for Thy-1.1. In Thy-1.2 mice carrying this transgene, Thy-1.1 was expressed solely by olfactory receptor neurons and their axons and terminals in the olfactory bulb.
Nitric oxide, which mediates influences of numerous neurotransmitters and modulators on vascular smooth muscle and leukocytes, can be formed in the brain from arginine by an enzymatic activity that stoichiometrically generates citrulline. We show that glutamate and related amino acids, such as N-methyl-D-aspartate, markedly stimulate arginine--citrulline transformation in cerebellar slices stoichiometrically with enhancement of cGMP levels. N omega-monomethyl-L-arginine blocks the augmentation both of citrulline and cGMP with identical potencies. Arginine competitively reverses both effects of N omega-monomethyl-L-arginine with the same potencies. Hemoglobin, which complexes nitric oxide, prevents the stimulation by N-methyl-D-aspartate of cGMP levels, and superoxide dismutase, which elevates nitric oxide levels, increases cGMP formation. These data establish that nitric oxide mediates the stimulation by glutamate of cGMP formation.
A variety of evidence indicates that activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM-kinase II) in nerve terminals leads to enhanced neurotransmitter release. Arachidonic acid and its 12-lipoxygenase metabolite, 12-hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-HPETE), have been suggested to act as second messengers mediating presynaptic inhibition of neurotransmitter release. In the present study it was found that CaM-kinase II, purified from rat brain cortex, was inhibited both by arachidonic acid (IC50 = 24 microM) and by 12-HPETE (IC50 = 0.7 microM). Neither substance inhibited CaM-kinase I or III, protein kinase C, or the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Specific inhibition of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphorylation by arachidonic acid was also demonstrated in intact synaptic terminals (synaptosomes) isolated from rat forebrain. These results suggest that arachidonate and its metabolites may modulate synaptic function through the inhibition of CaM-kinase II-dependent protein phosphorylation.

It has long been hypothesized, but never proven that an organic brain injury early in life predisposes to schizophrenia. Since brain and cranial development are closely linked, if such an event occurred early enough in the premorbid course of schizophrenia, it could conceivably effect skull architecture. To approach this question, the occipital bone depth and the occipitomedian angle were measured in 50 patients with chronic schizophrenia and in 35 medical controls. Strong correlations emerged between the skull asymmetry indices and the occipital and temporal lobe parenchymal asymmetry indices. There were no statistically significant differences in cranial asymmetry measures between the patients with schizophrenia and the medical controls. However, when the comparison was limited to right handed individuals with homolateral sighting dominance, a weak, but statistically significant trend was observed for more symmetrical slanting along the sagittal suture in the schizophrenic patients. In addition, cranial asymmetry was weakly predictive of increased prefrontal markings in the schizophrenic patients. The congruence of skull findings with parenchymal variables suggests that certain aspects of skull and parenchymal architecture are co-determined.
Neuromuscular weakness is a common feature of snake bite. The toxins responsible for weakness either block neuromuscular transmission or they are myotoxic and damage skeletal muscle. In this article the major classes of toxins responsible for causing neuromuscular weakness are described. It is shown how a detailed knowledge of the biochemical and pharmacological properties of the toxins is essential if the clinical problems associated with bites by many species are to be properly understood. It is also shown that such an understanding allows apparent discrepancies between 'laboratory' and 'clinical' findings to be resolved.
Impulses series, singled out from multineuronal activity by means of amplitude discriminator, were analyzed by creating crosscorrelation histograms. The authors consider that in studying of net brain activity with crosscorrelation method of analysis &quot;window&quot; discrimination of impulses series in multineuronal record is a quite correct method and may be used along with discrimination of spikes by form. It is shown that the size of the &quot;window&quot;, used for singling out of separate impulses series, is not a determining parameter in search of temporal dependence in the activity of the investigated cells, as final discrimination of the impulses of dependently acting neuronal pairs occurs at the level of the crosscorrelation method itself. The step of the analysis under the use of crosscorrelation method is of decisive significance for revealing of direct interconnections between neurones in the cases when these connections are masked on histograms with wide peaks reflecting the influences of common sources, on the recorded cells.
Disulfonic stilbenes (DIDS and SITS) were used to probe the nature of Cl transport in choroid plexus (CP) of adult rats. DIDS was more effective than SITS in reducing in vitro choroid cell [Cl]. Intravenously- or intraventricularly-administered DIDS substantially decreased 36Cl transport from blood to CP to CSF. Rate of CSF renewal was diminished nearly 30% by DIDS. These inhibitory findings implicate an anion antiporter for mediating Cl flux (and thus water) between blood and CSF.
We have previously shown that ethanol and acetaldehyde (ACE) potentiate MPTP toxicity in mice, selectively enhancing dopamine (DA) depletion in the striatum and markedly increasing loss of DA neurons in the substantia nigra. Several months after these combined treatments there is no evidence of any recovery. In the present study, we measured the accumulation of the MPTP toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in both striatum and whole brain, after MPTP alone or after combined treatments with ethanol or acetaldehyde, in order to determine whether this enhancement of toxicity is caused by changes in the MPTP metabolism. We also investigated whether acetaldehyde interfered with the conversion of MPTP to MPP+ by glial cells in vitro and studied its effects on the MPP+ uptake and spontaneous release from mesencephalic DA neurons or striatal astrocytes in primary cell cultures from E13 mouse embryos. The results from the in vivo experiments indicated that relatively low doses of ethanol or acetaldehyde potentiate directly MPP+ toxicity, apparently without interfering with its pharmacokinetics. However when higher doses of these drugs were administered, they also decreased MPP+ clearance from the striatum. ACE also increased initial MPTP accumulation in the whole brain but failed to enhance MPP+ levels, thus indicating that ACE effect is not related to MPTP metabolism. In vitro studies confirmed that ACE does not modify MPTP metabolism in striatal or mesencephalic astrocytes in culture. In mesencephalic neuronal cultures ACE does not change the levels of MPP+ uptake (MPP+ is accumulated in putative DA neurons in vitro with a mechanism similar to that of the DA high affinity uptake) nor its spontaneous release. These results indicate that the slower MPP+ clearance from the stratum after ACE is not related to a direct effect of ACE on DA neurons or astrocytes.
We have previously reported that ethanol and acetaldehyde potentiate 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity in mice, enhancing dopamine (DA) depletion in the striatum. The present study was designed to determine whether such enhancement of neurotoxicity was specific for the nigro-striatal DA pathway. In 5-week-old mice acetaldehyde treatment did not enhance DA depletion seen 7 days after MPTP treatment. In 8-week-old animals, however, acetaldehyde or ethanol given with MPTP decreased striatal DA content to about 10% of controls, whereas the depletion was to 43% of controls when MPTP was given alone. In acetaldehyde or ethanol and MPTP-treated mice, changes in DA levels were observed only in the striatum. DA contents in the hypothalamus, olfactory bulb and frontal cortex were similar to that in controls. Contents of norepinephrine and serotonin in striatum, hypothalamus, olfactory bulb and cerebral cortex were not affected by any of the treatments. Three months after MPTP alone, striatal DA recovered to 74% of controls in 8-week-old mice, whereas no recovery occurred in acetaldehyde and MPTP-treated mice. Moreover, both tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunocytochemistry and Cresyl violet staining showed an extensive and selective cell loss in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNc) of the mice treated with acetaldehyde or ethanol and MPTP, whereas MPTP alone caused only a limited cell degeneration.
Transient global ischemia was produced in rats by cisternal fluid infusion, producing a negative cerebral perfusion pressure by elevating the intracranial pressure (ICP) 25-50 mm Hg above mean arterial pressure (MAP). Animals were allowed to survive for 2-7 days following a transient ischemic episode of 5-30 min. The brains were examined for signs of ischemic degeneration in Nissl-stained sections and adjacent sections reacted with antisera against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or aspartate aminotransferase (AAT). Neurons in the thalamic reticular nucleus (RT), a pure population of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons which project their axons to thalamic relay nuclei, were found to have the lowest threshold for degeneration in this model, consistently undergoing degeneration under conditions which completely spared the hippocampal CA1 from degeneration. Whereas it took up to 30 min of complete ischemia to produce degeneration of CA1 neurons when ICP was raised using room temperature infusion fluids, 15 min of ischemia under these conditions was sufficient to produce extensive degeneration of neurons in the entire ventral 3/4 of the RT. Prolonged (greater than 25 min) episodes of partial ischemia (ICP less than or equal to MAP) were also sufficient to produce massive degeneration of RT neurons. The lesion in the RT was most clearly evident in sections reacted with antisera to GFAP, labeling intensely reactive protoplasmic astrocytes within the regions of the RT where neuronal degeneration had occurred. Neuronal loss and accompanying proliferation of microglial cells were evident in Nissl-stained sections but the extent of the neuronal loss was most clearly obvious in sections reacted with an antisera to AAT, an enzyme present in detectable quantities in GABAergic neurons. Pretreatment with the non-competitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 at doses sufficient to completely prevent massive degeneration of the hippocampal CA1 failed to prevent the degeneration of RT neurons, suggesting that if RT degeneration involves an excitotoxic process it acts through non-NMDA receptors.
Birds are widely distributed, highly diversified, and exhibit behavior and social organizations equal in complexity to mammals, yet they are generally more conspicuous and approachable in natural environments. These attributes make birds excellent subjects in many areas of biological research. The topics in which studies on birds have figured prominently include the mechanisms of species formation, the regulation of the distribution and abundance of animals, the effects of the environment on behavior and physiology, the biological and evolutionary significance of variations in social organizations, the encoding of information in animal communication, the sensory basis for migration and navigation, the effects of hormones on nerve cells and behavior, the ontogeny of brain and behavior, and the structure and function of the vertebrate brain. The outstanding record of avian research suggests that birds will continue to provide important models for developing and testing new ideas in various fields of biology.
L-659,066 is a new alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist which does not enter the central nervous system after systemic administration and therefore can be used to examine effects of blockade of peripheral alpha 2-receptors on hemodynamics and plasma levels of catechols. After i.v. administration to conscious rats, L-659,066 produced dose-related, small decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and large increases in heart rate (HR), arterial plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE), and levels of the intraneuronal NE metabolite, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG). After administration of L-659,066, HR, but not MAP, was strongly correlated with NE levels (r = 0.93, P less than 0.001). Levels of DHPG and dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) also were strongly correlated with NE levels (r = 098 and r = 0.71). After comparison with responses during hypotension induced by the vasodilator, nitroprusside, the results indicated that L-659,066 increases sympathetically mediated NE release and catecholamine turnover due to inhibition of presynaptic alpha 2-receptors as well as due to reflexive sympathetic activation related to blockade of alpha 2-receptors on arterial smooth muscle cells.
Behavioral effects of septal lesion and fornix-fimbria transection were compared in absence and presence of a septal transplant in the hippocampus. The transplant grew in the hippocampus and projected acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-containing fibers throughout the extent of the denervated hippocampus. There were no differences in graft size or AChE reinnervation pattern after septal lesion or fornix transection. An increase in the density of M1 binding sites seen in hippocampal CA3 region after a cholinergic lesion, was restored back to normal after reinnervation of the hippocampus by the graft. Fornix-transected rats were more impaired in water maze acquisition than septal-lesioned rats which were impaired compared to controls. Septal-grafted rats were not different from lesioned rats in the behavioral tasks. However, an injection of physostigmine improved their performance relative to lesioned non-grafted rats. These experiments indicate that grafts can ameliorate behavioral deficits when the efficacy of acetylcholine of graft origin is enhanced.
Pharmacological and biochemical studies suggest that interactions between cholinergic and catecholaminergic and catecholaminergic neurons, particularly those of the C1 adrenergic cell group, in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) may be important in cardiovascular control. Ultrastructural localization of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the biosynthetic enzyme for acetylcholine, and its relation to neurons exhibiting immunoreactivity for catecholamine- (tyrosine hydroxylase; TH) or adrenaline (phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase; PNMT) -synthesizing enzymes were examined in the RVL using dual immunoautoradiographic and peroxidase anti-peroxidase (PAP) labeling methods. By light microscopy, the ChAT-immunoreactive neurons were located both dorsally (i.e. the nucleus ambiguus) and ventromedially to those labeled with TH or PNMT (TH/PNMT). A few ChAT-labeled processes were dispersed among TH/PNMT-containing neurons with the majority of overlap immediately ventral to the nucleus ambiguus. By electron microscopy, ChAT-immunoreactivity (ChAT-I) was detected in neuronal perikarya, dendrites, axons and axon terminals and in the vascular endothelial cells of certain blood vessels. The ChAT-labeled perikarya in the ventromedial RVL were medium-sized (15-20 microns), elongated, contained abundant cytoplasm and had had slightly indented nuclei. Synaptic junctions on ChAT-immunoreactive perikarya and dendrites were primarily symmetric with 64% (45 out of 70) of the presynaptic terminals unlabeled. The remaining terminals were immunoreactive for ChAT (30%) or TH/PNMT (6%). Terminals with ChAT-I were large (0.8-2.0 microns) and contained numerous small clear vesicles and 1-2 dense core vesicles. Seventy-seven percent (112 out of 145) of the ChAT-labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses with unlabeled perikarya and dendrites, whereas only 8% were with TH/PNMT-labeled perikarya and dendrites, and 15% were with ChAT-immunoreactive perikarya and dendrites. We conclude (1) that cholinergic neurons in the RVL principally terminate on and receive input from non-catecholaminergic neurons, and (2) that the reported sympathetic activation following application of cholinergic agents to the RVL may be mediated by cholinergic inhibition of local inhibitory interneurons. The observed synapses between ChAT and TH/PNMT-containing neurons suggests that cholinergic and adrenergic neurons additionally may exert a minor reciprocal control on each other and thus may modulate their response to the more abundant input from afferents containing other transmitters.
A high-molecular mass ATP-dependent proteinase was shown to be identical to a multicatalytic proteinase, ingensin [(1988) Eur. J. Biochem. 177, 261-266]. The molecular mass of this proteinase increased in crude extracts of the rat liver and porcine brain, but not in the purified sample, only when the proteinase was extracted with ATP. The higher-molecular form of ingensin may be the intact one, because the concentration of ATP in vivo never decreases below 1 mM. This form of the proteinase is latent and it requires a high concentration of detergent for activation. On chromatography, it was found that the high-molecular form corresponds to the previously reported minor isoenzyme of ingensin [(1986) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 882, 297-304], ingensin A, or possibly to the ATP/ubiquitin-dependent 26S protease [(1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 8303-8313], and the low-molecular form to major ingensin B or the ATP/ubiquitin-independent 20 S protease.
Nerve fibers immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y (NPY) are demonstrated for the first time by the indirect immunofluorescence technique in the human and monkey kidney. NPY-like immunoactivity (NPY-LI) is shown in a bundle of nerve fibers in the surrounding connective tissue of arteries and to a lesser extent, veins, mainly at the juxtamedullary region. Varicose nerve terminals are shown associated with blood vessels and passing between tubules in the mid and lower cortex. NPY-LI nerve fibers are also seen surrounding afferent and occasionally efferent arterioles at the vascular pole of the glomeruli. The distribution of NPY-LI nerve fibers in the monkey and human kidneys is similar to that of other species, only the quantity of the nerve fibers varies.
Electrophysiological recordings were made from hippocampal slices of gerbils which had undergone a 5 min period of bilateral carotid occlusion. Normal CA1 population spikes, field potentials and synaptic responses were obtained from slices of gerbils pretreated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, MK-801 (10 mg/kg, i.p., 1 h before the occlusion). In contrast, no CA1 population spike could be obtained from slices of untreated gerbils, although field potentials and population spikes were obtained from the dentate granule cell region of these slices in response to perforant path stimulation. These studies indicate that the CA1 pyramidal cells identified histologically as protected by MK-801 from selective neuronal degeneration produced by a 5 min period of global ischaemia, are also functionally protected and retain their normal synaptic responsiveness.
The cholinergic and monoaminergic innervation of the lateral geniculate nucleus (GL) and other thalamic nuclei in the cat was examined by using immunocytochemical and tract-tracing techniques. Cholinergic fibers, identified with an antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), are present in all layers of the GL. They are fine in caliber and exhibit numerous swellings along their lengths. The A layers, the magnocellular C layer, and the medial interlaminar nucleus are rich in cholinergic fibers that give rise to prominent clusters of boutons, while the parvicellular C layers contain fewer fibers that are more uniformly distributed. The interlaminar zones are largely devoid of ChAT-immunoreactive fibers. Double-label experiments show that cholinergic projections to the GL originate from two sources, the pedunculopontine reticular formation (PPT) and the parabigeminal nucleus (Pbg). The PPT contributes cholinergic fibers to all layers, while Pbg projections are limited to the parvicellular C layers. The lateral geniculate nucleus has a much greater density of cholinergic fibers than the other principal sensory nuclei: the density of fibers in the A layers is more than three times greater than that in the ventral posterior nucleus (VP) or the ventral division of the medial geniculate nucleus (GMv). In contrast, serotonin (5-HT)-immunoreactive fibers are distributed with equal density across the principal thalamic nuclei, while tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive fibers (presumed to contain norepinephrine) are noticeably less dense in the GL than in the others. Monoaminergic fibers also differ from cholinergic fibers in their laminar distribution within the GL: both TH- and 5HT-immunoreactive fibers are distributed evenly across the layers and interlaminar zones and are slightly more abundant in the parvicellular C layers than in the other layers. Other thalamic nuclei rich in cholinergic fibers include the pulvinar nucleus, the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus, the intermediate nucleus of the lateral group, the lateral medial and suprageniculate nuclei (Graybiel and Berson: Neuroscience 5:1175-1238, '80), and the paracentral and central-lateral components of the intralaminar nuclei. This pattern matches the distribution of projections from the PPT and is similar, but not identical, to the pattern of acetylcholinesterase staining. The fact that most of the nuclei rich in cholinergic fibers have been implicated in visual sensory or visual motor functions suggests that cholinergic projections from the reticular formation play an especially important role in visually guided behavior.
Fish represent the largest and most diverse group of vertebrates. Their evolutionary position relative to other vertebrates and their ability to adapt to a wide variety of environments make them ideal for studying both organismic and molecular evolution. A number of other characteristics make them excellent experimental models for studies in embryology, neurobiology, endocrinology, environmental biology, and other areas. In fact, they have played a critical role in the development of several of these disciplines. Research techniques that enable scientists to make isogenic lines in a single generation, create and maintain mutants, culture cells, and transfer cloned genes into embryos signal an increasing role for fish as experimental models.
We previously demonstrated the presence of cellular retinoic acid binding protein II, chick-CRABP II, in chick embryos. In the present study, we investigated the distribution of chick-CRABP II in 14-day chick embryos by means of immunoblot analysis. Chick-CRABP II was expressed in skin, muscle, bone with tendon of the embryos, but not expressed in the nervous system. In adult chick tissues, chick-CRABP II was not detected on immunoblotting; Chick-CRABP II in adults amounts to less than 10 ng/mg soluble protein. These observations suggest that chick- CRABP II is an embryonic protein involved in the development of specific tissues, such as bone, muscle and skin.
Effects of erythro-9(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine (EHNA), an inhibitor of the common Adenosine deaminase (adenosine aminohydrolase, EC 3.5.4.4.), on HIV-1 production was evaluated in vitro. Reverse transcriptase (RT) activity in the supernatant was inhibited by nearly 50% in EHNA-treated HIV-1 infected H9 cells, when compared with untreated but infected H9 cells. There was also a significant decrease in cell viability, but this was reversed following the addition of deoxycytidine (dC) to these cultures. The combined treatment was also effective in suppressing HIV-1 release from HIV-1-infected U937 cells. This combined EHNA plus dC treatment had no effect on RT activity in the cell lysates, suggesting that the inhibition of HIV-1 production may be due to the disturbance of virus release from infected cells.
The effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) on free intracellular Ca2+ concentrations [( Ca2+]i) and the interaction of ethanol on the NMDA-mediated response was examined in freshly dissociated brain cells isolated from newborn rats. NMDA (25 microM) increased [Ca2+]i by approximately 70 nM, measured by fura-2 fluorometry, and this increase could be prevented or reversed by the NMDA antagonists Mg2+ (1.0 mM) and 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP5, 100 microM). Ethanol (25, 50, 100 mM) added 50 s before NMDA (25 microM) reduced the rise in [Ca2+]i when compared to the 25 microM NMDA response in the absence of ethanol. Thus, ethanol may have direct actions on NMDA-receptor activated increases in [Ca2+]i.
Autologous peripheral nerve grafts were used to permit and direct the regrowth of retinal ganglion cell axons from the eye to the ipsilateral superior colliculus of adult hamsters in which the optic nerves had been transected within the orbit. Extracellular recordings in the superior colliculus 15 to 18 weeks after graft insertion revealed excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic responses to visual stimulation. The finding of light-induced responses in neurons in the superficial layers of the superior colliculus close to the graft indicates that axons regenerating from axotomized retinal ganglion cells can establish electrophysiologically functional synapses with neurons in the superior colliculus of these adult mammals.
Bilateral ablation or transection of the corticostriatal pathways of the rat caused a reduction in N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl)[3H]piperidine ([3H]TCP) binding to the striatum at 5-7, but not 3 and 14-28, days postlesion with a persistent decrease in striatal glutamate content 3-28 days after the decortication. This reduction was found to be due to an increase in Kd without changes in Bmax of the [3H]TCP binding. The present findings suggest that interruption of striatal glutamatergic transmission following frontal decortication may produce a temporal reduction in the affinity of phencyclidine receptor in the striatum.
Human recombinant interleukin-6 (IL-6, B-cell stimulating factor-2) was capable of supporting neuronal survival in cholinergic neuron culture, prepared from 10-day-old rat brain septal region. Cell survival of the cultured cholinergic neurons was estimated by measuring the remaining choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activities after 6 days of culture. IL-6 at a concentration of 5 ng/ml maintained a more than 3-fold higher ChAT activity in the culture as compared with that in cultures without IL-6. The maximal dose of IL-6 was near 50 ng/ml. The concomitant addition of mouse nerve growth factor (NGF) and IL-6, both at maximal doses, had a synergistic effect on cholinergic cell survival. These results indicate that IL-6 can act as a neurotrophic agent, independent of the action of NGF, supporting neuronal survival of cultured postnatal rat septal cholinergic neurons. On the other hand, IL-6 did not affect the differentiation of the cultured embryonic rat septal cholinergic neurons, differently from the differentiation action by NGF.
In Nembutal-anesthetized and artificially ventilated cats, we studied the connectivity of burst inspiratory (I) neurons in the Btzinger complex and the ventral respiratory group (VRG) with spike-triggered averaging methods. Burst I neurons exhibited tonic (I-TON) or decrementing (I-DEC) firing patterns. Spikes of I-TON neurons induced monosynaptic EPSPs in intracellularly recorded I neurons of both the VRG and the dorsal respiratory group (DRG). Spikes of I-DEC neurons induced monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in both VRG and DRG I neurons.
Three functional regions of the inferior olive, the caudal medial accessory olive (cMAO) and the caudal and rostral dorsal accessory olive (DAO) receive input from the spinal cord. The present study determined how spinal inputs to cMAO interact with olivary neurons. These inputs were labeled by injections in cat lumbosacral of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. The tracer was visualized with tetramethylbenzidine. The morphology of the labeled spino-olivary terminals and the relationship between these terminals and postsynaptic elements were determined. Spino-olivary terminals in cMAO displayed the morphological characteristics classically associated with excitatory synapses. Almost three quarters synapsed on spines, most of which contacted other spines, forming spine clusters. The majority of postsynaptic spines also received convergent input from apparently excitatory, nonlumbosacral afferents. This postsynaptic organization provides several possible benefits for the putative role of cMAO in the control of posture. An earlier study demonstrated that in DAO, almost three quarters of lumbosacral, spino-olivary terminals synapse on dendrites (Molinari: Neuroscience 27:425-435, 1988). Thus, lumbosacral afferents appear to differ fundamentally in the way in which they interact with neurons in cMAO and DAO. These results suggest that the way information is processed may be as important in determining the functional differences between olivary regions as what information is received.
The senses of hearing and equilibrium depend on sensory receptors called hair cells which can detect motions of atomic dimensions and respond more than 100,000 times a second. Biophysical studies suggest that mechanical forces control the opening and closing of transduction channels by acting through elastic components in each hair cell's mechanoreceptive hair bundle. Other ion channels, as well as the mechanical and hydrodynamic properties of hair bundles, tune individual hair cells to particular frequencies of stimulation.
Protein phosphorylation is a primary mechanism of intracellular signal transduction, and abnormalities in protein phosphorylation have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several specific diseases. Protein III is a neuronal phosphoprotein that is associated with synaptic vesicles and is probably involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Analysis of 32 postmortem brains has confirmed our previous report that variant forms of protein III with higher apparent molecular weights are found frequently in the brains of alcoholic individuals but rarely in the brains of nonalcoholic individuals who did not suffer from any other medical or neuropsychiatric disorders. Eight of 14 (57%) brain samples from alcoholic individuals and four of eight (50%) brain samples from suspected alcoholic individuals had variant forms, while none of 10 samples from nonalcoholic individuals had variant forms. Previous data indicate that variant forms of protein III are also associated with other neurodegenerative conditions, including various dementias, and, possibly, normal aging.
This paper presents the hypothesis that in-depth knowledge of the neurosciences serves as a common denominator that enhances our ability to interpret all aspects of human behavior. Neurobiological information can be used to design research to evaluate our existing treatment philosophy and methodology and to develop new theories and technology. Because occupational therapy addresses widely divergent diagnostic populations, three separate areas along the practice continuum were selected to demonstrate the application of neurobiological concepts: (a) neuroimmunomodulation, (b) organic bases of psychopathology, and (c) traumatic brain injury. Philosophical statements regarding effective methods of teaching neurobiology to occupational therapists are included.
Most models of psychotropic drug action have emphasized effects on the release or uptake of neurotransmitters as well as interactions with receptors. Stimulation of neurotransmitter receptors triggers a complex array of electrical and biochemical actions. Recent experimental advances have greatly clarified the second messenger systems underlying neurotransmitter actions, suggesting novel sites of action for psychotropic agents. The authors emphasize the phosphoinositide system and the implications of its involvement for the therapeutic actions of lithium.
Unwanted reactivity of polyclonal antisera against keratins (&quot;fingerprint proteins&quot;) is a problem commonly encountered when proteins transferred to nitrocellulose are studied by immunoblotting. Immunoreactivity against keratins is generally accompanied by a spotted background. This antikeratin immunoreactivity could be removed by adsorption of the antisera to human keratin bound to nitrocellulose. Larger amounts of antisera were purified from contaminant antikeratin antibodies by a single passage over a column of human keratin coupled to activated CH-Sepharose 4B. In contrast to nonpurified antisera and their IgG fractions, the column effluent no longer recognized the Mr 55,000-70,000 keratin proteins and exhibited a marked decrease in background labeling. We propose this simple method as a valuable alternative when affinity purification of polyclonal antisera on antigen columns is not practical.
The glycoprotein nature of the binding subunit of the dopamine D2 receptor in rat striatum has been examined by photoaffinity labeling receptor preparations with N-(p-azido-m-[125I]iodophenethyl)spiperone followed by treatment of crude membrane receptor or receptor fractions isolated from sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gels with endo- and exoglycosidases. The major photoaffinity labeled protein migrates as a heterogeneous species on 10% SDS polyacrylamide gels and ranges from 130,000 to 75,000 relative molecular mass (Mr). This heterogeneity can be explained by glycosylation of the receptor by complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides. Three fractions of labeled receptor were isolated from SDS polyacrylamide gels over a range of 130,000 to 75,000 Mr; after digestion with peptide-N4-[N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminyl] asparagine amidase, all fractions yielded a single peptide approximately 40,000 Mr. Treatment of photoaffinity labeled membranes with alpha-mannosidase was without effect. The dopamine D2 receptor appears to contain substantial amounts of sialic acid as treatment of photoaffinity labeled membranes with neuraminidase increased the receptor mobility on SDS polyacrylamide gels to a species of 50,000-54,000 Mr. Treatment of the receptor with neuraminidase followed by endo-alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase did not change the electrophoretic migration pattern from that seen after neuraminidase treatment alone, suggesting that the binding peptide contains no serine- or threonine-linked oligosaccharides. A smaller binding peptide of approximately 31,000 Mr is also apparent in crude photoaffinity labeled membranes. This material also contains N-linked oligosaccharide. Complete removal of N-linked oligosaccharide from the dopamine D2 receptor did not change the rank order potency of agonist and antagonist compounds to compete for [3H]spiperone binding to crude membrane fractions. The dopamine D2 receptor represents a highly glycosylated neural receptor.
Autoimmune mechanisms have been postulated to play a role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Recently, increased numbers of B lymphocytes expressing the CD5 (Leu-1) surface antigen have been observed in patients with certain autoimmune diseases. In the present study, approximately 30% of schizophrenic patients (11/34) were found by cytofluorometric methods to have similarly increased levels of circulating CD5+ B cells compared with 6% (2/33) of healthy individuals and 5% (1/20) of patients with bipolar affective disorder. In schizophrenic patients with a &quot;high&quot; CD5+ B-cell phenotype, the percentage of B cells expressing the CD5 surface marker (mean +/- SEM, 52.4% +/- 3.5%) was comparable to that reported for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and significantly greater than that reported for patients with bipolar affective disorder (25.7% +/- 2.5%) and healthy controls (31.0% +/- 1.8%). Schizophrenic patients with high levels of CD5+ B cells had increased numbers of total B cells compared with control subjects and patients with low levels of CD5+ B cells. An elevation in CD5+ B cells may delineate a subgroup of schizophrenic patients whose disease has an underlying autoimmune and/or genetic cause.
The performance of 42 patients with relapsing remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis was compared with that of 24 age-, education-, and gender-matched control subjects on a battery of neuropsychological tests known from previous studies to be sensitive to the impairments of patients with chronic progressive (CP) multiple sclerosis. Like CP patients, RR patients exhibited deficits on tests of information-processing speed, verbal fluency, and problem solving, and on recall measures of anterograde and remote memory. Although a few patients were mildly dysnomic, the RR patients were not generally impaired on visual confrontation naming and they did not exhibit perseverative responding on verbal fluency measures. The pattern of neuropsychological deficits exhibited by RR patients closely approximates the profile observed in other subcortical dementias and does not contain the features of cortical dementia evident in some CP patients. The impairment of RR patients on cognitive tests were less severe than those observed in CP patients in our previous studies. Differences in the age of patients in the CP and RR groups did not account for group differences in the severity of cognitive impairments, but differences in disease duration or severity of disability, as well as disease course, could explain why CP patients exhibit more serious cognitive disturbances than RR patients.
Rats become akinetic after large dopamine-depleting brain lesions, yet they show an activation-induced restoration of motor function. In this study, rats were given intraventricular injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine to permanently reduce the dopamine content of the corpus striatum by 98%. Although the rats were akinetic in their home cages, they swam effectively when placed in deep water and escaped from a shallow floating ice bath. These behaviors were not abolished by pretreating the animals with the dopamine antagonists haloperidol and SCH-23390. In contrast, haloperidol completely blocked the brain-damaged animals' behavioral responses to amphetamine. These results suggest that the paradoxical kinesia of dopamine-depleted rats is not a consequence of dopamine release from residual dopaminergic fibers.
Male, Fischer-344 rats received bilateral injections of 2.5 micrograms of colchicine per site in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. Intradentate colchicine preferentially destroyed dentate granule cells. Subsequent behavioral studies showed that 3 weeks after dosing, colchicine impaired the acquisition of a spatial, reference memory task in the Morris water maze. In a second group of rats, which were trained in the water maze prior to dosing, intradentate colchicine impaired retention of this task when rats were tested 3 weeks later. The acquisition of non-spatial reference memory task, an autoshape of a lever touch response in an operant chamber, was facilitated by prior administration of colchicine. Facilitative effects of colchicine were seen if delays of 0, 4, or 6 s were interposed between response and presentation of food reinforcement. If rats were trained to lever-touch with either a 0- or 4-s delay between response and reinforcement, intradentate colchicine had no effect on retention of the response 3 weeks later. These data are in accord with the conclusion that the dentate gyrus plays an important role in the acquisition of new information and retrieval of previously learned material and is an integral neural substrate for reference memory involving a spatial component.
Using a quantitative enzyme immunoassay, Thy-1 antigen expressed by a rat myoid cell line R615B2 was detected mainly on the cell surface at a single cell stage, whereas at the stage of forming myotubes, Thy-1 was found predominantly in the cytoplasm. The muscle specific creatine kinase activity also increased in association with the shift of Thy-1 from the cell surface to the cytoplasm, suggesting biological significance of Thy-1 redistribution in muscle differentiation from single cells to multinucleated cells.

Transcranial stimulation (TCS) in intact human subjects was used to investigate the corticobulbar projections and the functional organization of the trigeminal motor system. Both electrical (with the anode overlying the face area of the motor cortex) and magnetic TCS (with the coil at the vertex) excite the upper motoneurons projecting to the trigeminal motor nucleus, evoking motor potentials (C-MEPs) in the jaw-closing and suprahyoid muscles, but only during voluntary contraction. At least 30% of jaw-closing motoneurons are reached by direct fast-conducting corticobulbar fibres; these projections are mainly crossed. Suprahyoid motoneurons are also reached by fast-conducting corticobulbar fibres; these projections are probably bilateral. In the masseter, electrical TCS also evokes an ipsilateral motor response (R-MEP), followed by a later wave (U), and bilateral inhibitory periods. The R-MEP is secondary to excitation of the motor trigeminal root; the U wave probably results from the simultaneous excitation of Ia afferents in the root and ipsilaterally projecting corticofugal fibres; the inhibitory periods are largely due to activation of exteroceptive afferents in the root. Magnetic TCS, avoiding spread of current to the trigeminal root, evokes C-MEPs but not R-MEPs or U waves. The masseter inhibitory period after magnetic TCS may be due to excitation of corticofugal inhibitory fibres and to mechanical activation of Golgi tendon organs.
While hallucinations are known to occur as conversion symptoms in non-psychotic psychiatric states such as hysteria and grief, there is a lack of distinction between true and pseudo-hallucinations in such cases. We discuss the rationale which has necessitated this distinction, affirm that true hallucinations can occur in non-psychotic states, discuss the characteristics of such hallucinations, and postulate certain factors which may lead to hallucinations in non-psychotic states being judged as &quot;true.&quot;
When lymphoid cells from rats recovered from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) were incubated in vitro for 1 hr with myelin basic protein (BP), then washed and transferred along with anti-BP immune serum to naive recipients, those recipients immediately developed a solid, long-lasting resistance to active induction of EAE. To obtain this high level of suppression, both steps of BP-incubation of cells and transfer of immune serum were found to be essential, i.e., direct transfer of nonincubated cells plus immune serum had no comparable suppressive effect, nor had transfer of BP-incubated cells with nonimmune serum. Specificity of the suppressive effect was indicated by the finding that cells from BP-sensitized donors, incubated with BP, protected against BP-CFA-induced disease but not against disease induced with whole spinal cord homogenate (SCH-CFA). As expected, cells from SCH-CFA-sensitized donors incubated with SCH protected recipients against disease induced with either SCH-CFA or BP-CFA. The suppression appears to act early in the afferent stage of the immune response, since inoculation with incubated cells as little as 24 hr after active challenge was ineffective. There was no suppression of passively induced disease.
Prodrugs may be used to improve the absorption and bioavailability of certain active compounds. We have examined the ability of a novel catechol monoester of L-DOPA, NB-355 [L-3-(3-hydroxy-4-pivaloxyloyphenyl)alanine], to stimulate locomotor activity and induce dyskinesias in MPTP-treated primates. In the presence of carbidopa, a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity over 4 1/2 h was observed following administration of L-DOPA (10, 20 or 40 mg/kg p.o.) or NB-355 (20, 40 or 80 mg/kg p.o. dopa equivalent). The dose-response curve for NB-355 was shifted to the right such that approximately twice the dopa equivalent dose of NB-355 was required to stimulate locomotor activity to the same level observed for L-DOPA. At doses matched for total locomotor stimulation over the 4 1/2-h period (20 mg/kg L-DOPA and 40 mg/kg NB-355), there was a more gradual rise and increase in the duration of motor stimulation by approximately 40% using NB-355. At these doses, drug-induced dyskinesias were less severe following treatment with NB-355 than with L-DOPA. Our findings suggest that NB-355 may be a useful therapeutic agent for increasing the duration of action of L-DOPA and reducing the severity of peak-dose dyskinesia.
trans-Dihydrolisuride, a partial dopamine receptor agonist, was tested for its effects on chorea in a double-blind, crossover clinical study in 10 patients with Huntington's disease. In eight patients, a neurophysiological evaluation was also performed. No reduction in choreic movements or improvement in voluntary movement performance was observed. However, in some patients, there was a slight improvement in patients' alertness and a reduction of the movement reaction time.
In years prior, articles concerned with neuroanatomy have stressed just that, the anatomy. It is for this reason that this article was written. The primary intent addresses the clinical aspects of neuroanatomy, and as such, has stressed so-called &quot;anatomic function.&quot; An overview of neuroanatomy as well as neural function and deficit is provided. The article is intended for both the student and practitioner in the hopes of taking the labor out of its study and replacing it with a logical approach to the neuroanatomy and its clinical applications.
An evaluation of an automatic auditory brain stem evaluation (AABE) for waves I, III, and V, of the auditory brain stem response (ABR) is presented. The on-line procedure performs a mathematical analysis of ABR waveforms using principles similar to those used by experienced clinicians to make threshold and latency decisions. It has been tested and applied to normal and pathologic traces at stimulus levels from 20 to 100 dB HL. Subject ages ranged from 6 months through adulthood. Latencies and thresholds determined by the analytic technique were examined and found to be indistinguishable from decisions of two &quot;expert&quot; observers and four practicing clinical audiologists experienced in ABR. Speed, practicality, and limitations of the software for routine ABR assessments are discussed.
Pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE; also POMC) is a hormone precursor that contains potential sites for endoproteolytic cleavage, glycosylation, phosphorylation, acetylation, sulfation, and amidation. Different sets of these sites are used in different neuroendocrine tissues. To learn more about the factors influencing the posttranslational processing of peptide hormone precursors, the cDNA for mouse PAE was cloned into a metallothionein expression vector. Two lines of rat GH-secreting tumor cells (GH3 and GC) were transfected with the resulting expression plasmid, and stable PAE-producing clones were isolated. Both GH3 and GC cells gave rise to clones in which about 75% of PAE was endoproteolytically processed. Mol wt distributions of PAE peptides were similar in cell extracts and medium, indicating that processing was not the result of extracellular proteases. The identity of immunoprecipitated molecules was confirmed by analysis of tryptic digests by reverse phase HPLC. Amidated forms of joining peptide were detected in the transfected cells by immunocytochemistry, adding evidence that GH-producing tumor cells can perform endoproteolysis, exoproteolysis, and alpha-amidation of the PAE precursor. One of the two forms of joining peptide from cell extracts was also shown to comigrate during reverse phase HPLC with authentic alpha-amidated mouse joining peptide. Comparisons of Northern analyses and peptide synthetic rates suggested that PAE mRNA was used for synthesis of PAE more efficiently in corticotropes than in the transfected GC cells.
A combination of Golgi, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, and transmission electron microscopic (EM) techniques was used to investigate the morphology of neurosecretory axons and their endings in the neurohypophysis of the rat. Light microscopy indicated that the neurosecretory processes are very tortuous, varicose, and branched, often running in close association with blood vessels. EM, as well as reconstruction from serial thin sections, demonstrated that the combination of synaptoid membrane specializations, dense core vesicles, and accumulations of microvesicles, thought to indicate areas of preferential hormone release, can occur anywhere that the axons contact the basal lamina (BL) lining the perivascular space. Usually, but not always, this was accompanied by some degree of axonal dilation. Individual neurosecretory axons frequently entwined around, or ran adjacent to, blood vessels, a short length of axon forming multiple &quot;endings.&quot; Thin glial (pituicyte) processes were interposed between these endings. Axonal processes were also seen to end blindly as end-bulbs suspended in the perivascular space where they were often surrounded by pituicyte processes. The morphology observed suggests that reductions in the contact length of individual nerve terminals could be mediated through increased pituicyte coverage along BL. Conversely, a reduction of pituicyte coverage along the BL could lead to more areas of axonal contact with the BL inducing or allowing the formation of more endings, such as has been reported to occur during lactation or prolonged elevation of plasma testosterone levels.

The distribution of tubulin has been investigated in surface preparations of the guinea pig organ of Corti using indirect immunofluorescence microscopy. Two different monoclonal antibodies to tubulin produce similar distinct patterns of labelling in hair cells. Labelling is greater in inner hair cells than outer hair cells. It occurs in rings around the cell apex, and in a meshwork below and channels through, the cuticular plate. In outer hair cells from the apical region of the cochlea, labelling occurs around the location of a basalward protrusion of the cuticular plate. These patterns correlate with the location of microtubules observed using transmission electron microscopy. A large patch of labelling occurs on the strial side of the cell corresponding to the largest channel through the cuticular plate and the kinociliary basal body. Strands of labelling are seen running parallel to the long axis of the cell between the subcuticular and synaptic region. Many more of these strands are seen in the inner hair cell than the outer hair cell and may correspond to tracks of microtubules transporting neurotransmitter vesicles or other organelles. In outer hair cells, intense labelling and many microtubules are seen in the subnuclear region. The possible roles of the different microtubule arrangements are discussed.
Effect of injection in third ventricle of GABA, the GABA agonist muscimol, and the GABA antagonist picrotoxin on the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) in serum and succinic dehydrogenase (SDH) in plasma has been studied. Surprisingly, the AChE, BuChE, MAO and SDH enzymes activity were inhibited by GABA and muscimol, while they were enhanced by picrotoxin.

In a double-blind, prospective study, 29 patients with endogenous depression were treated with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). The degree of attenuation in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression scores after the first ECT was compared between ECT responders and non-responders at the end of the treatment course; a significant difference was obtained, indicating higher initial response in ECT responders. It is therefore suggested that response to a single trial ECT may form the basis for prediction of response of endogenous depression to a course of ECT. An operationalization of this concept is proposed, its sensitivity and specificity calculated, and its implications discussed.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE, E.C. 3.14.5.1) was localized in the rat eye by immunocytochemical staining using anti-rat lung ACE monoclonal antibody, and by autoradiography using the potent ACE inhibitor [3H]captopril. Highest levels of ACE immunoreactivity and [3H]captopril binding were found in the ciliary epithelium (Bmax = 1050 fmol [3H]captopril bound/mg protein) while lower levels were present in the sclera (Bmax = 500 fmol/mg protein). Scattered regions of the choroidal epithelium were weakly immunocytochemically stained by the anti-ACE antibody. No other major sites of labeling of ACE were demonstrated. In the ciliary epithelium, ACE was confined to cells bordering on the posterior chamber of the eye, similar to its presence at the ventricular surface of the choroid plexus of the brain. These findings suggest that ACE may metabolize a peptide involved in the regulation of aqueous humor production.
The classification of motoneurons based on size alone may not be an absolute morphological criterion. There appears to be a fair difference in the pattern of horseradish peroxidase uptake between the phrenic and the intercostal motoneurons. Hence we would like to suggest that the gamma and the alpha motoneurons differ in the horseradish peroxidase uptake.

Voice perception (recognition of familiar voices and discrimination of unfamiliar voices) was studied in brain-damaged patients and normal controls. Left- and right-brain-damaged subjects were tested on familiar voices (25 famous males) and 26 pairs of unfamiliar voices. Deficits in recognizing familiar voices were significantly correlated with right-hemisphere damage; discrimination of unfamiliar voices was worse in both clinical groups than in normal controls. Computerized tomographic scans indicated that an intact right parietal-lobe was present in all cases of normal voice recognition, while right parietal-lobe damage was significantly correlated with a deficit in voice recognition. Temporal-lobe damage of either hemisphere was associated with a voice discrimination deficit.
We have developed a new technique which makes silver intensification of the oxidatively polymerized diaminobenzidine (DAB), the endproduct of peroxidase reaction, less laborious without any loss in selectivity or sensitivity. The new technique is based on two strategies: (a) increasing the argyrophilia of the DAB by modifying its polymerization with Ni ions, and (b) decreasing tissue argyrophila by using a mildly acidic physical developer instead of the alkaline one previously presented. Because the nickel modification takes place in the DAB substrate solution, i.e., in the final step of the peroxidase reaction, only one additional step, the physical development, must be carried out if intensification is needed.
This report describes the purification and characterization from rat brain of triakontatetraneuropeptide (TTN, DBI 17-50), a major biologically active processing product of diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI). Brain TTN was purified by immunoaffinity chromatography with polyclonal octadecaneuropeptide, DBI 33-50) antibodies coupled to CNBr-Sepharose 4B followed by two reverse-phase HPLC steps. The amino acid sequence of the purified peptide is: Thr-Gln-Pro-Thr-Asp-Glu-Glu-Met-Leu-Phe-Ile-Tyr-Ser-His-Phe-Lys-Gln-Ala-Thr-Val - Gly-Asp-Val-Asn-Thr-Asp-Arg-Pro-Gly-Leu-Leu-Asp-Leu-Lys. Synthetic TTN injected intracerebroventricularly into rats induces a proconflict activity (IC50 0.8 nmol/rat) that is prevented by the specific &quot;peripheral&quot; benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor antagonist isoquinoline carboxamide, PK 11195, but not by the &quot;central&quot; BZ receptor antagonist imidazobenzodiazepine, flumazenil. TTN displaces [3H]Ro 5-4864 from synaptic membranes of olfactory bulb with a Ki of approximately 5 microM. TTN also enhances picrotoxinin inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-stimulated [3H]flunitrazepam binding. These data suggest that TTN, a natural DBI processing product acting at &quot;Ro 5-4864 preferring&quot; BZ binding site subtypes, might function as a putative neuromodulator of specific GABAA receptor-mediated effects.
When brain tissue is subjected to subcellular fractionation, both calcium/diacylglycerol-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase C) and an 87-kilodalton (kDa) protein substrate for this enzyme are enriched in the crude nerve terminal fraction. The present study, using chemical and surgical lesions of neurons in the rat neostriatum and substantia nigra, has examined whether the 87-kDa protein is colocalized with protein kinase C in identified neurons and nerve terminals. Our results show that, in the basal ganglia, protein kinase C is highly enriched in local striatal neurons and the striatonigral fibers and terminals. In contrast, the 87-kDa protein appears to be widely and evenly distributed in both neuronal and nonneuronal cells. The 87-kDa protein may therefore mediate functions of protein kinase C not restricted to nerve terminals.
Lesions produced by intradentate hippocampal administration of colchicine have been reported to produce several time-dependent behavioral and neurochemical changes, including a possible change in the signal transduction process for the cholinergic muscarinic receptor. To characterize further the effects of colchicine on receptor-coupled hydrolysis of phosphoinositides, colchicine was injected stereotaxically into the dentate gyrus of rats at a dose of 2.5 micrograms/site. The animals were killed 1, 3, or 12 weeks after injection and the hippocampi removed and sliced. [3H]Inositol was incorporated into slices, and various receptor agonists known to stimulate inositol phosphate (IP) metabolism were studied. Colchicine administration altered agonist-stimulated turnover in the hippocampus in a time-dependent manner. This hyperstimulation was receptor-mediated, because it was blocked by pirenzepine. The hyperstimulation of turnover was observed also with norepinephrine and serotonin. Colchicine had no effect on IP turnover in vitro. The effect of the colchicine lesion was observed only in the hippocampus, because no change in cholinergic muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphatidylinositol turnover was observed in the cortex. These studies indicate that intradentate administration of colchicine produces a compensatory change in the signal transduction process in the hippocampus detectable 12 weeks after the lesion.
The involvement of the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor complex in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy was examined in thioacetamide-treated rats with fulminant hepatic failure. Partially purified extracts from encephalopathic rat brain were approximately three times more potent in inhibiting [3H]Ro 15-1788 binding to benzodiazepine receptors than identically prepared extracts from control rats. High levels of inhibitory activity were also found in extracts of plasma, heart, and liver from thioacetamide-treated rats. The inhibition of [3H]Ro 15-1788 binding by brain extracts appeared to be competitive and reversible and was unaffected by treatment with either proteolytic enzymes or boiling. Further, GABA significantly enhanced the potency of these extracts in inhibiting [3H]flunitrazepam binding. In contrast, no differences were found in radioligand binding to the constituent recognition sites of the GABAA receptor complex in well-washed brain membranes prepared from control and encephalopathic animals. These findings suggest that the recognition-site qualities of the constituent proteins of the GABAA receptor complex are unchanged in an experimental model of hepatic encephalopathy. However, significant elevations in the level of a substance or substances with neurochemical properties characteristic of a benzodiazepine receptor agonist may contribute to the electrophysiological and behavioral manifestations of hepatic encephalopathy.
Abstract The present study employed the intracranial microdialysis technique to measure norepinephrine release in the ventrolateral dendritic fields of the ventromedial hypothalamus of freely-moving animals before and during ovarian steroid (estradiol and progesterone) activation of female sexual behavior (lordosis). One day after implantation of a dialysis probe, animals were injected with 3 mug of estradiol benzoate followed 44 h later by 200 mug of progesterone. Introduction of a male rat 4 h after progesterone treatment was correlated with dramatic increases in extracellular norepinephrine levels measured in dialysates of the ventrolateral ventromedial hypothalamus of female rats which displayed high levels of lordosis behavior. In contrast, female rats given the same steroid treatment but which did not show lordosis responses did not have elevated norepinephrine levels in their dialysates. Moreover, animals that received an estrogen antagonist concurrently with the estrogen treatment had neither an increase in ventromedial hypothalamic levels of norepinephrine during behavior testing nor did they display lordosis. These results indicate a close relationship among ovarian steroids, noradrenergic transmission in the ventromedial hypothalamus, and the expression of female sexual behavior.
Abstract Intrathecal injections of arginine vasopressin increased activity recorded from multifiber renal nerve bundles of anesthetized rats by 47 + 14%. This response was significantly attenuated following perfusion of the intrathecal space with a vasopressin antagonist, d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)AVP. It is unlikely that vasopressin leaked to the periphery as iv administration of 10 pmol vasopressin decreased renal nerve activity by 9 + 1%. Electrical stimulation of the paraventricular nucleus (three stimuli at 20 to 100 muA, 100 or 200 Hz) caused a biphasic excitatory response with the peaks of increased renal nerve activity occurring between 50 to 100 and 100 to 200 ms after stimulation. Intrathecal application of the vasopressin antagonist prior to repeating the stimulation of the paraventricular nucleus attenuated the second excitatory response without affecting the first excitatory episode. In animals in which the stimulating electrode was located adjacent to, but not within, the paraventricular nucleus, a monophasic excitatory response (at between 100 to 150 ms after the stimulation) was observed. This response was not attenuated by the intrathecal antagonist. These results are consistent with earlier studies which suggested that arginine vasopressin may function as a mediator of synaptic transmission at spinal levels in pathways influencing kidney function.
Abstract We studied the co-localization of progestin receptor-immunoreactive (PR-IR) cell nuclei and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) cell bodies in guinea-pig brain with a double antibody, immunocytochemical technique. Sections were first immunostained for estradiol-induced PR-IR using a peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique with diaminobenzidine as the chromogen followed by alpha-naphthol as the chromogen for TH-IR. We examined the periventricular-preoptic area and the arcuate nucleus, because these two sites are dense in both PR-IR cells and TH-IR cells (cell groups A14 and A12, respectively), and the dorsal hypothalamic Area A13, because this area contains a high density of TH-IR cells, but few PR-IR cells. No co-localization was seen in the periventricular-preoptic area or Area A13. However, a small proportion (5% to 13%) of TH-IR cells in the arcuate nucleus was observed to have PR-IR cell nuclei with the rostral arcuate showing the greatest concentration of co-localized cells. In order to determine if the estradiol pretreatment required to induce PR-IR influenced TH-IR, TH-IR in estradiol-primed guinea-pigs was compared with that of vehicle-injected controls. This treatment did not noticeably influence the amount of TH-IR in the arcuate nucleus. Therefore, the results of these experiments suggest that, although some of the TH-IR neurons in the arcuate nucleus contain PR-IR, this relationship is seen in less than 15% of the TH-IR cells. In many cases, PR-IR neurons were found to have TH-IR varicosities closely associated with their cell bodies.
Synthetic nerve guidance channels are used to better understand the cellular and molecular events controlling peripheral nerve regeneration. In the present study, the contribution of wound-healing molecules to peripheral nerve regeneration was assessed by varying the molecular weight cutoff of the tubular membrane. Nerve regeneration through polysulfone tubular membranes with molecular weight (Mw) cutoffs of 10(5) and 10(6) Da was analyzed in a transected hamster sciatic nerve model. Cohorts of 6 animals received tubes of either type for 4 or 8 weeks with the distal end of the polymer tube capped. Other cohorts of 6 animals received tubes of either type for 4 weeks with the distal nerve stump secured within the guidance channel so as to create a 4 or 8 mm gap between both nerve stumps. Both types of channels contained regenerated tissue cables extending to the distal end of the guidance channel at both 4 and 8 weeks in the absence of a distal nerve stump. The cables regenerated in the 10(5) Da channels were composed of nerve fascicles surrounded by a loose epineurial sheath, whereas those regenerated in the 10(6) Da channels were composed mainly of granulation tissue. The numbers of myelinated and unmyelinated axons were significantly greater in the 10(5) Da than in the 10(6) Da channels at both 4 and 8 weeks. Both types of channel contained regenerated tissue cables with numerous nerve fascicles when the distal nerve stump was present with either gap length. However, when the gap distance was 8 mm, the 10(6) Da channels contained significantly fewer myelinated axons than the 10(5) Da channels. The present study reveals that the Mw cutoff of a semipermeable guidance channel strongly influences the outcome of peripheral nerve regeneration, possibly by controlling the exchange of molecules between the channel's lumen and the external wound-healing environment. These results suggest that the wound-healing environment secretes humoral factors that can either promote or inhibit the nerve-regeneration process.
Exploratory behavior, measured by the time an animal spends investigating objects in a novel environment, has been shown to be sensitive to prior exposure of the animal to stressors. Using this paradigm, it was demonstrated previously that both corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and the alpha 2-adrenoreceptor antagonist, idazoxan, elicited stress-like decreases in exploratory behavior. Because an activation of cerebral noradrenergic systems is observed during stress, following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of CRF, or following peripheral administration of idazoxan, the involvement of noradrenergic systems in the behavioral effect of restraint and CRF was examined. Inhibition of norepinephrine (NE) release using the alpha 2-agonist clonidine (25 micrograms/kg, i.p.) or the noradrenergic-selective neurotoxin DSP-4 antagonized the restraint-induced decrease in exploratory behavior. The combination of these 2 treatments completely prevented this effect of restraint. The alpha 1-receptor antagonist prazosin (200 micrograms/kg) also prevented the behavioral effect of restraint, whereas the alpha 1-agonist phenylephrine (50 or 100 ng, i.c.v.) decreased exploratory behavior. None of these treatments consistently altered locomotor activity as measured by the number of entries into the different compartments or the number of rears. These results implicate noradrenergic systems in the stress-related changes in this behavior, consistent with our parallel measures on the production of NE catabolites. Thus, both CRF and noradrenergic systems appear to be involved in the effect of restraint on exploratory behavior in this task. Neither DSP-4 nor prazosin had any effect on the CRF-induced decrease in exploratory behavior. However, the CRF antagonist alpha-helical CRF (20 micrograms, i.c.v.) reversed the decrease in exploratory behavior induced by phenylephrine. The most likely explanation is that the 2 systems act in tandem such that noradrenergic systems regulate the release of brain CRF via an alpha 1-adrenoreceptor. This arrangement parallels that involved in the release of hypothalamic CRF to activate the pituitary-adrenal axis. The implications of these results for research on stress-related behaviors and for the etiology of depression are discussed.
In vitro intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the rat midbrain slice. Two neuronal types could be distinguished in dopamine-containing (DA) midbrain regions based on electrophysiological criteria. One neuron type exhibited short duration action potentials (less than 1.5 msec), could fire at high frequencies (greater than 10 Hz), and exhibited either phasic or burst firing patterns. This neuron did not exhibit tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. A second neuronal type exhibited a unique set of electrophysiological properties, which included (1) a spontaneous pacemaker-like depolarizing potential, (2) a highly regular firing pattern, (3) long duration (greater than 2 msec) action potentials, and (4) a high (i.e., depolarized) spike threshold. This neuron was consistently double labeled using intracellular staining and immunocytochemical localization of the catecholamine-specific enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, and thus represented the DA neuronal type. Midbrain DA neurons stained with Lucifer yellow could be separated into 3 classes based on their location and morphology: (1) fusiform neurons with laterally projecting dendrites in the dorsal substantia nigra zona compacta region, (2) multipolar cells with laterally and ventrally projecting dendrites in the ventral substantia nigra zona compacta, and (3) neurons with fusiform and multipolar somata and radially projecting dendrites in the ventral tegmental area. The dendrites also exhibited spine-like protrusions and ended with specialized forked processes. Spontaneously firing DA cells recorded in vitro had a number of distinguishing electrophysiological characteristics in common with those of DA neurons recorded in vivo, such as the presence of a slow depolarizing potential driving spike activity and a characteristic depolarized spike threshold (approximately-36 mV). However, in contrast to that found in vivo, the DA cells characterized here exhibited substantially higher input resistances and fired spontaneously in a very regular pacemaker pattern. Burst firing was not observed. Spike activity was apparently dependent on 4 depolarizing events: (1) a voltage-dependent TTX-sensitive slow depolarization, (2) a cobalt-sensitive low threshold depolarization that was activated during the rebound from brief membrane hyperpolarizations, (3) high threshold dendritic calcium spikes which gave rise to the spike afterhyperpolarization, and (4) a high threshold initial segment sodium spike. These depolarizations were modulated by several processes, including a 4-aminopyridine-insensitive delayed repolarization, an instantaneous and time-dependent anomalous rectifier, and an afterhyperpolarization. Although low threshold depolarizations and rebound action potentials could be triggered by the membrane repolarization following small membrane hyperpolarizations, comparatively larger hyperpolarizations attenuated this rebound activation, thereby suppressing anodal break excitation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Numerous studies indicate that gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) can either hyperpolarize or depolarize hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells. While the inhibitory action of GABA may occur directly on these cells, the excitatory action may be mediated by interactions of GABAergic neurons with each other or with catecholaminergic afferents. We sought to examine the cellular basis for these interactions and their relative frequency. Thus, the ultrastructural morphology of GABAergic neurons and their relation to terminals exhibiting immunoreactivity for the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were examined in the rat hippocampal formation using combined immunoautoradiographic and peroxidase-antiperoxidase labeling methods. By light microscopy, GABAergic perikarya and processes codistributed most noticeably with TH-containing processes in the hilus of the dentate gyrus (DG) and in strata lucidum, radiatum, and lacunosum-moleculare of the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Thus, these regions were examined further by electron microscopy. In the ultrastructural analysis, GABA-like immunoreactivity (GABA-LI) was detected in neuronal perikarya, dendrites, axons, and axon terminals. The GABA-containing perikarya were large, ovoid (20-40 microns in diameter), and contained abundant cytoplasm and an indented nucleus with one nucleolus. Synaptic junctions on the perikarya and dendrites with GABA-LI were both symmetric and asymmetric. Approximately equal numbers of TH-labeled terminals (19% of 133 in DG; 39% of 26 in CA3) and GABA-containing terminals (19% DG, 15% CA3) formed synapses with GABA-labeled perikarya. The remainder of the presynaptic terminals (62% DG, 46% CA3) were unlabeled, i.e., contained unidentified transmitters. Terminals with GABA-LI (0.5-1.6 microns) contained numerous small clear vesicles and from 0 to 2 large dense-core vesicles. The types of associations formed by terminals with GABA-LI were remarkably similar in the DG and hippocampus proper despite differences in intrinsic cell type and function. Terminals with GABA-LI formed associations with unlabeled perikarya and dendrites (24% of 151 in DG, 25% of 75 in CA3) and synapses with GABA-containing perikarya and dendrites (18% DG, 5% CA3). Additionally, GABAergic terminals converged upon the same perikarya or dendrite as a TH-containing terminal (15% DG, 21% CA3) and were in direct apposition to TH-labeled terminals (19% DG, 20% CA3). The remaining GABAergic terminals (24% DG, 28% CA3) were without any apparent synaptic relations. In both the DG and CA3, the junctions formed by GABAergic terminals were symmetric. Terminals showing colocalization of GABA-LI and TH-I were also detected although rarely.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cerebellar granule cells in enriched primary culture are susceptible to the neurotoxic effects of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+). Relatively high MPP+ concentrations are required to elicit neurotoxic effects at early culture times, but lower concentrations of MPP+ produce comparable neurotoxic effects at later culture times. Under identical culture conditions 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is not neurotoxic. Preincubation with the glutamate uptake blockers, DL-threo-3-hydroxyaspartic acid or dihydrokainate, or the dopaminergic uptake blocker mazindol, protects the granule cells from the cytotoxic effects of MPP+. Although MPTP is not neurotoxic in an enriched granule cell culture, in coculture with cerebellar astrocytes MPTP is toxic to granule cells, presumably because it is converted in astrocytes to MPP+. Cerebellar astrocytes remain confluent and viable. The addition of pargyline to the coculture abolishes the neurotoxicity consistent with a role of MAO B in bioactivation of MPTP. The concentration of MPP+ in the coculture medium (13 microM) was less than that required for the toxic effect in enriched neuronal cultures at earlier culture times, suggesting that an astroglial-neuronal interaction, perhaps by proximity, enhances the neurotoxicity of MPP+. These results might explain reported effects of MPTP on some cerebellar cells in mice.
A cDNA clone for the mRNA of bovine ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 21,000 as determined by SDS-PAGE) was isolated from a modified Okayama-Berg plasmid library. Transformed Escherichia coli colonies were screened by in situ colony hybridization with 2 different oligonucleotide probes derived from the amino acid sequence of the bovine protein. Sequence analysis of the longest cDNA clone, pTKAI [2407 nucleotides plus a poly(A) tail], revealed a 267-nucleotide-long coding region in agreement with the bovine ARPP-21 amino acid sequence (Williams et al., 1989). Southern blot analysis of total bovine genomic DNA raised the possibility that there may be 2 genes coding for ARPP-21. Northern blot analysis of total cellular RNA from bovine caudate nucleus and other brain regions demonstrated the existence of 2 major mRNA species, 2.5 and 1.0 kb in length, probably derived from use of alternate polyadenylation sites. There was a differential expression of these 2 mRNAs within the brain. Both ARPP-21 mRNAs were most abundant in the caudate nucleus, where the concentration of the protein is highly enriched.
To be able to understand and manage the devastating condition of subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured aneurysm, the neuroscience practitioner needs to be thoroughly cognizant of its causes, symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. This article presents a descriptive review and current update of these factors. The high morbidity and mortality in survivors of initial subarachnoid hemorrhage is mainly due to development of complications of hydrocephalus, hypothalamic dysfunction, rebleeding and vasospasm. A thorough knowledge of their causes, symptoms, times of occurrence and treatment is vitally important. This article also discusses complications with emphasis upon studies being done and proposed new methods of therapy.
In teaching the nursing process, educators ask students to identify nursing diagnoses for patients in the clinical area. Nursing diagnoses provide structure and focus for the student's plan of care. However, beginning nursing students have little or no clinical knowledge upon which to base decisions in the area of etiology determination. A model is presented which limits etiologies to four categories. The four categories can also assist the nurse in practice to assess needs in order to comprehensively plan and implement care. Examples of nursing diagnoses pertaining to the neuroscience patient using the four categories of etiologies are described.
The main purpose of this work was to determine which of the multiple isoforms of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) are associated with clathrin-coated vesicles (CVs) from developing and adult rat skeletal muscles. CV-enriched preparations were obtained by subcellular fractionation/equilibrium sedimentation and further purified by immunoadsorption to anti-clathrin IgG-coated Staphylococcus aureus cells. Analysis of individual AChE isoforms by velocity sedimentation ultracentrifugation showed that a) while both globular (G-forms) and asymmetric (A-forms) AChE were detected in all subcellular fractions evaluated, the CV-enriched fraction contained a higher proportion of A-forms (mainly the A12 species); b) most of the AChE activity contained in such a CV fraction was recovered following immunoadsorption; c) alkaline extraction conditions (pH 8.5) which depolymerize clathrin were necessary to detect a large proportion of A-forms in both the CV-enriched and immunoprecipitated preparations, while most of the G-forms (especially G1 + G2 AChE) were detected following extraction at pH 6.8; and d) comparison of AChE isoform profiles from neonate and adult muscle CV-enriched fractions showed a greater concentration of A-forms in the former. These data suggest that considerable amounts of A12 and, to a lesser extent, G4 AChE are sequestered within muscle CVs which may be destined for the plasmalemma. Our findings also indicate that the relative proportions of AChE isoenzymes in rat muscle CVs vary according to the extent of muscle development and lend support to the contention that CVs participate in the externalization of functionally important AChE isoenzymes.
1. This study utilized retrograde anatomical tracer techniques and in vivo extracellular electrophysiological studies to examine caudal ventrolateral and dorsomedial medulla afferents to supraoptic nucleus neurosecretory neurones in male Long-Evans rats. 2. In one series of experiments, pentobarbitone-anaesthetized animals were subjected to ventral exposure of the hypothalamus and rhodamine-tagged latex microspheres (0.05-0.2 microliter) were injected into one supraoptic nucleus. Following perfusion with paraformaldehyde-glutaraldehyde 18-24 h later, cell counts were obtained of rhodamine- and/or catecholamine-labelled neurones in the caudal ventrolateral and dorsomedial medulla both ipsi- and contralateral to the injection site. 3. In the caudal ventrolateral medulla, each injection labelled fewer than 15% of the catecholaminergic neurones; with small injections, most (68-100%) of the rhodamine-labelled neurones also displayed catecholamine histofluorescence. In the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii, one-half to one-third as many rhodamine-labelled cells were observed, but a higher percentage (13-100%) of these were non-catecholaminergic. 4. Extracellular recordings were obtained from antidromically identified supraoptic neurones classified as vasopressin (n = 106) or oxytocin (n = 26) secreting. Single cathodal pulses (0.2 ms duration, 0.02-0.08 mA) applied in the caudal half of the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarii evoked a transient (30-50 ms) activation of 63% of both vasopressin- and oxytocin-secreting neurones. Mean latencies (+/- S.E.M.) for vasopressin and oxytocin cells were 49.8 +/- 1.0 and 46.5 +/- 2.4 ms respectively; these were not significantly different. Similar responses were noted to contralateral stimuli applied to four vasopressin and two oxytocin cells. 5. Vasopressin neurones activated by caudal nucleus tractus solitarii stimulation displayed similar patterns of response to stimulation in the caudal ventrolateral medulla. However, latencies from the nucleus solitarius (mean 47.6 +/- 1.4 ms; n = 59) were significantly longer (P less than 0.05) than from the ventrolateral medulla (41.5 +/- 2.0 ms; n = 17). In eight out of eleven vasopressin neurones tested, interruption of synaptic transmission through the ventrolateral medulla reduced or abolished the caudal nucleus tractus solitarii-evoked excitation but had no effect on their response to baroreceptor activation. This manoeuvre affected zero out of five oxytocin cells similarly excited by nucleus solitarius stimulation. 6. These observations indicate that visceral input mediated through the nucleus tractus solitarii is transmitted differentially to supraoptic vasopressin- and oxytocin-secreting neurones.
1. Magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) were impaled in the supraoptic nucleus of rat hypothalamic explants maintained in vitro. Current- and voltage-clamp analysis of the osmotically induced response was performed at 34 degrees C. 2. Addition of mannitol or NaCl to cause a rise in fluid osmolarity (greater than +6 mosM) caused a membrane depolarization whose amplitude increased when elicited from more hyperpolarized levels. Changes in temperature (34-28 degrees C), addition of TTX, or superfusion with Na(+)-free or Ca2(+)-free solutions did not block the osmotically induced depolarization. In control solutions the response was consistently accompanied by an increase in the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic potentials. Thus, osmotic stimuli have a direct effect on MNCs, and they also apparently activate other neurones which are presynaptic to these cells. 3. Under voltage-clamp, hyperosmotic stimuli induced an inward current (Io) accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance. The current was unaffected or slightly enhanced by doubling the external K+ concentration. Io was also characterized by a linear I-V relation (between -100 and -50mV) and an extrapolated reversal potential near -10 mV. Io presumably results from the activation of a voltage-independent and non-selective cationic conductance. 4. Hyperosmotic stimuli did not affect the depolarizing after-current (IDAP) responsible for the production of phasic bursts. However, the inward shift of the post-spike I-V curve caused by Io could reduce or eliminate the region of net outward current which lies negative to spike threshold in silent neurones. Thus in MNCs displaying IDAP, activation of Io by a rise in osmotic pressure can induce or enhance phasic bursting activity. 5. Application of hyperosmotic stimuli sufficient to excite most MNCs (+20 to +80 mosM) did not elicit a response from any of seventeen neurones impaled in areas lateral and caudal to the supraoptic nucleus. Recordings obtained from three CA1 neurones in slices of rat hippocampus revealed that stimuli in excess of +100 mosM are required to evoke appreciable non-specific depolarizations. 6. These studies indicate that the specific endogenous osmosensitivity of MNCs results from the activation of the intrinsic current Io. Furthermore, interactions between Io and IDAP explain how osmotic stimuli can lead to the induction of phasic bursting activity, a response which is known to potentiate the secretion of vasopressin from the neural lobe.
1. Intracellular and extracellular recordings were obtained from the CA3 area of rat hippocampal slices to study cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying rhythmic slow activity (RSA). In all impaled CA3 pyramidal neurones, continuous applications of carbachol, a non-hydrolysable cholinergic agonist, induced first a brief non-rhythmic excitation and then periodic bursts of RSA which could persist for several hours. Each burst of RSA consisted of 4-10 Hz oscillatory depolarizations which had a rise time much slower than conventional EPSPs recorded in the same cell. 2. The carbachol-induced RSA was blocked by atropine; therefore the cholinergic stimulation involved muscarinic receptors. 3. Analyses of simultaneous recordings from pairs of neurones, or a neurone and a glial cell, or a neurone and the extracellular field, indicated that carbachol-induced RSA was synchronous in a large population of CA3 pyramidal neurones. 4. Complete removal of the dentate gyrus and CA1 region did not block carbachol-induced RSA in CA3, but applications of tetrodotoxin or inorganic Ca2+ channel blockers (Cd2+, Co2+ or Mn2+) abolished carbachol-induced RSA. This suggested that the RSA involved propagation of action potentials through a local synaptic network in the CA3 area. 5. Carbachol-induced RSA was reversibly blocked by a broad-spectrum excitatory amino acid antagonist (kynurenic acid), but not by two selective N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists (DL-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid or DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid), a GABAA antagonist (bicuculline), or a GABAB antagonist (phaclofen), suggesting that carbachol-induced RSA involved primarily non-NMDA excitatory amino acid, but not GABAergic, synapses. 6. Raising extracellular [Ca2+] beyond 7 mM, which should significantly weaken the polysynaptic recurrent excitation among CA3 pyramidal neurones, abolished carbachol-induced RSA. This suggests that the recurrent excitation among CA3 pyramidal neurones is necessary for carbachol-induced RSA in the CA3 area. However, our experiments cannot clarify whether the recurrent excitation, alone, is sufficient for carbachol-induced RSA.
Class I major histocompatibility complex proteins appear to be the major cell surface receptors for simian virus 40 (SV40), as implied by the following observations. Adsorption of SV40 to LLC-MK2 rhesus monkey kidney cells specifically inhibited binding of a monoclonal antibody (MAb) against class I human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) proteins. Conversely, pretreatment of LLC-MK2 cells with anti-HLA MAbs inhibited infection by SV40. The ability of anti-HLA to inhibit infection was greatly reduced when the order of addition of the anti-HLA and the virus was reversed. Infection was also inhibited by preincubating SV40 with purified soluble class I protein. Finally, human lymphoblastoid cells of the Daudi line, which do not express class I major histocompatibility complex proteins, were infected at relatively low levels with SV40 virions. In a control experiment, we found that pretreatment of cells with a MAb specific for the leukocytic-function-associated antigen LFA-3 actually enhanced infection. This finding may also support the premise that class I major histocompatibility complex proteins are receptors for SV40.
This longitudinal study of 194 patients with sporadic ALS demonstrated that it is possible for physicians to predict the approximate survival time for an individual ALS patient given: (1) the age of the patient, (2) the duration of his weakness and (3) an estimate of his clinical disability (ALS Score). This information is of value in the clinical management of ALS patients, and it should facilitate construction of experimental therapeutic trials in ALS.

[3H]Spiperone [( 3H]SPI) binding sites in rat or bovine striata have been solubilized using CHAPS or digitonin detergents. Solubilized sites retained the binding characteristics of those in native membrane preparations. The same solubilized material, however, did not bind [3H]tyramine [( 3H]PTA), thus indicating that [3H]PTA binding sites and DA receptors are different chemico-physical entities. In membrane preparations or crude synaptosomes obtained from the c.striatum of neonatally-rendered hypothyroid rats, when central DA-pathways are impaired, both [3H]PTA binding and [3H]DA uptake processes were markedly decreased, with no effect on [3H]mazindol [( 3H]MAZ) binding, compared to euthyroids. Reserpine, a well-known inhibitor of DA-uptake into a variety of secretory vesicles, and a potent in vivo and in vitro inhibitor of [3H]PTA binding, did not affect the [3H]MAZ binding process. This further supported the suggestion that while [3H]PTA binding sites are almost totally associated with the vesicular transporter for DA, [3H]MAZ does label a site involved in the DA-translocation across the neuronal membrane. The latter process seems to be rather insensitive to thyroid hypofunction, when however the intracellular storage of DA might be consistently impaired. In conclusion, PTA might be well exploited as a marker of the DA vesicular transporter through its molecular characterization, whenever possible.
Amyloid beta-protein precursor (ABPP) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents a family of proteins which includes the parent protein which generates a small (4 kD) fragment that self-assembles to form amyloid fibrils in AD. Thus, the normal and abnormal proteolysis of ABPP may be directly relevant to AD pathogenesis. We have examined the accumulation of ABPP in cultured rodent and human neuronal cell lines in the presence and absence of a battery of protease inhibitors using immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. Here we present evidence for a lysosomal pathway for the turnover of ABPP and discuss the relevance of these results to plaque pathology and abnormal ABPP immunostaining in AD.
Quantitative CT demonstrated increased CSF and 3rd ventricular volumes, and decreased gray matter and white matter volume, in older (greater than 45 years) Down's syndrome (DS) adults with dementia as compared with younger DS adults. Serial CT studies repeated after periods of up to 2 years demonstrated significant progressive cerebral atrophy. Older DS adults without dementia, but with cognitive decline, did not show cerebral atrophy as compared with young DS subjects. These results suggest brain atrophy must be present to accompany dementia in older DS subjects, despite the presence of Alzheimer's disease neuropathology in all older subjects. The Alzheimer's disease process in DS may occur in 2 stages, the 1st with neuropathology and cognitive decline, the 2nd with additional cerebral atrophy and dementia.
This report describes an experimental study on the localization of converging organization of the near-reflex triad in the chloralose-anesthetized encphale-isol cat, in which electromyographic (EMG) recordings were used to elicit responses from the intrinsic and extrinsic eye muscles. Electrical stimulation to several subdivisional areas in the oculomotor nuclear complex evoked EMGs in both the iris sphincter and ciliary muscles. Conduction time from the caudal Edinger-Westphal nucleus to the postganglionic ciliary nerve was about 1.8 ms, whereas that to the iris sphincter muscle was about 6.5 ms. Conduction time from the anteromedian nucleus to the muscle was about 4.5 ms; however, that from the postganglionic short ciliary nerve to the muscle was about 6.7 ms. A direct pathway without synapse in the ciliary ganglion is suggested. Excitatory responses were elicited in the effectors of the near-reflex triad by electrical stimulation of the midbrain reticular formation of the dorsomedial division adjacent to the magnocellular red nucleus (MRFdmMRN). Converging movements in electro-oculography (EOG) were also observed. Conduction time from the MRF to the iris sphincter muscle was about 5.6 ms, whereas that to the postganglionic short ciliary nerve was 5.1 ms. The neural connection between the MRF and the muscle is thought to be mediated by the anteromedian subnucleus. Electrical stimulation of the posteromedial division of the Clare-Bishop (C-B) area evoked a discharge on the MRF and EMGs of all effectors of the triad. The sum of the conduction time from the C-B area to the MRF and that from the MRF to EMGs corresponds well to the latency of EMGs evoked by C-B area stimulation. We conclude that the MRFdmMRN is the supranuclear organization which converges the sensory-motor cortical activities on the precise linkage of the near-reflex triad and becomes an integration center for each nucleus in the oculomotor nuclear complex.
The effects of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid were investigated on performance in an elevated plus-maze. This compound is a high-affinity, partial agonist ligand at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. Like chlordiazepoxide, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid increased in a dose-dependent manner both the percent entries into and the percent time spent in the open arms of the plus-maze. However, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid was significantly less efficacious than chlordiazepoxide in these measures and increased, while chlordiazepoxide decreased, the time spent in the middle platform of the plus-maze. These findings indicate that ligands acting through strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex may represent a new class of anxiolytic agents with a profile which differs from the benzodiazepines.
Depolarization of isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes) has been shown to stimulate neurotransmitter release and to increase the phosphorylation state of a number of proteins, including synapsin I, in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Synapsin I, a prominent nerve terminal phosphoprotein, interacts with the cytoplasmic surface of small synaptic vesicles and with cytoskeletal elements in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. In the present study we have found that depolarization of synaptosomes resulted in a rapid (2-5 sec) translocation of synapsin I from the particulate to the cytosolic (soluble) fraction. This translocation of synapsin I correlated with its phosphorylation state and was dependent on the presence of Ca2+ in the incubation medium. The stoichiometry of phosphorylation of soluble synapsin I was considerably higher than that of synapsin I in the particulate fraction, under both basal and depolarizing conditions. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that, in situ, the phosphorylation of synapsin I promotes its translocation from synaptic vesicles/cytoskeleton to the cytosol. This phosphorylation/translocation may be instrumental in regulating the release of neurotransmitter.
The alpha 2-adrenoceptor selective agonist, [3H]guanabenz ([ 3H]GBZ), labels a unique population of binding sites in whole kidney which are not labeled by [3H]p-aminoclonidine ([3H]PAC). These binding sites are saturable and of high affinity (Kd = 10-12 nM). [3H]GBZ was not displaced from these sites by other alpha 1- or alpha 2-ligands, suggesting that they are non-adrenergic. This hypothesis is further supported by the insensitivity of renal guanabenz binding to regulation by guanyl nucleotides or to destruction by trypsin. Also, there appears to be no effect of guanabenz on the potency of isoproterenol in competing for beta-adrenoceptors in the kidney, which has been previously reported to be sensitive to clonidine. The absence of any effect of guanabenz on isoproterenol displacement of [3H]dihydroalprenolol in kidney suggests there are subtle differences in activation of alpha-receptors by clonidine and guanabenz in the kidney. In the brain, [3H]GBZ labels two binding sites. Part of the binding of [3H]GBZ in the brain is to sites essentially identical to the alpha 2-adrenoceptors labeled by [3H]PAC. The remainder of the binding resembles the non-adrenergic binding in kidney. The relationship of this unique binding site to the pharmacologic actions of guanabenz is currently not known.

Exogenous cholecystokinin (CCK) decreases food intake and causes satiety in animals and man. However, it has not been established that endogenous CCK causes satiety or whether the response is mediated by peripheral-type (CCK-A) or brain-type (CCK-B) receptors. The development of potent and selective antagonists for CCK-A (MK-329) and CCK-B (L-365,260) receptors now allows these issues to be addressed. The CCK-A antagonist MK-329 and the CCK-B antagonist L-365,260 increased food intake in partially satiated rats and postponed the onset of satiety; however, L-365,260 was 100 times more potent than MK-329 in increasing feeding and preventing satiety. These results suggest that endogenous CCK causes satiety by an agonist action on CCK-B receptors in the brain.
It has been shown that male rats demonstrate a preference for the odor of the female rat. This preference has been suggested to be a function of the accessory olfactory pathway. Thus, changes in preference of the male rat for the odor of the female were examined following accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) removal. Preference decreased to about 30% of that seen in the intact rat during the 10 days following AOB removal. Thereafter, it increased gradually over one month survival time up to approximately 70% of the level demonstrated by the intact rat. The rats whose main olfactory bulb and AOB were removed did not show any recovery at any survival time. The time course of the behavioral recovery after AOB removal was compared with the time course of the recovery of synaptic density which was observed in the medial amygdaloid nucleus after AOB removal. The relationship between functional recovery and reorganization of synaptic connections is discussed.
With the aim of identifying proteins involved in linking microtubules to other cytoplasmic structures, microtubule-binding proteins were isolated from rat liver extracts by a taxol-dependent procedure. The major non-tubulin component, a 58-kDa protein (designated 58K), was purified to homogeneity by gel filtration chromatography. To aid further characterization of 58K, purified preparations of the protein were used as immunogen for the production of monoclonal antibodies. Five different monoclonals were obtained, and each of these reacted on immunoblots of liver homogenates with a single band that comigrated with 58K. Based on the results of immunochemical, peptide mapping, and microsequencing experiments, 58K was found to be unrelated structurally to similarly sized cytoskeleton-associated proteins, such as tubulin, tau, vimentin, or keratin, and to represent a new protein species. Several in vitro properties of 58K were found to be characteristic of microtubule-associated proteins. For instance, 58K cosedimented quantitatively with microtubules out of liver extracts, stimulated polymerization of tubulin, and bound to microtubules in a saturable manner. In contrast to traditional microtubule-associated proteins, however, 58K was not found to be distributed uniformly along microtubules in cells. Immunofluorescence microscopy of cultured hepatoma cells revealed, instead, that 58K is associated principally with the Golgi apparatus. Moreover, Golgi membranes isolated from rat liver were observed by immunoblotting to contain significant levels of 58K, which, upon subfractionation of the membranes, partitioned as if it were a peripheral membrane protein exposed to the cytoplasmic side of the Golgi. These collective results have been evaluated in terms of earlier evidence that the intracellular position and structural integrity of the Golgi relies on the presence and organization of microtubules. In that context, the observations reported here suggest that the in vivo function of 58K is to provide an anchorage site for microtubules on the outer surface of the Golgi.
The neuroprotective effects of the strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor antagonist, HA-966, against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and quisqualate (QA)-mediated brain injury were determined in perinatal rats. Postnatal day (PND) 7 rats received intrastriatal injections of NMDA (25 nmol) or QA (100 nmol) and then were administered intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of varying doses of HA-966 or vehicle 15 min later. Animals were sacrificed 5 days later and the degree of brain injury was calculated by comparison of the weights of injected and contralateral cerebral hemispheres. HA-966 selectively reduced the degree of NMDA-mediated brain injury in a dose-dependent manner. However, HA-966 did not attenuate QA-mediated brain injury.
Intracellular recordings were made from cells in layer II of entorhinal cortex slices from 9 to 13-day-old rats. The majority of these cells showed pronounced spontaneous synaptic activity which could summate into large depolarizing events and give rise to bursts of spikes. These events could be associated with an apparent decrease in membrane conductance. They were reduced in amplitude by hyperpolarization of the cell and tended to increase on depolarization. Perfusion with 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate abolished the spontaneous activity. Thus, in layer II of the entorhinal cortex at this stage of development there seems to be a functional enhancement of ongoing synaptic activity mediated via activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Adrenaline (epinephrine) is an important candidate transmitter in descending spinal control systems. To date intrinsic spinal adrenergic neurons have not been reported; thus adrenergic input is presumably derived from brainstem sites. In this regard, the localization of adrenergic neurons in the brainstem is an important consideration. Maps of adrenergic cell bodies and to a lesser extent axons and terminal fields have been made in various species, but not in monkeys. Thus, the present study concerns the organization of adrenergic systems in the brainstem of a monkey (Macaca fascicularis) immunohistochemically mapped by means of an antibody to the enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). PNMT-immunostained cell bodies are distributed throughout the medulla in two principal locations. One concentration of labeled cells is in the dorsomedial medulla and includes the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (X), and an area ventral to X in a region of the reticular formation (RF) known as the central nucleus dorsalis (CnD) of the medulla. A few scattered cells are observed in the periventricular gray just ventral to the IVth ventricle and on midline in the raphe. The second major concentration of PNMT-immunostained cells is located in the ventrolateral RF, lateral and dorsolateral to the inferior olive (IO), including some cells in the rostral part of the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN). Terminal fields are located in the NTS, X, area postrema (AP), and the floor of the IVth ventricle in the medulla and pons. A light terminal field is also observed in the raphe, particularly raphe pallidus (RP). A heavy terminal field is present in locus coeruleus (LC). Fibers labeled for PNMT form two major fiber tracts. One is in the dorsomedial RF extending as a well-organized bundle through the medulla, pons, and midbrain. A second tract is located on the ventrolateral edge of the medulla and caudal pons. Fibers in this tract appear to descend to the spinal cord. A comparison with maps of other catecholamine neurons in primates is discussed, confirming that the distribution of the adrenergic system in monkeys is similar to that described in the human.
Locomotion and reaching have traditionally been regarded as separate motor activities. In fact, they may be closely connected both from an evolutionary and a neurophysiological viewpoint. Reaching seems to have evolved from the neural systems responsible for the active and precise positioning of the limb during locomotion; moreover, it seems to be organized in the spinal cord. The motor cortex and its corticospinal outflow are preferentially engaged when precise positioning of the limb is needed during locomotion and are also involved during reaching and active positioning of the hand near objects of interest. All of these motor activities require visuomotor coordination, and it is this coordination that could be achieved by the motor cortex and interconnected parietal and cerebellar areas.
The A4 protein (or beta-protein) is a 42- or 43-amino-acid peptide present in the extracellular neuritic plaques in Alzheimer's disease and is derived from a membrane-bound amyloid protein precursor (APP). Three forms of APP have been described and are referred to as APP695, APP751 and APP770, reflecting the number of amino acids encoded for by their respective complementary DNAs. The two larger APPs contain a 57-amino-acid insert with striking homology to the Kunitz family of protease inhibitors. Here we report that the deduced amino-terminal sequence of APP is identical to the sequence of a cell-secreted protease inhibitor, protease nexin-II (PN-II). To confirm this finding, APP751 and APP695 cDNAs were over-expressed in the human 293 cell line, and the secreted N-terminal extracellular domains of these APPs were purified to near homogeneity from the tissue-culture medium. The relative molecular mass and high-affinity binding to dextran sulphate of secreted APP751 were consistent with that of PN-II. Functionally, secreted APP751 formed stable, non-covalent, inhibitory complexes with trypsin. Secreted APP695 did not form complexes with trypsin. We conclude that the secreted form of APP with the Kunitz protease inhibitor domain is PN-II.
Previous findings suggest: (1) that altering protein kinase C (PKC) activity alters the persistence of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the intact hippocampal formation; and (2) that PKC activity is directly correlated with persistence of LTP in vivo as measured by the in vitro phosphorylation of two major PKC substrates in adult hippocampus, protein F1 and 80k. Using quantitative analysis of two-dimensional gels, we report here two additional phosphoproteins of 72 and 55 kDa which were directly correlated to persistence of LTP induced in the intact dorsal hippocampal formation. The phosphorylation of both proteins in response to addition of different kinase stimulators was distinct from that of protein F1 and 80k. Moreover, neither protein was a substrate for exogenous PKC. The physicochemical properties of these phosphoproteins suggest they are identical to the previously described synaptic vesicle proteins IIIa and IIIb, and as such are immunologically indistinguishable. Because proteins IIIa and IIIb are known to be phosphorylated by a Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-stimulated kinase, and protein F1 is known to be a plasma membrane-associated protein (P-57) which releases bound CaM in response to phosphorylation by PKC, the present findings suggest a potential mechanism in which PKC-mediated changes in plasma membrane proteins produce CaM kinase-mediated changes in synaptic vesicle proteins through a phosphorylation cascade. These membrane/vesicle alterations are postulated to underlie the increased synaptic efficacy which marks persistent LTP.
The selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) was used to distinguish a kappa opioid component in the mechanisms underlying the hindlimb paralysis, ischemia, and neuronal injury induced in the rat by the kappa opioid agonist dynorphin A. Spinal intrathecal (i.t.) injection of nor-BNI (20 nmol) either 15 min or immediately before i.t. injections of 5 or 20 nmol of dynorphin A failed to alter the dynorphin A-induced disruption of hindlimb motor function and nociceptive responsiveness. Nor-BNI also did not change the 3-fold increases in cerebrospinal fluid lactate concentrations produced by 20 nmol of dynorphin A. Neuroanatomical evaluations revealed that the cell loss, fiber degeneration, and central gray necrosis in lumbosacral spinal cords of rats treated with 20 nmol of dynorphin A were not altered by nor-BNI (20 nmol, i.t.). Thus, the spinal cord injury and associated neurological deficits resulting from i.t. injection of dynorphin A appear to be primarily, if not totally, attributable to its non-kappa opioid action(s).
Our recent whole cell patch-pipette studies have shown that human trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) cultured fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons have accelerated rates of action potential depolarization and repolarization, with reduced spike duration, compared to control neurons. Similar observations were made using DRG neurons from the trisomy 16 mouse, an animal model of trisomy 21. In this study we have used transgenic mice in order to investigate the relationship between excess gene dosage and neurophysiological abnormalities. DRG neurons which possessed additional copies of the gene for human superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD), a gene from the Down syndrome region of chromosome 21, were compared to normal neurons. No electrophysiological differences were found between the two groups of neurons, indicating that increased dosage of the SOD gene alone is not causal to action potential dysfunction found in trisomy 21 and trisomy 16 neurons.
The multicatalytic proteinase, ingensin, was purified to homogeneity from chicken liver. rRNA-degrading activity was co-eluted with the purified multicatalytic proteinase from a TSK-3000SW column. This RNA-degrading activity was inactivated by heat treatment and the addition of a low concentration of SDS. Therefore, the RNA-degrading activity co-eluted with the multicatalytic proteinase was not due to contamination by low-molecular-mass RNases. These results strongly suggest that this RNA-degrading activity was tightly associated with the multicatalytic proteinase, ingensin.
Embryonic septal neurons were transplanted into damaged hippocampus in adult rats which had received lateral ventricular administration of AF64A, a cholinergic neurotoxin. About 3 months after transplantation, the rats with bilateral septal grafts showed significant improvement in the radial maze and T-maze tasks. Many ingrowths of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive fibers originating from the grafts were observed in the hippocampus of the rats which showed good performance in these learning tasks. These results indicate that transplantation of septal cholinergic neurons into the AF64A-treated hippocampus may induce at least partial recovery in learning tasks believed to involve the hippocampus.


The authors discuss the changing role of gastrointestinal endocrinology during the last twenty years starting from the early sixties when techniques such as radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry allowed major advances of our knowledge on this field. Using these techniques several regulatory peptides have been identified and the concept of the diffuse neuroendocrine system as a morphofunctional apparatus regulating the majority of physiological activities, was postulated. Therefore gut endocrinology was enclosed as a part of neuroendocrinology and similarly the importance of peptidergic substances in neural physiology was recognized. Nevertheless, the usefulness of gut endocrinology in the clinical management of gastrointestinal diseases, following an emphatic start, is now restricted to gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumours. In these pathological conditions some regulatory peptides have been shown to be responsible for the associated symptoms and can be useful markers in the diagnosis and follow-up. However, recent advances in gut endocrinology make us think to new possibilities of clinical applications of gut hormones, at least in the understanding of the pathophysiology of some diseases (i.e. constipation, incontinence, short-bowel syndrome, etc.). Moreover, new events are now occurring in gut endocrinology since major improvements in molecular biology and genetic engineering can now allow us to sequence and clone DNA strands encoding several regulatory peptides and their precursors. Similarly membrane receptors and intracellular messengers have been characterized elucidating the complex metabolic pathways of neuroendocrine cells. Using advanced molecular biology techniques we can obtain today large amount of different regulatory peptides highly purified that can be employed in the diagnosis and therapy of several diseases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hippocampal sclerosis is the most common pathological finding associated with human temporal lobe epilepsy. Histochemical study with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining was used to investigate 7 surgically resected temporal lobes with hippocampal sclerosis from patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. In all 7 specimens, an abnormal but consistent pattern of staining was noted. In the hilum of the dentate gyrus, AChE-rich polymorphic cells were relatively preserved in comparison to the pyramidal neurons. In Ammon's horn, AChE fibers were lost in regions corresponding to the pyramidal cell dropout. AChE fibers were also lost along the inner portion of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, yet they were preserved within the outer portions of the molecular layer. These findings provide additional evidence for the relative selectivity of hippocampal pathology in human temporal lobe epilepsy.
When rats are placed in a novel environment, they alternate between progression and stopping: in the course of a session they stop briefly in many places, but in one or two places they also stop for very long periods. The place in which they stay for the longest cumulative time is defined as the rat's home base. In this place the incidences of grooming and of rearing are high and often the highest. In addition, the number of visits to the home base is typically the highest. Some rats establish a secondary base with similar properties to those of the main home base. The location of the base influences the mode of progression throughout the environment: progression away from base is slower and includes more stops than progression back. It is suggested that this paradigm may be used for the analysis of the spatial organization of locomotor behavior in neuroscience research.


1. The effect of tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA) on cholinergically mediated behaviour in the rat and mouse has been investigated. In addition the actions of this compound on cholinesterase activity and on muscarinic and nicotinic receptors has also been examined. 2. Administration of THA (5-20 mg kg-1, i.p.) produced a dose-dependent increase in tremor, hypothermia and salivation in both rats and mice. A similar profile of activity was seen following physostigmine (0.1-0.6 mg kg-1) administration. 3. THA was approximately fifty fold less potent than physostigmine in inducing behavioural change but its effects persisted for over twice as long as those of physostigmine. For example THA-induced hypothermia was still present at 4 h in the mouse and 8 h in the rat. 4. In vitro THA was a potent non-competitive inhibitor of rat brain cholinesterase (IC50: 57 +/- 6 nM) and bovine erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (IC50: 50 +/- 10 nM) but was a more potent inhibitor of horse serum butyrylcholinesterase (IC50: 7.2 +/- 1.4 nM). 5. Radioligand binding studies indicated that THA binds non-selectively but with moderate potency to both M1 (Ki: 600 nM) and M2 (Ki: 880 nM) muscarinic receptors. THA also interacted with the allosteric site present on cardiac M2 receptors. 6. It is concluded that THA is a reversible non-competitive inhibitor of cholinesterase with a long half life (compared with physostigmine). It also may antagonize muscarinic receptors at high doses. The long half life may account for its reported efficacy in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
1. The interactions of chlormethiazole with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis and release, and with ligand binding to sites associated with the GABAA-receptor complex and the GABAB-receptor have been studied in the rat. The GABAA-receptor was studied using [3H]-muscimol, [3H]-flunitrazepam was used to label the benzodiazepine modulatory site, and [35S]-butyl-bicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]-TBPS) to label the chloride channel. 2. Chlormethiazole had no effect on GABA synthesis in the cortex, hippocampus and striatum or on GABA release from cortical slices in vitro. Chlormethiazole did not displace [3H]-baclofen binding to the GABAB-receptor. 3. Chlormethiazole (IC50 = 140 microM) and pentobarbitone (IC50 = 95 microM) both inhibited [35S]-TBPS binding by increasing the rate of [35S]-TBPS dissociation. In addition, chlormethiazole caused an apparent decrease in the affinity of [35S]-TBPS binding. 4. Chlormethiazole enhanced the binding of [3H]-muscimol but had no effect on [3H]-flunitrazepam binding. In contrast, the sedative barbiturate pentobarbitone enhanced both [3H]-muscimol and [3H]-flunitrazepam binding. 5. It is concluded that the sedative and anticonvulsant effects of chlormethiazole are probably mediated through an action at the GABAA-receptor. However, chlormethiazole does not interact with the GABAA-receptor complex in an identical manner to the sedative barbiturate pentobarbitone.
Deficits in semantic encoding have been described in patients with frontal lobe disease who also show memory impairments. As a group, patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) exhibit memory impairment, fail to make effective use of semantic encoding to aid memory, and perform poorly on verbal fluency and concept formation tests which are sensitive to frontal lobe damage. In the present study the semantic encoding capacity of MS patients was measured using a modification of Wicken's release from proactive interference (PI) paradigm. Individual patients varied considerably in the severity of their impairments on verbal fluency, verbal recognition memory and on Wisconsin Card Sorting Task, but even patients who evidenced both memory impairment and signs of frontal lobe dysfunction showed normal release from PI after a categorical shift. Memory disturbances in MS are unlikely to result from an incapacity for semantic encoding, which seems preserved in MS, but may arise instead from deficits in processing information rapidly.
The development of proenkephalin (PE) gene expression in the rat striatum was examined at the mRNA and peptide levels. Immunocytochemistry was performed with antisera generated to the PE-specific peptide product Met-enkephalin-Arg-Gly-Leu (MERGL). The distribution of immunostaining was compared with the distribution of PE mRNA, determined by in situ hybridization with an oligonucleotide probe. PE mRNA first appeared at E16 in the caudal ventrolateral striatum, followed at E17-18 by the appearance of MERGL immunoreactivity in a similar distribution. The anatomical gradients of PE gene expression were similar to the pattern of histogenesis of striatal neurons, suggesting that the timing of PE gene expression is related to the time of neuronal withdrawal from the mitotic cycle. The relation of the development of PE gene expression to the known patterns of striatal histogenesis, neurochemical compartmentalization and dopaminergic innervation is discussed.
The development of our knowledge of the physiological, pharmacological, and biochemical actions of cocaine has in essence occurred in parallel with the development of our knowledge about the function of the autonomic nervous system. Cocaine is a sympathomimetic compound with potent local anesthetic properties. The principal hypothesis accepted to date to explain the sympathomimetic effects of cocaine is that this drug inhibits neuronal monoamine neurotransmitter reuptake by binding to a transporter or uptake site thereby increasing the effective concentration of neurotransmitter at adrenergic receptor sites. Much of the available evidence for this hypothesis has come from studies utilizing in vitro or in situ techniques. There have been relatively fewer studies examining the impact of cocaine on the autonomic nervous system in the intact animal. In addition, few studies have examined the effects of cocaine on central autonomic function. Past studies concerning the mechanism of action of cocaine are reviewed and recent data addressing the cardiovascular, respiratory, and central autonomic effects of cocaine are discussed.
1. A theoretical three compartment model is presented which gives the rate of incorporation of plasma palmitate into brain, Jpalm, in terms of turnover and synthesis of palmitate-containing lipids, de novo synthesis of palmitate from acetate, and recycling of palmitate within lipids. 2. Jpalm equals 4 h brain radioactivity following intravenous injection of [U-14C]-palmitate (determined with quantitative autoradiography), divided by integrated plasma specific activity of palmitate. Jpalm follows the time course of brain lipid synthesis during development of the rat, but is age-invariant in the adult. 3. At 1-7 days after 5 min of bilateral carotid occlusion in the awake gerbil, intravascular [14C]-palmitate incorporation is reduced in the CA1 pyramidal layer of the hippocampus, consistent with delayed neuronal death, but is elevated in the CA3 and CA4 pyramidal layers and dentate gyrus, suggesting synthesis of new membrane during recovery from the ischaemic insult. 4. Several weeks after unilateral destruction of the cochlea in 11 day old rats, incorporation of [14C]-palmitate from plasma into appropriate central auditory regions is reduced, corresponding to reduced cell size and altered morphology. 5. [14C]-palmitate incorporation into the left hypoglossal nucleus is increased during and following axonal regeneration (up to 23% compared with control side) following transection of the left hypoglossal nerve in Fischer-344 rats, whereas incorporation is decreased 6-7% when regeneration is prevented. Time courses of incorporation in both cases correspond to histological changes. 6. The results show that the palmitate method can be used to examine regional turnover and synthesis of brain lipids following injury, sensory deprivation, development, regeneration and ageing.
The case of a 64-year-old man who presented with unilateral pulsatile exophthalmos is described. A defect in the supero-medial wall of the orbit and an extraconal low density mass were demonstrated by orbital radiographs and CT. Positive contrast CT cisternography confirmed the diagnosis of a leptomeningeal cyst.
In a rural community of 80,000 people 69 patients were identified as having a diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. After interview and examination we found that 55 met the generally accepted diagnostic criteria for Parkinson's disease, 4 had possible Parkinson's disease, 6 had essential tremor, 2 had dementia and 2 had other conditions. The patients with Parkinson's disease had clinical and epidemiologic characteristics similar to those of patients in previous, mainly hospital-based, studies. These characteristics included mean age at onset (63 years), frequency rate of dementia (20%) and presence of postural tremor (11%). The pattern of treatment varied, some patients receiving more medication than is usual for the severity of their illness, and some patients receiving less than is usual. Parkinson's disease can be difficult to diagnose and manage because of the clinical variation between patients in presentation and response to treatment.
Three disorders of facial recognition and perception in acute schizophrenia and mescaline-induced psychosis are described and illustrated using original clinical and experimental material: &quot;affective prosopagnosia&quot; or stress-related dysfunctional face recognition; &quot;physiognomization&quot; of the environment or persistent illusions and hallucinations of nonspecific faces; and the &quot;mirror phenomenon&quot; or the experience of inner alienation from one's reflected face, which is perceived as independently alive, sinister, and generally physically distorted. It is proposed that neuropsychology suggests relationships between these phenomena that might otherwise be less apparent. No final neurobiological solution to the problem of dysfunctional facial perception and recognition in psychosis is presented, but various insights and suggestive models from the neurosciences are discussed. Attention is also paid to the conditions under which one might need to combine neuropsychological approaches with hermeneutically oriented analyses.
It is often implied that the various molecular, physiological, and behavioral responses to the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) are mediated in brain exclusively via the interactions of this synthetic steroid with the classical glucocorticoid (type II) receptor. The results reported in this study, however, suggest this generalization may, at least for the female mouse, be too restrictive. In the first experiment we compared the efficacy of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone (ALDO) with that of DEX to measure the classical mineralocorticoid (type I) receptor in brain cytosol. Since both of these steroids also bind to type II receptors, our assays included the type II receptor-selective ligand, RU26988. Whereas the specific binding of ALDO to type I receptors was largely unaffected by a 10-fold increase in the concentration of RU26988 (50- vs. 500-fold excess), there was a dramatic reduction in the specific binding of DEX. In a follow-up experiment, Scatchard analyses were used to confirm the differential affinity of RU26988 for DEX- vs. ALDO-type I receptor-binding sites and to reveal that the affinity of type I receptors for DEX (Kd approximately 0.83 nM) was nearly as high as it was for ALDO (Kd approximately 0.46 nM). A series of competition studies indicated that the competitive affinity (Kdc) of DEX for the ALDO-binding site was equivalent to the Kd computed in the saturation analyses, thus suggesting that the high affinity binding sites for DEX and ALDO on type I receptors may be equivalent or at least overlapping. The binding of DEX to these high affinity sites may prove to be important, since the systemic administration of this steroid was found to down-regulate both type I and type II receptors in a number of brain regions. Because coadministration of the type I receptor antagonist RU26752 was shown to block these actions on type I, but not type II receptors, the formation of the DEX-type I receptor complex appears to be required for DEX-induced type I receptor down-regulation. An analysis of the in vitro efficacy of ALDO- vs. DEX-type I receptor transformation suggests that whereas there is a significant increase in the binding of both complexes to DNA-cellulose after treatment with thiocyanate, there is also a dramatic decrease in the stability of DEX- but not ALDO-type I receptor binding. We contend that it is this decrease in binding stability that mediates the DEX-induced down-regulation of type I receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rats with neocortex totally removed (decorticates), rats with hippocampal lesions (hippocampals), and their surgical controls, were trained on a fixed interval (FI) 40 s schedule, where the first bar-press response made more than 40 s after a previous reinforcement was rewarded. The decorticates and hippocampals adopted similar patterns of behaviour to the control groups through there were between-group differences in the details of performance. Compared to controls the hippocampals showed shorter post-reinforcement pauses and faster overall rates of responding, whilst the reverse was true of the decorticates. Some of this performance difference in the decorticates was attributed to difficulty in retrieving and consuming solid food reinforcement. The performance of the decorticates and hippocampals, as reflected by the post-reinforcement pause, response distribution and running rate as a function of post-reinforcement pause duration, suggests that timing remains operational in both groups. The differences in response profiles between the two experimental groups, however, indicate that hippocampus and neocortex probably make independent contributions to performance in this situation. The decorticates and their control group were later transferred from the FI to a response-independent fixed time (FT) 40 s schedule. Both groups then returned to the former FI 40 s schedule. The decorticates adjusted their behaviour to the different schedules in the same way as the control animals. The results overall are consistent with previous findings that decortication does not abolish normal patterns of operant learning and extends them to include temporal schedules.
The effects of chronic morphine on endogenous opioid function were examined in feline spinal cord. Naloxone-induced facilitation (disinhibition) of the C-fiber reflex was used as a model to reflect endogenous opioid function. Facilitation was reduced 24 h after withdrawal of chronic morphine (14 days). Acute morphine failed to depress C-fiber reflexes in the abstinent cats, indicating tolerance. Thus, these results demonstrated that, after chronic morphine, spinal endogenous opioid function was reduced due to tolerance.
Field stimulation increased tritium efflux from rat striatal slices preincubated with [3H]choline, an index of acetylcholine release. When stimulated at low frequency (1 Hz for 2 min), nomifensine (10 microM) reduced acetylcholine release, while at high frequency (8 Hz for 1 min), sulpiride (1 microM) increased release. After 6-hydroxydopamine-induced damage to dopamine neurons, these effects were reduced but the extent of the depletion necessary to block the drug effects increased with the passage of time. Up-regulation of dopamine D-2 receptors seen at 2 months was not detected unless dopamine depletion was very large (90%). These findings indicate that dopamine, acting at the dopamine D-2 receptor, normally exerts an inhibitory influence over acetylcholine release in striatum, that after partial injury the dopaminergic influence over acetylcholine release can recover with time, and that the recovery involves processes other than changes in the number of D-2 receptors.



In Experiment 1, rats discriminated between two sound pressure levels (SPL) of a pure tone: standard (STD) SPLs of 84 and 74 dB and comparison (CO) SPLs 4, 14, and 24 dB below STD were tested in quiet and 60 dB noise at 4 and 12.5 kHz (24 conditions). The decibel difference between STD and CO accounted for only 43.52% of the variance in the signal detection measure of sensitivity, d', across conditions, whereas the loudness difference (LD = STD0.35 - CO0.35) accounted for 89.82% of the variance in d'. These results confirm and extend previous observations that: (a) equal decibel differences are not equally discriminable; (b) loudness for the rat increases as a power function of SPL with an exponent of 0.35: and (c) masked loudness is a linear function of loudness in quiet. In Experiment 2, the assumptions of normal distribution and equal variance implicit in the use of the d' measure were examined. Receiver operating characteristic curves that were well approximated by straight lines of unit slope in normal-normal coordinates were obtained and thereby validated the use of d' in Experiment 1.
The barn owl's auditory system computes interaural differences in time and amplitude and derives from them the horizontal and vertical coordinates of the sound source, respectively. Within the external nucleus of its inferior colliculus are auditory neurones, called 'space-specific neurones', that have spatial receptive fields. To activate a space-specific neurone, a sound must originate from a circumscribed region of space, or, if the sounds are delivered to each ear separately, using earphones, the stimuli must have the combination of interaural time and amplitude difference that simulates a sound broadcast from their receptive field. The sound-localization cues are processed in parallel, non-overlapping pathways extending from the cochlear nuclei to the subdivision of the inferior colliculus that innervates the space-specific neurones. Processing in the time pathway involves the coding of monaural phase angle, the derivation of sensitivity for interaural phase difference, and the calculation of interaural time difference (ITD) from interaural phase difference. The last process involves groups of neurones in the inferior colliculus whose collective firing signals a unique ITD, even though the activity of each constituent neurone signals multiple ITDs. The projections of these ensembles to the space-specific neurone endow the latter with a selectivity for ITD. Processing in the amplitude channel, about which less is known, initially involves an inhibitory process that sharpens the directional sensitivity of neurones in a lateral lemniscal nucleus. The inhibition is mediated by a commissural projection from the same lemniscal nucleus of the opposite side. At higher levels of the auditory system, neurones that are tuned to a limited range of interaural amplitude differences are found. It is proposed that at these higher stages, interaural amplitude difference, like ITD, is coded amidst an ensemble of neurones.
Previous immunohistochemical studies of the long-term effects of the noradrenergic neurotoxin DSP-4 have demonstrated a remarkably selective vulnerability of norepinephrine (NE) axons of the locus coeruleus (LC). NE axons originating in non-LC NE neurons appear to be largely resistant to the neurotoxic action of DSP-4. We conducted this study to evaluate the acute effects of DSP-4 on NE axons in four different brain regions: cerebral cortex, cerebellum, ventral forebrain, and hypothalamus. NE levels were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) 6 and 24 hr and 14 days after DSP-4 administration. NE axons in these brain regions were visualized in brain sections at 6 and 24 hr after drug treatment, using a specific antiserum to NE. HPLC assays revealed profound reductions of NE levels in cerebral cortex and cerebellum, but only minor decreases in ventral forebrain and hypothalamus. NE immunohistochemistry showed dramatic differences in the acute effects of DSP-4 on NE axon staining: nearly complete loss of staining in cortex and cerebellum, in contrast to an almost unchanged staining pattern in ventral forebrain and hypothalamus. This study demonstrates that NE immunohistochemistry is a valuable tool to assess the acute effects of DSP-4 on NE axons in different brain regions. The results provide the first direct evidence that NE axons are not uniformly acted on by DSP-4 and suggest that the acute effects of DSP-4 are restricted to LC axons.
Immunohistological and biochemical studies were initiated to determine whether or not neural membrane components were associated with degenerative changes characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Monoclonal antibody A2B5, developed against embryonic chick retinal cells and previously shown to react with neural surface gangliosides, was applied to formalin-fixed sections of control and AD brain tissue. Frontal cortex and hippocampus of AD cases exhibited high levels of A2B5 immunoreactivity within those neurons undergoing neurofibrillary degeneration. Neuritic processes associated with senile plaques were also highly reactive with the A2B5 antibody. The amount of gangliosides and their pattern after HPTLC were the same in control and AD cases. However, the unexpected observation was made that the A2B5 antibody reacted with human brain sulfatides in addition to the expected reactivity with minor gangliosides. The average level of sulfatides in AD brain was significantly higher than in normal controls. The data support the involvement of one or more membrane components with neurodegeneration in the Alzheimer brain.
Protein phosphorylation was evaluated in a rabbit spinal cord ischemia model under conditions where cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PK-A) and calcium/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PK-C) were activated. One hour of ischemia did not affect PK-A activity significantly; however, PK-C activity was reduced by more than 60%. In vitro phosphorylation of endogenous proteins by endogenous PK-C revealed that eight particulate and five cytosolic proteins showed stimulated phosphorylation by PK-C activators in control tissue, although this stimulation was virtually absent in ischemic samples. When control and ischemic particulate fractions were combined, the endogenous protein phosphorylation pattern under PK-C-activating conditions was similar to the ischemic sample, which suggests that inhibitory molecules may be present in the ischemic particulate fraction. In vitro phosphorylation of endogenous proteins under PK-A-activating conditions in ischemic tissue was similar to that in control tissue. The results suggest that the PK-C phosphorylation system is selectively impaired in ischemic spinal cord. In addition to reduced PK-C-dependent phosphorylation, an Mr 64,000 protein was phosphorylated in ischemic cytosolic samples, but not in control samples. The phosphorylation of the Mr 64,000 protein was neither PK-C-dependent nor PK-A-dependent. These altered phosphorylation reactions may play critical roles in neuronal death during the course of ischemia.
gamma-Aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptor recognition sites that inhibit cyclic AMP formation, open potassium channels, and close calcium channels are coupled to these effector systems by guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). These G proteins are ADP-ribosylated by islet-activating protein (IAP), also known as pertussis toxin. This process prevents receptor coupling to these G proteins. In slices of cerebral cortex and hippocampus from rat, stimulation of GABAB receptors with baclofen, a receptor agonist, also potentiates the accumulation of cyclic AMP stimulated by beta-adrenergic agonists. It was unknown whether those GABAB receptors that potentiate the beta-adrenergic response were also sensitive to IAP. IAP was injected intracerebroventricularly into rats to ADP-ribosylate IAP-sensitive G proteins. Four days after the IAP injection, 38% and 52% of these G proteins from cerebral cortex and hippocampus, respectively, were ADP-ribosylated by the IAP injection. In slices of both structures prepared from IAP-treated rats, the GABAB receptor-mediated potentiation of the beta-adrenergic receptor response was attenuated. Thus, many GABAB receptor-mediated responses are coupled to IAP-sensitive G proteins.
A simple test is described for identifying patients with abnormalities of muscle energy metabolism secondary to mitochondrial dysfunction, based on the venous lactate response to exercise at 90% of predicted work rate at the anaerobic threshold. The test was standardised for age, weight and sex of subjects, and was abnormal in all cases of mitochondrial cytopathy tested, with a false positive rate of 7% in a control population. The test was abnormal in two cases of mitochondrial disease in which muscle biopsy was normal or showed only non-specific changes.
A consecutive series of 397 myelograms performed in 385 patients over a six month period at the Mersey Regional Neurosciences Unit is reported. The reasons for performing the myelogram were to identify the cause of a radicular lesion in 54% of patients, a chronic spinal cord lesion in 30%, an acute cord lesion in 9%, suspected disease at the level of the foramen magnum 6%, and for a variety of other conditions in 8%. For the 385 patients undergoing a myelogram in the study period, the median interval from admission to request, request to myelography and from myelography to discharge was nought, one and three days respectively. The proportion of patients submitted to myelography by individual consultants ranged from 7% to 28%. There was a two-fold variation in the delays in the time to requesting and performing myelograms. There was room for improvement in the clinical information supplied on the myelography request form. The role of ancillary investigations and their effect on myelography was unclear. Only 16 of the patients with suspected cord disease had visual evoked responses performed before myelography. Five of them had myelography after an abnormal result. The estimated annual direct cost of myelography in the unit was at least 486,000 pounds. Reorganisation might have yielded hypothetical &quot;savings&quot; of between 30,000 pounds (6%) and 155,000 pounds (32%), though in practical terms these &quot;savings&quot; represented resources which might have been freed for use in other higher priority clinical problems within the unit, rather than true reductions in monetary cost.
Bilateral chorda tympani section is an accepted treatment for troublesome sialorrhoea. Nevertheless the effects of this operation have been poorly studied. Twenty patients were studied with unilateral chorda tympani section and a healthy contralateral ear. The effects on ipsilateral and contralateral stimulated submandibular and parotid flow and taste recognition and detection thresholds were measured. Stimulated submandibular flow accounted for only 27% of the total salivary flow. Chorda tympani section had no effect on submandibular flow in seven patients and only reduced submandibular flow by approximately 54% in the remaining 13 patients. No significant effect was observed on ipsilateral parotid flow rate. Electrogustometric taste detection thresholds were more than twice the accepted upper limit of normal on the lesioned side and taste recognition thresholds were also markedly abnormal. Chorda tympani section alone is a poor method of reducing stimulated salivary flow.
Biopsied muscles were treated in 2 ways to demonstrate cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity on electron microscopy: (1) one to several muscle fibers were teased off the biopsy in buffer solution after glutaraldehyde fixation, (2) 20-30-microns thick cryostat sections were placed on precooled glass slides and fixed in glutaraldehyde solution at room temperature. After rinsing in buffer, the teased fibers and cryostat sections were stained with cytochrome c oxidase. In both procedures, almost all mitochondria in control muscle fibers stained positively. In CCO deficiency, the enzyme activity differed from tissue to tissue indicating marked tissue specificity. In the fatal infantile form enzyme activity in muscle fibers was absent, but present in fibroblasts, endothelial cells and smooth muscle arterial cells. The enzyme activity in other forms differed from cell to cell, but individual mitochondria in a given cell examined in cross-section showed uniform CCO activity, indicating that there was no intracellular mosaicism of enzyme positive and negative mitochondria.
Tau proteins were detected in brain tissue homogenates from 10 patients with Alzheimer's disease versus 10 age-matched controls using the immunoblot technique and 2 polyclonal antibodies: anti-paired helical filaments (PHF) and anti-human native Tau proteins. In control brains, both antisera detected identically the normal set of Tau proteins, with molecular weight (MW) ranging from 45 to 62 kDa. Moreover, in association areas of neocortex from Alzheimer brains, the antisera detected 2 additional Tau variants of 64 and 69 kDa. Tau 64 and 69 were not found in regions of Alzheimer brains where the Alzheimer pathology was absent (caudate nucleus or cerebellum for example). The heavy MW of Tau 64 and 69 is due to their phosphorylation state as shown by the decrease of their MW after alkaline phosphatase treatment. Therefore, Tau 64 and Tau 69 are specific markers of the Alzheimer's disease neuronal degenerating process and their characterization demonstrates that an abnormal phosphorylation of Tau really occurs during the disease. Tau 64 and 69 were isolated with normal Tau proteins while the PHF were insoluble. Therefore, Tau proteins are likely to be abnormally phosphorylated prior to their incorporation in the PHF structure. Consequently, they might appear before the lesions and might be instrumental for the search of biochemical deregulations that precede the neurofibrillary degeneration.
1. Receptive fields of 78 retinal ganglion cells were analyzed for their responses to moving and stationary lights that were presented under a variety of stimulus conditions. All cells were sensitive to moving stimuli, and their receptive fields often comprised excitatory and inhibitory sub-regions. 2. Properties used in the classification included responses to stationary flashed stimuli, receptive-field organization, changes in stimulus wavelength and adaptation, movement velocity, and direction of stimulus movement. Eight functional cell classes were derived: simple, ON-sustained, annular, wavelength-sensitive, directionally selective, bar-shaped, large-field, and velocity. 3. Simple cells, representing 21% of the sample, had circular or oval receptive fields of 3-22 degrees that gave transient responses to stationary, flashed lights. Many of these cells, but not all, showed antagonistic center-surround organizations. ON-sustained cells responded for the duration of the stimulus flash or for the duration of a light flash moving through the receptive field. These units comprised 8% of the sample; they had small, circular, non-directional receptive fields and they were most sensitive to red light. Their field sizes did not vary with changes in adaptation level. 4. Annular cells (4% of the sample) gave no responses to any stimulation in the field center, but they responded strongly to stimulation in the surround area, especially to stimuli that moved very slowly through the region. Annular cells were nondirectional, with circular centers of 5-6 degrees diam and annular surround widths of 2-4 degrees. They responded best in light adaptation. 5. Wavelength-sensitive cells, similar to most of the cells sampled, were sensitive to red light when light-adapted. Some cells in addition showed input from rods under dark adaptation. Intensity-response curves for these latter cells showed clear changes from one input to the other as the cells' functional ranges were explored. Some cells responded best to short- or middle-wavelength light, but these were more rarely met. Where multiple receptor inputs could be identified, long-wavelength stimuli evoked transient responses, whereas short-wavelength stimuli favored more sustained spike trains. Wavelength-sensitive cells in this category comprised 5% of the sample.
A computer model based on visual cortex has been constructed to analyze how the operations of multiple, functionally segregated cortical areas can be coordinated and integrated to yield a unified perceptual response. We propose that cortical integration arises through the process of reentry--the ongoing, parallel, recursive signaling between separate maps along ordered anatomical connections. To test the efficacy of this reentrant cortical integration (RCI) model, we have carried out detailed computer simulations of 3 interconnected cortical areas in the striate and extrastriate cortex of the macaque. The simulated networks contained a total of over 222,000 units and 8.5 million connections. The 3 modeled areas, called VOR, VOC, and VMO, incorporate major anatomical and physiological properties of cortical areas V1, V3, and V5 but are vastly simplified compared with monkey visual cortex. Simulated area VOR contains both orientation and directionally selective units; simulated area VMO discriminates the direction of motion of arbitrarily oriented objects; and simulated area VOC responds to both luminance and occlusion boundaries in the stimulus. Area VOC is able to respond to illusory contours (Kanizsa, 1979) by means of the same neural architecture used for the discrimination of occlusion boundaries. This architecture also generates responses to structure-from-motion by virtue of reentrant connections from VMO to VOC. The responses of the simulated networks to these illusions are consistent with the perceptual responses of humans and other species presented with these stimuli. The networks also respond in a consistent manner to a novel illusion that combines illusory contours and structure-from-motion. The response synthesized to this combined illusion provides a strong argument supporting the need for a recursive reentrant process in the cortex. Functional integration of the simulated areas in the RCI model were found to depend upon the combined action of 3 reentrant processes: (1) conflicting responses among segregated areas are competitively eliminated, (2) outputs of each area are used by other areas in their own operations, and (3) outputs of an area are &quot;reentered&quot; back to itself (through lower areas) and can thus be used iteratively to synthesize responses to complex or illusory stimuli. Transection of the reentrant connections selectively abolished these integrative processes and led to failure of figural synthesis. The proposed model of reentry suggests a basis for understanding how multiple visual areas as well as other cortical areas may be integrated within a distributed system.
A basic goal in the neurosciences is to understand the cellular mechanisms underlying associative learning. The 2 major forms of associative learning are classical conditioning and operant conditioning. In recent years considerable progress has been made towards a cellular analysis of classical conditioning in a number of different preparations. In contrast, the cellular mechanisms underlying operant conditioning are poorly understood. Since the marine mollusc Aplysia has proved to be a powerful preparation for studying cellular and molecular mechanisms of a variety of forms of learning, including classical conditioning, we asked whether Aplysia might also be capable of exhibiting operant conditioning. In previous experiments we found that a naturally occurring behavior, the head-waving response of Aplysia, could be operantly conditioned (Cook and Carew, 1986). In the present paper we have carried out a quantitative analysis of the horizontal and vertical components of the head-waving response at the level of individual muscle groups. We have identified a discrete, bilateral band of neck muscles, the lateral columellar muscles (LCMs), whose electromyographic (EMG) activity is significantly correlated with the horizontal component of head-waving, the component modified by operant conditioning. Since head-waving is a complex behavioral response involving a variety of different muscle groups, using a restricted system such as the LCMs as an analog of the head-waving response will greatly facilitate a cellular analysis of operant conditioning in Aplysia.
Voltage-dependent L-type calcium channels were induced in highly purified, cultured, cortical astrocytes by exposure to substances known to increase their intracellular cAMP: 8-bromo-cAMP, forskolin, isoproterenol, and vasoactive intestinal peptide. In untreated control cultures, L-type calcium currents were entirely absent. The induction of this calcium current was specific to cortical astrocytes and a closely related astrocyte type in white matter and did not occur in meningeal cells or oligodendrocytes. The ability of forskolin to induce L-type calcium current in astrocytes depended on previous culture of these cells in a permissive lot of serum for at least 48 hr. In addition, certain lots of sera caused expression of a voltage-dependent T-type calcium channel in untreated control cultures. Several possible mechanisms of calcium channel induction by cAMP are consistent with our data: modification of a silent channel already present in the membrane, indirect effect of cytoskeletal alteration, or insertion of channels from submembrane stores. If the environment in vivo is permissive, regulation of glial ion channels may be under neuronal control.
Administration of convulsant doses of Metrazole (pentylenetetrazol) and picrotoxin, as well as maximal electroshock, results in a rapid but transient increase in c-fos mRNA in mouse brain. Elevation of c-fos mRNA is followed by the accumulation and subsequent disappearance of Fos, the protein encoded by c-fos. In addition, immunoblots reveal the induction of two additional proteins that are antigenically related to Fos (Fra, Fos-related antigens). Fos and the various Fra appear and disappear in a staggered manner over an 8 hour period, such that at longer times after stimulation the brain contains no Fos but relatively large amounts of Fra (the latter being designated here by their apparent molecular weights, Fra-46K and Fra-35K). Previous studies have established that Fos, as well as several Fra, contribute to transcription factor AP-1 nucleoprotein complexes along with Jun, the product of the jun proto-oncogene. The appearance in brain of Fos and Fra coincides with a protracted increase in total AP-1 DNA binding activity, indicating that all the Fos-like proteins can participate in AP-1 complexes. Furthermore, the molecular composition of these complexes alters with time after stimulation. The induction of c-fos by Metrazole is blocked or attenuated by known anticonvulsants such as diazepam and valproate as well as the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) and MK-801. This suggests that fos induction might involve stimulation of a glutamate receptor. This conclusion was strengthened by the observations that two glutamate receptor agonists, kainic acid and NMDA, induced c-fos expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In microsomal fractions from dog aorta, saphenous veins, mesenteric arteries and veins, both [3H]prazosin and [3H]rauwolscine displayed monophasic saturation in binding. The Kd for [3H] rauwolscine binding was similar for all these blood vessels, but the maximum number of [3H]rauwolscine binding sites was 3 to 7 times higher in veins compared to arteries. The Kd for [3H] prazosin was higher in saphenous vein than that in the arteries. The maximum number of binding sites for [3H]prazosin was similar, except for that in aorta, which was 3 times greater. Phenylephrine (alpha-1 adrenoceptor selective agonist) or norepinephrine (nonselective adrenoceptor agonist) produced similar maximal responses in all vessels. The alpha-2 adrenoceptor selective agonist, B-HT 920 (2-amino-6-allyl-3,4,7,8-tetrahydro-6H-thiazolo[5,4-d]-azepine)-induced contraction in veins but not in arteries. Prazosin (10(-6) M) inhibited completely the contractions to norepinephrine (3 x 10(-6) M) in mesenteric arteries and to phenylephrine (3 x 10(-6) M) in arteries and veins. Contractile responses of mesenteric artery were unaffected by rauwolscine. Rauwolscine (10(-7) M) caused a greater parallel rightward shift of the concentration-response curve to norepinephrine than did prazosin (10(-7) M) in saphenous veins, and a further rightward shift of responses to norepinephrine after 10(-7) M prazosin in mesenteric vein and saphenous vein and abolished B-HT 920-induced responses at alpha-2 adrenoceptors. The tissues responding to B-HT-920 correspond to those having the highest alpha-2 receptor density as measured by [3H]rauwolscine binding. The density of such sites required for contraction to be initiated in veins was much higher than with alpha-1 adrenoceptor sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of anticonvulsants and Ca2+ channel antagonists on the inositol trisphosphate (IP3) binding and IP3-induced Ca2+ release were examined in brain membrane fractions. Anticonvulsant (PHT and valproate) and Ca2+ channel antagonists (verapamil, diltiazem, flunarizine, nicardipine and cinnarizine), examined did not significantly inhibit the IP3-receptor binding. The Kd and Bmax values of the IP3 binding did not change significantly in the various brain regions of the amygdala-kindled rats, killed 10 days after the last seizure, compared to those of controls. On the other hand, PHT, PB and carbamazepine inhibited the Ca2+ releasing activity of IP3 in the cerebellar membrane fractions by approximately 20% at therapeutic concentrations.
The tissue specific expression of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase [(PAM) EC 1.14.17.3], an enzyme which catalyzes the formation of amidated bioactive peptides from their glycine-extended precursors, was examined in adult rat. Soluble and membrane-associated PAM enzymatic activities were determined, and the levels and size classes of PAM mRNA were examined by Northern blot analysis. PAM specific activity varied 1000-fold in the tissues examined, with highest levels in heart atrium, pituitary and salivary glands, and hypothalamus. The fraction of total PAM activity that was membrane associated varied from approximately 70% in heart atrium to 10% in neurointermediate pituitary lobe and thyroid gland. Levels of PAM mRNA varied over 300-fold. In the heart atrium, PAM mRNA accounts for more than 0.1% of the mRNA. For many tissues the ratio of total PAM specific activity to PAM mRNA levels was similar; however, PAM activity was higher than expected from mRNA levels in the salivary glands and lower than expected in several tissues, including heart ventricle. Three major size classes of PAM mRNA were identified among the tissues. Use of RNAse H indicated that differences in size were not due to the length of the poly(A) tail. The heart and central nervous system expressed PAM mRNA of the 4.2 kilobase (kb) and 3.8 kb size classes, while the remaining tissues expressed predominantly 3.8 kb and 3.6 kb classes; few tissues contained only one size class of PAM mRNA. The two major forms of PAM mRNA in adult heart atrium differ by the presence or absence of a 315 nucleotide segment in the protein coding region. Using a cDNA probe from within this segment, the 4.2 kb and 3.8 kb size classes of PAM mRNA in the central nervous system appeared to resemble those in the heart atrium. In the remaining tissues, a subset of PAM mRNAs in the 3.8 kb and 3.6 kb size classes hybridized with this probe, suggesting that additional forms of PAM mRNA are present.
Several methods for chronic delivery of compounds to the central nervous system (CNS) now exist. Peripheral drug administration is generally safest, but not always effective. If direct CNS delivery of a substance is required, then CNS implantation of drug-delivery systems or grafting of various cell types to the brain can be performed, although none of these interventions are yet of consistent, proven benefit in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. Grafting of genetically modified cells to the brain may be an alternative delivery system of some substances to the CNS.
Experimental studies have provided evidence that bioactive molecules can be delivered to the central nervous system through the use of hollow polymer fibers. These implantable fibers can be used for the delivery of peptide solutions or serve as a carrier device for encapsulating tissue preparations and cell suspensions. This commentary will address the use of these polymer fibers as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
The paper by Butcher and Woolf presents a troubling hypothesis, that neurotrophic factors may be contributory to the pathology of Alzheimer's disease rather than potentially serving as therapeutic agents. Much more experimental work, especially in primates, will be required to tease out the positive and/or negative influences these factors may have on the pathogenesis of the neurodegenerative diseases causing dementias.
Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) could potentially play a role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) in many ways. Neuronal degeneration may result from disruption in NTF production, delivery, or interaction with the neuronal target. Even if alterations in NTF function are not responsible for neuronal degeneration, NTFs may still be therapeutically useful in ameliorating some morphological or cognitive deficits observed in AD.
The review of Hefti et al. (7) presents current theories and concepts about the functions and activities of neurotrophic factors (NTF). The validity of several components and assumptions may be questionable. Should NTFs be divided into small diffusible survival-promoting factors and large, insoluble neurite-promoting factors? How are NTFs and neurotransmitters related? Do neurons need one or several NTFs? Can NTFs be multifunctional trophic factors? Are there endogenous inhibitory modulators of neuronal growth? Answers to these questions may have significant impact on the design of therapies using NTFs.
The identification and study of genetic systems with potential involvement in the cellular changes associated with Alzheimer's disease may help us to understand the complex pathways from primary genetic lesion to the final disorder.
Etiologically heterogeneous subgroups of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) exist and need to be distinguished so as to better identify genetic causes of familial cases. Furthermore, the presence of AD neuropathology in Down syndrome (trisomy 21) subjects older than 35 years suggests that AD in some cases is caused by dysregulation of expression of genes on chromosome 21. Cerebral metabolic abnormalities in life, and the distribution of AD neuropathology in the post-mortem brain, indicate that AD involves the association neocortices and subcortical regions with which they evolved during evolution of the human brain. Accordingly, understanding the molecular basis of this evolution should elucidate the genetic basis of AD, whereas knowing the genetics of AD should be informative about the genomic changes which promoted brain evolution.
Progress in the study of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been spurred by the recent application of molecular approaches in many laboratories. Attention has centered on the nature of the proteinaceous deposits that accumulate progressively both within and outside of cerebral neurons. Evidence reviewed herein suggests that intraneuronal paired helical filaments are distinct from extracellular amyloid filaments and contain altered forms of the microtubule-associated phosphoprotein, tau. Antibodies to tau detect an extensive neuritic dystrophy in AD cerebral cortex that includes aberrant somatodendritic sprouting, suggesting a role for local growth-promoting molecules in the pathogenesis of AD. Perhaps preceding these neuronal changes, deposits of the beta-amyloid protein (beta AP) occur in a diffuse, nonfibrillar form in AD and Down's syndrome brains in the absence of surrounding neuritic or glial response. Such deposits may represent the earliest structural abnormality yet detected in AD brain. Since the gene encoding the beta AP precursor appears to be distinct from a putative familial AD gene defect also localized to chromosome 21 in some families, changes in transcriptional and posttranslational processing of the precursor in aging and AD are being sought. The central and unresolved question of the origin of the beta AP molecules deposited progressively in brain is reviewed in detail. In concert with other human amyloidoses, growing evidence points to a blood-borne or vascular source for beta AP, although rigorous proof is not at hand. Advances in the molecular analysis of AD brain lesions point to new experimental strategies that should bear directly on unsolved diagnostic and therapeutic issues in the disease.
Transmitter amino acid receptors (gamma-aminobutyric acid [GABA] and excitatory amino acids) include in their structure allosteric modulatory centers that regulate the probability of transmitter action. These are sites of action for drugs. In GABA receptors, benzodiazepines and beta-carbolines act as positive and negative modulators. Various subtypes of GABAA receptors exist that differ with regard to the structure of the receptor subunits and the characteristic of the allosteric modulatory centers. This brings up the possibility that classes of benzodiazepines exist that, by acting selectively on specific subtypes of GABAA receptors, may bring about selectivity of drug action in specific anxiety disorders. For instance, clonazepam appears to act better than diazepam on panic attacks and fails to bind to GABAA receptor subtypes located in spinal cord. Also, glutamate receptors and specifically the N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive subtype modulated by an allosteric center may include various molecular forms differing with respect to the properties of the allosteric modulatory center. This variability suggests that this center may be used as a target for discovery of drugs acting as specific allosteric modulators of glutamate receptors.

The effect of fipexide, administered at different intervals after the learning trial of a single step-through type passive avoidance situation was studied. The administration of fipexide immediately after the learning trial resulted in a long-lasting facilitation of passive avoidance behaviour. On the contrary, the administration of this compound 1 h prior to the retention test failed to influence passive avoidance behaviour. The results suggest that fipexide facilitates memory consolidation but does not influence retrieval processes.
Sleep, ambulation and drinking were recorded on 5 kinds of light-intensity cycles fluctuating between 300 lux and 0 lux with a 24-hr period in rats. The waveforms of the cycles were rectangular wave (RA), sinusoidal wave (SO), triangular wave (TA), descending saw-tooth wave (ST-d) and ascending saw-tooth wave (ST-a). Each condition was maintained for 28 days. Thereafter, the rats were released into constant darkness (DD) for 20 days. The circadian behavioral rhythms clearly entrained to RA, SO, TA and ST-a, but not to ST-d. The waveforms of the behavioral rhythms varied depending on those of the fluctuating light-intensity cycles, and were quite different from those in RA and DD. Daily amounts of slow wave sleep and paradoxical sleep were hardly affected by the lighting conditions, while those of ambulation and drinking were decreased on the other light-intensity cycles than RA. These results present new aspects of entrainment and masking of circadian rhythm by light.
Recent experiments have revealed tightly synchronized oscillatory discharges in local assemblies of cortical neurons as well as phase coherency of oscillations at distant cortical sites. These findings are consistent with the theory of neuronal group selection, a population theory of brain function that is based on the properties of local groups of neurons. A set of computer simulations shows that cooperative interactions within and among neuronal groups can generate the observed phenomena. In the simulations, oscillations within neuronal groups are generated through local excitatory and inhibitory interactions. Different groups in general oscillate in an uncorrelated fashion. Coherency of the oscillatory activity of different neuronal groups depends crucially on reciprocal reentrant signaling and can reflect the spatial continuity of a stimulus. Separated or discontinuous features of a given stimulus can be transiently associated in a temporally coherent pattern through reentrant signaling between groups in networks responding to different aspects of that stimulus. A simulation of reentrant activity between arrays of neuronal groups selective for oriented lines and pattern motion displays cross-correlations between groups that are responsive to different parts of a stimulus contour if these parts move together. Such coherency among neuronal groups might be used in the discrimination of a stimulus from other stationary or differentially moving elements in a visual scene.
Endothelin (ET) is a recently identified vasoactive peptide with three isoforms for which three genes have been cloned. The cellular sites of synthesis of this peptide have not yet been identified in vivo. Using Northern blot analysis, we have detected two forms of ET mRNA in rat tissues: a 3.7-kilobase form in the kidney, eye, and brain, a 2.5-kilobase form in the intestine, and both forms in the lung. We have localized these forms of ET mRNA in several rat tissues using in situ hybridization. In the 19-day rat fetus, ET mRNA is highest in the lung, intestine, and meninges. At high resolution, ET mRNA is localized in the lung to respiratory epithelial cells of bronchioles and apparently in blood vessels. In adult tissues, ET mRNA is present throughout the lung, in the renal medulla vasa recta, and in the iris of the eye. ET mRNA is synthesized in close proximity to ET binding sites in many organs (e.g., lung, kidney, intestine, and eye), suggesting a local action of this peptide. However, in other areas (e.g., heart and renal cortex), ET binding sites are present in the absence of ET mRNA, suggesting an action of ET from the bloodstream or from neurons. Northern blot analysis of ET mRNA in microvascular endothelial cells in culture indicates that ET is synthesized in small blood vessels and regulated similarly to its regulation in large vessels. Our results provide evidence that ET, like other regulatory peptides, may serve in several tissues as a neuromodulator or local hormone.
Immunoblot characterization and immunofluorescence localization of dystrophin are presented for 76 human patients with various neuromuscular diseases. Normal dystrophin (shown by immunoblotting) was invariably visualized as a continuous, peripheral membrane immunostaining of myofibers. Biochemical abnormalities of dystrophin (either lower or higher molecular weight dystrophin) resulted in patchy, discontinuous immunostaining, suggesting that the abnormal dystrophin proteins are not capable of creating a complete membrane cytoskeleton network. There was a very strong correlation of clinical diagnoses with the type of dystrophin abnormality; all Duchenne muscular dystrophy patient muscle contained no detectable dystrophin, Becker muscular dystrophy patient muscle had clearly abnormal dystrophin, and unrelated diseases showed normal dystrophin. However, a single patient of five carrying the diagnosis of Fukuyama dystrophy showed no detectable dystrophin and thus appeared to be a Duchenne dystrophy patient by the biochemical assays. We know of no other case of a patient with a disease thought to be unrelated to Duchenne/Becker dystrophy yet demonstrating dystrophin deficiency. Based on the data presented, we conclude that immunofluorescence is the best technique for the detection of female carriers of Duchenne dystrophy, whereas immunoblotting appears superior for the prognostic diagnosis of Becker muscular dystrophy.
Cl- currents elicited by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) application were recorded with the whole-cell tight-seal technique from voltage-clamped cortical neurons of neonatal rats in primary culture. The peripheral benzodiazepine recognition site ligand 4'-chlorodiazepam [Ro 5-4864; 7-chloro-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2H-[1,4]-benzodiazep in-2- one] inhibited the GABA-generated currents in a dose-dependent manner. Also, a beta-carboline (DMCM; 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate methyl ester), acting as a negative allosteric modulator of GABAA receptors, reduced the intensity of GABA-generated currents with similar efficacy but greater potency. Flumazenil (Ro 15-1788; 8-fluro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo-[1,5-a] [1,4]-benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate ethyl ester) antagonized DMCM inhibition but not that elicited by 4'-chlorodiazepam. The isoquinoline carboxamide PK 11195, an antagonist of 4'-chlorodiazepam effects in other systems, failed to antagonize the action of 4'-chlorodiazepam. The transient expression of various molecular forms of GABAA receptors in the human embryonic kidney cell line 293 allowed a study of the minimal structural requirements for the inhibition of GABA-induced Cl- currents by bicuculline, picrotoxin, 4'-chlorodiazepam, and DMCM. GABA-elicited Cl- currents in cells coexpressing alpha 1 and beta 1 subunits of GABAA receptors were inhibited by bicuculline and picrotoxin, but not by DMCM or 4'-chlorodiazepam. Conversely, the GABA currents in cells coexpressing alpha 1 beta 1 and gamma 2 subunits were inhibited by bicuculline, picrotoxin, 4'-chlorodiazepam, and DMCM. Since the Cl- currents generated by GABA in some molecular forms of GABAA receptors are inhibited by bicuculline and picrotoxin only, 4'-chlorodiazepam cannot be acting isosterically with picrotoxin.
Methylphenidate (Ritalin) and pemoline (Cylert) are central nervous system stimulants which are widely prescribed for attention deficit and other psychiatric disorders. Several other related stimulants, including amphetamine and methamphetamine, have been shown to cause long lasting decreases in monoamine markers in rat brain, characteristic of axonal degeneration. To assess the neurotoxic potential of methylphenidate and pemoline, we compared the effects of multiple injections (sc, bid for up to 4 days) of methylphenidate (21 and 50 mg/kg) and pemoline (20 and 70 mg/kg) with methamphetamine (5 and 15 mg/kg) on rat brain norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin levels and transport sites. While decreases were observed in all brain monoamine markers measured in rats treated with methamphetamine, no changes were observed in animals treated with methylphenidate as compared to saline-treated controls. Pemoline failed to induce significant changes in the level of monoamine transport sites; however, a wide array of changes were observed in the levels of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, dopamine, and norepinephrine in various brain areas after a 3-day treatment regimen with a high dose (70 mg/kg) of pemoline. The lack of changes in monoamine transport sites following the repeated administration of high doses of methylphenidate and pemoline suggests that these drugs do not affect axonal integrity. However, the pattern of changes observed in the levels of monoamines after pemoline treatment may have relevance to the self-injurious behavior seen in these animals.
We have determined the antagonist affinity of hexahydrodifenidol in a range of receptor assays in the rat:-radioreceptor binding and phosphatidyl-inositol turnover assays in cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and electrophysiological experiments on the superior cervical ganglion and hippocampus. We failed to detect any appreciable differences in the affinity of hexahydrodifenidol among any of these assays.
The involuntary movements resembling the serotonin (5-HT) syndrome induced by 5-HT agonist, which is composed with symptoms such as head twitch, hind leg abduction and so on, are neurochemically evaluated in the new mutant mouse, Wriggle Mouse Sagami (WMS). Ritanserin (5-HT2 antagonist) and prazosin (alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist) both inhibited the symptoms, had a decrease in the number of times they fell down and prolonged the duration of sitting up, while SCH 23390 (dopamine1 antagonist) and YM-0911-2 (dopamine2 antagonist) did not affect them. Metergoline (5-HT1 and 5-HT2 antagonist) suppressed the locomotor activity, making it difficult to determine if it ameliorated the symptoms. The concentration of a metabolite of 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was higher than control values diffusely in the CNS except in the cerebral cortex. The accumulation of 5-HTP after the administration of amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor NSD 1015 was significantly enhanced in the hypothalamus, median raphe, cerebellum and pons. An increase in 5-HT and NA was also noted in the cerebellum. GABA was increased in the striatum. In the binding assay, the number of [3H]ketanserin binding sites was increased and that of [3H]prazosin binding sites was decreased in the striata. Meanwhile, no significant difference was observed either in the number of binding sites (Bmax) or the affinity (KD) in the [3H]5-HT binding study. The number of [3H]muscimol binding sites in the cerebellum was reduced with the dissociation constant (KD) unchanged. These results suggest the involvement of 'hyperserotonergic' neural systems, possibly due to the enhanced 5-HT synthesis, in the manifestation of the involuntary movements of WMS, with noradrenergic and GABAergic modification. WMS can be a useful model to study the function of the serotonergic system in the CNS.
We have proposed that the translocation/activation of protein kinase C (PKC) in synergism with a Ca2+-mediated event plays an essential role in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). In a previous study, we saw no effect of PKC-activating phorbol esters alone on baseline responses, although it has been reported by others to enhance synaptic transmission. To resolve this discrepancy, we investigated the dose-response to phorbol esters of both baseline and potentiated granule cell responses elicited with perforant path stimulation. It was confirmed that iontophoretic ejection of phorbol ester to the dentate hilus, which alone had no effect on baseline responses, prolonged the persistence of potentiation produced by 2 trains of 400 Hz stimulation. These data support the proposed synergistic model in which the effects of phorbol ester and high frequency stimulation together produce a long-lasting potentiation of synaptic activation. A similar synergism was observed with ejection of a lower dose of phorbol ester into the perforant path synaptic zone in the molecular layer. Higher doses delivered to the synaptic zone without 400 Hz stimulation were sufficient to enhance baseline synaptic responses, but these doses inhibited the initial potentiation induced with 2 trains of 400 Hz stimulation delivered immediately after ejection. There was at times a slowly developing enhancement observed after the initial blockade. Thus, induction of a persistent synaptic enhancement was observed without initial potentiation. Measurement of PKC activity in membrane and cytosol indicated that PKC activation is only associated with the persistence phase of LTP. In contrast, there was no change in PKC subcellular distribution associated with the blockade of initial potentiation by higher doses of PDBu.
A role for endogenous opioids in trauma-induced brain injury has been supported by pharmacological studies. The present series of experiments were initiated to extend these observations by measuring opiate receptor subtype binding in gerbil hippocampus following 7 days recovery from a 10 min ischemic insult. Quantitative in vitro autoradiography was utilized to measure mu [( 3H]DAGO), kappa [( 3H]bremazocine + 10 microM morphiceptin + 100 nM DSLET), delta [( 3H]DSLET + 10 microM morphiceptin) and lambda [( 3H]naloxone + 300 nM diprenorphine) binding. While ischemic tissue samples at the level of the dorsal hippocampus showed complete loss of CA1 pyramidal cells, we observed no significant alterations in mu or delta binding suggesting a non-pyramidal cell localization of these receptors. Kappa binding decreased significantly to 88% of control in the CA1 and CA3 regions while lambda binding in the stratum lucidum (CA3) increased to 165% of control. Our results show that opiate receptor subtypes are differentially affected by an ischemic insult.
In order to study a possible modulatory effect of glutamatergic afferents to the nucleus accumbens (NAC) on psychostimulant-induced locomotion, L-glutamic acid diethyl ester (GDEE), a glutamate antagonist, was injected in the NAC of rats acutely treated with cocaine, amphetamine or caffeine. GDEE at the doses of 5, 10, and 20 micrograms/side significantly reduced locomotion induced by cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.). Amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was also reduced by GDEE, whereas caffeine-induced hyperactivity was not significantly decreased by GDEE. This suggests that glutamatergic afferents to the NAC modulate the effects of psychostimulants and also dopamine function in the mesolimbic system.
Alzheimer disease (AD) as well as other dementing disorders are characterized by a continuous loss of neurons in cortical and subcortical areas and probably by an extensive synaptic loss. In order to substantiate and localize the loss of synapses in AD, we quantified by microdensitometry the neuropil immunoreactivity to an antibody that labels the protein synaptophysin (p38), which is localized in the presynaptic terminals. We found in the AD cases an average 50% decrease in the density of the granular neuropil immunoreaction in parietal, temporal and midfrontal cortex. In contrast, Pick disease cases presented close to normal values in parietal cortex, but major losses in temporal and frontal cortex. Our data strongly suggest an important role of synapse loss in dementia.
Fibroblasts that harbor an antisense construct of amyloid beta protein precursor (ABPP) cDNA, A-1, produced less ABPP mRNA and ABPP and grew poorly. Normal growth was restored when either parent cell conditioned medium (CM) or purified ABPP was provided. The capacity of the CM to restore cell growth was abolished by passage through an anti-ABPP immunoaffinity column; the activity was in the bound fraction. A Mr 90,000 protein recognized by the anti-ABPP antibody was diminished in the CM of A-1. CM from ABPP cDNA-transfected cells expressing high levels of ABPP was more potent than that from non-transfected parent cells in restoring A-1 growth. These results indicate that ABPP is released from cells into the medium and has an autocrine function in growth regulation.
Much current work on the mechanism of neurosecretion has focused on proteins specific to neural secretory vesicles (synaptic vesicles). We report a calcium-stimulated lipid kinase that co-purifies with rat brain synaptic vesicles. This enzyme activity is found only in membrane fractions that contain synaptic vesicle markers. Based on identification of the lipid product as ceramide 1-phosphate and on the finding that ceramide kinase activity co-purifies with synaptic vesicles, the enzyme is proposed to be a ceramide kinase. Kinase activity is stimulated by micromolar concentrations of calcium. Calcium increases the apparent Vmax of the reaction with little effect on the Km for ceramide. The vesicular localization of this enzyme, the requirement for ATP, and the stimulation of enzyme activity by micromolar calcium suggest that ceramide phosphorylation may be associated with neurotransmitter release.

Cholecystokinin receptors were localized in human brainstem by quantitative autoradiography, using [3H]cholecystokininoctapeptide. Receptor densities were highest in the caudal medial region of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). High densities also were present in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, the principle nucleus of the inferior olive, the ventral region of the NTS, and the area postrema.
Sensorimotor function and the behavioural responses to a range of doses of subcutaneous apomorphine were assessed in mature (6-8 months) and old (23-26 months) Sprague-Dawley rats of comparable weight. In addition, the locomotor activity response of 12-month-old and 24-month-old rats to continuous infusions (14 days by osmotic minipump) of a selective dopamine D2 agonist. (+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine (PHNO, 10 micrograms/h) was investigated. Measures of spontaneous locomotor activity and motor coordination revealed impairments in the aged animals. Low doses of apomorphine (10-50 micrograms/kg), which preferentially activate dopamine autoreceptors, induced yawning, chewing mouth movements and penile grooming. The frequency of yawning and duration of penile grooming were significantly decreased in the old animals. In contrast, 200 micrograms/kg of apomorphine induced stereotyped sniffing and licking or gnawing, and these responses were significantly increased in the aged animals. There was a 25% decrease in striatal dopamine levels in the aged animals in this experiment. PHNO increased the amplitude of the circadian rhythms in locomotor activity exhibited by mature rats, and daytime tolerance to the stimulant effects of PHNO was reversed by stress in these animals. Both of these effects were attenuated in the aged rats. These findings suggest that (1) the dopamine receptors mediating yawning and stereotypy have different anatomical locations (2) ageing is associated with decreased responsiveness to stimulation of dopamine autoreceptors, consequent upon the loss of dopaminergic nerve terminals, and (3) while the functional response to selective stimulation of postsynaptic D2 receptors decreases with age, the postsynaptic response to a mixed D1/D2 agonist increases.
Calmodulin kinase (CaM kinase) activity and immunoreactivity were measured in the cytosol and crude synaptic membranes of light- and dark-adapted rat retinas. Dark adaptation increased the calcium-independent CaM kinase activity 2.7 times and calcium-stimulated activity 3.9 times in membrane fractions. Dark adaptation also increased membrane-bound CaM kinase immunoreactivity 2.4 times. In the cytosol, dark adaptation increased calcium- and calmodulin-independent kinase activity 3.3-fold but did not enhance calcium- and calmodulin-dependent activity. Soluble CaM kinase immunoreactivity was decreased by 13% by dark exposure. These changes in enzyme activity and immunoreactivity are likely due to changes in the endogenous state of autophosphorylation and compartmental concentrations of CaM kinase and may represent translocation of CaM kinase from cytosol to membranes. CaM kinase may have an important role in modulating visual processes.
Receptor-mediated responses to prostaglandins E1 and E2 are shown by electrophysiological methods in follicle-enclosed oocytes of Xenopus laevis. In voltage-clamped oocytes, prostaglandins E1 and E2 elicited an outward hyperpolarizing current. This outward membrane current was caused by an increase in K+ conductance. The prostaglandin-induced current was augmented by adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin, and by phosphodiesterase inhibitor, theophylline, indicating that adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) is involved in activating the K+ current. The prostaglandin responses were either abolished or greatly reduced by removing follicular cells with collagenase, suggesting that prostaglandin receptors reside in the follicular cells.
Adenosine exerts prominent inhibitory effects on synaptic transmission via a presynaptic action. Using the hippocampal slice preparation, we have found in electrophysiological experiments that this action of adenosine is blocked by intrahippocampal injections of pertussis toxin. In biochemical studies, we have confirmed that this treatment affects the GTP-binding proteins, Gi and Go, in this preparation. These results indicate that both pre- and postsynaptic actions of adenosine involve pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding proteins.
The binding of human brain linker histone proteins to a radiolabelled human Alu repetitive element was examined by mobility shift assay. Analysis of the complexes formed from protein extracts of whole neocortical nuclei, under physiological conditions in vitro revealed that linker histone H1(0) has the highest affinity for the Alu DNA sequence. The linker histone-DNA complexes assembled in the presence of aluminum lactate were more resistant to sodium chloride-induced dissociation than those formed in the presence of sodium lactate. The enhanced stability of deoxyribonucleoprotein (DNP) complexes in the presence of the aluminum cation may be of significance in neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease where aluminum preferentially associates with DNA containing structures of the nucleus.
The selective non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, potently blocked convulsions induced in the mouse by N-methyl-DL-aspartic acid (NMDLA) with an i.v. ED50 dose of 0.2 mg/kg. Similar doses of MK-801 were also effective in blocking seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), electroshock and by sound in audiogenic seizure-prone animals. Other less selective non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists including phencyclidine (PCP), thienylcyclohexylpiperidine (TCP), (+)-N-allylnormetazocine [+)-NANM, (+)-SKF 10,047) and ketamine also blocked NMDLA-induced seizures with a rank order of potency of MK-801 greater than PCP greater than TCP = (+)-NANM greater than ketamine. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) blocked NMDLA-induced seizures with an ED50 of 4.5 mg/kg, 22- and 560-fold more potently than the competitive antagonists, 2-DL-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (2-APH) and 2-DL-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (2-APV), respectively. MK-801 was the most potent of the non-competitive antagonists to induce a motor syndrome including head weaving, body rolling, increased locomotion and ataxia, characteristic of the behavioural response to PCP in the mouse. The syndrome was also present following injection of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, although they were generally less potent (probably a reflection of poor brain penetration) and less efficacious than the non-competitive antagonists. For all compounds except CPP, the anticonvulsant ED50 dose was close to the minimum effective dose to induce motor stimulation: CPP was 5- to 10-fold more potent as an anticonvulsant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent studies in invertebrates indicate that a rapid genomic response to neuronal stimulation has a critical role in long-term changes in synaptic efficacy. Because several of the genes (immediately early genes; IEGs) that respond rapidly to growth factor stimulation of vertebrate cells in vitro are also activated by neuronal stimulation in vivo, attention has focused on the possibility that they play a part in synaptic plasticity in vertebrate nervous systems. Four IEGs thought to encode transcription factors, zif/268 (also termed Egr-1, NGFI-A, Krox 24), c-fos, c-jun, and jun-B are rapidly induced in the brain by seizure activity, and we have now studied the induction of these genes in a well-characterized model of synaptic plasticity in the vertebrate brain--long-term potentiation (LTP) of the perforant pathgranule cell (pp-gc) synapse in vivo. We found that high-frequency (but not low-frequency) stimulation of the pp-gc synapse markedly increases zif/268 messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in the ipsilateral granule cell neurons; mRNA of c-fos, c-jun and jun-B is less consistently increased. The stimulus frequency and intensity required to increase zif/268 mRNA levels are similar to those required to induce LTP, which is also seen only ipsilaterally, and both responses are blocked by NMDA-receptor antagonists as well as by convergent synaptic inhibitory inputs already known to block LTP. Accordingly, zif/268 mRNA levels and LTP seem to be regulated by similar synaptic mechanisms.
Adrenaline and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) have been implicated in autonomic functions involving the intermediate and caudal portions of the medial nuclei of the solitary tracts (m-NTS). We sought to determine whether there was a cellular basis for direct intracellular or synaptic interactions between these transmitters in neurons in the m-NTS of rat brain by using dual-labeling immunocytochemical methods. Light microscopy revealed immunoautoradiographic labeling for the adrenaline-synthesizing enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) in perikarya and processes in close proximity to cells demonstrating peroxidase reaction product for GABA. Electron microscopy of the intermediate m-NTS at the level of the area postrema further established the localization of immunoautoradiographic and peroxidase labels for PNMT and GABA in common as well as separate perikarya and dendrites. All axon terminals were labeled separately for PNMT and GABA. The PNMT-labeled terminals formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses, whereas the GABA-labeled terminals formed exclusively symmetric synapses. Twenty-four percent (n = 42) of the PNMT- and 39% (n = 128) of the GABA-labeled terminals formed synaptic junctions on unlabeled soma and dendrites. Occasionally both types of terminals converged on a common unlabeled dendrite and on GABA-labeled dendrites. Only 3% of the PNMT- and 12% of the GABA-containing terminals formed synapses on PNMT-labeled soma and dendrites, whereas 7% of each type formed synapses with GABA-labeled profiles. The remaining labeled terminals lacked synaptic relations within the sections examined. The autoradiographic results were confirmed and extended by means of immunogold labeling for PNMT in combination with peroxidase-antiperoxidase localization of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). GAD-labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses with dendrites that were either unlabeled or contained low levels of PNMT (gold particles) or PNMT and GAD. We conclude that in caudal, more cardiovascular portions of the NTS, adrenaline and GABA may coexist, but they are more commonly detected in separate populations of neurons having receptive sites for both transmitters and innervating certain common target neurons.
As in all mammals studied to date, primate retina contains morphologically distinct classes of retinal ganglion cells (Polyak: The Retina. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, '41; Boycott and Dowling: Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. [Biol.] 225:109-184, '69; Leventhal et al.: Science 213:1139-1142, '81; Perry et al.: Neuroscience 12:1101-1123, '84; Rodieck et al.: J. Comp. Neurol. 233:115-132, '85; Rodieck: In H.D. Steklis and J. Erwin (eds): Comparative Primate Biology, Volume 4: Neurosciences. New York: Alan R. Liss, Inc., pp. 203-278, '88). We have now studied the morphologies, central projections, and retinal distributions of the major morphological classes of ganglion cells in the normal adult monkey, the newborn monkey, and the adult monkey in which restricted regions of retina were depleted of ganglion cells at birth as a result of small lesions made around the perimeter of the optic disc. Both old-world (Macaca fascicularis) and new-world (Saimiri sciureus) monkeys were studied. Our results indicate that, at birth, the major morphological classes of monkey retinal ganglion cells are recognizable; cells in central regions are close to adult size whereas cells in peripheral regions are much smaller than in the adult. As in the adult (Stone et al.: J. Comp. Neurol. 150:333-348, '73), in newborn monkeys there is a very sharp division between ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting retinal ganglion cells (nasotemporal division). Consistent with earlier work (Hendrickson and Kupfer: Invest. Ophthalmol. 15:746-756, '76) we find that the foveal pit in the neonate is immature and contains many more ganglion cells than in the adult. In the adult monkey in which the density of retinal ganglion cells in the central retina was reduced experimentally at birth, the fovea appeared immature, and an abnormally large number of retinal ganglion cells were distributed throughout the foveal pit. The cell bodies and dendritic fields of ganglion cells that developed within cell-poor regions of the central retina were nearly ten times larger than normal. In peripheral regions the effects were smaller. The dendrites of the abnormally toward the foveal pit. They did not extend preferentially into the cell-poor region as do the abnormally large cells on the borders of experimentally induced cell-poor regions of cat central retina (Leventhal et al.: J. Neurosci. 8:1485-1499, '88) or, as we found here, in paracentral regions of primate retina.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The effect of i.p. injection of the calcium channel inhibitors, verapamil, flunarizine, nifedipine, nimodipine and nicardipine, on penile erection and yawning induced by the dopamine agonist, apomorphine, or by oxytocin was studied in male rats. The five compounds antagonized in a dose-dependent manner the behavioral responses induced either by apomorphine or oxytocin. Nimodipine and nicardipine were found to be the most potent, being active in doses between 5 and 20 mg/kg, while nifedipine, verapamil and flunarizine were active in doses higher than 15 mg/kg. The results suggest that calcium is involved in the expression of the above-mentioned behavioural responses.
A-69024 HBr, 1-(2-bromo-4,5-dimethoxybenzyl)-7-hydroxy-6-methoxy-2-methyl-1,2,3,4- tetrahydroisoquinoline hydrobromide, is a selective antagonist of the dopamine D-1 receptor. A-69024 HBr shows an apparent affinity toward the D-1 receptor (identified using [125I]SCH 23390) of 12.6 (4.15-38.3) nM (mean (90% CL), n = 3); the apparent affinity toward the D-2 receptor (identified using [3H]spiroperidol is 1 290 (1,200-1,380) nM (n = 3); using [125I]lysergic acid diethylamine to identify the 5-HT1C receptor gives apparent affinity of 17,800 (9,700-32,600) nM (n = 3). In assays of adenylate cyclase activity, A-69024 HBr antagonizes the D-1 receptor with a calculated affinity of 43.9 (17.5-110) nM (n = 5), while the molecule antagonizes the D-2 receptor with a calculated affinity greater than 400 nM. Behavioral studies demonstrate that A-69024 HBr (5 mg/kg s.c.) is able to block both amphetamine-induced locomotor activity and apomorphine-induced stereotypy. Furthermore, A-69024 HBr blocks SF&amp;F 38393-, but not quinpirole-, induced rotation in rats having unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra. When administered at behaviorally effective doses. A-69024 HBr neither increases the concentration of serum prolactin nor potentiates dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation in the caudate-putamen of rats pretreated with the DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor NSD 1015. Because A-69024 is a dopamine receptor antagonist discriminating between the D-1 and D-2 receptors, it may be a useful research tool.

The contractile effects of oxytocin on the longitudinal and circular muscle of rat uteri from animals undergoing term and preterm labor were studied in vitro to define the action of the hormone. The maximal tension and slopes of oxytocin dose contractile-response curves, but not the pD2 values (-log ED50), were higher in both muscle layers at term delivery and also during preterm delivery induced with antiprogesterones compared with responses from tissues of nondelivering animals. These data indicate that the myometrium is hyperresponsive and hyperreactive to oxytocin during term and preterm birth but not hypersensitive. The increase in oxytocin responsiveness of the myometrium may be fundamental to the initiation of labor and regulated by the increases in oxytocin receptors and postreceptor events, including gap junctions.
Daily injections of either 0.8 or 3.2 mg norepinephrine (NE)/kg for 2 wk failed to stimulate brown adipose tissue (BAT) growth, GDP binding, or cytochrome-c oxidase activity (COA) in Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). However, a single injection of 1.6 mg NE/kg produced a small (23%) but significant acute increase in BAT GDP binding without affecting COA. Thus there is some loss of sensitivity to NE with chronic treatment in Syrian hamsters. Unilateral sympathectomy by surgical denervation of the interscapular BAT (IBAT) resulted in decreased GDP binding and COA in the denervated pad. Chronic NE treatment in hamsters with denervated IBAT only partially reversed the denervation-induced decreases in GDP binding and COA. It therefore appears that NE is not solely responsible for the maintenance and stimulation of thermogenic activity and COA in Syrian hamster BAT. Denervation of IBAT also resulted in elevated levels of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in this tissue, a surprising finding since brown and white adipose tissue LPL activity were both stimulated by chronic NE treatment. Therefore, although NE has a stimulatory effect on LPL activity, the primary influence of the neural input to IBAT on this enzyme is inhibitory. These data exemplify dramatic differences between rats and hamsters in the mechanisms controlling BAT thermogenesis and white and brown adipose tissue LPL activity.
Hyponatremia, in patients with central nervous system disease, can be attributable to impaired free water excretion (syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone) or to excessive sodium excretion (cerebral salt wasting). We present a patient with a parietal glioma and hyponatremia characterized by salt wasting and dehydration. Rehydration and sodium repletion corrected the sodium and volume deficits; withdrawal of supplemental sodium resulted in recurrence of dehydration and hyponatremia. We determined sodium and water balance and measured plasma atriopeptin, antidiuretic hormone, and aldosterone. Plasma atriopeptin ranged from 8 to 44 pg/mL (normal, less than 45 pg/mL); antidiuretic hormone was not elevated at 4 to 5 pg/mL, and aldosterone was slightly elevated at 1040.25 pmol/L. The concentrations of these hormones could not directly explain the natriuresis; interactions with neural or other humoral factors may be involved. In evaluating such patients, careful attention to sodium and water balance is important to guide appropriate therapy.
Changes in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during space flight have been suspected of contributing to space motion sickness. The horizontal VOR was studied in nine subjects on two space shuttle missions. Active unpaced head oscillation at 0.3 Hz was used as the stimulus to examine the gain and phase of the VOR with and without visual input, as well as the visual suppression of the reflex. No statistically significant changes were noted inflight in the gains or phase shifts of the VOR during any test condition, or between space motion sickness susceptible and nonsusceptible populations. Although VOR suppression was unaffected by spaceflight, the space motion sickness-susceptible group tended to exhibit greater error in the suppression than the nonsusceptible group. It is concluded that at this stimulus frequency, VOR gain is unaffected by spaceflight, and any minor individual changes do not seem to contribute to space motion sickness.

A number of neuroendocrine abnormalities have been reported in panic disorder patients: the most extensively studied being disturbances of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function (Curtis et al. 1982; Leiberman et al. 1983; Uhde et al. 1988). The recent sequencing and synthesis of corticotropin-releasing hormone now allows direct testing of pituitary responsivity to this neuropeptide in affective and panic disorder patients (Holsboer et al. 1984; Gold et al. 1986; Roy-Byrne et al. 1986; Holsboer et al. 1987; Risch et al. 1988). We report the effects of intravenously administered ovine corticotropin-releasing hormone (0.03 micrograms/kg) on plasma concentrations of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and cortisol in a small group of panic disorder patients and age- and sex-matched normal controls.
1. Several low molecular weight spider toxins have recently been shown to block potently glutamatergic neuromuscular transmission at the invertebrate neuromuscular junction. The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the effects of one such toxin, argiotoxin636, on excitatory amino acid receptor-mediated responses in mammalian neurones. 2. Membrane currents were recorded from rat cortical neurones after 2-6 weeks in cell culture, by the whole-cell variant of the patch-clamp technique. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate were used as selective agonists for their respective receptor subtypes. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) was used as a selective agonist for the quisqualate receptor subtype. 3. Responses to these agonists were characterised with respect to their concentration and voltage-dependence. Argiotoxin636 (3-30 microM) was found to attenuate markedly responses to NMDA in an agonist- and voltage-dependent manner. Thus, argiotoxin636 progressively reduced successive responses to NMDA when membrane potentials were voltage clamped between -40mV to -100 mV. The more negative the membrane potential the more rapid the development of the block of inward current. 4. The antagonism of NMDA-induced currents by argiotoxin636 could be reversed by clamping the membrane at positive potentials (+20 to +60 mV) and reapplying NMDA. 5. Responses to AMPA and kainate were less affected by argiotoxin636, with an antagonist action only becoming evident at a concentration of 100 microM. 6. These results suggest that argiotoxin636 is an open-channel blocker of the NMDA activated ion-channel in mammalian neurones. Furthermore, our results indicate at least a 30 fold selectivity for NMDA over the quisqualate- and kainate-activated ion-channels.
1. Muscularis mucosae of the distal oesophagus of the opossum contracts in response to substance P and to a variety of tachykinins. To delineate the nature of the receptors present in this tissue, we evaluated contractile responses to substance P, neurokinin A, neurokinin B, eledoisin and analogues believed to be highly selective for NK-1, NK-2 and NK-3 receptors. In addition, the effects of prolonged exposure to each of these agents (10(-6) M or 10(-5) M) on contractile responses to substance P and to itself were evaluated. Similarly effects of prolonged exposure to the various tachykinins and their analogues on the field-stimulated responses of this muscle were studied. 2. All naturally occurring tachykinins were full agonists and differed in potency (comparing ED50 values) by less than ten fold. In nearly all cases there was cross tachyphylaxis between substance P and the other tachykinins and each reduced tonic responses to field stimulation, a response previously shown to be mediated by a substance P like agent. Eledoisin failed to cause tachyphylaxis under the conditions of these experiments. 3. When highly selective tachykinin analogues were used, only that believed to activate NK-1 receptors was a full agonist. [beta-Ala4,Sar9,MetO2(11)]SP(4-11) was also only slightly less potent than substance P. In contrast, an agonist selective for NK-2 (NK-A) receptors, [Nle10]NKA(4-10), and one selective for NK-3 (NK-B) receptors, [beta-Asp4, MePhe7]NKB(4-10) were unable to produce a response equal to 50% of the maximum even at 10(-5) M. However, all three selective tachykinin analogues reduced responses to substance P but not to carbachol. They usually reduced both phasic and tonic responses to field stimulation. 4. We conclude, based on this and earlier study, that the tachykinin receptors of opossum oesophagus muscularis mucosae recognize all naturally occurring tachykinins but may represent only NK-1 receptors. The ability of analogues selective for other types of tachykinin receptors to reduce responses to substance P raises the possibility that their selectivity depends in part on diminished efficacy rather than totally on diminished affinity at some classes of receptor.
Intra-cerebral hemorrhage is an unusual and often fatal complication of endarterectomy (CEA). Previous cerebral infarction, intra-operative or post operative hypertension, and the use of anti-coagulants are some of the defined major risk factors. Hemorrhage usually occurs early after CEA, and a second hemorrhage has only once been reported. We wish to report a patient who developed three separate hemorrhages following CEA. This patient had a long history of poorly controlled hypertension. We believe that poorly controlled hypertension, in addition to other reported factors, may be an important separate risk factor for post-CEA hemorrhage.
Neuromedin U immunoreactivity was located histochemically in the guinea-pig small intestine. Projections of immunoreactive neurons were determined by analysing patterns of degeneration following nerve lesions. The co-localization of neuromedin U immunoreactivity with immunoreactivity for substance P, neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide and calbindin was also investigated. Neuromedin U immunoreactivity was found in nerve cells in the myenteric and submucous plexuses and in nerve fibres in these ganglionated plexuses, around submucous arterioles and in the mucosa. Reactive fibres did not supply the muscle layers. Most reactive nerve cells in the myenteric ganglia had Dogiel type-II morphology and in many there was co-localization of calbindin, although some Dogiel type-II neuromedin U neurons were calbindin negative. Lesion studies suggest that these myenteric neurons project circumferentially to local myenteric ganglia. Projections from myenteric neurons also run anally in the myenteric plexus, while other projections extend to submucous ganglia, and still further projections run from the intestine to provide terminals in the coeliac ganglia. In the submucous ganglia neuromedin U was co-localized in three populations of nerve cells: (i) those with vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity, (ii) neurons containing neuropeptide Y, and (iii) neurons containing substance P. Each of these populations sends nerve fibres to the mucosa. Neuromedin U immunoreactivity is thus located in a variety of neurons serving different functions in the intestine and therefore probably does not have a single role in intestinal physiology.
Measures of EEG power spectral analyses were obtained from a total of 608 mild head trauma patients and 108 age-matched normal subjects. A training-set discriminant function was first developed from 264 mild head-injured patients and 83 age-matched controls yielding an overall discriminant classification accuracy of 94.8%. The first independent cross-validation of the discriminant function using 130 mild head trauma patients and 21 age-matched normals yielded a discriminant classification accuracy of 96.2% for the trauma patients and 90.5% for the normals. A second independent cross-validation of the discriminant function using 51 patients and measures of test-retest reliability from 93 patients yielded classification accuracies ranging between 77.8% and 92.3%. A third independent cross-validation of 70 mild head-injured patients tested at a different location with a different EEG computer system yielded a discriminant accuracy of 92.8%. The discriminating EEG power spectral analyses indicated 3 classes of neurophysiological variables which are attributable to mechanical head injury: (1) increased coherence and decreased phase in frontal and frontal-temporal regions; (2) decreased power differences between anterior and posterior cortical regions; and (3) reduced alpha power in posterior cortical regions.
Forty-four normal male students, aged 18-23 years were studied. After adaptation and baseline night (BN), 3 or 4 consecutive nights were interrupted by a forced awakening (10-90 min) once a night (ENs). Subjects (Ss) were awakened after they had slept for the first sleep cycle plus 20 min of NREM sleep in the 2nd cycle. The REM latencies following return to sleep showed a bimodal distribution separated by 25-30 min. The ENs were divided into 2 clusters: SOREMP (sleep onset REM period) and non-SOREMP nights. After interruption, the 2nd and the 3rd REM durations increased on non-SOREMP nights compared to SOREMP nights. We plotted, separately for SOREMP and non-SOREMP nights, the fluctuation of REM episode probability (FRP) at successive points in time. We examined the correspondence of FRPs derived from the sleep-independent, the sleep-dependent, and the reset hypotheses, with FRP of intact BN. On both SOREMP and non-SOREMP nights, none of the 3 models corresponded with BN. Thus, we suggest that, for both SOREMP and non-SOREMP nights, intervening wakefulness cancels the pre-awakening REM rhythm, and a new REM rhythm starts with or without SOREMP. We discuss factors influencing the rate of SOREMP occurrence (SOREMP %), such as circadian effect, individual differences, length of interruption, and pre-awakening NREM duration.
The concentrations of type I and type II adrenocorticosteroid receptors in brain cytosol obtained from adrenalectomized-ovariectomized female mice were measured with five different assay conditions. Among the five brain regions studied, hippocampus had the highest concentration of type I receptors, whereas cerebral cortex had the highest concentration of type II receptors. The value of properly correcting for dexamethasone cross-binding to type I receptors when type II receptors are being assayed was demonstrated using the type II receptor-selective ligand RU28362. A time-course study revealed a transient up-regulation of both receptor classes in most brain regions after adrenalectomy-ovariectomy, with maximal values achieved 3-5 days postsurgery and a reduction to near-intact levels by 16 days postsurgery. A single sc injection of aldosterone given to adrenalectomized-ovariectomized mice produced a profound down-regulation of type I receptors in hippocampal, cerebral cortex, hypothalamic, brain stem, and cerebellar samples, whereas it down-regulated type II receptors only in hippocampal and cerebral cortical samples. A similar injection of RU28362 failed to down-regulate type I receptors in any brain region, but it did reduce the concentration of type II receptors in all brain regions except cerebellum. The actions of aldosterone appear to be mediated solely through type I receptors, since injections of the type I receptor antagonist RU26752 prevented aldosterone-induced down-regulation of both type I and type II receptors, whereas RU26752 had no effect on the down-regulatory actions of RU28362. The ability of aldosterone to down-regulate type I, but not type II, receptors in hypothalamic, brain stem, and cerebellar samples suggests that type I and type II receptors are concentrated in separate populations of cells in these brain regions, whereas in hippocampus and cerebral cortex there is a sufficient degree of colocalization to permit type II receptor down-regulation via the action of aldosterone-type I receptor complexes. We speculate that this action is mediated at least in part at the genomic level by the suppression of type I and type II receptor mRNA synthesis brought about by the interactions of transformed aldosterone-type I receptor complexes with the DNA regulatory elements upstream from the genes for these receptors.
One of the hallmarks of immunological abnormalities in mice that are prone to syndromes resembling systemic lupus erythematosus is polyclonal activation of B cells and a switch of serum immunoglobulins or autoantibodies from IgM to IgG that coincides with onset of autoimmune disease. Therefore, we investigated whether the development of autoimmunity can be alleviated in such mice by administration of monoclonal alloantibody directed against Ly-5, because this was known to reduce levels of polyclonal IgG antibody without affecting other immunoglobulin isotypes. Our results indicate that at least some forms of autoimmune disease may be effectively treated by thus reducing the concentration of IgG autoantibody in this manner.
Levels of mRNA for acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits are relatively low in innervated skeletal muscles. Following denervation they rise rapidly, leading to increased AChR synthesis. The mechanism by which motor nerves normally regulate these mRNA levels is not yet known. In order to determine the possible role of synaptic transmission in this process, we have compared the effect of blockade of cholinergic ACh transmission with that of surgical denervation. Blockade of quantal ACh transmission was produced by injection of type A botulinum toxin into the soleus muscles of rats. We measured mRNA for the alpha-subunit of the AChR (alpha-AChR mRNA) in RNA extracts of botulinum-treated, denervated, and normal control muscles by hybridization with a highly specific cDNA probe. Our findings show that treatment with botulinum toxin resulted in an increase in alpha-AChR mRNA which was similar to the effect of surgical denervation, although slower in its time course. Since botulinum toxin specifically inhibits quantal ACh release, these results support the concept that cholinergic synaptic transmission plays a key role in mediating the neural control of the alpha-AChR message. The difference between the effects of denervation and botulinum-treatment may be explained by the fact that botulinum toxin does not block the spontaneous non-quantal component of ACh transmission, which has previously been shown to have a partial influence in regulating certain properties of muscles. The present results suggest that synaptic transmission has an important influence in regulating gene expression in the target cell.
This article describes ways in which receptors, key components of signal propagation through a synapse, can mediate changes in that propagation. Changes occur at four levels: in the signal-transducing capability of a single receptor molecule, in the number of receptors per cell, in the subcellular placement of receptor molecules, and in the cytoarchitecture of receptor-rich regions. The ability of receptors to shift between different desired states is called plasticity, and such shifts can be long-lived as well as transient. In this article we focus on neuronal receptors, although key findings from a variety of cell systems are reported. Neuronal receptor plasticity may have a special role in the assembly as well as the adaptability of the nervous system.

A novel mass spectrometric method possessing a high level of structural specificity is described for characterization in biological fluids and tissues of endogenous beta-endorphin of the human amino acid sequence (beta h-EP). The method is based upon purification of tissue extracts by an RP-HPLC gradient, followed by trypsinolysis of that particular HPLC fraction corresponding to the elution time of synthetic beta h-EP. The tryptic digest of that endogenous beta h-EP fraction was purified further by a second RP-HPLC gradient. A unique tryptic fragment selected from the second gradient was analyzed by fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry and B/E linked-field scan MS/MS techniques to provide molecular weight and amino acid sequence-determining fragment ion information, respectively, of that fragment. Collectively, these independent analytical methodologies provided unequivocal structure evidence for the presence of endogenous beta h-EP in human pituitary. The method was established first by utilizing synthetic beta h-EP to optimize experimental parameters, and then applied to the analysis of beta h-EP in post-mortem human pituitary extracts. The suitability of the present method for semi-quantitation of tissue extracts is also demonstrated. The corresponding detection limit of the synthetic beta h-EP was 90 fmol, and human pituitary contained 1.5 pmol of beta h-EP mg-1 protein. The method can be extended readily to the analysis of beta-endorphin derived from other species and tissues.
The macula of the neural retina from 12 adult rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) was detached from the overlying retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) by subretinal injection of a balanced salt solution. Seven days later, the two layers were reapposed by draining fluid from the vitreous cavity and replacing it with a 3:1 mixture of sulphur hexafluride gas and air. Animals were sacrificed at 1 hr, 2 days and 7 days after detachment, and at periods ranging from 3 to 14 days after reattachment. At 2-7 days prior to sacrifice, some eyes received an intravitreal injection of 3H-L-fucose. The eyes were then fixed for light and electron microscopy (EM), and tissue sections were processed for autoradiography (ARG) or immunocytochemistry. During the 7-day detachment interval, rod outer segments (ROSs) and cone outer segments (COSs) degenerated, but inner segments remained intact and the rest of the retina appeared normal. The apical RPE surface dedifferentiated during the detachment interval. At 3 days after reattachment, a regrowth of rudimentary ROSs and COSs had occurred, but the disc stacking was clearly abnormal. ROSs and COSs both showed an increase in length and a tendency to return to their normal configurations with increasing time after reattachment. ROSs and COSs regained approximately 40% of their normal lengths after a 2-week reattachment period; however, persistent outer segment abnormalities were frequently found in otherwise well regenerated areas. Autoradiographic results confirmed that new disc members were synthesized subsequent to reattachment. Newly synthesized rod disc membranes were uniformly labeled using antibodies to bovine opsin. Regenerating outer segments interdigitated with newly formed apical RPE processes, and radiolabeled phagosomes were identified within the RPE cytoplasm by 1 week after reattachment. Proliferation of the RPE cell layer was identified at some locations in all animals, and was strongly correlated with a lack of underlying outer segment regeneration. Because of the short detachment interval, and the absence of underlying pathology or trauma, the recovery process described here probably represents an example of optimum recovery after retinal reattachment.
Molindone hydrochloride, a dihydroindolone neuroleptic, is structurally distinct from other classes of neuroleptics. Molindone exhibits many similarities to other neuroleptics, including dopamine receptor blockade, antipsychotic efficacy, and extrapyramidal side effects. Despite these similarities, molindone also has atypical properties and inhibits the enzyme monoamine oxidase in vitro and in vivo. Several studies have shown that molindone causes less dopamine receptor supersensitivity than other neuroleptics and thus may be less likely to cause tardive dyskinesia. It also appears to have a greater effect on mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine neurons than on those in the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Clinically, molindone has a tendency to cause weight loss and may have less effect on seizure threshold than conventional antipsychotic agents. The authors review the laboratory and clinical data on molindone and discuss the relevance of atypical research findings to the clinical characteristics of this antipsychotic agent.
A Golgi study of neurons in the ventroanterior-ventrolateral complex (VAL) and ventromedial (VM) nucleus in the dorsal thalamus of rats was performed. To facilitate the delineation of subdivisions of these nuclei, some animals received injections of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the afferent and efferent fields of VAL and VM, and alternate sections were processed for the histochemical detection of HRP. As an adjunct to subjective observations, a multivariate statistical analysis of morphometric variables was performed to provide an objective assessment of neuronal morphology. All Golgi-stained neurons in VAL and VM were tentatively identified as projection neurons; no cells with morphological features commonly ascribed to thalamic interneurons were impregnated. Four classes of morphologically distinct neurons were identified in VAL. Type 1 neurons, the most commonly impregnated cell, were found throughout the extent of VAL and resembled &quot;tufted&quot; or &quot;multipolar bush&quot; neurons described previously in many thalamic nuclei. The remaining three neuronal types differed in a number of morphometric parameters and were differentially distributed throughout VAL. Type 2 neurons, distinguished in part by dendritic spine morphology and elongated bipolar dendritic fields, were found only in the rostral sector of the dorsal division of VAL (VALD). Type 3 neurons, characterized by a large and evenly distributed dendritic field, were situated in rostral VAL (all subdivisions). Type 4 neurons had small soma and dendritic dimensions and were located in the ventromedial aspect of the ventral division of VAL (VALV) adjacent to VM. In contrast, the vast majority of neurons in VM were considered to be a single morphological class (similar in form to type 4 neurons in VAL), although a rarely impregnated second type of neuron was also observed. The apparent scarcity of interneurons in VAL and VM is consistent with previous evidence that the synaptic organization of motor thalamus in the rat is markedly different from that of higher-order mammals. Speculation about the functional attributes of the neuronal types in VAL and VM is necessarily restricted to considerations of afferent and efferent relations, since &quot;motor modality&quot; functions of neurons in these nuclei have yet to be elucidated.
It is unclear whether peripheral, subcortical or intracortical loops are directly involved between receptors in muscles and tendons and the cerebral cortex in signaling movement magnitude and muscular tension information. Previous experiments have indicated that this information does reach consciousness. Data from voluntary compression of springs and strain-gauge were analyzed in patients with unilateral focal lesions of the cerebral hemispheres. It was found that the perception of signals of muscular tension is abolished by lesions of the contralateral cortex near the central sulcus. It was concluded that the possibility exists of separate cortical projection areas for kinesthetic signals from muscles and from joints.
We have begun to identify and characterize brain protease activities separated by and assayed in substrate-containing polyacrylamide gels. In the present report, we focus on four proteolytic activities identified from rat brain that are dependent on micromolar and millimolar Ca2+ concentrations for activity. In contrast to the previously described Ca2+-dependent neutral cysteine proteases (calpains), all four activities appear to be metalloproteases based on their inhibition by EDTA, EGTA, and 1,10-o-phenanthroline, but not by blockers of serine, cysteine, or aspartic proteases. In the presence of excess Ca2+ and the Zn2+-chelating inhibitor 1,10-o-phenanthroline, activity of the enzymes was reconstituted by addition of lower concentrations of Zn2+, and inhibited by higher Zn2+ concentrations. The four metalloproteases were designated MP-112, MP-92, MP-70, and MP-65 on the basis of their apparent molecular masses in kilodaltons. MP-70, the major activity detected, had an apparent kact for Ca2+ greater than 100 microM versus 10-25 microM for MP-65 and 50-100 microM for MP-92. MP-112 was a minor activity for which Ca2+ activation levels were not determined. MP-112, MP-70, and MP-65 were similar in being most active in the soluble fraction of 7-day neonate forebrain. In contrast, MP-92 activity was highest in the particulate fraction of adult forebrain. About half of the MP-92 activity and lower levels of the other three activities were still detectable in particulate fractions after detergent extraction of membrane, suggesting an association with cytoskeletal or other structural proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Phosphoinositide turnover stimulated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptors in the intact rat brain was studied using an in vivo method. Phosphoinositides in the rat brain were prelabeled with [3H]inositol injected into the lateral cerebral ventricles. The rats were killed by microwave irradiation after 48 h and the contents in the frontal cortex of 3H-inositol phosphates, [3H]inositol-1-monophosphate [( 3H]IP1), [3H]inositol-1,4-bisphosphate [( 3H]IP2), and a mixture of [3H]inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and [3H]inositol-1,3,4-trisphosphate [( 3H]IP3) were assayed by HPLC. Lithium treatment (10 mEq/kg, i.p., 2 h before) increased the content of [3H]IP1 and [3H]IP2. 5-Methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT) and quipazine, 5-HT agonists, significantly increased the amount of 3H-inositol phosphates under lithium pretreatment. The response to 5-MeODMT was inhibited by ritanserin, a 5-HT2 antagonist, but not by (-)-propranolol, a 5-HT1 antagonist. These results suggest that phosphoinositide turnover in the rat frontal cortex in vivo is stimulated by 5-HT2 receptor activation. It is considered that this method will be useful for measurement of 5-HT2 receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover in vivo to examine the in vivo effects of various psychotropic drugs such as antidepressants.
PC12 cells attach well to plastic culture dishes coated with laminin, collagen, polylysine or a basement membrane extract (2-dimensional substrata) and, in the presence of NGF, extend short neurites within 1-2 days. However, on gels (3-dimensional substrata) reconstituted from a basement membrane extract (RBM), PC12 cells attach extending short processes transiently and within one day, form networks of small aggregates interconnected by process-bearing cells. By 3 days the network collapses into large aggregates that, in media supplemented with NGF, extended a halo of neurites resembling dorsal root ganglia in culture. Time-lapse video recordings indicate that cell motility on RBM gel is accompanied by extensive blebbing as well as extension of processes that attach to and pull together neighbouring cells. These cellular events may contribute to the disruption of the gel underneath aggregates that is apparent when cultures are stained with Coomasie Blue. Ultrastructural studies indicated that aggregates often have zonula adherens-type junctions where cell bodies and processes come in contact. PC12 cells seeded onto gels of laminin alone behave essentially the same as on RBM gels, whereas on collagen gels they behave as on 2-dimensional substrata and extended neurites rather than aggregate. The extent of aggregation increases with greater cell density and is enhanced significantly by NGF. Antisera to NGF reduce the NGF-enhancement of aggregation but do not block aggregation in the absence of NGF. Dibutyryl cAMP or epidermal growth factor, which stimulate process extension and cell division respectively, do not enhance aggregation. However, 3A3, a monoclonal antibody to a laminin/collagen receptor on PC12 cells and antibodies (Fab fragments) to the neural cell adhesion molecule both inhibit cell aggregation.
Abstract Experiments examined release of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), measured by radioimmunoassay, from acutely prepared explants of rat hypothalamus maintained in vitro by intra-arterial perfusion of artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Perfusates collected from intact preparations contained 6.1 +/- 0.6 pg (mean +/- SEM) of ANF per 2-min sample. Following a 3-min infusion of noradrenaline (60 muM), ANF release increased significantly (P&lt;0.05) to 11.4+/-1.4 pg/sample. Media collected from hypophysectomized preparations showed the same basal ANF release (6.8 +/- 0.9 pg/sample) as intact preparations, but demonstrated no significant increase after noradrenaline infusions. Levels of spontaneous ANF release were not appreciably affected by the absence of the paraventricular nuclei and/or the anteroventral third ventricle area. Extracted material from the perfusate by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography revealed two main peaks of immunoreactive ANF: a small molecular weight form that coeluted with synthetic ANF (99-126) and with similar biological activity in a radioreceptor assay, and a larger molecular weight form with the same elution profile as the ANF (1-126) prohormone. These observations indicate that the ANF released from perfused rat hypothalamic explants contains distinct contributions from the hypothalamus (sites undetermined) and the neurointermediate lobe.
1. Turtle eye movements were recorded in response to horizontal motion of patterned stimuli and intravitreal injections of selective GABAergic drugs by using a contact lens search-coil technique. Similar to results from rabbit and cat, injection of picrotoxin into the turtle's eye results in a spontaneous horizontal nystagmus, with its slow-phase movement in a temporal-to-nasal direction with respect to the injected eye. In contrast, there were no prominent vertical eye movements in response to either horizontal optokinetic stimuli or drug injections. 2. Injections of bicuculline or bicuculline methyl iodide (BMI), which selectively block the GABAa receptor, had effects similar to those of picrotoxin. The GABAa agonist muscimol, on the other hand, blocked optokinetic nystagmus (OKN). Furthermore, combinations of these drugs demonstrated competitive interactions between the agonists and antagonists. 3. The threshold dose for the eye-movement effects of each drug was ascertained with the use of a radioactive calibration procedure. Tritiated inulin was injected into the vitreous. After 1 h, ocular components were assayed for radioactivity. Then, by the use of an estimate of vitreal/retinal dilution, the retinal concentrations of these threshold doses were calculated. The computed threshold retinal concentrations of the GABAa drugs were found to be in the low micromolar range. 4. These results are discussed in terms of the directionally sensitive (DS) processing which occurs in the retina, and the output of retinal DS cells to pathways involved in oculomotor control of retinal image stabilization. It is known that intravitreal application of picrotoxin makes DS retinal ganglion cells lose their selectivity for any one direction. Based on the effect of picrotoxin on OKN, it is argued that DS retinal cells provide a major input to oculomotor subsystems involved in the stabilization of gaze. Furthermore, these intravitreal drug effects on OKN are selective for GABAa drugs, suggesting that GABAa receptors play a major role in DS processing in the retina.
The dopamine transporter was labeled using a photosensitive compound related to GBR-12909, 125I-1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-[2- (4-azido-3-iodophenyl)ethyl]piperazine (125I-DEEP). 125I-DEEP bound reversibly and with high affinity to the dopamine transport protein in the absence of light and could be covalently attached to the protein following exposure to UV light. In rat striatal homogenates, 125I-DEEP was found to incorporate covalently into a protein with apparent molecular weight of 58,000 Da. The properties of this binding protein were characteristic of the dopamine transporter since covalent attachment could be inhibited by dopamine-uptake blockers with the proper pharmacological rank order of potencies. Covalent binding was also inhibited in a stereospecific manner by (+) and (-) cocaine, as well as other cocaine analogs. The protein was not found in the cerebellum. The dopamine transporter appears to exist in a glycosylated form since photoaffinity-labeled transport sites could adsorb to wheat germ-agglutinin and could be specifically eluted from the column by beta-N-acetylglucosamine.
Light-induced phase shifts of the circadian locomotor rhythm of hamsters can be blocked by agents that alter GABA neurotransmission. The GABA antagonist bicuculline blocks phase delays induced by light and the benzodiazepine diazepam, which can potentiate GABA activity, blocks light-induced phase advances. In the experiments reported here, we found that the bicuculline blockade of phase delays was reduced by agents that mimic or potentiate GABA activity. Conversely, the diazepam blockade of phase advances was reduced by both competitive and noncompetitive antagonists of GABA. This indicates that the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor-ionophore complex is the most likely site of action for the effects of these drugs on circadian rhythms. However, competitive GABA agonists did not mimic the blocking effects of benzodiazepines, nor did the antagonist picrotoxin mimic the blocking effect of bicuculline. Therefore, the classic action of GABA, increased chloride conductance, may not be the effector mechanism in this case. We also found that the GABAB agonist baclofen blocked both phase advances and delays and that the blockade of advances was reversed by the antagonist delta-aminovaleric acid. Taken together, these results indicate that GABA is involved in the regulation of circadian responses to light and that the regulation is mediated by both GABAA and GABAB receptors.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor binding sites have been localized in the rat brain by in vitro autoradiography using picomolar concentrations of both 125I-NPY and 125I-peptide YY (PYY) and new evidence provided for differentially localized receptor subtypes. Equilibrium binding studies using membranes indicate that rat brain contains a small population of high-affinity binding sites and a large population of moderate-affinity binding sites. 125I-PYY (10 pM) is selective for high-affinity binding sites (KD = 23 pM), whereas 10 pM 125I-NPY labels both high- and moderate-affinity sites (KD = 54 pM and 920 pM). The peptide specificity and affinity of these ligands in autoradiographic experiments match those seen in homogenates. Binding sites for 125I-PYY are most concentrated in the lateral septum, stratum oriens, and radiatum of the hippocampus, amygdala, piriform cortex, entorhinal cortex, several thalamic nuclei, including the reuniens and lateral posterior nuclei, and substantia nigra, pars compacta, and pars lateralis. In the brain stem, 125I-PYY sites are densest in a variety of nuclei on the floor of the fourth ventricle, including the pontine central grey, the supragenual nucleus, and the area postrema. 125I-NPY binding sites are found in similar areas, but relative levels of NPY binding and PYY binding differ regionally, suggesting differences in sites labeled by the two ligands. These receptor localizations resemble the distribution of endogenous NPY in some areas, but others, such as the hypothalamus, contain NPY immunoreactivity but few binding sites.
Neuroscience nurses frequently care for patients scheduled to have an electroencephalogram (EEG). Although nurses are involved in teaching the patient about the procedure, most have only a rudimentary understanding of the underlying physiology or purpose of the test, or of the actual testing procedure. This article discusses these issues as well as material for patient teaching, and the use of EEG monitoring by nurse researchers.
It is believed that most patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage secondary to aneurysmal rupture experience some degree of cerebral vasospasm, although not all develop specific neurologic deficits. Management is complicated, and at present the outcome is often less than optimal. This article reviews the symptoms, predictors and pathophysiology of vasospasm, highlighting current theories of pathogenesis as well as their relationship to treatment. This information is essential for the neuroscience nurse to care adequately for these patients. A plan of care for the patient with cerebral vasospasm is included.
Lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from premetamorphic bullfrog tadpoles showed a selectively enhanced accumulation of two radiolabeled proteins when incubated in vitro at 22 degrees C for longer than 1 hr. During the first hour in vitro or after in vivo labeling, these polypeptides--of 25 and 68 kD molecular mass and slightly acidic isoelectric point--were detected in the DRG only at relatively low levels. Accumulation of the 25 kD species increased in lumbar DRG from tadpoles of all metamorphic stages but waned at stage XXV (completion of metamorphosis) and was absent from DRG of adult bullfrogs. In contrast, increased levels of the 68 kD species were detected only at premetamorphic stages. Tail DRG from premetamorphic tadpoles did not increase their synthesis of either polypeptide in vitro, which is consistent with the above findings because sensory neurons in tail DRG, but not in lumbar DRG, are mature at this developmental stage. Although the molecular sizes of the two polypeptides led us initially to consider them as heat shock-like proteins, only the 68 kD species was further increased (by approximately 100-fold) when premetamorphic lumbar DRG were incubated at 37 degrees C. The 25 kD species, which was the predominant protein induced at 22 degrees C, showed no further increase in response to hyperthermia. The enhanced in vitro synthesis of these polypeptides at control temperature (22 degrees C) is an example of cellular stress responses that may occur not as a consequence of elevated temperature or exogenous chemical agents, but as a result of transplantation-associated trauma. This phenomenon also represents an example of a cellular stress response that is &quot;outgrown&quot; during development.
We examined the possible relationship between sprouting by intact neurons and the elevation of blood acidic amino acids that is reported to occur in Helisoma in response to osmotic stress. In the present study, buccal ganglion neurons 5 were examined following exposure of animals to conditions that induce estivation, a behavioral state exhibited by these freshwater snails in nature. Surprisingly, sprouting activity occurred in some neurons (31%) in normal animals, this being transiently elevated (to 71%) after 4 days of estivation. Blood acidic amino acids (i.e., glutamate and aspartate) were also elevated under this condition, their levels reaching a plateau on day 4. These observations give rise to two hypotheses: 1) the acidic amino acids can induce sprouting, or 2) these agents can release trophic factors, which, in turn, induce sprouting. The first hypothesis was tested by exposing semi-intact preparations in vitro to a range of concentrations of the acidic amino acids; no promotion of sprouting was observed by either glutamate or aspartate. The second hypothesis was supported, however, by the following observations. First, blood from estivated animals was tested for trophic activity. Such blood (but not that from control animals) could promote sprouting by intact neurons in vitro, a response that depended on factor(s) whose filtration behavior on Amicon membranes suggests an approximate molecular weight of 30-100 kD. Second, since medium conditioned by Helisoma ganglia is known to contain a protein(s) that is necessary for sprouting by isolated neurons, we tested the ability of such medium to promote sprouting by intact neurons. Conditioned medium promoted sprouting by intact neurons in vitro in a manner quantitatively and qualitatively similar to that observed in vivo during estivation. Additionally, sprouting by intact neurons in conditioned medium was also attributable to factor(s) that acted as 30-100 kD molecules on Amicon membranes. To test the ability of the acidic amino acids to release or activate these factors, medium was conditioned for short periods in the presence of glutamate or aspartate; glutamate, but not aspartate, was found to enhance conditioned medium. We conclude that glutamate can promote sprouting by intact neurons, but that its action is indirect and is mediated by macromolecular trophic factors.
The rapid progress in positron emission tomography technology has created the dilemma of how to compare data from old and new tomographs. We examined cerebral metabolic data from two scanners, with different spatial resolutions and methods of attenuation correction, to see if data from the lower resolution tomograph (ECAT II) could be &quot;corrected&quot; and then compared to data from the higher resolution scanner (Scanditronix PC1024-7B). Nine subjects were scanned on both tomographs after a single injection of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose. Regional and lobar gray matter metabolic rates for glucose were obtained from comparable images from each scanner. Ratios of lobar to global gray matter metabolism also were calculated. Regression coefficients and percent differences were computed to compare ECAT II and PC1024 data. Twenty-four of the 36 regions showed significant regression slopes, and PC1024 measures of glucose utilization ranged from 30% to 120% higher than those from the ECAT II. Lobar differences between the two machines were less variable (50% to 80%), and ratios generally differed by only +/- 5%. Since there was no simple and consistent relation between regional metabolic rates on the two tomographs, an overall adjustment of regional ECAT values for comparison to PC1024 values would be impossible. A region-by-region adjustment would be necessary. On the other hand, ratios are sufficiently similar that direct comparisons could be made.
(-)-[3H]L364718 membrane binding assays were employed to localize and characterize cholecystokinin (CCK)-A binding sites in rat and cow brain. Specific binding was detected in all brain areas tested, but in all areas of rat brain and most areas of cow brain the level was too low to allow characterization of the ligand binding specificity of these sites. Membranes prepared from cow nucleus accumbens and striatum contained higher levels of (-)-[3H]L364718 specific binding which represented 55-70% of total binding. Characterization of the ligand binding properties of (-)-[3H]L364718 binding sites in cow nucleus accumbens revealed that these sites are similar to CCK-A sites found in pancreatic membranes. Binding of (-)-[3H]L364718 was saturable and had high affinity (Kd = 45 pm). Sites labeled by (-)-[3H]L364718 displayed stereospecificity for the stereoisomers of CR1409. The competition curve for CCK8 was shallow and was steepened and shifted to the right by the presence of the stable GTP analog guanosine 5'-(beta,delta-imido)triphosphate. The potency of CCK8, but not (-)-L36478, was also affected by the buffer in which the assay was conducted. Future use of (-)-[3H]L364718 membrane binding assays using cow nucleus accumbens and/or striatum will help explore the possibility of differences in ligand recognition among CCK-A sites found in brain and peripheral tissues.
In low ionic strength buffer (5 mM Tris.HCl), the binding of [3H] nitrendipine to dihydropyridine calcium antagonist binding sites of mouse forebrain membranes is increased by both Na+ and Ca2+. Radiation inactivation was used to determine the target size of [3H]nitrendipine binding sites in 5 mM Tris.HCl buffer, in the presence and absence of these cations. After irradiation, [3H] nitrendipine binding in buffer with or without Na+ was diminished, due to a loss of binding sites and also to an increase in Kd. After accounting for radiation effects on the dissociation constant, the target size for the nitrendipine binding site in buffer was 160-170 kDa and was 170-180 kDa in the presence of sodium. In the presence of calcium ions, [3H]nitrendipine binding showed no radiation effects on Kd and yielded a target size of 150-170 kDa. These findings suggest, as in the case of opioid receptors, the presence of high molecular weight membrane components that modulate cation-induced alterations in radioligand binding to dihydropyridine binding sites.
We compared acid alpha-glucosidase of acid maltase-deficient Japanese quails, an animal model of human late-onset glycogenosis type II, with that of normal controls. Antibody produced in a rabbit against acid alpha-glucosidase purified from chicken pectoral muscle cross-reacted with that of Japanese quails. The presence of a 110K and 98K form of acid alpha-glucosidase was confirmed in normal controls by immunoblotting. However the 98K form was absent in the affected quails. Subcellular distribution studies demonstrated that the 98K form, but not the 110K form, was localized in the lysosomes. This suggests that the 110K form is a precursor of the mature 98K form of acid alpha-glucosidase. In the affected quails, the 110K precursor is synthesized, but maturation to the 98K form does not occur or may be extremely deficient.
Ultrastructural immunocytochemical methods were used to examine the relationship between nerve terminals containing neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and vasopressin-containing neurons in the rabbit supraoptic nucleus. Some boutons containing neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity formed synapses on the soma and proximal dendrites of vasopressin-containing neurons.
Although much has been written on the response of the heart to various intracerebral events including seizures, ischemia, intracerebral, and subarachnoid hemorrhage, less is known of the cerebral response to altered cardiac rhythm, cardiac failure, and cardiac arrest. The latter may alter central neuronal activity, cerebral blood flow, or cause ischemic damage. Such changes in cerebral function may lead to loss of consciousness, seizures, and focal neurologic deficits at the clinical level.
Lesions in the nucleus basalis in the rat are known to decrease presynaptic markers for acetylcholine, including levels of cholineacetyltransferase (CHAT), high affinity uptake of choline and levels of acetylcholinesterase. Effects of lesions of the nucleus basalis on populations of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors are less well understood. After bilateral injection of the neurotoxic agent, colchicine into the nucleus basalis in the rat, levels of CHAT in the cerebral cortex were reduced 44%. Muscarinic cholinergic [( 3H]QNB) and dopaminergic [( 3H]spiroperidol) binding was not changed in the cortex, hippocampus or striatum. However, significant decreases in nicotinic binding sites, labelled by [( 3H]acetylcholine), were observed in the frontal cortex of nucleus basalis treated animals; scatchard plot analysis indicated a significant decrease in the number, but not affinity, of nicotinic binding sites. Colchicine injected into the nucleus basalis had no effect on the binding of [3H]acetylcholine in the hippocampus, but decreased binding of [3H]acetylcholine in the striatum. Subsequent experiments, in which colchicine was administered into the striatum at a site above the nucleus basalis had no significant effect on nicotinic binding in the striatum or frontal cortex. These results support the hypothesis that degeneration of the nucleus-basalis-cortical cholinergic pathway results in a loss of presynaptic nicotinic binding sites in the cortex as well as in the striatum (through transsynaptic degeneration of the cortico-striatal pathway).
The scholarly record of S. Howard Bartley (1902-1988) evokes respect because it shows quality, diversity, and quantity. Bartley's publications are well known and have been frequently cited in the literature of psychology, physiology, and optometry. His contributions to encyclopedias, handbooks, and other summative records of knowledge are legion. Notwithstanding his acknowledged eminence, unusual factors in his early upbringing worked to limit ability to gain full recognition for his work. Acting as a person, Bartley exhibited major talent in artistic areas and created endless delights for friends and colleagues in work and social settings.
Positive- and negative-ion fast-atom bombardment (FAB) mass spectrometry and linked-field scan techniques at constant B/E are used to characterize phosphorylated serine, threonine, and tyrosine amino acids. Abundant molecular ions are formed for all three amino acids in both modes of ionization. The dominant fragmentation is cleavage of the phosphate ester bond with charge retention in positive-ion FAB by the amino acid backbone and in the negative-ion mode by the phosphate group. The unique feature of positive-ion FAB mass spectra of phosphoserine and -threonine is the loss, from the ion [M + H]+, of a molecule of phosphoric acid (98 Da), whereas the corresponding tyrosine expels a HPO4 (96 Da) moiety to yield a stable phenylalanine ion.

The purpose of our study was to compare the ability of intraluminally and extraluminally administered nimodipine to inhibit serotonin-induced cerebral vascular responses in vitro and in situ. No difference was noted in the ability of nimodipine, whether administered intraluminally or extraluminally, to reduce the contractile response of extraluminally administered serotonin in a closed, pressurized, in vitro bovine middle cerebral artery preparation; histologic studies indicated that the tight endothelial junctions normally found in cerebral arteries remained intact in this preparation. In cats, pretreatment with nimodipine did not significantly reduce the ability of intracisternally injected serotonin to decrease cerebral blood flow; however, nimodipine did reduce the changes in cerebral artery diameter normally noted angiographically after serotonin injection. Although minor differences were noted between the intraluminal and extraluminal routes of administration of nimodipine in situ, in general the effects were comparable.
A review of 158 cases of multiple meningiomas reported in the literature and 7 additional cases are presented. The average incidence of multiple meningiomas is 2.5% of all meningiomas. In the absence of cutaneous manifestations of von Recklinghausen's disease, it is extremely difficult to distinguish between cases associated with central neurofibromatosis and those representing true multiple meningiomas. There are no specific pathognomonic features that distinguish true multiple meningiomas as a separate disease entity.
Motion information is required for the solution of many complex tasks of the visual system such as depth perception by motion parallax and figure/ground discrimination by relative motion. However, motion information is not explicitly encoded at the level of the retinal input. Instead, it has to be computed from the time-dependent brightness patterns of the retinal image as sensed by the two-dimensional array of photoreceptors. Different models have been proposed which describe the neural computations underlying motion detection in various ways. To what extent do biological motion detectors approximate any of these models? As will be argued here, there is increasing evidence from the different disciplines studying biological motion vision, that, throughout the animal kingdom ranging from invertebrates to vertebrates including man, the mechanisms underlying motion detection can be attributed to only a few, essentially equivalent computational principles. Motion detection may, therefore, be one of the first examples in computational neurosciences where common principles can be found not only at the cellular level (e.g., dendritic integration, spike propagation, synaptic transmission) but also at the level of computations performed by small neural networks.
Previous quantitative neuropathologic analyses have shown that the association cortices of the temporal and frontal lobes are more damaged than the visual regions of the occipital lobe in Alzheimer's disease. In the present paper, we report on a subpopulation of Alzheimer's disease patients presenting a visual defect referred to as Balint's syndrome, and displaying a global caudal shift in pathology. Balint's syndrome is a defect in visuospatial skills, and the distribution of pathology suggests that the connections underlying this functional component of the visual system are devastated, whereas they are normally spared in Alzheimer's disease. These results suggest that multiple subtypes of Alzheimer's disease exist with differential distribution of pathology and corresponding neurologic symptomatology, and that neuritic plaque and neurofibrillary tangle formation involve the loss of specific corticocortical projections associated with specific functional deficits and identifiable neurologic syndromes.
Recent studies provide evidence for a significant cholinergic projection from the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM) to the reticular and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei. We examined the incidence and distribution of plaques in the thalamus in order to determine whether in Alzheimer's disease degenerating cholinergic processes from the NbM induce the emergence of plaques according to the cholinergic hypothesis. The present study shows that degeneration of NbM neurons does not induce plaques in the thalamic nuclei it innervates, and that plaques appear more frequently in other thalamic nuclei that do not receive projections from the NbM.
Perineurial permeabilities to [3H]sucrose and [14C]dextran (MW = 70,000), and water content, conduction velocity (CV) and maximum amplitude (MAP) of the compound action potential, were determined in Wallerian degenerated nerves (sciatic or tibial) of the frog and compared with values in the contralateral uncut nerves. Three days after transection of the lumbosacral plexuses, about 2 cm proximal to the sciatic nerve, mean water content of the sciatic nerve was significantly higher than in the contralateral uncut nerve. After 10 days, the degenerating sciatic nerve showed significant increases in the mean perineurial permeabilities to [3H]sucrose and [14C]dextran when compared to values in the contralateral nerve. Means MAP's and CV's were significantly decreased. At 21 days and after, no compound action potential was detected and perineurial permeability and nerve water content had increased further. Decreases in mean MAP's and CV's and permeability increases of the perineurium were less in degenerating tibial nerves than in degenerating sciatic nerves. It is concluded that following transection, (1) Wallerian degeneration produces an irreversible increase in perineurial permeability, (2) the increase of perineurial permeability follows a proximodistal gradient, and (3) the frog peripheral nerve develops endoneurial edema during Wallerian degeneration as do degenerated nerves of mammals.
Astrocytes have many neuronal characteristics, such as neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, and neurotransmitter uptake systems. Cultured astrocytes were shown to express certain neuropeptide genes, with specificity for both the gene expressed and the brain region from which the cells were prepared. Somatostatin messenger RNA and peptides were detected only in cerebellar astrocytes, whereas proenkephalin messenger RNA and enkephalin peptides were present in astrocytes of cortex, cerebellum, and striatum. Cholecystokinin was not expressed in any of the cells. These results support the hypothesis that peptides synthesized in astrocytes may play a role in the development of the central nervous system.

Incubation of steroid-free whole mouse brain cytosol from adrenalectomized-ovariectomized mice with saturating concentrations of tritiated dexamethasone was found to label all Type I as well as all Type II adrenocorticosteroid receptors. The quantitative and brain regional distribution of residual dexamethasone binding in cytosols pre-treated with dextran-coated charcoal (DCC) and 300 mM KCl was indistinguishable from that for tritiated aldosterone-Type I receptor complexes under the same conditions. We therefore conclude that the dexamethasone binding sites remaining after DCC and KCl treatment of steroid-free brain cytosol are due to the presence of Type I receptors. The differential sensitivity of Type I and Type II receptors to the DCC/KCl treatment paradigm may be useful in the purification of Type I receptors.

Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) stimulated synaptosomal dopamine (DA) synthesis in rat striatal homogenates. The stimulatory effect of CRF was antagonized by alpha-helical CRF 9-41 and was dependent on the extracellular Ca2+ concentration, being absent after removal of Ca2+ from the incubation medium and maximal at about 1.2 mM extracellular Ca2+. The stimulation of DA synthesis by forskolin (FSK) was less sensitive to a change of extracellular Ca2+ concentration. 3-Isobutyl-1-methylxanthine potentiated the FSK effect but did not affect the response to CRF. CRF stimulation was additive to that produced by 40 mM KCl and was little affected by the calmodulin inhibitor, W-7, which markedly suppressed the veratridine-induced stimulation of DA synthesis. Polymyxin B antagonized the CRF stimulation while it had a weaker effect on FSK-stimulated DA synthesis. Tolbutamide reduced the FSK stimulation more effectively than the CRF response. CRF elicited a non-significant increase of cyclic AMP formation by striatal membranes. These results indicate that CRF stimulates striatal DA synthesis by a Ca2+-dependent mechanism possibly involving the activation of the protein kinase C pathway.
We examined the ability of the neurotoxin, L-beta-methylaminoalanine (L-BMAA), to inhibit [3H]glutamate binding to rat brain synaptic junctions. In a tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane acetate buffer, L-BMAA did not affect [3H]glutamate binding (IC50 greater than 10 mM). However, in the presence of ammonium bicarbonate (20 mM) L-BMAA blocked [3H]glutamate binding with an IC50 of 1 mM. This inhibition was not caused by ammonium ion since other ammonium salts were inactive. Furthermore, identical inhibition was obtained in the presence of potassium bicarbonate. Bicarbonate ion did not alter the ability of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid to block glutamate binding. These results indicate that bicarbonate ion is required for the interaction of L-BMAA with the glutamate receptor and may account for the observation that beta-methylaminoalanine is neurotoxic in vitro only in the presence of bicarbonate.
Immunohistochemical localization of ganglioside GM1 using 3 monoclonal antibodies (C3 and D3 reacting exclusively with GM1 and C4h2 reacting also with other gangliosides) showed different staining patterns in rat brain regions (cerebellum, cerebral cortex and hippocampus). Staining in all brain areas was punctate and appeared to be restricted to surfaces of cells and their processes. In spite of similar reactivity to GM1, C3 and D3 showed qualitatively and quantitatively different and highly selective localization in all regions with no staining in white matter. In cerebellum, staining with C3 was predominantly associated with granular layer; staining with D3 was limited to Purkinje cell surfaces and surrounding structures. In cortex, staining with C3 was seen outlining large pyramidal neurons and fibers in cross-section, whereas sites stained with D3 appeared to be fewer, smaller and differed in location. In hippocampus, staining patterns were similar with both C3 and D3, outlining large pyramidal neurons of Ammon's horn and granular cells of dentate gyrus as well as glomerular structures. Staining with C4h2 was topographically similar, but over 10-fold more extensive and was present in white matter.
In homogenates of rat nucleus accumbens, quinpirole, a dopamine (DA) D2 receptor agonist, inhibited the activation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) elicited by either forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, or rolipram, a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor. The inhibition produced by 1 microM quinpirole was completely antagonized by the D2 blocker L-sulpiride (2 microM). Quinpirole failed to inhibit the stimulation of TH elicited by dibutyryl cyclic AMP (2 mM), which acts independently of adenylate cyclase. Quinpirole (10 microM) significantly inhibited the stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity elicited by 1 microM forskolin. These results indicate that mesolimbic DA autoreceptors can regulate TH activity by inhibiting a presynaptic adenylate cyclase system.
We examined the role of phosphoinositide turnover in muscarinic rhythmic slow activity (RSA; also called theta) in rat CA3 pyramidal neurons. Pre-incubation of hippocampal slices in pertussis toxin (which inhibits some GTP-binding proteins) or in Li+ (which blocks inositol phosphate degradation, and thereby decreases the resynthesis of phosphoinositides), prevented the induction of RSA by carbachol. Phorbol esters, which can activate protein kinase C (PKC) directly, did not induce RSA but inhibited muscarinic RSA. We infer that muscarinic RSA involves a GTP-binding protein linked increase in phosphoinositide turnover, while the activation of PKC may have a negative feedback role.
Bovine brain supernatant contains at least four enzymes capable of hydrolysing inositol bisphosphates. These activities may be distinguished on the basis of their metal, salt and pH dependence, sensitivity to Li+ ions and thiol-modification reagents, and on their molecular sizes. In addition to Li+-sensitive Ins(1,4)P2/Ins(1,3,4)P3 1-phosphatase [Gee et al. (1988) Biochem. J. 253, 777-782] which has an absolute requirement for Mg2+, two (Li+-insensitive and Mg2+-independent) phosphatases, capable of hydrolysing Ins(3,4)P2 and Ins(1,3)P2, respectively, have been identified. Both enzymes were inhibited by only moderate concentrations of salt, although for the former there was no obvious correlation between inhibitory potency and either the nature of the anion/cation or the ionic strength of the buffer. Ins(3,4)P2 phosphatase had a pH optimum of 7.6 and this activity could be resolved on gel-filtration columns into a two overlapping peaks of molecular mass 170 kDa and 450 kDa. Mg2+-independent Ins(1,3)P2 phosphatase had a pH optimum of 7.1 and displayed a single broad activity peak on gel-filtration columns. However, if assays were performed in the presence of Mg2+, a second Ins(1,3)P2 phosphatase was revealed (35 kDa), which had a pH optimum of 8.8 Ins(1,4)P2/Ins(1,3,4)P3 1-phosphatase, Ins(3,4)P2 phosphatase, Mg2+-independent Ins(1,3)P2 phosphatase and inositol monophosphatase were all inhibited by 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) with IC50 values of 34 microM, 65 microM and 560 microM and 1100 microM, respectively. The metabolism of Ins(1,3,4)P3 by brain supernatant was also examined. Product specificity was shown to be entirely dependent on the buffer conditions employed. In Mg2+-containing buffers, Ins(1,3,4)P3 was hydrolysed predominantly to Ins(3,4)P2, consistent with hydrolysis by Ins(1,4)P2/Ins(1,3,4)P3 1-phosphatase. In the presence of EDTA, Ins(1,3,4)P3 was degraded exclusively by a 4-phosphatase enzyme generating Ins(1,3)P2. Under these conditions, high concentrations of Ins(3,4)P2 blocked the hydrolysis of Ins(1,3,4)P3.
Two previously unrecognized features of neurofilament architecture are revealed by careful analysis of published neurofilament sequences. 1. The extreme C-terminus of the NF-M tail contains two highly conserved homologous sequences each of 15 amino acids, with the consensus EEK-V-TKKVEK-TS, plus another very closely related 7 amino acid sequence. 2. The C-terminus of NF-M contains sequences of consensus K-SP or K--SP which in some species are multiply repeated, are probably phosphorylated, but are distinct from the more obvious KSP repeated sequences. Sequences related to both the K-SP and K--SP sequences are found in NF-H, microtubule associated proteins tau and MAP2, suggesting a further level of immunological and potential evolutionary relationship between neurofilaments and these microtubule associated proteins. The possible significance of these findings is discussed.
Antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase and DARPP-32 were used to examine the spatial arrangement between mesostriatal dopamine projections and the reciprocal pathway from DARPP-32-containing neurons in the basal forebrain. Use of a double-labeling immunocytochemical procedure demonstrated that the mesostriatal and striatonigral pathways run in close proximity throughout the rostral mesencephalon and basal forebrain. The majority of descending axons immunoreactive for DARPP-32 appear to originate in the striatum, including the nucleus accumbens, and run through the internal capsule to innervate the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, and all subdivisions of the substantia nigra. The ventral tegmental area is sparsely invested with DARPP-32-immunoreactive axons. At all levels, there are also fascicles of DARPP-32-containing fibers which run ventromedial to the internal capsule in the medial forebrain bundle, and which are coextensive with ascending axons of the mesencephalic dopamine the internal capsule in the medial forebrain bundle, and which are coextensive with ascending axons of the mesencephalic dopamine cell groups. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons are coextensive with DARPP-32-immunoreactive axons in the internal capsule entopeduncular nucleus, and globus pallidus, as well as much of the remainder of the basal forebrain. Although the main source of descending DARPP-32 immunoreactive axons would appear to be the striatum, other possible sources are also discussed.
Multiple modulatory effects of opioids on the duration of the calcium component of the action potential (APD) of dorsal-root ganglion (DRG) neurons of mouse spinal cord-ganglion explants were studied. The APD of DRG neuron perikarya has been previously shown to be shortened by exposure to high concentrations of opioids (ca. 0.1-1 microM) in about 1/2 of the cells tested. The present study demonstrates that in addition to these inhibitory modulatory effects of opioids, lower concentrations (1-10 nM) of present study demonstrates that in addition to these inhibitory modulatory effects of opioids, lower concentration (1-10 nM) of delta- mu, and kappa-opioid agonists elicit excitatory modulatory effects, i.e. prolongation of the APD, in about 2/3 of the sensory neurons tested. APD prolongation as well as shortening elicited by delta, mu, and kappa agonists were prevented by coperfusion with the opioid antagonists, naloxone or diprenorphine (10 nM). APD prolongation induced by the delta-agonist [D-Ala2-D-Leu5]enkephalin (DADLE) was prevented in the presence of multiple K+ channel blockers, whereas excitatory modulation by the specific kappa-agonist, U-50,488H was not attenuated under these conditions. After treatment of DRG neurons with pertussis toxin (1 micrograms/ml for several days) or forskolin (50 muM for less than 15 min), a much smaller fraction of cells showed opioid-induced APD shortening; moreover, a much larger fraction of cells showed opioid-induced APD prolongation, even when tested with high concentrations of DADLE (1-10 muM). These data indicate that opioid-induced APD prolongation is not mediated by pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins (which have been shown to regulate opioid inhibitory effects) and suggest that elevation of cyclic AMP levels may enhance opioid excitatory responsiveness. Furthermore, our analyses indicate that mu-, delta- and kappa-subtypes of excitatory as well as inhibitory opioid receptors may be expressed on the same DRG neuron perikaryon under in vitro conditions. If dual opioid modulation of the APD of DRG perikarya also occurs in central DRG terminals this may play a significant role both in nociceptive signal transmission as well as tolerance to opioid analgesia.
Because of the crucial role played by tumor neovascularization in contrast enhancement, we studied the CT imaging findings in a transplantable rabbit brain tumor, the VX2 carcinoma that induces angiogenesis and the breakdown of blood-brain barrier associated with contrast enhancement. Tumor detection by contrast enhancement followed the peak of angiogenesis. Inhibition of angiogenesis, by copper depletion and penicillamine, led to avascular tumors that lack contrast enhancement. Furthermore, there was no contrast enhancement in brain adjacent to the tumor of normocupremic rabbits or within the hypocupremic tumor, despite the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, without the concomitant presence of angiogenesis. We conclude that contrast enhancement of intracranial tumors is dependent primarily on the proliferation of the microvasculature.
The cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF) was assayed in the sera (n = 31) and cerebrospinal fluid (n = 26) of children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, using a competitive radioimmunoassay. Elevated serum levels of TNF were found in 15 (79%) of 19 patients with progressive encephalopathy (PE), compared with 1 (8%) of 12 patients without neurologic involvement. There was a significant association of PE with elevated serum TNF levels. Conversely, of 16 patients with elevated serum TNF levels, 15 (94%) were found to have PE, and of 8 patients with serum TNF levels greater than 100 pg/ml, all 8 (100%) had PE. No association was found between cerebrospinal fluid levels of TNF and PE. Neither serum nor cerebrospinal fluid TNF levels correlated with the degree of cachexia. These data suggest that circulating TNF may be responsible for the myelin damage that occurs in human immunodeficiency virus type 1-associated PE.
Freshly isolated adult rat hepatocytes were found to be coupled through gap junctions, but coupling decreased abruptly 5-8 h after plating the cells on plastic culture dishes in physiological saline containing insulin and fetal calf serum. Loss of intercellular coupling was associated with disappearance of 27-kDa gap junction protein and of gap junctions seen by electron microscopy or immunocytochemistry. This disappearance of coupling was delayed approximately 8 h by treatment of the cultures with membrane permeant adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) [but not guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP)] derivatives. Levels of gap junction protein and anatomically identified junctions were also maintained by 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-BrcAMP). Level of mRNA encoding the gap junction protein was maintained longer in cells treated with 8-BrcAMP than in untreated cells, but 8-BrcAMP did not detectably increase the transcription rate. Thus prolongation of coupling must result at least partially from extension of the lifetime of gap junction mRNA, allowing translation of message and assembly of channels for a longer period after plating. Treatment of cells with mRNA or protein synthesis inhibitors (alpha-amanitin and cycloheximide) prolonged coupling to a similar extent as did treatment with 8-BrcAMP. alpha-Amanitin blocked transcription of gap junction mRNA, but levels of cytoplasmic mRNA encoding the 27-kDa gap junction protein were maintained, presumably by block of transcription of an mRNA degrading factor. The factor is probably a protein, since a similar effect on mRNA level was produced in cycloheximide-treated cells. Cells cultured in control medium were also observed to flatten as they became uncoupled, whereas cells cultured for as long as 16 h in elevated 8-BrcAMP remained round and well coupled. The correlation between shape and coupling strength was not obtained after treatment with the microtubule stabilizing agent, taxol, which maintained the spherical shape of the cells but did not delay the disappearance of dye coupling. Nocodazole, which blocks microtubule formation, also maintained the spherical shape of the cells but delayed the disappearance of dye coupling. In addition to gating by covalent modification or other mechanisms, hormones and drugs that alter the intracellular cAMP concentration may affect intercellular communication by changing the lifetime of the mRNA encoding the main gap junction protein, thereby decreasing or increasing its synthesis. In addition, cAMP may act by decreasing removal of junctions from appositional membranes.

It has been hypothesized that enhancement of brain serotoninergic (5-HT) function is involved in the mechanism of action of some antidepressants. To test this, the prolactin response to intravenously administered tryptophan, a clinical measurement of 5-HT function, was assessed before and during antidepressant treatment. Depressed patients received the tricyclic desipramine hydrochloride (N = 24) or the 5-HT reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine maleate (N = 30). The prolactin response was significantly enhanced after long-term treatment (4 weeks) but not as reliably increased after short-term (1-week) desipramine treatment. Fluvoxamine enhanced the prolactin response after both short- and long-term treatment. Enhancement of the prolactin response was not clearly correlated with clinical improvement. The results of this study are consistent with preclinical evidence of enhanced 5-HT function during treatment with these classes of antidepressants, but also indicate that enhanced 5-HT function is not a sufficient condition for antidepressant efficacy.
We have assayed several phenylalkylamine and indolealkylamine hallucinogens, as well as structurally similar nonhallucinogens, for their effect on human platelet shape change, a physiological model for the central serotonergic 5-HT2 receptor. The hallucinogenic drugs lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD-25), N,N-dimethyltryptamine (N,N-DMT), 5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (5-MeODMT), 4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenylisopropylamine (DOI), bufotenine, and mescaline all showed a characteristic 5-HT2 partial agonist effect on platelet shape change. Nonhallucinogens with structural similarity to hallucinogens did not share this profile. Lisuride, methysergide, and lysergic acid showed antagonism of 5-HT-induced shape change, but none were shape change agonists. Other &quot;psychoactive&quot; or mood-altering drugs (cocaine, amphetamine, phencyclidine) showed poor antagonism of 5-HT-induced platelet shape change. This work refines recent ideas that some of the behavioral effects of LSD-type hallucinogens in humans are due to their actions at 5-HT2 receptors and suggests that these hallucinogens are partial 5-HT2 agonists.
Evidence has accumulated to implicate neuropeptides localized within midbrain dopamine neurons (cholecystokinin, neurotensin, acetylcholinesterase) in synaptic transmission, mental disease, and pharmacotherapy. We suggest a means by which antipsychotic drugs alter the dynamics between dopamine and colocalized peptides: the intrinsic ability of these agents to stimulate dopamine neuronal activity while blocking dopamine receptors modulates the ratio of catecholaminergic to peptidergic transmission within the mesotelencephalic system. Imbalances of peptide and dopamine cotransmission and their modulation by neuroleptics may be relevant to the pathogenesis and pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia.
With the use of appropriate reagents, LTP may be divided into at least two stages, induction and maintenance. Induction of LTP is dependent upon the activation of the NMDA receptor, and the consequent influx of calcium into the postsynaptic cell. Both correlational evidence (measures of PKC activity, protein F1 phosphorylation, and PI turnover) and interventive evidence (application of PKC inhibitors and activators) indicate that PKC activation is necessary for maintenance of the LTP response. An important regulatory pathway for PKC activation is the liberation of c-FAs from membrane phospholipids by PLA2. In LTP, activation of this pathway may stabilize PKC in an activated state, and thus contribute to maintenance of the potentiated response. LTP maintenance could result from presynaptic alteration (increased neurotransmitter release), postsynaptic alteration (increases in receptor number or sensitivity, or alterations of postsynaptic morphology), synapse addition, or any of these processes in combination. If LTP maintenance is mediated by presynaptic alteration, as has been indicated by measurement of glutamate release, then one must posit a signal that travels from the postsynaptic to the presynaptic membrane to activate presynaptic PKC. Alternatively, if LTP maintenance is mediated by postsynaptic alteration, a signal contained within the dendritic spine would suffice to activate postsynaptic PKC-mediated maintenance processes. We suggest that the contributions of presynaptic and postsynaptic processes to LTP maintenance may be determined by the differential distribution of PKC subtypes and substrates among hippocampal synaptic zones.
The effects of single or repeated electroconvulsive shocks (ECS) on the abundance of mRNAs coding for prodynorphin (DYN mRNA) and proenkephalin (EK mRNA) in rat brain were investigated. Rats were given either a single ECS and sacrificed at 0.5, 2, 6, or 12 h post-shock (expt. I), or were subjected to ECS for 1, 3 or 6 days and killed 24 h after the last shock (expt. II). The amounts of DYN mRNA and EK mRNA were measured in several brain regions using RNA blot analysis. In expt. I, a biphasic change in the DYN mRNA level was found in the hippocampus, with an initial 49% decrease at 0.5 h followed by a 51% increase at 6 h after a single ECS. The EK mRNA content in the entorhinal cortex started to increase at 0.5 h, and continued to rise, reaching 260% of the control level at 12 h post-shock. A smaller increase in the EK mRNA level was found also in the hippocampus at 2 to 12 h post-shock. No significant increase in [Met5]-enkephalin or dynorphin A(1-8) immunoreactivity was detected by radioimmunoassay in either area. In expt. II, a dramatic reduction in the DYN mRNA level was observed in the hippocampus 24 h after a single or repeated ECS. In contrast, elevated DYN mRNA levels were seen in the striatum and hypothalamus. The EK mRNA level remained elevated in the entorhinal cortex after 6 daily ECS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although there has been progress in EEG and evoked potential analysis, the identification of underlying neural activity has eluded researchers despite its importance. This paper introduces the application of mathematical programming techniques to the &quot;inverse&quot; problem of three-dimensional localization of brain activity from scalp potentials. Preliminary computer experience with these optimization methods reported herein, yields encouraging results on simulated data and points new directions for research.
We have identified an IP3 receptor protein in brain membranes through the binding of radiolabelled IP3. Autoradiographic studies localize the receptor to various areas of the brain with highest densities in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. IP3 binding is inhibited by physiologic intracellular concentrations of calcium. Purification of the IP3 receptor to homogeneity reveals it to be comprised of four identical subunits of 260 kD each. Antisera to the purified receptor protein have been employed for immunohistochemical studies which, at the electron microscopic level, localize the IP3 receptor to a subdivision of the rough endoplasmic reticulum occurring in synaptic areas and in close association with the nuclear membrane. The IP3 receptor protein is selectively phosphorylated by cyclic AMP (cAMP) dependent protein kinase. This phosphorylation decreases 10-fold the potency of IP3 in releasing calcium from brain membranes.
The Syrian cardiomyopathic (CM) hamster (BIO 14.6) develops a progressive cardiomyopathy characterized by cellular necrosis, hypertrophy, and, eventually, cardiac dilatation and congestive heart failure. Several lines of evidence implicate cellular calcium overload as an important etiologic factor. We previously reported an increased number of receptors for calcium antagonist drugs, which block voltage-dependent calcium channels, in heart, skeletal muscle, and brain tissue of these hamsters in the early necrotic stage of the disease. To better characterize the pathophysiological significance of this abnormality we evaluated calcium antagonist receptor binding and Na+-Ca2+ exchange in CM and control hamsters at different stages of disease as documented by quantitative histopathologic assessment. In CM hamsters as young as 10 days, an age previously thought to be before the onset of disease, we identified cardiac myocyte hypertrophy, a twofold increase in calcium antagonist receptor binding in heart and brain, and a 50% increase in skeletal muscle. Overt histological lesions were present in skeletal muscle at 25 days and in heart between 28-30 days. The size of cardiac lesions increased over time and changed from necrotic foci with cellular infiltration to fibrotic or calcified lesions by 360 days. Myocardial cellular hypertrophy persisted through the late stages of the disease (360 days), but increased calcium antagonist binding was present in heart only to 6 months of age, in skeletal muscle to 90 days, and in brain to 30 days. Na+-Ca2+ exchange in heart was normal until 15 days and then increased by 400% at 30 days suggesting that this augmentation might be a secondary response to the earlier increase in calcium antagonist receptors. At 360 days cardiac Na+-Ca2+ exchange was decreased by 50%, likely reflecting progressive cardiac damage. The increase in calcium antagonist receptors in CM animals as young as 10 days supports the hypothesis that abnormalities in voltage-dependent calcium channels play a role in the pathophysiology of CM hamsters.
The sensitivity, rapidity, and ease of use of biotinylated (Blugene, Bethesda Research Laboratories) and 32P cDNA probes have been compared, the probe being the cDNA for beta-glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.1.2.45). With the Blugene kit I could detect 2 pg of biotinylated DNA on dot blots. However, under conditions of hybridization, the lower limit of detection for unlabeled cDNA (transblotted onto nitrocellulose) by its labeled counterpart was 5000-fold smaller (10 pg vs 50 ng) for the isotopically labeled probe. 32P- and Blugene-probes hybridized detectably with 0.5 and 10 micrograms, respectively, of transblotted EcoR 1-digested genomic DNA, making the radioactive method 20 times as sensitive. However, color development was complete within 30 min to 3 h, whereas radioautoradiography required 12 h to one week. Blugene was also safer, easy to use, and effective under appropriate conditions. The 32P method is expensive, hazardous, time-consuming, and technically difficult. This nonisotopic procedure represents a desirable improvement in biotechnology.

We report a three-month-old infant with congenital central apnea who was ventilator-dependent throughout his brief life. At autopsy the most significant findings were localized to the medulla and included severe tegmental necrosis involving respiratory-related sites and olivary hypoplasia. Golgi impregnations of the cerebellum demonstrated several Purkinje cells with changes consistent with experimental olivary ablation. The majority of Purkinje cells, however, were normal; this observation suggests that in an early and subtotal olivary lesion, the incomplete complement of olivary neurons maintains sufficient collateral axonal branches to compensate for decreased cell number. Computer graphics enabled us to dissect the components of the complex medullary pathology and examine them individually and in selected combinations in three dimensions. Computer reconstruction aided the identification and dating of a malformative lesion (first trimester) from a later (second/third trimester), superimposed destructive lesion. This report suggests that the synthesis of complex morphologic data in human neuropathology into meaningful three-dimensional visual displays by computer reconstruction facilitates their comprehension. Computer reconstruction is especially valuable in the elucidation of 3-D topographic relationships in functionally and architecturally complex regions such as the brain stem.
The survival of sympathetic and sensory neurons is known to be controlled by nerve growth factor (NGF) supplied by the targets of innervation, yet little is known about how target NGF synthesis is regulated. We have investigated the pattern of NGF mRNA expression in developing rat heart ventricle using a sensitive RNA blotting procedure. We find that the concentration of NGF mRNA increases steadily from Embryonic Day 17 to peak levels at 10-14 days postnatal and then declines about twofold and stabilizes at the level found in adults. The rise in NGF mRNA concentration correlates with the arrival and differentiation of sympathetic nerve terminals in the heart and the cessation of sympathetic cell death. To assess the role of innervating sympathetic neurons in regulating NGF mRNA expression, neonatal rats were sympathectomized by treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine and heart ventricles were assayed for NGF message. Although this treatment reduced ventricle norepinephrine content by 82%, no significant change in NGF mRNA concentration was observed. These results suggest that the developmental program of NGF mRNA production in the heart is not influenced by innervating sympathetic neurons.
Two different descriptions of EEG maturation are compared: a broad-band spectral parameters (BBSPs) model and a recently developed xi-alpha (xi alpha) model. 'Developmental equations' were obtained for both parameter sets using 1 min, eyes closed EEG sample from 165 normal children (5-12 years old). At each age, the xi alpha parameter set described the average spectrum more closely than the BBSP developmental equations. Furthermore, a more detailed picture of changes of spectral shape with age is possible with the xi alpha model. A computer simulation illustrates the possible appearance of fixed frequency bands as a byproduct of inadequate statistical models.
The P300 (P3) event-related brain potential (ERP) was elicited with a passive tone sequence paradigm and evaluated in 2 studies. Experiment 1 compared ERPs from the passive procedure with those from an active discrimination (oddball) task. The passive sequence paradigm yielded P3 wave forms remarkably similar to those obtained from the active task since both demonstrated central-parietal maximum scalp distributions and virtually identical peak latencies. No differences between tasks were found when ERPs were elicited with subject's eyes open or closed. Experiment 2 compared ERPs from the passive sequence paradigm obtained when subjects were attempting to solve a word puzzle with those from a simple ignore condition. The puzzle-solving secondary task produced a decrease in P3 amplitude relative to the ignore condition, although P3 peak latency was unaffected. These results suggest that the passive sequence paradigm may be a useful and reliable means of eliciting the P3 ERP in subject populations or experimental situations in which an active discrimination task cannot be performed.
Extensive neurophysiological investigations were carried out in 18 healthy volunteer subjects, and 6 patients with neurological disease. The tests consisted of spinal and scalp somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) to stimulation of the dorsal nerve of penis/clitoris, motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from the bulbocavernosus muscle (BC) and anal sphincter (AS) in response to scalp and sacral root stimulation, and measurement of sacral reflex latency (SRL) from BC and AS. In the control subjects, the mean sensory total conduction time (sensory TCT), as measured at the peak of the scalp P40 wave was 40.9 msec (range: 37.8-44.2). The mean sensory central conduction time (sensory CCT = spine-to-scalp conduction time) was 27.0 msec (range: 23.5-30.4). Transcranial brain stimulation was performed by using a magnetic stimulator both at rest and during voluntary contraction of the examined muscle. Sacral root stimulation was performed at rest. Motor total conduction times (motor TCT) to BC and AS muscles were respectively 28.8 and 30.0 msec at rest, and 22.5 and 22.8 msec during contraction. Motor central conduction times (motor CCT) to sacral cord segments controlling BC and AS muscles were respectively 22.4 and 21.2 msec at rest, and 15.1 and 12.4 msec during contraction. The mean latencies of SRL were respectively 31.4 msec in the bulbocavernosus muscle and 35.9 msec in the anal sphincter. Combined or isolated abnormalities of SEPs, MEPs and SRL were found in a small group of patients with neurological disorders primarily or secondarily affecting the genito-urinary tract.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) stimulates the secretion of ACTH and TSH. Recently, affinity cytochemical techniques with a potent biotinylated analog of AVP were used to identify ACTH cells as one of the target cells. Counts showed that AVP-bound cells were 10% of the population. However, if AVP bound all corticotropes and thyrotropes, one would expect AVP to bind at least 16% of the pituitary cells. Therefore, dual cytochemical labeling protocols were used to learn if thyrotropes also bound AVP (bio-AVP). Forty-eight percent of AVP target cells contained ACTH, and 42% contained TSH beta. The percentages of AVP-bound cells were increased to 12-13% of the total pituitary cells after 1-h pretreatment in 10 nM TRH or CRH. TRH and CRH together stimulated increases to 16% of the total cells. Analysis of dual labels showed that the additional AVP-bound cells stimulated by CRH or TRH stemmed from the corticotrope or thyrotrope populations, respectively. TRH stimulated an increase in the percentage of TSH cells that bound AVP from 55% to 75%. Similarly, CRH stimulated an increase in the percentage of ACTH cells that bound AVP from 61% to 79%. In addition, the populations of cells labeled for TSH beta or ACTH antigens increased by 30% after 1 h in unlabeled AVP, supporting its direct effect on these target cells. TRH stimulated a similar increment in TSH cells. CRH pretreatment had no effect on the percentages of cells labeled for TSH or ACTH. This could be the result of loss of ACTH stores needed to identify stimulated corticotropes. Finally, analysis of the total percentages of AVP-bound TSH beta or ACTH cells suggested an overlap in the population. This stimulated the application of dual labels for ACTH and TSH beta. In populations exposed to vehicle only, 1-2% of mixed pituitary cells stored both ACTH and TSH. This unique cell type also comprised 10% of a corticotrope population enriched by counterflow centrifugation. The percentage of ACTH-TSH cells in the mixed cell population was augmented to 4.8% after 1 h in AVP. It was not affected by exposure to either TRH or CRH (or both peptides). These studies demonstrate that AVP target cells include thyrotropes, corticotropes, and unique cells that store both ACTH and TSH.
Retinal detachments were produced in domestic cats by injecting fluid between the retinal pigment epithelium and neural retina. Retinas were allowed to remain detached for 30 or 60 days at which time the animals were killed. Tissue areas from detached and attached retinal regions from the same eye were processed for correlative biochemical and structural analysis, i.e. SDS-PAGE and Western blots of tissue homogenates were correlated with tissue processed for postembedding immunoelectron microscopy. Antibodies to six proteins were used as probes. Glial fibrillary acidic protein in Mller cells has previously been shown to increase after retinal detachment; here we show that vimentin, another intermediate filament protein present in Mller cells, also increases after detachment. In contrast, cellular retinaldehyde binding protein, cellular retinol binding protein, glutamine synthetase, and carbonic anhydrase C--all normally found in Mller cells--decrease after detachment. The results of this study indicate that retinal Mller cells dramatically alter their expression of proteins in response to retinal detachment.
Field potentials and unitary activity were investigated in the grafted and the host hippocampi in freely moving rats and in vitro. The subcortical afferents and efferents of the hippocampus (fimbria-fornix, FF) were removed by aspiration. Solid pieces of hippocampal grafts derived from 15- to 16-day-old fetuses were placed in the lesion cavity in rats with unilateral FF lesions, and cell suspensions prepared from fetal hippocampi were grafted directly into the host hippocampi in animals with bilateral FF lesions. Reciprocal communication between the grafted and the host hippocampi was monitored with a 16-microelectrode probe from 7 to 10 months after grafting. The fluorescent retrograde tracer, Fluorogold, was used to examine graft-host projections and acetylcholinesterase staining to reveal host-derived fibers in the graft. The most typical neuronal pattern of the hippocampal graft was a highly synchronous population burst with concurrent EEG spike. The speed of propagation of the EEG spike within the graft and across the graft-host interface was either fast (greater than 3 m/s) or slow (less than 0.5 m/s). Large amplitude, short duration EEG spikes usually propagated with a high speed, while smaller amplitude, wider spikes with broad population bursts spread at a lower velocity. The direction of propagation was usually uniform indicating that the population burst was triggered by a localized subgroup of highly excitable neurons (&quot;focus&quot;). Spontaneous seizures were also present in the solid graft which frequently invaded the host hippocampus. The incidence of EEG spikes was three times higher in rats with bilateral suspension grafts than in animals with FF lesion only. In about half of the grafted rats spontaneous behavioral seizures were also observed. Intracellular recordings from putative pyramidal cells in the graft and in the host revealed large amplitude (10-12 mV), spontaneously occurring EPSPs. IPSPs were difficult to detect even during depolarizations of up to 20 mV from rest. We suggest that the increased excitability of the hippocampal graft is due to the high incidence of recurrent excitatory collaterals terminating on or close to the somata of pyramidal neurons. Population bursts may spread fast via extensively arborizing axon collaterals or slowly by successively activating new sets of neighboring neurons. Spontaneous behavioral convulsions are explained by assuming that the grafted hippocampus serves as an epileptic focus which is capable of kindling the host brain by repeated seizure induction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This paper presents some of the reasoning behind the author's belief that it is important for academic family physicians to do research. The research process is compared to the process of clinical care, and significant analogies are pointed out. The argument then is presented to support the author's contention that it is time for family physicians to develop a research capability in selected aspects of the biological sciences in addition to the growing research activity in the social, behavioral, and clinical sciences which characterizes family medicine today. Reasons are given for considering the neurosciences the proper field in which such work should begin.
The autonomic innervation of the ovary of the Atlantic cod was investigated using histochemical and physiological/pharmacological methods. The paired ovary receives autonomic innervation via branches of the posterior splanchnic nerve (vesicular nerve).Histochemical studies demonstrated vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-immunoreactive, 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive and adrenergic nerve fibers, but a number of antisera raised against other peptides failed to reveal any specific reaction in the tissue preparations. It is concluded that the cod ovary receives a double antagonistic autonomic innervation of excitatory cholinergic fibers and non-adrenergic inhibitory fibers. The nature of the inhibitory neurotransmitter is not known.

This paper summarizes current knowledge concerning the anatomical asymmetries of the cerebral cortex and presents the main hypotheses proposed so far to account for these asymmetries. The main question raised by the presence of these asymmetries is that of their functional significance and has been explored by attempting to correlate handedness, the most immediate feature of functional brain specialization, with neuroradiological evidence of brain asymmetry using either carotid angiograms or CT scan. These methods, however, yielded controversial or incomplete results. The recent advent of magnetic resonance imaging now makes it possible to perform direct evaluation and measurements of cortical asymmetries. Preliminary results of a personal study using this approach are presented. They show in particular a good correlation between the planum surface and handedness, and confirm the previously reported statistical correlation between handedness and callosal surface. These results are discussed in the light of modern theories about brain development.
Consecutive new cases were screened to identify those referred by other specialties. The referred cases were compared with a randomly selected control group from the non referred cases. Referred cases constituted 16.4% of all the clinic new cases but the demographic characteristics were similar to those of the other clinic cases. Functional somatic complaints were significantly more often (p less than 0.01) reported by the referred cases. Depressive and anxiety symptoms were also significantly more often observed in the referred group (p less than 0.01). Most of the referred cases had identifiable psychiatric problems which could be managed in an out-patient setting. Studies on referral patterns and modes of clinical presentation are useful in planning and organising consultation liaison services in general and specialist centres.
Changes in sound pressures measured in the ear canal are reported for broadband sound sources positioned at various locations about the subject. These location-dependent pressures are one source of acoustical cues for sound localization by human listeners. Sound source locations were tested with horizontal and vertical resolution of 10 degrees. Sound levels were measured with miniature microphones placed inside the two ear canals. Although the measured amplitude spectra varied with the position of the microphone in the ear canal, it is shown that the directional sensitivity at any particular frequency of the broadband stimulus is independent of microphone position anywhere within the ear canal. At any given frequency, the distribution of sound pressures as a function of sound source location formed a characteristic spatial pattern comprising one or two discrete areas from which sound sources produced maximum levels in the ear canal. The locations of these discrete areas varied in horizontal and vertical location according to sound frequency. For example, around 8 kHz, two areas of maximum sensitivity typically were found that were located laterally and were separated from each other vertically, whereas, around 12 kHz, two such areas were found located on the horizontal plane and separated horizontally. The spatial patterns of sound levels were remarkably similar among different subjects, although some frequency scaling was required to accommodate for differences in the subjects' physical sizes. Interaural differences in sound-pressure level (ILDs) at frequencies below about 8 kHz tended to increase monotonically with increasing distance of the sound source from the frontal midline and tended to be relatively constant as a function of vertical source location. At higher frequencies, however, ILDs varied both with the horizontal and with the vertical location of the sound source. At some frequencies, asymmetries between the left and right ears in a given subject resulted in substantial ILDs even for midline sound sources. These results indicate the types of horizontal and vertical spatial information that are available from sound level cues over various ranges of frequency and, within a small subject population, indicate the nature of intersubject variability.

