The decade of the 1990's has provided neurosurgery with multiple challenges and opportunities. Numerous developments hold a promise for making the 1990's the most rewarding decade of the 20th century for neurosurgery. The &quot;Decade of the Brain&quot; resolution, adopted by the United States House and Senate and signed into law by President Bush in 1989, has provided the specialty with staggering opportunities. Neurosurgery and the basic and clinical neurosciences would be strengthened by the development of a major new philanthropic organization called the &quot;American Brain Association&quot; that would carry the activities of the Decade of the Brain into the 21st century. Major efforts are being made to improve organized neurosurgery's responsiveness to member needs. These include the strategic planning project undertaken by the Board of Directors of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS) and efforts to strengthen the Joint Council of State Neurosurgical Societies. The AANS has been extremely active in representing the specialty in legislative matters in Washington and in multiple other forums. This Association has joined The American Board of Neurological Surgery and the Residency Review Committee in responding to orthopedic surgery's proposal for spine fellowships. It is proposed that the logo of the state, regional, and national neurosurgical societies be changed to depict our involvement in spinal surgery (as well as brain surgery) because spinal surgery represents more than half of the total effort of this specialty. The standards of worth and value that provide the driving force behind our work emphasize the need to grow in compassion as manifested by our kindness, sincerity, and concern as we grow in professional competence as reflected by our training, knowledge, and skill.
Serotonin (5-HT)-induced changes in the levels of intracellular Ca++ were analyzed in human platelets, using the Ca+(+)-sensitive dye 1-(2-(5'-carboxyoxazol-2'-yl)-6-aminobenzofuran-5-oxy)-2-(2' -amino-5'- methylphenox)-ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, pentaacetoxymethyl ester, to investigate the regulation of 5-HT2 receptor function. Serotonin mobilized intracellular Ca++ in a dose-dependent fashion from basal level of 98 +/- 2.7 and up to 211 +/- 5.8 nM with an EC50 value for 5-HT of 0.2 microM. Ketanserin, a 5-HT2 antagonist, reversed the 5-HT (10 microM)-induced Ca++ increase in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 value of 2 nM. An initial treatment with 10 microM 5-HT abolished the response to a second treatment with 100 microM 5-HT, suggesting that 5-HT evoked an acute desensitization of 5-HT2 receptors in human platelets. Mezerein and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, activators of protein kinase C, inhibited 5-HT-stimulated inositol monophosphate accumulation with IC50 values of 3 and 10 nM, respectively. Furthermore, a protein kinase C inhibitor 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride prevented the protein kinase C activator-induced inhibition against 5-HT-mediated inositol monophosphate accumulation. Mezerein also inhibited 5-HT (10 microM)-mediated Ca++ release with an IC50 value of 3 nM. 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride prevented the inhibition by mezerein of the 5-HT-stimulated Ca++ increase. Moreover, 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride by itself enhanced the Ca++ spike induced by 100 microM 5-HT, the plateau phase induced by 10 microM 5-HT and the second response to 5-HT. These findings suggest that 5-HT2 receptor activation mobilizes intracellular Ca++ in human platelets and that this receptor may be desensitized acutely by a protein kinase C mediated feedback system.
Haloperidol (1.5-1.7 mg/kg/day) was administered to rats via their drinking water for periods of either 4 weeks or 13 to 14 months, after which the animals were withdrawn from the neuroleptic for 1 or 2 weeks, respectively. Rats given haloperidol for 13 to 14 months exhibited significantly more perioral dyskinesias than controls. Single-unit extracellular recordings were obtained from the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in subjects under urethane anesthesia. After 1 month and after 1 year of treatment, a significant decrease in the mean firing rate of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons was found. Subtle changes in the response of pars reticulata neurons to striatal stimulation were seen after extended haloperidol intake. No consistent effects of haloperidol administration for 4 weeks or 13 to 14 months were found for either the number of spontaneously active dopamine neurons or their firing rates. Histopathologic assessment of tissue from dorsomedial, dorsolateral and ventrolateral sectors of the striatum revealed no significant effect of long-term haloperidol treatment on neuronal cell counts. The results are discussed with reference to neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesias.
The localization of neuronal perikarya which have axon terminals on capillaries of the external zone of the median eminence (hypophysiotropic neurons) has been determined in the rat after injection of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) directly into external zone of the median eminence or after peripheral injection of Fluoro-Gold. The retrogradely transported WGA and endogenous peptides (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, somatostatin, galanin, or neurotensin) have been detected by double-labeling immunocytochemical techniques (PAP or ABS) using contrasting chromogens. Retrograde labeling with Fluro-Gold has been combined with fluoroscence immunocuytochemistry, using Texas red as the second chromogen. A few examples of triple labeling (Fluoro-Gold and two endogenous peptides) are also demonstrated. Detailed descriptions of double-labeling techniques, including preparation and administration of the tracers and simultaneous detection of the retrograde tracers and endogenous peptides, are presented.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) is a copper-, molecular oxygen-, and ascorbate-dependent enzyme which catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of bioactive peptides. Expression of PAM in the adult male rat anterior pituitary was evaluated after experimental manipulation of thyroid status. Levels of PAM mRNA increased 4- to 7-fold in animals made hypothyroid by treatment with 6-n-propyl-2-thiouracil or thyroidectomy and were not diminished below control levels in animals made hyperthyroid by treatment with T4. Treatment of thyroidectomized animals with T4 prevented the increase in PAM mRNA levels; similar doses of T4 returned serum TSH and anterior pituitary PAM mRNA to euthyroid values. Based on Northern blot analysis and amplification of fragments derived from rat PAM-1 by reverse transcription and the polymerase chain reaction, thyroid status did not affect the distribution of PAM mRNA among its various alternatively spliced forms. The specific activity of PAM in the anterior pituitary was increased slightly in both the soluble and particulate fractions from chemically hypothyroid rats; the majority of the PAM activity in the rat anterior pituitary was soluble, and increased secretion of enzyme may account for the lesser effect of chemical thyroidectomy on specific activity compared to mRNA levels. Western blot analysis demonstrated a 104-kDa PAM protein in particulate fractions prepared from control, PTU-treated, and T4-treated animals. The soluble fraction contained major PAM proteins of 95 and 75 kDa, and PTU treatment brought about an increase in the prevalence of the 75-kDa form of PAM protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many of the human neurodegenerative conditions involve a reorganization of the neuronal cytoskeleton. The way in which the cytoskeleton is reorganized may provide a clue to the nature of the insult causing the neurodegeneration. The most common of these conditions is Alzheimer's disease, in which microtubules are lost from neurites that fill up with filamentous structures. One component of the filamentous structures is the microtubule-associated protein (MAP), tau. The tau protein is the product of a single gene expressed predominantly in neurons. The tau gene undergoes complex alternative splicing that is regulated both by development, and by the particular neuronal cell population in which it is expressed. Tau protein can be further modified, following its translation by phosphorylation at several sites. Much of the recent interest in the transition of tau to an abnormal state within a tangle-bearing neuron has focused on phosphorylation. A group of proteins that migrate slightly more slowly than tau, designated PHF-tau, are found in regions of the Alzheimer brain rich in dystrophic neurites, are hyperphosphorylated, fail to bind to microtubules, have distinct solubility properties, and can be derived from fractions of paired helical filaments (PHF).
The effects of nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), a widely used lipoxygenase inhibitor, were examined on voltage-activated Ca2+ channel currents in GH3 and AtT-20 pituitary cells. NDGA (10-100 microM) produced a reversible, dose-dependent inhibition of Ca2+ channel currents, with half-maximal inhibition occurring at 18.6 microM. Inhibition by NDGA developed relatively slowly, did not exhibit use dependence or voltage dependence, and did not require access of NDGA to the extracellular domain of the Ca2+ channel. The maximum inhibition of macroscopic currents by 30 microM NDGA was equivalent in the presence of 5 and 50 mM extracellular Ca2+ and 5 mM Ba2+. NDGA inhibited Ca2+ channel currents in excised, outside-out patches, in the absence of intra- and extracellular Ca2+ (with Ba2+ as the charge carrier), and following preincubation of the cells with the phospholipase A2 inhibitor 4-bromophenacylbromide. Of five other lipoxygenase inhibitors tested, only one inhibited Ca2+ currents. These results suggest that NDGA inhibits Ca2+ channel currents by a mechanism distinct from that of other known Ca2+ channel antagonists and that, when influx of Ca2+ through voltage-gated channels is involved, inhibition of Ca2(+)-dependent cell functions by NDGA (greater than 10 microM) may be independent of effects on arachidonic acid metabolism.
We report 4 patients with hemiplegia due to a posterior cerebral artery occlusion. Associated clinical signs were aphasia, alexia or a neglect syndrome, hemianopia, and hemisensory loss. Hemiplegia was due to infarction in the lateral midbrain. The level of the occlusion in the posterior cerebral artery may be located distal to the junction with the posterior communicating artery.
Although astrocytic gliosis has been linked to failure of axonal regeneration in the adult mammalian CNS, its role is not fully established. We used an in vitro assay to investigate the role of reactive astrocytes and macrophages in influencing axonal growth in the lesioned adult rat optic nerve. Soon after optic nerve transection, the nonpermissive nature of the optic nerve is altered to a permissive state near the lesion. This may account for injury-induced axonal sprouting and may contribute to the failure of these sprouts to elongate beyond the site of the lesion in vivo. We provide evidence that this lesion-induced change in the axonal growth-promoting properties of the CNS near the lesion may be produced by mononuclear phagocytes. In addition, several months after optic nerve transection, the degenerated nerves, which consist mainly of astrocytes and lack myelin, i.e., astrocytic &quot;scar&quot; tissue, are a good substrate for neurite growth. Taken together, these results suggest that in this in vitro system, substantial inhibitory effects are not associated with regions of astrocytic gliosis and that the nonpermissive nature of the CNS white matter can be modified by macrophages.
We describe the electrophysiological properties of acutely isolated type-1 astrocytes using a new &quot;tissue print&quot; dissociation procedure. Because the enzymes used did not destroy or modify the ion channels, and the cells retained many processes, the properties may reflect those in vivo. The types of ion channels in type-1 astrocytes changed rapidly during the first 10 postnatal days, when they attained their adult phenotype. This change was dependent on the presence of neurons. In culture, most of these channel types were not expressed, but a phenotype more typical of that in vivo could be induced by co-culture with neurons. The electrophysiological properties of astrocytes make some existing hypotheses of astrocyte function less likely.
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, D,L baclofen (p-chlorophenyl-GABA) inhibited approximately 50% of the calcium-45 influx induced with cell depolarization. The half maximal effective concentration for baclofen was 4 nM. Basal calcium influx was not influenced by baclofen thus suggesting that its inhibitory action could be exerted via a voltage dependent calcium channel (VDCC). Whole-cell recordings by patch-clamp technique showed a calcium current that appeared to be similar to the reported L-type VDCC. Nanomolar concentrations of baclofen also inhibited this calcium current by about 60%. However, in order for baclofen to be active, it needed to be placed into the incubation buffer at least five minutes before patching a cell raising the possibility that baclofen may be acting to inhibit the VDCC via a second messenger system.
Focal stimulation of the dorsal regions of the nucleus accumbens of the rat, in vitro, evoked field potentials consisting of two negative waves. The first wave probably reflected electrical activation of the presynaptic fibres. This wave was resistant to excitatory amino acid antagonists and sulpiride. The second negative wave arose from a slower positive going component. These probably evince a population spike and field EPSP, respectively. Intracellular studies also indicated the occurrence of EPSP's and action potentials. The presumed field EPSP and population spike were reduced by kynurenic acid (IC50 approximately 300 microM) but not by AP5 nor sulpiride. When the Mg2+ was removed, the field EPSP was prolonged in a manner fully reversible by the addition of 30 microM D(-)AP5. These results indicate that focal stimulation within the nucleus accumbens may activate excitatory amino acid-ergic fibres that make synaptic contact with an indigenous population of neurones. The postsynaptic receptors were probably of a non-NMDA subtype. However NMDA receptor-mediated responses were evident upon removal of the Mg2+, suggesting that these receptors could also contribute to neuronal excitation under the appropriate physiological conditions.

Charged-particle beams (e.g., protons and helium, carbon and neon ions) manifest unique physical properties which offer advantages for neurosurgery and neuroscience research. The beams have Bragg ionization peaks at depth in tissues, and finite range and are readily collimated to any desired cross-sectional size and shape by metal apertures. Since 1954 nearly 6000 neurosurgical patients worldwide have been treated with stereotactic charged-particle radiosurgery of the brain for various localized and systemic malignant and nonmalignant disorders. Experimental studies with charged-particle beams have been carried out in laboratory animals to characterize anatomic and physiologic correlates of various behavioral and functional properties in the brain. Highly focused charged-particle beams have been used to induce sharply delineated laminar lesions or discrete focal ablation of deep-seated brain structures for the study of the functional anatomy of selected intracranial sites. Charged-particle beam irradiation for stereotactic radiosurgery and radiation oncology of intracranial disorders has achieved increasing importance internationally. More than 30 biomedical accelerator facilities on four continents are currently fully operational, under construction, or in an active planning stage; this last group consists primarily of dedicated biomedical hospital-based facilities. Therapeutic efficacy has been demonstrated clearly for the treatment of selected intracranial sites, e.g., pituitary adenomas and intracranial arteriovenous malformations. Heavier charged particles (e.g., carbon and neon ions) have been found to manifest a number of valuable radiobiologic properties and appear to be of potential advantage in the radiosurgical treatment of those primary or metastatic brain tumors that are radioresistant. The optimal dose and choice of charged-particle species must be determined for the treatment of the different intracranial disorders to improve the cure rate and to minimize potential adverse sequelae of the reaction of the brain to radiation injury.
This investigation evaluated the antagonist properties of (-)propranolol, (+)propranolol, metergoline and BMY 7378 on the known effect of 8-OH-DPAT (DPAT) to decrease motion sickness in cats. (-)Propranolol produced a greater decrease in the antiemetic effect of DPAT than did (+)propranolol. Although metergoline produced a decrease in the antiemetic effect of DPAT, the decrease could not be clearly attributed to interactions with 5-HT1A receptors because metergoline alone slightly enhanced motion sickness. Depletion of 5-HT with PCPA produced a weaker, nonsignificant enhancement of motion sickness, while mesulergine had no effect. As neither nonspecific 5-HT receptor blockade with metergoline nor depletion of 5-HT mimicked the antiemetic effect of DPAT, it was concluded that DPAT acts on postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors to prevent emesis. BMY 7378 alone decreased the incidence of motion sickness. A dose just below this agonist range did not decrease the effects of DPAT.
The effect of the intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of omega-conotoxin GVIA on penile erection and yawning induced by oxytocin or by the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine was studied in male rats. The peptide toxin, 1-10 ng given ICV 5 min before oxytocin (30 ng ICV) or apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg SC), but not its carboxymethylated (CM) derivative, prevented the above behavioral responses in a dose-dependent manner. Similarly, omega-conotoxin (5 ng) unilaterally injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) prevented penile erection and yawning induced by the microinjection of oxytocin (10 ng) or apomorphine (50 ng) in the PVN. omega-Conotoxin injected in the PVN, but not in the preoptic area, prevented also penile erection and yawning induced by systemic apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg SC). ICV omega-conotoxin was unable to prevent stereotypy induced by apomorphine (500 micrograms/kg SC). The present results provide further evidence that calcium plays a major role in the expression of penile erection and yawning and that apomorphine and oxytocin induce these behavioral responses by mobilizing calcium through omega-conotoxin-sensitive (N-type) calcium channels.
Glutamate-induced delayed neurotoxicity after abusive and paroxismal activation of its receptors has been proposed to depend upon a sustained increase in intracellular free Ca2+ [( Ca2+]i). To elucidate the temporal and causal relationship between glutamate-induced changes in [Ca2+]i and neuronal death, we simultaneously studied the dynamics of [Ca2+]i changes in single neurons with the acetoxymethyl ester of fura-2 and the cell viability by imaging the nuclear penetration of propidium iodide. The main difference between toxic (50 microM) and nontoxic (5 microM) doses of glutamate is the lack of regulation in [Ca2+]i 20 min after glutamate is removed. This protracted rise in [Ca2+]i in a single cell is correlated with (r = 0.87, P less than 0.01, Spearman's test), and consequently predictive of, the time of appearance of neuronal death, as measured by propidium iodide fluorescence. In addition, the glutamate receptor antagonists dibenzocyclohepteneimine (MK-801) and 3,3-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)propyl 1-phosphate reduce the acute increase of [Ca2+]i induced by glutamate but fail to revert the protracted increase of [Ca2+]i, elicited by toxic doses of glutamate. In contrast, the ganglioside GM1 and the semisynthetic lysoGM1 with N-acetylsphingosine (LIGA-4) and lysoGM1 with N-dichloroacetylsphingosine (LIGA-20) failed to change the immediate rise of [Ca2+]i elicited by glutamate but prevented the protracted increase in [Ca2+]i after toxic doses of glutamate. Voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blockers (nifedipine, etc.) did not change the initial or protracted responses to glutamate.
To assess the role of phosphatidylinositol turnover in taste transduction we have visualized, in rat tongue, ATP-dependent endoplasmic reticular accumulation of 45Ca2+, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor binding sites, and phosphatidylinositol turnover monitored by autoradiography of [3H]cytidine diphosphate diacylglycerol formed from [3H]cytidine. Accumulated 45Ca2+, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors, and phosphatidylinositol turnover are selectively localized to apical areas of the taste buds of circumvallate papillae, which are associated with bitter taste. Further evidence for a role of phosphatidylinositol turnover in bitter taste is our observation of a rapid, selective increase in mass levels of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate elicited by low concentrations of denatonium, a potently bitter tastant.
Nascent precursors of phosphatidylinositol-glycan (PI-G)-linked membrane proteins contain a hydrophobic COOH-terminal sequence of 15-30 residues that is eliminated during processing to yield a newly exposed COOH terminus to which the PI-G moiety is added. There is no consensus as to the primary structure of the terminal peptide but there is a specific requirement for the amino acid destined to become the COOH terminus. In nascent human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), the PI-G tail is attached to Asp-484. Site-directed mutants with glycine, alanine, cysteine, serine, or asparagine (category I) at residue 484 become PI-G tailed, appear in the plasma membrane, and are enzymatically active when expressed in COS cells. Although mutants with glutamic acid, glutamine, proline, tryptophan, leucine, valine, phenylalanine, threonine, methionine, and tyrosine (category II) are expressed equally well, only small amounts appear on the plasma membrane. Furthermore, they are not PI-G tailed and have little alkaline phosphatase activity. Studies with truncated PLAP-489 rule out nonspecific conformational changes in category II mutant proteins as a reason for their failure to be processed in COS cells and point to a specific COOH-terminal processing enzyme. Direct evidence that the selectivity for category I amino acids is enzymatically determined was obtained in a cell-free translation/processing system by using rabbit reticulocyte lysate and CHO cell rough microsomal membranes. In this in vitro system, both category I and category II mutants of PLAP-513 were translated, glycosylated, and cleaved by NH2-terminal signal peptidase. However, an additional and selective cleavage at residue 484 was observed only with category I mutants.
The most ideal therapeutic trial on Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a transfer of normal myoblasts into dystrophic muscle which has been attempted on animal models in several institutes. In the process of muscle regeneration, the transferred normal myoblasts are expected to incorporate into the regenerating fibers in host dystrophic mouse. To know the capacity of muscle regeneration in dystrophic muscle, we compared the regenerating process of the normal muscle with that of the dystrophic muscle after myonecrosis induced by 0.25% bupivacaine hydrochloride (BPVC) chronologically. In the present study, C57BL/10ScSn-mdx (mdx) mouse was used as an animal model of DMD and C57BL/10ScSn (B10) mouse as a control. There was no definite difference in the behavior of muscle fiber regeneration between normal and dystrophic muscles. The dystrophic muscle regenerated rapidly at the similar tempo to the normal as to their size and fiber type differentiation. The variation in fiber size diameter of dystrophic muscle, however, was more obvious than that of normal. To promote successful myoblast transfer from B10 mouse into dystrophic mdx mouse at higher ratio, cultured normal myoblasts were transferred into the regenerating dystrophic muscle on the first and the second day after myonecrosis induced by BPVC. Two weeks after the myoblast injection, the muscles were examined with immunohistochemical stain using anti dystrophin antibody. Although dystrophin-positive fibers appeared in dystrophic muscle, the positive fibers were unexpectedly small in number (3.86 +/- 1.50%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The content of delusions were studied in a group of schizophrenics and affective disorder patients who had an episodic course to ascertain if the content of delusions remained similar or became dissimilar during different episodes. There were 18 schizophrenics and 30 affective disorder cases in this study. Consistency of delusional content was noted in one third of the cases in each group. Delusional content was consistent over episodes more often in Hindus (P less than 0.04), those married (P less than 0.03), and those from a rural background in the schizophrenic group. These differences were not observed in the affective disorder cases. Possible reasons for the consistence or non-consistence of delusional content are discussed.
Episodes of uniocular visual loss in patients with classical migraine may be due to thromboembolism from atheroma in the internal carotid artery. Non-invasive testing may prove very useful in making the correct diagnosis particularly in patients with an approximately 50% pre-test possibility of disease.

Gastroenterologists frequently encounter patients who report vague epigastric discomforts or sensations of fullness, bloating, and distention in the upper abdomen. The discomfort is neither burning in character nor severe in intensity; there is no nocturnal pain. The epigastric location of discomfort and lack of radiation may help to exclude biliary tract and pancreatic diseases. Nausea may be present, but there is little or no vomiting. After these patients ingest liquids or solid foods, the symptoms of easy filling or early satiety and increasing discomfort and nausea are almost always present. The patient may only report &quot;indigestion,&quot; but a specific chief complaint, such as pain, discomfort, nausea, or bloating may be elicited with further inquiries. Solid foods usually provoke more symptoms than do liquids. Symptoms of early satiety, nausea, bloating, and abdominal discomfort may culminate in the vomiting of undigested food. These vague upper gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms have been termed &quot;dyspepsia.&quot; When peptic diseases of the stomach are excluded, the symptom complex has been called &quot;nonulcer&quot; dyspepsia, a vague syndrome with symptoms attributed to stomach dysfunction. Nonulcer dyspepsia has been reviewed recently. Such symptoms, commonly attributed to a &quot;functional&quot; disorder, are very common in clinical practice, with an incidence of 30% of patients. In this review, we will discuss an approach to the evaluation and treatment of patients with symptoms of nausea, early satiety, bloating, and vague epigastric discomfort--dyspeptic symptoms associated with functional stomach disorders. We will review the anatomy and motility of the stomach and suggest potential neuromuscular malfunctions of the stomach that may result in epigastric symptoms. The potential role of stress and other brain-gut interactions, which may underlie these symptoms, will also be reviewed.
Neurobiology was a central concern at the Marine Biological Laboratory (MBL), Woods Hole at the end of the last century, when the director Charles Otis Whitman set up a seminar for discussion of research and general issues in 'neurology', which took place annually from 1896 to 1900 and generated intense interest among MBL researchers. Although the emerging fields within neurobiology underwent changes, neurological concerns continued to play a central role. This article explores the activity at the MBL in the 1890s when the various studies had not yet unified to form the field of neurobiology.


A 43-kDa protein factor that increases the ability of purified bovine peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM)-A and -B to produce alpha-amidated peptides at physiological pH was purified to homogeneity from bovine neurointermediate pituitary. At each step of the purification, the amount of activity correlated with the amount of protein detected on Western blots by antibody to bovine PAM(561-579). In the bovine neurointermediate pituitary the 108-kDa PAM precursor protein is cleaved to form a peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase and a peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase, which function sequentially in the 2-step formation of alpha-amidated peptides.
We determined whether the beta or gamma protein kinase C (PKC) subtypes implicated in long-term potentiation (LTP) selectively regulates protein F1 phosphorylation. Purified bovine PKC subtypes and recombinant PKC subtypes activated by phosphatidylserine (PS) and calcium were tested for their relative ability to phosphorylate purified rat protein F1 (a.k.a. GAP-43). After equalizing enzyme activity against histone, the recombinant beta II PKC phosphorylated protein F1 to a 6 fold greater extent than the recombinant gamma PKC. Bovine beta I PKC phosphorylated protein F1 to a 3 fold greater extent than bovine gamma PKC. Even when PS was replaced by lipoxin B4, which can selectively increase gamma PKC activity, beta I PKC was still superior to gamma PKC in phosphorylating protein F1. Taken together with previous cellular studies of brain showing parallel levels of expression of beta PKC mRNA and protein F1 mRNA, the present results make it attractive to propose that beta PKC regulates protein F1 phosphorylation during the development of synaptic plasticity.
The synapsins are a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins that selectively bind to small synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic nerve terminal. Using the cDNA encoding rat synapsin IIb, we employed an Escherichia coli expression system to synthesize a variety of fusion proteins containing a truncated protein A linked to different portions of the NH2-terminal region of synapsin II. The recombinant proteins were purified by IgG-Sepharose chromatography and tested in vitro for their ability to bind to purified synaptic vesicles. These experiments identified a region between amino acids 43 and 121 of the amino-terminal portion of synapsin II which binds to synaptic vesicles. Mild trypsinization of synaptic vesicles reduces binding of recombinant proteins to synaptic vesicles, suggesting that the interaction between synapsin II and the vesicles is in part mediated by a synaptic vesicle protein. The 42 NH2-terminal amino acids of synapsin II are not necessary for binding to synaptic vesicles, although this domain contains the phosphorylation site for cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
Coated pits will assemble onto purified plasma membranes that are attached to a poly-L-lysine coated substratum (Moore, M. S., Mahaffey, D. T., Brodsky, F. M., and Anderson, R. G. W. (1987) Science 236, 558-563; Mahaffey, D. T., Moore, M. S., Brodsky, F. M., and Anderson, R. G. W. (1989) J. Cell Biol. 108, 1615-1624). To better understand the assembly reaction, we have purified both clathrin triskelion and AP-2 subunits from bovine brain and assayed for their ability to bind to the cytoplasmic surface of attached membranes. Two types of membranes were analyzed: those washed with a high pH buffer that selectively removes triskelions and those washed with a high salt buffer that removes both the AP-2 and the triskelion subunits. We found that purified AP-2 subunits bind with high affinity (Kd approximately 3 x 10(-8) M) to salt stripped membranes. Binding is saturable and abolished by treating membranes with less than 20 micrograms/ml of elastase. When membranes were treated with elastase before the salt wash and then salt washed and assayed for AP-2 binding, normal binding was seen, which indicates that the presence of clathrin-coated pits protects the binding site from the protease. Membranes that had rebound AP-2 did not bind purified triskelions, even though high pH buffer-washed membranes that bear endogenous AP-2 bound triskelions with high affinity (Kd approximately 3 x 10(-9) M) and supported lattice assembly. We conclude that coated pit assembly is initiated by the binding of AP-2 to an integral membrane protein but that the AP-2 complex must be activated by an unknown process before the coated pit lattice will assemble.

Quin2-acetoxymethylester (quin2/AM) (50 microM), administered directly to the motoneuronal pool of the frog spinal cord, could be loaded into the motoneuron as well as the other cells in the lumbar region. Depolarizing responses of the ventral root to L-glutamate in the quin2-loaded side persisted even after prolonged exposure to A23187 (2.0 microM), while the responses in the unloaded side were markedly reduced. Histologically confirmed neuronal cell loss from the motoneuronal pool induced by A23187 (2.0 microM) or by a high concentration of L-glutamate (10 mM) was prevented by pretreatment with quin2/AM. A23187- and L-glutamate-induced histological and functional damage in neuronal cells and the protective effects of quin2 on them provide further evidence for cell death due to Ca2+ overloading.
During embryonic development of the rodent forebrain, a cavity normally appears at the midline just below the corpus callosum. This cavity, the cavum septi, is present in mice by gestational day 18, but is subsequently obliterated by growth of the septal nuclei and neuropil. After x-irradiation of pregnant mice with 125r on gestational day 14.5, the cavum septi did not develop. This dramatic developmental abnormality was accompanied by delayed fusion of the septum, and a reduction in the population of subventricular cells that normally migrate to form a sling of cells extending from the medial aspect of the lateral ventricles to the midline. In normal animals formation of the cavum septi involves degeneration of this subcallosal sling of SV cells. Thus absence of the cavum after x-irradiation may be due to the premature killing of subventricular cells before their migration toward the midline.
We have studied the muscarinic agonist induced responses on the guinea-pig superior cervical ganglion in vitro, as recorded from the internal carotid nerve using a grease-gap. The principal response was a depolarization, but a small hyperpolarizing response could be revealed under certain conditions. We determined the pA2 of a number of muscarinic antagonists against the muscarine induced depolarization. Four selective antagonists and atropine appeared to act competitively. The rank order of their pA2s was 4-DAMP (8.5), atropine (8.4), pirenzepine (8.0), methoctramine (7.2) and AF-DX 116 (6.3). In addition to muscarine, we assessed the potency and relative maximum response of nine other muscarinic compounds to depolarize this preparation: carbachol, 5-methylfurmethide, oxotremorine, oxotremorine-M, pilocarpine, RS 86, AF102B and two novel compounds L-670548 and L-679512. L-670548 was the most potent and AF102B was the least potent agonist tested. Only AF102B evoked a maximum depolarization that was significantly smaller than muscarine. A hyperpolarizing response to carbachol (1 microM) could be recorded when the superfusing medium contained 0.3 microM pirenzepine and only 0.1 mM CaCl2 (cf. usual 2.5 mM). This response was relatively small compared to that evoked on the superior cervical ganglion of the rat. It was blocked by the cardioselective antagonists methoctramine (0.1-0.3 microM) and AF-DX 116 (0.3-1.0 microM). Of the 10 agonists tested, only carbachol, oxotremorine and oxotremorine-M reproducibly evoked a hyperpolarizing response. It was concluded that muscarinic agonists can induce a depolarization of the guinea-pig superior cervical ganglion mediated by M1 receptors. The activation of cardiac-like M2 receptors resulted in a hyperpolarizing response that was relatively small.
Pharmacological studies of glutamate receptor stimulation of the phosphoinositide (PI) system have demonstrated that this response is blocked by several agents: 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate (AP3), phorbol esters and in some preparations pertussis toxin. In electrophysiological studies of CA1 pyramidal neurons, we have found that pertussis toxin and AP3 (1-2 mM) do not block either the membrane depolarization or inhibition of the slow afterhyperpolarization elicited by trans-1-aminocyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylate (ACPD; 30 microM), a selective agonist of the PI-linked glutamate receptor. However, phorbol 12,13-diacetate (1-1.5 microM) which itself blocks the slow afterhyperpolarization, completely blocks the membrane depolarizing response elicited by ACPD. These results add to growing evidence for heterogeneity among PI-linked glutamate receptor responses.
In anaesthetised cats, antibody microprobes were used to measure the release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide (irCGRP) in the lumbar dorsal horn during stimulation of non-nociceptive or nociceptive primary afferent fibres. Release of irCGRP was detected in the substantia gelatinosa, where immunostaining for CGRP was subsequently observed. Intravenous administration of morphine did not affect release of irCGRP detected during either non-nociceptive or nociceptive afferent stimulation. The results suggest that the analgesic action of morphine does not involve reduced release of CGRP from the central terminals of nociceptive primary afferents.
Bilateral intraventricular injections of 6-hydroxydopamine depleted dopamine (DA) in striatal tissue of rats by 88%. Tail shock increased DA in striatal extracellular fluid of these rats from 10 to 17 pg/20 microliters as measured by microdialysis, values less than half those seen in normal striatum. The increase was observed even in rats that were akinetic. DA in extracellular fluid after stress was negatively correlated with behavioral performance. Thus, residual nigrostriatal DA neurons are responsive to stress but do not produce normal DA levels in striatal extracellular fluid.
The effect of chronic treatment with antidepressants (ADs) on the behavioral responses to LY 171555, a selective D2 receptor agonist, SKF 38393, a selective D1 receptor agonist, and B-HT 920, a selective DA autoreceptor agonist, was studied in rats. In normal rats small, intermediate and high doses of LY 171555 produced hypomotility, hyperactivity and stereotypies, respectively. Chronic but not acute pretreatment with imipramine (IMI) greatly potentiated the motor stimulant effect of LY 171555, but failed to modify its stereotypic and sedative effect. The potentiation of the motor stimulant effect of LY 171555 was observed also after chronic, but not acute, treatment with desmethylimipramine (DMI), mianserin (MIA) or repeated electroconvulsive shock (ECS). Chronic treatment with IMI failed to modify the effect of SKF 38393 (motor stimulation, grooming and penile erection), but reversed the sedative effect of B-HT 920 into a motor stimulant response. The motor stimulant response to LY 171555 in IMI-pretreated animals was suppressed by L-sulpiride, a D2 antagonist, and by a combination of reserpine with alpha-methyltyrosine (alpha-MT), but it was only partially antagonized by high doses of SCH 23390, a selective D1 antagonist. The results indicate that chronic treatment with ADs potentiates the behavioural responses mediated by the stimulation of postsynaptic D2 receptors in the mesolimbic system and suggest that this behavioural supersensitivity is due to enhanced neurotransmission at the D1 receptor level.
The nucleus accumbens septi (Acb) represents an interface between limbic and motor systems and a site for modulation of these integrative functions by ascending catecholaminergic, principally dopaminergic, axons. This modulatory regulation is most likely attributed to pre- or postsynaptic associations between limbic telencephalic and brainstem afferents. In the present investigation, we examined the ultrastructure and synaptic associations of hippocampal afferents, as well as their relation to catecholaminergic terminals, in the medial Acb of adult rats. Hippocampal afferents were identified by anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) injected in the ventral subiculum, and by anterograde degeneration seen 2-3 days following lesion of the fimbria. Specific comparisons between these methods were made (1) to determine whether similar populations of terminals were labeled and (2) to assess the feasibility of combining degeneration with immunoperoxidase labeling for the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Hippocampal afferents labeled with HRP were finely myelinated or unmyelinated and gave rise to small terminals (mean diameter 0.58 micron) containing mostly clear, round vesicles. Of the HRP-labeled terminals which made recognizable junctions, 85% (104/122) formed asymmetric synapses with the heads of dendritic spines. The remainder either formed asymmetric axodendritic synapses or symmetric junctions. Degenerating terminals were significantly smaller (mean diameter 0.35 micron) than terminals labeled with HRP. However, these also formed principally asymmetric axospinous synapses (89/102, 87%). Whether identified by HRP transport or anterograde degeneration, the hippocampal afferents comprised approximately 10% of all terminals and 30% of all asymmetric axospinous synapses in the medial Acb. In contrast to hippocampal afferents, TH-labeled terminals formed primarily symmetric contacts with dendritic shafts and the heads and necks of spines. Quantitative analysis of sections containing both anterograde degeneration and TH-immunoreactivity showed that 25% (26/104) of associations formed by degenerating hippocampal terminals involved convergent inputs with TH-labeled terminals on the same postsynaptic structure. These included dual input either to the same spine head or to different parts of the same dendrite. In addition, the plasma membranes of hippocampal and TH-labeled terminals were often directly apposed to each other (10/58, 17% of axo-axonal associations formed by degenerating terminals), without recognizable synaptic specializations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Precursors to beta-endorphin (BE) and methionine enkephalin (ME), and proteolytic enzymes that cleave those BE and ME precursors to BE and ME, were determined in several milliliters of human cerebrospinal fluid. Endogenous peptides were purified by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and were detected with radioreceptor assay (RRA), radioimmunoassay, and mass spectrometry (MS). Total opioid receptor activity measurements and the profile of HPLC-receptor activity of human CSF samples were both used to monitor neuropeptide metabolism. MS data linked the molecular ion of ME to a unique fragment ion. A later-eluting fraction (84 min) in a 90-min HPLC gradient appeared in all HPLC-RRA profiles, contained opioid receptor activity that displaced [3H]etorphine, and the quantitative and qualitative patterns of opioid receptor activity in those profiles both changed within the few minutes that elapsed between acquiring the first and second cerebrospinal fluid samples. That 84-min fraction contained precursors to opioid peptides and was fractionated further with a more shallow 120-min HPLC gradient into three sections that displayed delta-opioid receptor-preferring activity, using [3H]ME as ligand. These three sections were hydrolyzed separately with human cerebrospinal fluid as the source for endogenous neuropeptides to yield products that correlated to immunoreactive BE in section I and immunoreactive ME in section III.
Phosphorylation of connexin 32, the major liver gap-junction protein, was studied in purified liver gap junctions and in hepatocytes. In isolated gap junctions, connexin 32 was phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (cAMP-PK), by protein kinase C (PKC) and by Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (Ca2+/CaM-PK II). Connexin 26 was not phosphorylated by these three protein kinases. Phosphopeptide mapping of connexin 32 demonstrated that cAMP-PK and PKC primarily phosphorylated a seryl residue in a peptide termed peptide 1. PKC also phosphorylated seryl residues in additional peptides. CA2+/CaM-PK II phosphorylated serine and to a lesser extent, threonine, at sites different from those phosphorylated by the other two protein kinases. A synthetic peptide PSRKGSGFGHRL-amine (residues 228-239 based on the deduced amino acid sequence of rat connexin 32) was phosphorylated by cAMP-PK and by PKC, with kinetic properties being similar to those for other physiological substrates phosphorylated by these enzymes. Ca2+/CaM-PK II did not phosphorylate the peptide. Phosphopeptide mapping and amino acid sequencing of the phosphorylated synthetic peptide indicated that Ser233 of connexin 32 was present in peptide 1 and was phosphorylated by cAMP-PK or by PKC. In hepatocytes labeled with [32P]orthophosphoric acid, treatment with forskolin or 20-deoxy-20-oxophorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBt) resulted in increased 32P-incorporation into connexin 32. Phosphopeptide mapping and phosphoamino acid analysis showed that a seryl residue in peptide 1 was most prominently phosphorylated under basal conditions. Treatment with forskolin or PDBt stimulated the phosphorylation of peptide 1. PDBt treatment also increased the phosphorylation of seryl residues in several other peptides. PDBt did not affect the cAMP-PK activity in hepatocytes. It has previously been shown that phorbol ester reduces dye coupling in several cell types, however in rat hepatocytes, dye coupling was not reduced by treatment with PDBt. Thus, activation of PKC may have differential effects on junctional permeability in different cell types; one source of this variability may be differences in the sites of phosphorylation in different gap-junction proteins.
Golgi examination of neurons of self-stimulation areas of the lateral hypothalamus and substantia nigra-ventral tegmental areas of adult Wistar rats that had experienced self-stimulation for 10 days revealed a significantly higher number of dendritic branching points in the two self-stimulation areas, and also in the hippocampus (CA3 pyramidal neurons) than in inexperienced rats.
A rhodopsin phosphorylation reaction that occurs with high-gain is observed if measurements are made in electropermeabilized frog rod outer segments (ROS) stimulated by a dim flash of light in the operating range of the photoreceptor. Flashes of light exciting 1000 or fewer of the 3 x 10(9) rhodopsins present/ROS results in the incorporation of 1400 phosphates from ATP into the rhodopsin pool for each excited rhodopsin (Rho*). This amplification decreases with increasing light intensity, falling most sharply after each disk has absorbed one photon. The high-gain reaction is lost if the ROS are broken into vesicles by shearing, leaving a low-gain rhodopsin phosphorylation characterized in previous studies using brighter illumination. The high-gain but not the low-gain phosphorylation appears to be regulated by G-protein and by calcium levels in the range over which intracellular calcium changes when rod photoreceptors are illuminated. Kinetic measurements made on the phosphorylation observed at higher light intensities shows that it initially occurs rapidly enough for a role in terminating the photoresponse. The high-gain phosphorylation observed at lower light intensities may play a global role in regulating light-adaptation of the rod photoreceptor, and its existence suggests that a search for a similar high-gain modification in systems using the homologous beta-adrenergic or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors might be rewarding.
Analyses of populations of NIH/3T3 cells for mitochondrial DNA under various conditions were made by use of an improved procedure. Cells were examined at different cell densities, at different stages of cell growth, and after the cells had been incubated with a carcinogen reported to affect mitochondrial DNA replication, benzo[a]pyrene-epoxide. In addition, the analysis was performed on three tumorigenic NIH/3T3 cell lines and one mouse bladder epithelial cell line and its tumorigenic derivative. Small variations of mitochondrial DNA under these various conditions were detected easily and revealed a linear relationship between mitochondrial DNA and total cell DNA.
An electropermeabilized preparation of frog retinal rod outer segments (ROS) has been developed to examine the light sensitivity and amplification of visual transduction reactions in a minimally disturbed environment. Electropermeabilized ROS are indistinguishable from whole and osmotically intact ROS in the light microscope and retain 3-fold more protein than mechanically disrupted ROS. They differ from mechanically fragmented ROS in several respects. Illumination results in more amplified activation of the GTP-binding protein transducin (Gt) than previously observed: bleaching as little as approximately 1 rhodopsin molecule (Rho*) in every 10 disks within a single ROS activates 37,000 molecules of Gt per Rho*, equivalent to 70% of the light-activatable Gt present on a single disk face. This amplification is maintained over approximately 1 decade of light intensity but drops sharply as disk faces begin to absorb a second photon. Lower amplification is observed in fragmented ROS and derives from the fact that physical disruption of ROS causes Gt to bind GTP and elute from the membrane, thus decreasing the amount remaining and available for light activation. Illumination of electropermeabilized ROS in the presence of GTP or of the nonhydrolyzable substrate guanosine 5'-(gamma-thio)triphosphate (GTP gamma S) causes redistribution of Gt: an amount (approximately 20 mmol/mol Rho) equivalent to the amount of inhibitory gamma subunit of phosphodiesterase (PDE) remains internal and bound to nucleotide, and the remaining activated Gt diffuses out in a manner graded with light intensity. This suggests that PDE activation by Gt alpha may not require dissociation of Gt alpha bound to the gamma subunit of PDE in a form than can elute from ROS. Two further differences between electropermeabilized and mechanically disrupted ROS are noted: the addition of ATP to electropermeabilized ROS does not affect the light sensitivity or kinetics of the GTP binding reaction, and a specificity for light-induced GTP versus GDP binding is observed.
In previous studies we demonstrated that peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors (PBR) were coupled to steroidogenesis in several adrenocortical and Leydig cell systems (Mukhin, A.G., Papadopoulos, V., Costa, E., and Krueger, K.E. (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86, 9813-9816; Papadopoulos, V., Mukhin, A.G., Costa, E., and Krueger, K.E. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 3772-3779). The current study elucidates the specific step in the steroid biosynthetic pathway by which PBR mediate the stimulation in steroid hormone production. The adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-responsive Y-1 mouse adrenocortical cell line was used to compare the mechanisms by which ACTH and PK 11195 (a PBR ligand) stimulate steroidogenesis. The effects of these agents were studied at three stages along the steroid biosynthetic pathway: 1) secretion of 20 alpha OH-progesterone by Y-1 cell cultures; 2) pregnenolone production by isolated mitochondrial fractions; 3) quantities of cholesterol resident in outer and inner mitochondrial membrane fractions. Steroid synthesis stimulated by ACTH was blocked by cycloheximide, an effect documented by other laboratories characterized by an accumulation of mitochondrial cholesterol specifically in the outer membrane. In contrast, PK 11195-stimulated steroidogenesis was not inhibited by cycloheximide, and the magnitude of the stimulation was markedly enhanced when the cells were pretreated with cycloheximide and ACTH. When isolated mitochondria were used, stimulation of pregnenolone production by PK 11195 was largely independent of exogenously supplied cholesterol, indicating that PBR act on cholesterol already situated within the mitochondrial membranes. This phenomenon was found to be the result of a translocation of cholesterol from outer to inner mitochondrial membranes induced by the PBR ligand. These studies therefore suggest that mitochondrial intermembrane cholesterol transport in steroidogenic cells is mediated by a mechanism coupled to PBR.

The short- (1 h after last treatment) and long- (1, 6, and 12 weeks after treatment) term effects of repeated cocaine administration on catecholamine metabolism were evaluated in the rat brain. The concentrations of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and their metabolites were measured in the hypothalamus, frontal cortex, septum, striatum and nucleus accumbens. Except for a short-term increase in hypothalamic NE content, NE and its major metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), did not change after chronic cocaine treatment in any of the brain regions analysed. The immediate (short-term) effects of chronic cocaine administration on DA metabolism included significant reductions in DOPAC in the frontal cortex, septum, nucleus accumbens, striatum and hypothalamus. In addition, DA was reduced in the frontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. In none of these brain regions was the concentration of HVA significantly changed. The short-term reductions in DA metabolism observed in the striatum and nucleus accumbens disappeared within one week of termination of cocaine treatment. Following cocaine treatment there were, however, reductions in frontal cortex DOPAC, 1 and 6 weeks following withdrawal, and in HVA 12 weeks after withdrawal. The combined molar concentrations of DOPAC and HVA at the three withdrawal periods (1, 6 and 12 weeks) were reduced, suggesting attenuated frontal cortex DA turnover. In the hypothalamus, DA metabolites were reduced after 6 weeks withdrawal. Twelve weeks after cocaine withdrawal hypothalamic HVA, as well as DOPAC plus HVA, were significantly increased suggesting compensation had taken place. The clinical effects following cocaine withdrawal in humans may be related to long-term changes in DA metabolism similar to those found in rat brain.
Using a two-lever operant drug discrimination paradigm, rats have been trained to discriminate between the administration of saline and R-(+)-HA-966 (R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one, 30 mg/kg i.p.) an antagonist at the glycine modulatory site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor/ion channel complex. Drug-appropriate responding was not induced in stimulus generalisation experiments when the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, phencyclidine (PCP, 1-8 mg/kg i.p.) was substituted for (+)-HA-966. Similarly, (+)-HA-966 (6-50 mg/kg i.p.) did not induce drug-appropriate responding in animals trained to discriminate PCP (3 mg/kg i.p.) from saline. The results suggest that the behavioural profile of compounds attenuating the actions of NMDA via blockade of the glycine modulatory site may be substantially different from those acting at the ion channel of the NMDA receptor complex.
To investigate the human corticofacial projections, we recorded the compound motor potentials and single motor unit potentials evoked by magnetic transcranial stimulation, in the frontalis and lower facial muscles of healthy subjects. Potentials secondary to activation of the corticobulbar tract were contralateral in lower and bilateral in upper facial muscles. Even though the latency of responses was longer than would be expected for direct cortico-motoneuronal connections, these cannot be excluded either for lower or upper facial motoneurons.
We used acetylcholine and butyrylcholine to competitively inhibit the cleavage of acetylthiocholine or butyrylthiocholine in plaques and tangles of Alzheimer's disease. Butyrylcholine was much more effective than acetylcholine in reducing the histochemical reaction for acetylcholinesterase not only in neuronal fibers, but also in plaques and tangles. This is in keeping with biochemical data on acetylcholinesterase and supports the existence of true acetylcholinesterase activity within plaques and tangles. However, 2-4 times higher acetylcholine and buturylcholine concentrations were necessary to inhibit the plaque and tangle bound enzyme. Together with the previously reported different pH optima, this suggests that the plaque- and tangle-bound acetylcholinesterase may represent an altered form of this enzyme.
Recovery of Schwann cell-neuronal interactions altered by suppression of endogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) with antibodies to NGF (anti-NGF) was determined by morphometric analysis of unmyelinated and myelinated sensory fibers in the T9 dorsal roots in 3 groups of animals: (1) rats one week after cessation of anti-NGF treatment (anti-NGF + 1WK), (2) rats given antibodies to NGF (anti-NGF) and (3) untreated same age littermates (UNTR). The results indicate that (1) recovery of normal myelination begins within one week of cessation of anti-NGF treatment for small caliber fibers and (2) the observed results of anti-NGF treatment on Schwann cell-neuronal interactions were due to anti-NGF treatment and were not an indirect effect of a general diseased state.
The concentrations of dopamine (DA) and of the excitatory amino acids (EAAs) glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp) were measured in dialysates from the striatum of awake rats in order to study the link between the release of DA and of EAAs induced by the infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+). DA and EAAs were detected simultaneously by HPLC-EC. The infusion of MPP+ at the concentration of 1 mM elevated DA levels in the perfusates, but did not affect EAA release. However, MPP+ at 10 mM maximally stimulated Glu and Asp release to 230- and 68-fold of baseline, respectively. In this condition, pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) prevented the MPP(+)-induced EAA release. In contrast, MK-801 had no effect on DA release induced either by 1 or 10 mM MPP+. These results suggest that MPP(+)-induced DA and EAA release are independently regulated processes. In addition, the finding that MK-801 inhibits MPP(+)-induced EAA release suggests that EAAs may act on NMDA receptors to stimulate their own release through a positive-feedback mechanism.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor binding was measured in rodent and primate brain and spinal cord using 125I-Bolton Hunter CCK-8 (125I-BH-CCK) and the selective non-peptide CCK antagonists MK-329 and L-365,260. In homogenate binding studies, L-365,260 displayed nanomolar affinity for CCK-B receptors in the cerebral cortex of several species including man (pIC50 congruent to 8.2) but showed low affinity for CCK-A receptors in the rat pancreas (pIC50 congruent to 6.3). By contrast, the CCK-A antagonist MK-329 showed the reverse selectivity (cortex: pIC50 congruent to 6.9, pancreas: pIC50 = 9.6). In autoradiographs of rat and monkey brain. 125I-BH-CCK binding was localized regionally with high levels being detected in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia and some mid- and hindbrain nuclei. Specific 125I-BH-CCK binding was also localized to the substantia gelatinosa of the rat, monkey and human spinal cord. L-365,260 inhibited binding to most areas of the brain, but in the rat medial nucleus tractus solitarii and the monkey nucleus tractus solitarii. dorsomedial nucleus and infundibular hypothalamic nuclei together with the dorsomedial aspects of the caudate nucleus, where CCK-A sites are present, L-365,260 failed to displace all 125I-BH-CCK binding. In the primate spinal cord, L-365,260 was a relatively weak inhibitor of 125I-BH-CCK binding (pIC50 congruent to 6.0) whereas MK-329 showed high affinity for the CCK-A sites present there (pIC50 congruent to 9.6).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies found that injection of the GABA uptake inhibitor nipecotic acid into the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) increases arterial pressure. This effect of nipecotic acid was not antagonized by the selective GABAA receptor blocking agent bicuculline, suggesting that the action of nipecotic acid was mediated through an action of GABA on GABAB receptors in the NTS. The present studies examined this issue using a newly described GABAB antagonist, phaclofen. Injection of phaclofen (4 nmol in 100 nl artificial CSF) into the NTS of chloralose-anesthetized rats produced a slight decrease in arterial pressure (-8 +/- 2 mmHg) lasting less than 1 min. Smaller doses had no effect. Phaclofen antagonized in a dose-dependent (0.5-4 nmol) manner the increase in arterial pressure produced by injection into the NTS of the GABAB agonist baclofen (5-100 pmol). In contrast, phaclofen had no effect on the pressor response elicited by injection into the NTS of the GABAA agonist muscimol. Phaclofen (4 nmol) injected into the NTS totally reversed the increase in blood pressure elicited by injection into the NTS of a maximally effective dose of nipecotic acid (10 nmol). Phaclofen also inhibited the pressor response elicited by injection into the NTS of another indirectly acting GABA agonist, gamma-vinylGABA (GVG). Although GVG is an effective inhibitor of GABA transaminase, the enzyme involved in the metabolism of GABA, the time course of inhibition of GABA transaminase evoked by GVG was not consistent with the pressor response being produced by this mechanism. However, the pressor response elicited by GVG is consistent with its reported ability to inhibit GABA uptake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the present study we have investigated whether sauvagine (SVG) and urotensin I (UT), two peptides displaying sequence homology with corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), could affect synaptosomal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity of mouse striatum in a manner similar to CRF. The enzyme activity was assayed in supernatants obtained following sonication and centrifugation of homogenates preincubated with the peptides. SVG and UT produced a concentration-dependent increase of TH activity with a half-maximal effect obtained at 5 and 10 nM, respectively. SVG and UT were as effective as CRF with maximal stimulations corresponding to 52-58% increase of basal enzyme activity, whereas the rank order of potency was SVG greater than UT = CRF. Kinetic analysis of TH activity versus low concentrations of the pterin co-factor (0.05-0.4 mM) indicated that the stimulations elicited by CRF, SVG and UT were associated with an increase in the Vmax of the enzyme form with high affinity for the co-factor. The CRF receptor antagonist alpha-helical CRF9-41 inhibited the effects of all 3 peptides. Moreover, the combined addition of CRF with either SVG or UT did not produce additive effects on TH activity. The stimulatory effects of CRF, SVG and UT were dependent on the concentration of extracellular free Ca2+, being minimal in a Ca2(+)-free medium and maximal at about 0.5 mM extracellular free Ca2+. These results indicate that SVG and UT can mimic the effect of CRF on synaptosomal TH by acting on a common receptor site associated with a Ca2(+)-dependent mechanism.

Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was assayed spectrophotometrically by measuring the increase in delta A at 340 nm, as a criteria of NAD conversion to NADH in the presence of propionaldehyde. The effect of pH and substrate(s) concentration of nonenzymatic increase in absorbance at 340 nm was studied. Results indicate that the increase in absorbance at 340 nm is not entirely due to NAD conversion to NADH. It was observed that nonenzymatic interaction of NAD and aldehyde could as well result in increase in absorbance at 340 nm. The magnitude of the nonenzymatic contribution towards increase in absorbance at 340 nm is found to be pH, substrate(s) conc., and time dependent. Further, the observed nonenzymatic reaction product was found to be different from that of NADH as confirmed by u.v. spectral characteristics (lambda max. 346 nm) and its inability to activate NADH/NADPH-dependent glutathione reductase. Based on these findings, a final assay method comprising a substrate blank consisting of NAD and aldehyde, and the assay pH of 7.4 is recommended for measuring the ALDH activity. Further, under these experimental conditions the Km value of human RBC ALDH was found to be 0.59 mM for propionaldehyde substrate.
A prevalence study of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) has been conducted in North Dakota. All pediatricians, neurologists, child psychiatrists, psychologists, and clinical geneticists were surveyed. The state's comprehensive evaluation center, the state hospital, the state institution for the mentally retarded, and group homes for the developmentally disabled, including one for persons with PWS, were also contacted. Seventeen patients were identified, 8 males, 8 females, and one patient whose sex was not specified. This suggests a prevalence rate of 1 per 16,062 in North Dakota.
Pharmacological doses of insulin (3-25 U/kg sc) elicited feeding and increased gastric motility in rats. In contrast, the glucose analogue 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), given ip in doses known to increase food intake, had dose-dependent effects on gastric motility: 100 and 200 mg/kg 2-DG increased gastric motility, whereas 500 mg/kg 2-DG virtually eliminated gastric contractions. This latter result resembled the known effects on gastric motility of cholecystokinin (CCK) and LiCl. Moreover, like CCK and LiCl, 500 mg/kg 2-DG stimulated pituitary oxytocin (OT) secretion, and its effects on gastric motility and OT secretion were potentiated by pretreatment with the opioid antagonist naloxone. In contrast, OT secretion was not affected by insulin-induced hypoglycemia with or without naloxone pretreatment. These results suggest that there are two components to the effects of 2-DG on gastric motility: an insulin-like excitatory component and a CCK-LiCl-like inhibitory component. The latter inhibitory component may be mediated by the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, which has already been implicated in the inhibitory control of gastric motility.
Choline concentrations were measured in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma of 37 healthy normal subjects and 13 young (age range, 21 to 34 years) and 6 older (age, greater than or equal to 45 years) healthy adults with Down's syndrome (DS). All subjects with DS had a trisomy 21 karyotype, and 3 of the 6 older subjects were demented as judged from a history of mental deterioration, disorientation, and memory loss. In healthy normal subjects, there was a significant correlation between age and CSF choline concentrations. Compared with age-matched controls, in young subjects with DS, CSF, but not plasma, choline concentrations were elevated (by 49%), whereas in older subjects with DS, CSF and plasma choline concentrations were similar to control values. The CSF choline concentrations were unrelated to body height in the DS and control groups, and rostrocaudal CSF choline gradients did not differ between either the control and DS groups or the young and old subjects with DS, suggesting that the elevation in the CSF choline concentration in young subjects with DS was not related to their shorter stature. Since increased CSF choline concentrations in young adult subjects with DS were accompanied by normal plasma choline concentrations, these results suggest that young adults with DS have either an increased release of choline from the brain or a reduced rate of clearance of choline from CSF.
To examine the relationship between PKBS, a 17-kD protein covalently photolabeled by [3H]PK 14105, and its association with peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites, rat adrenal mitochondrial fractions were photolabeled with [3H]PK 14105, solubilized in digitonin, and subjected to anion-exchange chromatography over Q-Sepharose. The chromatographic behavior of PKBS was evident as principally two major fractions, signified as Q-I and Q-II. Specific binding sites for [3H]Ro5-4864 and [3H]PK 11195 were also assayed and found to cofractionate with each other and in a manner which coincided with the photolabeled PKBS profile. The Q-I and Q-II fractions were further distinguished based on their different molecular sizes observed by gel filtration, yet both fractions were characterized as containing peripheral-type benzodiazepine recognition sites according to the following criteria. Scatchard analysis of both subpopulations revealed a single class of binding sites for [3H]Ro5-4864 with an apparent KD of 14 nM for Q-I and 22 nM for Q-II; these affinities were slightly lower than those found in mitochondrial membrane preparations used as the starting material for solubilization. The rank order of potency to inhibit [3H]Ro5-4864 binding in both subpopulations was PK 11195 greater than Ro5-4864 greater than diazepam greater than clonazepam, in connection with the pharmacological specificity of membrane-associated peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites. These studies provide direct biochemical evidence that the recognition sites for benzodiazepines and isoquinoline carboxamides cofractionate in unison with the 17-kD PKBS protein, demonstrating an intimate relationship between this protein and the binding domains for peripheral-type benzodiazepine ligands.
A two-tone-discrimination task was used to elicit the P300 component of event-related (brain) potentials (ERPs) from patients with presumed Alzheimer's dementia of mild or moderate severity, depressed patients of older age, and cognitively normal individuals. Although the average P300 latency of the Alzheimer patients was greater than that of the depressed patients, which in turn was greater than that of older aged normals, none of the group differences in latency were statistically significant. Moreover, when latency was examined on an individual basis, less than one-quarter of the Alzheimer patients had an abnormally delayed P300 for their age. Reaction times and the percentage of correct behavioral responses to the tones did distinguish the Alzheimer from the normal group; on both measures the patients' scores were significantly worse. It was concluded that the performance of a simple tone discrimination task requiring a button-press response does not sufficiently tax those cognitive functions impaired in the earlier stages of Alzheimer's dementia to result in abnormally slowed cognitive processing of the kind reflected in P300 latency.
Our data demonstrate the use of the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique to study mRNA expression of genes that are devoid of introns. We have developed conditions that eliminate the false positives that can result from any preexisting DNA and that could confuse the interpretation of results. This modification (DNase pretreatment under specified conditions) ensures that the product resulting from RT-PCR is due to amplification of cDNA that has been synthesized during the reverse transcriptase reaction. Our results illustrate and emphasize the importance of including both a DNase pretreatment and a minus RT control. Using this modified procedure, our data illustrate clearly the ability of this protocol to demonstrate the presence of very low levels of olfactory marker protein (OMP) mRNA in three non-olfactory rat brain regions (cerebellum, thalamus/hypothalamus and cerebral hemispheres) where OMP mRNA was previously unknown. These data confirm a prior report of the ectopic expression of OMP immunoreactivity in these locations and indicate for the first time the &quot;illegitimate&quot; expression of extremely low levels of OMP mRNA in a non-neural tissue. Finally, this modification of the RT-PCR procedure will now permit the study of expression of specific, rare, mRNA molecules in the absence of any prior knowledge of the structure of their genes of origin.
1. The effects of alpha 2-adrenoceptor and kappa-opiate receptor activation on 45Ca accumulation into rat cortical synaptosomes were examined. 2. Clonidine (1 microM) and U50488H (1 microM) significantly reduced 45Ca accumulation under both resting (5 mM K+) and depolarizing (15-30 mM K+) conditions. 3. The inhibitory effects of the agonists on 45Ca accumulation into synaptosomes were enhanced in the presence of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange inhibitor sodium orthovanadate (vanadate, 2 mM), and were not present in mitochondrial preparations. 4. When the agonists were used together, their inhibitory effects were not additive but were, in fact, attenuated. 5. In the presence of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (1 microM), the inhibitory effect of U50488H on 45Ca accumulation was enhanced. A similar increase in the inhibitory effectiveness of clonidine was observed in the presence of naloxone (20 microM). 6. When synaptosomes were pretreated with 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX, 0.5 mM), dibutyrylcyclic AMP (db-cyclic AMP, 10 microM) or 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (8Br-cyclic AMP, 10 microM), the inhibitory effects of clonidine and U50488H were abolished, suggesting that a decrease in cyclic AMP production is part of the receptor-effector coupling mechanism of both receptor systems. 7. The phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA, 0.05 microM) increased 45Ca accumulation but did not alter the inhibitory effects of clonidine or U50488H, thus showing that the effects of the agonists are not mediated by protein kinase C. 8. We conclude that alpha 2-adrenoceptor and Kappa-opiate receptor activation dramatically reduce 45Ca influx through Ca21 channels (e.g., by 50%), that there is a functional antagonism between the two receptor systems and that in both cases, the receptor effector mechanism involves a decrease in cyclic AMP production.
We find that beta-endorphin (Bend) can have, positive, negative, or neutral dose-dependent effects on the mitogen-stimulated proliferation of human peripheral blood lymphocytes. The distribution of positive, negative, or neutral responses was nonrandom. In studies carried out over a year, we show that an individual's mitogen-stimulated lymphocyte proliferative response to Bend can change with time. We show that the inhibition induced by cortisol can be, in part, relieved by Bend. On the basis of our results and those of others in the field, we put forward a model that can qualitatively account for many of the observations we and other investigators have made.
In summary this important conference covered the entire gamut of issues regarding retroviral damage of the central nervous system. Neuropathologists interested in this rapidly moving field should strongly consider attending the next satellite conference to be held in June 1991 in Florence, Italy. Given the almost carnival atmosphere that the parent International AIDS Conference has fallen into, this is an important satellite conference that lends itself well to the close sharing of data from a wide spectrum of neuroscience fields.



Fossil, comparative anatomic and ontogenic data suggest that several systems of functionally and anatomically related brain regions underwent selective expansion or differentiation during primate evolution, according to the principle of 'integrated phylogeny'. This process was closely tied to expansion of the neocortex, particularly of its association areas. System I regions include the association neocortices as well as the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the entorhinal cortex, and subdivisions of the septum, hippocampal formation and amygdaloid complex. This system undergoes degeneration in Alzheimer's and Pick's diseases and Down syndrome. System II includes segregated circuits involving parts of the frontal cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, and substantia nigra, and can become defective in obsessive-compulsive disorder, Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. Certain nuclei in the mesencephalon and brainstem, which co-evolved with System I and II regions, also demonstrate pathology in diseases affecting these systems. Integrated phylogeny of each of these systems during primate evolution likely was promoted by regulatory mutations, gene duplications or chromosomal rearrangements. Thus, understanding the genetic basis of integrated phylogeny of systems of brain regions during primate evolution may elucidate the pathogenesis of the human diseases which affect these regions.
The development of strategies for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other age-associated dementias is an important goal of research in the neurosciences. It is suggested that advances in understanding of the etiology of those disorders would provide the most obvious avenues to development of preventative treatments. Research findings from both clinical investigations and studies of animal models are presented which suggest a neuroimmunologic component in age-associated dementia. Clinical studies suggest an association between dementia and brain-reactive autoantibodies in subsets of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Studies of mice suggest that: 1) when compared with normal genotypes, mutant mice with accelerated autoimmunity show learning and memory impairments at earlier chronological ages; 2) the learning and memory deficits of autoimmune and normal mice are qualitatively similar; 3) the behavioral deficits of normal aged and autoimmune mice are sensitive to similar pharmacologic interventions. Overall, these findings suggest that intervention strategies targeting the immune system might be useful in the treatment or prevention of aging-associated dementia. Autoimmune mice would be useful as models for the development and testing of such immune-based interventions.
In humans, deficiency of the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) is associated with a disorder known as Lesch-Nyhan syndrome which includes severe neurobehavioral abnormalities. Several animal models which have been developed to examine the neurobiologic substrates of this disorder have suggested a role for abnormal function in purine/dopamine neurotransmission, but the relationship between HPRT-deficiency and these abnormalities remains unknown. Recently, HPRT-deficient mice have been produced which appear to have similar, though more subtle changes in brain dopamine function. These mice will be useful in elucidating the relationship between HPRT-deficiency and the neurological deficits observed in patients with this disorder.

Electrical or magnetic stimulation of the human motor cortex causes a strong, short latency facilitation of tibialis anterior (TA) motoneurons but only weak, longer latency changes in the excitability of soleus (SOL) motoneurons. The facilitation of TA motoneurons has been attributed to the monosynaptic action of the &quot;fast&quot; corticospinal pathway. The present study further investigates the cortical control of soleus motoneurons in man. In tests of reaction time to auditory stimuli, normal subjects took significantly longer to activate soleus motoneurons than tibialis anterior motoneurons. Thus we could not demonstrate the existence of a &quot;fast&quot; pathway from the brain to SOL motoneurons that, for some reason, is not activated by magnetic stimulation. The hypothesis that the cortex might control soleus motoneurons indirectly by modulation of the Ia input from muscle spindles was tested. Magnetic stimulation of the cortex was used to condition the facilitation of soleus motoneurons resulting from the stimulation of group I fibres in the tibial nerve. There were no consistent changes in Ia facilitation. We conclude (i) that there is no evidence so far that SOL motoneurons are excited by a direct pathway from the cortex (similar to that projecting to TA motoneurons) and (ii) that the observed changes in firing probability of soleus motoneurons produced by magnetic stimulation over the motor cortex do not result from modulation of presynaptic inhibition of Ia afferents.
1. Type 1 astrocytes prepared from 3-day rat cortex and cerebellum express the 1.3-kb nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA and synthesize and release beta-NGF. 2. Isoproterenol (IP), a beta-adrenergic agonist, stimulates NGF mRNA content in cortical astrocytes; this increase is blocked by the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol but not the alpha-antagonist phenoxybenzamine. The EC50 for the effect of IP is 5 nM. 3. IP increases astrocyte cyclic AMP as does forskolin, which directly activates adenylate cyclase and also increases NGF mRNA content. Cerebellar astrocytes contain about one-third as much NGF mRNA, which can also be increased by forskolin and cyclic AMP. 4. These results suggest that CNS astrocytes can serve as a source of NGF and that the NGF gene is one of the class of cyclic AMP regulated genes.
A rare case of intracranial teratoma is reported in which a tooth-like structure was clearly defined in the pituitary fossa. The authors are unaware of any similar case having been reported previously.
The development of the microprocessor has enabled biomedical researchers to use powerful computers as single user workstations. Many such systems are now in use--some developed for use within individual laboratories, and others purchased commercially. These systems typically mix computer graphics and image processing capabilities. No standard exists that allows users of these workstations to exchange anatomical data in graphical or image form. This paper considers issues involved in designing a flexible format for exchanging digital anatomical data between laboratories.
We examined patients with Dementia-Alzheimer's Type, depression, and matched controls on tasks designed to compare automatic (monitoring frequency and modality) and effortful (free recall) processing of words and pictures. The results demonstrated that depressed patients performed poorly only when conditions required effortful processing, but DAT patients performed poorly under all conditions. There was almost no overlap in scores between DAT and elderly depressed patients on one of the measures of automatic processing suggesting that this measure may be clinically useful. The results suggest that automatic memory processes can be partially dissociated from effortful memory processes, but that both types of operations are impaired in DAT patients.
By taking advantage of the extensive homology found in the cytoplasmic domains of several cloned cadherin molecules, we were able to identify two species of cadherins in bovine aortic endothelial cells using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The two species of PCR products were subsequently used as DNA probes to isolate the corresponding cDNA clones from bovine adrenal microvascular endothelial cells. Sequence comparison with other characterized cadherin molecules indicates that the major cDNA species encodes a cadherin molecule highly homologous to chicken and mouse N-cadherins, while the minor species is most homologous to mouse and human P-cadherins. Northern blot analysis with the corresponding cDNA probe showed a wide distribution of bovine N-cadherin among non-neuronal, as well as neuronal tissues, while P-cadherin was most abundant in kidney among all the bovine tissues tested, but was undetectable in placenta.
Systemic administration of the amphetamine derivative p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) causes degeneration of 5-HT axon terminals in rat brain. The present study was designed to determine whether PCA induces neurotoxic effects by a direct action on 5-HT axon terminals. PCA was administered by microinjection directly into the cerebral cortex of rats. Continuous intracerebral infusions were made over extended time periods (10 min-48 h) to explore whether the induction of neurotoxicity requires a prolonged exposure of axon terminals to the drug. Two weeks after drug administration, brain sections that passed through the injection site were processed for 5-HT immunohistochemistry. The 5-HT innervation of cerebral cortex in PCA-injected animals was compared with that after intracortical injection of saline or of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. The results demonstrate that, in the concentrations used, direct application of PCA into the neocortex does not elicit axonal degeneration, even after a continuous infusion for 2 days. This finding suggests that PCA itself is not directly toxic to 5-HT axons.
Effects of intraventricular injections of GABA, and a GABA agonist, muscimol and an antagonist, picrotoxin on succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) enzyme activity in plasma and a few hypothalamic nuclei of brain of rats have been investigated using biochemical, histochemical and cytophotometric techniques. Results show that SDH decreased by GABA and muscimol treatment, and increased after picrotoxin injection. From the above findings, it is apparent that GABA, muscimol and picrotoxin influence SDH activity of plasma and hypothalamic nuclei.
A computer simulation model was developed to investigate the use of interregional correlations of cerebral metabolic rates to analyze functional interactions in the brain. The model generates simulated metabolic data for individual brain regions in a specified number of subjects, where there are defined functional couplings amongst the regions. Random numbers provide the variability seen in measured metabolic data. Correlational analysis is performed on these simulated data sets. The parameters of the model can be chosen so that simulated and actual metabolic data are very similar. The model demonstrates that the change in the correlation coefficient between normalized metabolic data in two brain regions is related to the change in the strength of the functional association between the two regions. The model also is used to explore the relations between patterns of correlations and the underlying sets of functional couplings. The results indicate that correlational analysis provides more information about regional involvement in neural systems than does region-by-region comparisons of absolute metabolic rates.
The threshold of a 1250-Hz tonal signal was measured in the presence of five noise bands (each 50 Hz wide, centered at 850, 1050, 1250, 1450, and 1650 Hz) under five conditions of uncertainty about the waveform type (&quot;correlated&quot; or &quot;uncorrelated&quot;), and/or the specific waveform sample to be presented. The waveform type was correlated when the temporal envelopes of all of the noise bands were the same, and was uncorrelated when the temporal envelope of the band centered on the signal differed from the common envelope of the other bands. At the low-uncertainty end of the continuum of conditions, the same waveform type was presented throughout an entire block of trials, and, in addition, the same waveform sample was presented on the two observation intervals of a single trial (but changed across trials). At the high-uncertainty end of the continuum, both the waveform type and the waveform sample were chosen at random for every observation interval. Threshold estimates obtained from trials in which both observation intervals contained the same waveform type were not affected by uncertainty about the waveform sample within a trial, nor by uncertainty about the waveform type introduced across trials. Thus the comodulation masking release, or CMR (the difference in the thresholds obtained with the uncorrelated and correlated waveforms), calculated from these types of trials was robust across all of the uncertainty conditions. However, on those trials in which one correlated interval and one uncorrelated interval were paired, threshold estimates were influenced by a bias for listeners to choose the uncorrelated interval as the signal interval, whether or not it actually contained the signal. This bias reveals the importance of recognizing the contribution of the nonsignal interval in experiments involving masker uncertainty. Parallel results were obtained using the comodulation detection difference (CDD) task. In some conditions, marked individual differences were observed.
Speech error data have been used to argue for the psychological reality of distinctive features and phonemes as well as the hierarchical ordering levels of processing for speech production. The models of production that have emerged from analysis of these data are nearly unanimous in characterizing (implicitly or explicitly) the motor output level as entirely governed by prior selection and processing of larger units, especially the phoneme. This study reports on the laboratory elicitation of sublexical speech errors by means of tongue twisters. Simultaneous audio and electromyographic recordings were analyzed. Where possible, single-motor unit discrimination was carried out to preclude the possibility of signal contamination by activation of adjacent musculature. The results indicate that traditional methods of data collection on which most speech error corpora are based are inadequate. Production models based on these corpora are not supported by the electromyographic data and must accordingly be revised.
A new approach using fast atom bombardment combined with mass spectrometry to characterize polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in the range of 128-252 u molecular weight is described. Sulfolane was employed as a liquid matrix for these -conjugated hydrocarbons. Bombardment of sulfolane solution of certain PAHs with an atom beam produces both radical cation (M(+.)) and protonated molecule [(M + H)(+)], with no evidence of fragmentation. Collisional activation of the fast atom bombardment-desorbed M(+.) ions, however, results in several structure-specific fragment ions. Structural differences in a few isomeric hydrocarbons can be detected using the [(M + H)(+)]/[M(+.)] abundance ratio and in the pyrene-fluoranthene pair by the B/E linked-field-collision-activated dissociation data. The [(M + H)(+)]/[M(+.)] was found to be compound-specific and correlated well with certain properties (resonance energy, proton affinity, and ionizing energy) of PAHs.
The effects of the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D-(E)-4-(3-phosphonoprop-2-enyl)piperazine-2-carboxylic acid (D-CPP-ene; SDZ EAA 494) upon ischemic brain damage have been examined in anesthetized cats. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and the animals were killed 6 h later. The amount of early ischemic brain damage was assessed in coronal sections at 16 predetermined stereotaxic planes. Pretreatment with D-CPP-ene (15 mg/kg i.v. followed by continuous infusion at 0.17 mg/kg/min until death), 15 min prior to MCA occlusion, significantly reduced the volume of ischemic brain damage (from 20.6 +/- 9.9% of the cerebral hemisphere in vehicle-treated cats to 7.2 +/- 4.4% in drug-treated cats; p less than 0.01). The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist D-CPP-ene is as effective as noncompetitive NMDA antagonists in reducing the amount of ischemic brain damage in this model of focal cerebral ischemia in a gyrencephalic species.
Laser-Doppler flowmetry was used to continuously monitor cortical CBF during electrical stimulation of the fastigial nucleus (FN). Rats were anesthetized with isoflurane (0.75-5%), paralyzed, and artificially ventilated. The LDF probe was placed over a target region of the parietal cortex through a burr hole. The hypertension associated with FN stimulation was prevented by spinal cord transection at C1 with arterial pressure maintained by i.v. infusion of phenylephrine. After cord transection, CBF changed linearly with changes in arterial pco2 (r = 0.93; n = 23). FN stimulation (50-100 microA, 50 Hz, 1 s on/1 s off) produced sustained increases in CBF that developed slowly, reaching 50% of maximum within 24 +/- 1 s of stimulation (n = 17). After stimulation, CBF returned to baseline gradually within a time period (84-540 s) proportional to the duration of the stimulation (r = 0.93; n = 15). The CBF response was stimulus frequency and intensity dependent, was elicited only from restricted sites in FN, and was abolished by atropine (1 mg/kg, i.v.) or pentobarbital (30 mg/kg, i.v.). The slow temporal profile of the cerebrovasodilation is compatible with the hypothesis that in cerebral cortex local neurons mediate the vasodilation by interstitial release of vasoactive agents rather than by a direct action of neural processes on blood vessels. LDF is an effective technique for monitoring phasic change in CBF and may be useful in studies of the intrinsic neurogenic control of the cerebral circulation.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of enzymes found throughout the body, with the greatest diversity and concentration in brain tissue. To understand further the differential role of PKC isozymes in brain, we have raised antibodies against four PKC isoforms--alpha, beta I, beta II and gamma--using specific amino acid sequences predicted from cDNA sequences. On Western blot of rat cerebellar homogenate, these antibodies stained a band of Mr 80,000, a known molecular mass for PKC, except for anti-PKC(beta II), which stained an additional minor Mr 90,000 band. On rat cerebellar sections, specific sets of cells were stained by each antibody. In the molecular layer, stellate and basket cells were stained with anti-PKC(alpha) but not with anti-PKC(beta I), -(beta II), or -(gamma). Anti-PKC (alpha) and anti-PKC(beta II) seemed to stain the Bergmann glial fibre. In the Purkinje cell layer, Purkinje cells were stained with anti-PKC[beta I) and -(gamma). Anti-PKC (alpha) and -(beta II) were negative. Interestingly, a few Purkinje cells were not stained with anti-PKC(gamma). In the granule cell layer, both granule and Golgi cells were stained with anti-PKC(beta I) and -(beta II) but not with anti-PKC(alpha) or -(gamma). Glial cells were stained with anti-PKC(beta II) but not with anti-PKC(alpha), -(beta I), or -(gamma). This study suggests a differential distribution of PKC isoforms in different cells, irrespective of their neurotransmitters. The presence of both positive and negative staining of Purkinje cells with anti-PKC(gamma) raised the possibility of their heterogeneity.
The transsynaptic regulation of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was studied by recording the changes in enzymatic activity following denervation in two types of autonomic ganglia in the frog, Rana pipiens. Opposite effects on AChE were found in the parasympathetic cardiac ganglion and in the sympathetic lumbar ganglion; denervation produced a significant increase in AChE activity in cardiac ganglia but a significant decrease in lumbar ganglia. The relative effects of denervation on intracellular and total AChE were examined by selectively inhibiting extracellular AChE with echothiophate, a poorly lipid-soluble cholinesterase inhibitor. Denervation resulted in a significant increase in intracellular AChE in cholinergic cardiac ganglia but had no effect on intracellular AChE activity in adrenergic lumbar ganglia. Histochemical studies revealed little change in extracellular AChE staining upon denervation in the cardiac ganglion, whereas in the lumbar ganglia there was a loss of AChE-specific reaction product. These results raise the possibility that the transsynaptic control of AChE activity by innervation in the frog is influenced by the transmitter synthetic properties of the postsynaptic ganglion cells.
In rat olfactory bulb homogenate, carbachol stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50 = 1.1 microM). The carbachol stimulation occurred fully in membranes that had been prepared in the presence of 1 mM EGTA and incubated in a Ca2(+)-free enzyme reaction medium. Under these conditions, exogenous calmodulin (1 microM) failed to stimulate adenylate cyclase activity. In miniprisms of olfactory bulb, carbachol (1 mM) increased accumulation of inositol phosphates, but this response was markedly reduced in a Ca2(+)-free medium. Moreover, the carbachol stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity was not affected by staurosporine at a concentration (1 microM) that completely blocked the stimulatory effect of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, an activator of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase. Quinacrine, a nonselective phospholipase A2 inhibitor, reduced the carbachol stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity, but this inhibition appeared to be competitive with a Ki of 0.2 microM. Nordihydroguaiaretic acid and indomethacin, two inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism, failed to affect the carbachol response. These results indicate that in rat olfactory bulb, muscarinic receptors stimulate adenylate cyclase activity through a mechanism that is independent of Ca2+ and phospholipid hydrolysis.
In old BALB/c mice susceptibility to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) with bovine proteolipid apoprotein (PLP) is reduced significantly. Eleven of 21 8-week BALB/c mice developed clinical signs of EAE following injection of PLP but only two of 18 12-month BALB/c mice and one of 19 24-month BALB/c mice showed clinical signs of EAE. Susceptibility to EAE induced by either PLP or bovine myelin basic protein (MBP) also was reduced in old SJL mice. However, the aging process had no effect on the clinical signs of EAE in both strains, if EAE appeared. Some old BALB/c mice developed histologic EAE with significant demyelination without clinical signs. Lymphocyte proliferative response to mitogens and antigens, and interleukin-2 (IL-2) production, also were depressed in the aged mice (24-month BALB/c and 18-month SJL) probably due to the functional defect of T cells, since the function of macrophages as antigen-presenting cells was not affected in the old mice. PLP-sensitized spleen cells (SPC) from 8-week mice were able to adoptively transfer EAE to young and aged recipients. PLP-sensitized T cells from 8-week mice, reconstituted with young or old monocytes, also were able to transfer EAE into young mice. In contrast, spleen cells from aged mice did not induce EAE, so the reduction of EAE susceptibility was mainly explained by the failure of T cell activity. This T cell defect was not restored by exogenous IL-2.
By studying intramuscular nerves in 2 patients from 2 families with hereditary pressure-sensitive neuropathy (HPSN), the occurrence of abnormal thickening of myelin sheaths (&quot;tomacula&quot;) was for the first time demonstrated in motor nerve fibers. Furthermore, the tomacula were found to line up on certain axons instead of being randomly distributed. These results indicate that the recurrent mononeuropathies of HPSN arise from an underlying asymptomatic motor and sensory polyneuropathy. It is also suggested that some signals emanating from the axons might be related to the formation of tomacula on the basis of the genetically determined myelination disorder.
1. This study addresses the following questions. 1) In a previous experiment, when the combined lateral gastrocnemius-soleus nerve was cross-innervated by the medial gastrocnemius (MG) nerve, was the predominance of slow muscle units in soleus muscle a result of selective routing of slow motor axons into soleus? 2) Is MG-nerve-induced conversion of soleus muscle fibers from slow to fast more complete at very long (18 mo vs. 9-11 mo) postoperative times? 3) Do MG motoneurons that cross-innervate soleus muscle recover their normal membrane electrical properties at very long postoperative times? 2. The proximal portion of approximately one-third of the MG nerve was coapted directly with the distally isolated soleus nerve. The MG muscle remained innervated by the unoperated portion of the MG nerve. At 6, 10, or 18 mos postoperative, motoneuron and/or muscle-unit properties were determined for MG motoneurons innervating MG, soleus, or neither muscle, and for axotomized soleus motoneurons. 3. In the partially denervated MG muscle, the proportions of motor units of each type were normal. This suggests that the population of MG motor axons that had been directed to the soleus nerve also contained a representative distribution of MG motoneuron types. 4. Most motor units (74%) in cross-innervated soleus (Xsoleus) were type S (based on muscle-unit contractile properties), in spite of the soleus nerve's having been cross-connected by approximately 75% fast MG motoneurons. Thus, even at very long postoperative times, slow soleus muscle units resisted conversion by fast MG motoneurons. 5. Thirty-two percent of MG motoneurons that had been cross-connected to soleus nerve elicited no measurable muscle contraction, compared with approximately 10% in previous reinnervation experiments in which the MG nerve was coapted with the MG or lateral gastrocnemius-soleus nerve. Thus MG motoneurons may be disadvantaged in their ability to innervate soleus muscle fibers. 6. It appears that at long postoperative times, those fast MG motoneurons tha had innervated large soleus muscle units had failed to convert those muscle fibers to fast types and had failed also to recover their normal motoneuron electrical properties. Conversion and recovery did occur for fast MG motoneurons that innervated small soleus muscle units and for slow MG motoneurons.
Excitatory amino acid (EAA)-mediated synaptic transmission is the most prevalent excitatory system within the mammalian brain. Activation of EAA receptors has been postulated to contribute to neuronal cell death in stroke, epilepsy, hypoglycemia, and Huntington's disease. Kynurenic acid is an endogenous substance that inhibits EAA receptors and may therefore influence important physiologic and pathologic processes. The release of intracerebrally synthesized kynurenic acid into the extracellular fluid (ECF), where it may act at EAA receptors, has not been established in vivo. We studied the synthesis and release of kynurenic acid in the rat striatum using intracerebral microdialysis coupled with high performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection. The basal ECF concentration of kynurenic acid in the rat corpus striatum was 17.1 +/- 1.1 nM. Peripheral administration of the immediate biosynthetic precursor of kynurenic acid, L-kynurenine, resulted in marked dose-dependent increases in striatal ECF concentrations of kynurenic acid, peaking at 2-2.5 hr. The highest dose of L-kynurenine (100 mg/kg), administered peripherally, resulted in a 108-fold increase in plasma kynurenic acid levels and a 37-fold increase in cerebral ECF levels. Peripheral administration of kynurenic acid, at a dose that caused plasma levels to increase 430-fold, resulted in only 4-fold increases in striatal ECF concentrations. The precursor responsiveness of striatal ECF kynurenic acid to peripherally infused L-kynurenine was blocked by the central application (via the dialysis probe) of aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of the immediate synthetic enzyme for kynurenic acid, kynurenine aminotransferase. Administration of L-tryptophan was less effective than L-kynurenine in increasing ECF kynurenic acid concentrations and did so at a considerably later time interval (6 hr).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The capacities of humans and monkeys to discriminate between the frequencies of mechanical sinusoids delivered to the glabrous skin of the hand have been measured in psychophysical experiments. The 2 primates have similar capacities; they make discriminations with Weber fractions that change little over the frequency range from 20 to 200 Hz. The discriminatory capacities are similar whether stimuli are received passively or acquired actively. Combined experiments have been made in monkeys in which the electrical signs of the activity of quickly adapting (QA) and slowly adapting (SA) neurons of postcentral areas 3b and 1 were recorded, both in the working state as the animal made discriminations and in the irrelevant state in which the stimuli did not guide behavior. The neuronal responses were analyzed in terms of discharge rates, periodicities in the neuronal discharges, and harmonic contents. It was shown that discriminatory capacity depends upon the period lengths in the sets of periodically entrained activity evoked by stimuli readily discriminated, and not upon the small differences in rates of discharge evoked by those stimuli. The periodicities were shown by harmonic analysis to be sharply limited to stimulus frequencies. Low-frequency stimuli evoke periodicities at the second and third harmonics in some neurons, in addition to strongly periodic signals at the fundamental frequency of the stimuli. Their presence does not appear to interfere with frequency discrimination. Neuronal responses recorded in the stimulus-irrelevant state were not distinguishable from those recorded as monkeys made discriminations. The responses of SA neurons, recorded under similar conditions, resembled those of QA neurons in almost every feature, but reasons are given for concluding that the SA system plays no role in frequency discrimination in the sense of flutter.
Dopaminergic neurons of the A 10 cell group in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA) exhibit electrical and dye coupling. Also, the activity of these neurons at least partially reflects their content of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis. We examined the ultrastructural localization of TH to determine the morphological features of dopaminergic neurons in the VTA and the relationships between their TH immunoreactivity content and afferent input. Antiserum against the trypsin-treated form of TH was localized using peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) and immunoautoradiographic methods. Immunoreactivity was detected in perikarya, dendrites, and terminals. The perikarya contained the usual organelles, as well as cilia, lamellar bodies, and subsurface cisterns. Qualitative evaluation of peroxidase reaction product and quantitative analysis of the number of silver grains/unit area revealed varying amounts of TH immunoreactivity in nuclei and cytoplasm. Lightly or intensely labeled nuclei were not necessarily associated with corresponding cytoplasmic labeling density. However, cytoplasmic labeling directly corresponded to the relative frequencies of neuronal appositions and synaptic input. Those neurons with less dense cytoplasmic PAP product received fewer synaptic contacts and were less frequently in apposition to other TH-labeled soma and dendrites than neurons displaying relatively more dense cytoplasmic PAP product. Analysis of single sections revealed that 67% (n = 71) of all TH-labeled somata and 15% (n = 2431) of all TH-labeled dendrites were in apposition to other TH-labeled soma or dendrites. TH-labeled terminals were rarely detected and contained relatively low levels of immunoreactivity. The majority of labeled terminals (n = 29/46) formed synapses with labeled soma and dendrites. Unlabeled terminals (n = 2424) in contact with TH-labeled dendrites appeared to form predominantly symmetric synapses. Ten percent (n = 248) of the unlabeled terminals dually synapsed onto adjacent immunoreactive dendrites, perikarya, or dendrite and perikaryon. We conclude that in the rat VTA, (1) detected TH immunoreactivity in cytoplasm, but not nucleus, corresponds to the level of feedback principally from nondopaminergic afferents; (2) dendrodendritic as well as axodendritic synapses between TH-immunoreactive neurons may mediate dopaminergic autoinhibition; and (3) gap junction-like appositions between neurons and convergent inputs from unlabeled terminals onto TH-immunoreactive profiles provide an anatomical substrate whereby cellular activities might be coordinated under certain conditions.
The developmental expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and leucine-enkephalin (L-Enk) was examined in embryonic, early postnatal, and adult chromaffin cells with double- and triple-label immunocytochemical techniques and compared to the expression of immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). In addition, the establishment of preganglionic innervation was assessed by labeling for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and L-Enk. NPY-IR was detectable on embryonic (E) day 15 in a clustered subpopulation of TH-IR cells. L-Enk and PNMT-IR cells were initially present on E16 in a separate nonclustered population of TH-IR cells. By late embryonic development, twice as many TH-IR cells expressed NPY and 4 times as many expressed L-Enk as in the adult. In contrast to early embryonic development, NPY-IR was evident in both the clustered and nonclustered subpopulation of TH-IR cells at this time. The proportion of NPY-IR chromaffin cells decreased to adult values during the first postnatal week at the time when obviously clustered TH-IR cells were no longer observed. The embryonic rise in the proportion of L-Enk-IR cells correlates with the developmental increase in glucocorticoid production, while the postnatal decrease corresponds to the appearance of ChAT-IR in the preganglionic innervation of the adrenal medulla. These results indicate that NPY and L-Enk are expressed at different times and in different subpopulations of cells in the embryonic adrenal. Further, the observation that peptide expression by chromaffin cells undergoes marked changes during development raises the possibility that a number of factors including developmental history, environmental signals and impulse activity play a role in the regulation of neuropeptide expression in sympathoadrenal derivatives of the neural crest.
We have previously reported that recently synthesized RNA is selectively transported into the dendrites of hippocampal neurons grown in culture (Davis et al., 1987). The present study provides further details about this transport process, focusing especially on the velocity of transport, by comparing the velocity of dendritic transport of RNA in neurons of different ages and in the branched and unbranched dendrites of individual neurons. In our previous study, we recognized that calculations of transport velocity could be compromised because transport was being evaluated in a population of dendrites of varying lengths. The present study uses a mathematical modeling approach to determine how the morphology of the population of dendrites would affect the analysis of transport velocity. Focusing first on a simple model, we compared the distribution of transported material at various times when all dendrites were of the same length and when the population included dendrites of different lengths. We found that the distance of labeling increased linearly over time when all dendrites were of the same length, but increased with a negatively accelerating curve when dendrites were of different lengths. We then determined the actual distribution of dendritic lengths in cultured hippocampal neurons, based on immunostaining with an antibody directed against the selective dendritic marker, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Using a computer model, we calculated the mean distance of transport as a function of time in this population of dendrites, assuming different velocities of transport. The velocity that best fit the measured distances of RNA transport in both 7- and 15-d-old neurons was 11 microns/hr (0.26 mm/d). However, for the dendrites exhibiting the longest distance of labeling, the best-fitting curve assumed a velocity of 21 microns/hr in both 7- and 15-d-old neurons (0.50 mm/d). Comparisons of transport in branched and unbranched dendrites revealed that the distance of labeling over branched dendrites was consistently longer than over unbranched dendrites of individual neurons. However, neurons with a larger proportion of branched dendrites did not exhibit a greater mean distance of transport. The density of silver grains was higher over branched than over unbranched dendrites, suggesting that a greater amount of recently synthesized RNA may be transported into branched dendrites. Taken together, these results suggest that RNA transport into dendrites is regulated differentially in the dendrites of individual neurons.
Several products generated from the Drosophila Shaker gene by alternative splicing predict a group of similar proteins with an identical central and variable amino and carboxyl domains. We have constructed 9 Sh cDNAs combining 3 different 5' domains with 3 different 3' domains. RNA transcribed from 6 of these cDNAs induce K+ currents in Xenopus oocytes. All currents share similar properties of voltage dependence, potassium selectivity, and block by 4-AP, TEA, and charybdotoxin. These properties presumably result from a channel core formed by the identical central region of the proteins. The currents differ in macroscopic inactivation kinetics. Five RNAs induced K+ currents which inactivate, each at distinct rates, during short depolarizations. The sixth RNA induces a current that essentially does not inactivate unless depolarized for many seconds. This raises the possibility that Sh may encode nontransient as well as transient K+ currents. Analysis of currents produced by the various combinations suggests that the divergent amino domains influence the stability of a first, nonabsorbing, inactivated state. This results in striking differences in the probability of channel reopening, as observed in single-channel recordings, of those channels with identical carboxyl but different amino domains. Furthermore, based on macroscopic analysis of the currents, we suggest that the primary role of the carboxyl domains is to influence the relative stability between the first and a second inactivated state. The second inactivated state is essentially absorbing, and recovery from this state is very slow. The observed differences in the rates of recovery from inactivation of channels containing different carboxyl domains reflect differences in the rates at which they enter this second inactivated state.
The popularity of in vivo microdialysis sampling of low-molecular-weight substances has focused attention on improved liquid chromatography procedures for such studies. The complexity of the in vivo experiment, coupled with the complexity of LC, has discouraged some workers from developing this capability in their laboratory. Many small-volume dialysate samples are collected over hours of experiments. Proper handling of the animal (anaesthesia, temperature control, probe size and placement, choice of perfusion media) is critical. Simultaneously giving equal attention to sample collection and storage, derivatization, analysis precision, calibration for accuracy, and preventive maintenance of LC pumps, columns, and detectors is difficult for many laboratories. For reliable LC-based assays for microliter volumes of dialysates minimum human interaction with the samples is desirable. Automation strategies and selection of LC components which we have adopted are described for routine analytes such as biogenic amines, amino acids, choline/acetylcholine, and glucose.
It has long been a goal of the biochemist to study the chemistry of single cells. This is particularly important in neuroscience, since each cell can maintain a specific function and identity. Investigations into neurotransmitter compartmentalization within the cell body of neurons should lead to an understanding of the role of the cell body in metabolism, uptake and storage of neurotransmitters. Using capillary electrophoresis, it has been possible to separate and detect attomole levels of neurotransmitter in picoliter volumes of cytoplasm withdrawn from single neurons of the pond snail, Planorbis corneus. This work demonstrates, for the first time, the direct determination of the cytoplasmic concentration of dopamine in single, intact neurons.
In contrast to in vivo release methods, in vitro release techniques utilising brain slices or synaptosomes affords a simple and reproducible means of measuring both receptor affinity and efficacy of drugs acting at prejunctional receptors in the CNS. Most studies have used brain tissue loaded with radiolabelled neurotransmitter or its precursor via the high affinity uptake system for these substances which are present on nerve terminals. Depolarisation evoked release induced by either high K+ or electrical field stimulation increases the release of radioactivity and this overflow can be readily measured by liquid scintillation counting. Recent studies have started to emphasise the measurement of the release of endogenous neurotransmitters from brain tissue using similar depolarisation stimuli. Examples include the release of dopamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline and 5-HT and their control by presynaptic receptors. Most of these studies have used HPLC with ECD detection as a means of separating and analysing for the transmitter of interest. The relative strengths and weaknesses of the measurement of radiolabelled or endogenous neurotransmitter release in vitro as a means of identifying presynaptic receptors is discussed.
The antihypertensive action of clonidine (CLO) depends mainly on decreased release of the sympathetic neurotransmitter, norepinephrine (NE), at vascular neuroeffector junctions. The decreased release can be due to stimulation of alpha-2 adrenoceptors or other receptors in the brain or due to stimulation of presynaptic inhibitory alpha-2 adrenoceptors on sympathetic nerve endings. To compare central and peripheral contributions to the depressor action of CLO, renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) and renal spillover of NE (RNEs) were measured at baseline and during reflexive increases in RSNA evoked by nitroprusside-induced hypotension (27, 50 and 105 micrograms/kg/min) before and after CLO treatment in adrenal-demedullated, anesthetized rats. Administration of CLO decreased RSNA by 52 +/- 8% and RNEs by 32 +/- 13% (means +/- S.E.M.). At levels of RSNA less than 50% above control, there were no significant changes in RNEs; above this level of activity RNEs increased, regardless of CLO treatment. CLO treatment did not alter significantly the relationship between increases in RSNA and in RNEs during nitroprusside-induced hypotension. The results suggest that in neurologically intact, anesthetized animals, CLO decreases renal NE release mainly by inhibiting sympathetic outflow, with little if any peripheral presynaptic action.
Adult male Syrian hamsters of the inbred LSH/Ss Lak strain were maintained under a 14L:10D light cycle until 13 weeks of age. At this point, they were implanted s.c. with elastomer capsules that were either empty or packed with 30-40 mg of 6-methoxybenzoxazolinone (6-MBOA), a compound found naturally in some monocotyledonous plants; half of the animals from each treatment group were then kept in long days (14L:10D) or transferred to short days (9L:15D). Testicular size was measured and blood samples collected from each hamster immediately before capsule implantation and again 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks later. Within just 2 weeks of exposure to short days the mean plasma levels of LH and FSH had significantly declined, in both the control and 6-MBOA-treated animals, and were basal within 4 weeks. Testicular size closely followed these gonadotrophin changes; within 4-6 weeks the testes from all of the short-day hamsters had completely regressed to a prepubertal size. At the end of the experiment, at Week 8, the animals were killed and various components of the hypothalamo-pituitary-testicular axis were compared between the treatment groups. The pituitary content of FSH and LH, testicular weight, mean serum level of testosterone, but not hypothalamic LHRH content or pituitary gland weight, were considerably lower in the short-day than in the long-day hamsters, regardless of whether or not they had been chronically treated with 6-MBOA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined 8 patients with moderate to severe left unilateral spatial neglect by means of a series of line cancellation tasks. We asked the patients to cross out lines in the 1st trial, to number lines in the 2nd trial, and again to cross out lines in the 3rd trial. In the 2nd trial with numbering, all the patients showed improvement of left unilateral spatial neglect. Numbering involved the successive use of increasing numbers. This process seemed to motivate the patients to continue searching for another line, even at the point when they would be satisfied that they had completed the task if they used simple crossing-out. Insufficient motivation for visuospatial searching may play an important role in unilateral spatial neglect observed in cancellation tasks.

Hippocampal slices were preincubated with 32P-orthophosphate and used to study the effect of glutamate analogs on protein phosphorylation. NMDA induced a rapid, 70% decrease in the phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein MAP2, with no change in the total amount of MAP2. Both competitive and noncompetitive NMDA antagonists blocked the effect of NMDA, but a glutamate antagonist acting at non-NMDA receptors did not. Kainate and quisqualate were less potent than NMDA in stimulating dephosphorylation of MAP2. Other forebrain regions (necortex, striatum, and olfactory bulb) also showed dephosphorylation of MAP2 in response to NMDA. These and other results suggest that NMDA receptor activation induces the dephosphorylation of MAP2 by stimulating a protein phosphatase, possibly the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin. Moreover, they indicate that alteration in the properties of a microtubule-associated protein may account for some of the effects of glutamate on postsynaptic neurons.
Subtypes of muscarinic receptors (possible m1 to m5) can be identified by their molecular size, specific effector systems and antagonist specificity. In membranes prepared from primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, [3H]propylbenzilylcholine mustard [( 3H]PBCM) irreversibly binds to muscarinic receptive proteins, having two major molecular sizes, 92 and 66 kDa. With relatively short periods of incubation (approx. 30 min, 30 degrees C) of [3H]PBCM with atropine, a nonspecific competitive receptor antagonist, the irreversible labeling of these muscarinic proteins by [3H]PBCM could be prevented. Methoctramine, a specific competitive antagonist at muscarinic receptors coupled to inhibition of adenylate cyclase, protected most of the muscarinic receptors having a molecular size of 66 kDa from binding of [3H]PBCM. These 66 kDa receptive proteins are suggested to be muscarinic m2 and m4 subtypes. (-)Quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate [(-)QNX], a somewhat specific competitive antagonist at muscarinic receptors coupled to hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol, prevented the binding of [3H]PBCM to 92 kDa muscarinic receptive proteins and some 66 kDa muscarinic receptive proteins. The 92 kDa receptive proteins are suggested to be the muscarinic m3 subtype and the 66 kDa proteins could be either the m2 or m4 receptor subtype. Lastly, pirenzepine, a nonspecific antagonist at muscarinic receptors mediating inhibition of adenylate cyclase and hydrolysis of PI in these cultures, resembled (-)QNX in preventing binding of [3H]PBCM to the 92 kDa receptive proteins and some 66 kDa receptive proteins. The suggested subtypes of muscarinic receptors, specifically bound by pirenzepine should be the m3 (92 kDa) and the m4 (66 kDa) subtypes, since pirenzepine reportedly exhibits a low affinity for the muscarinic m2 subtype.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, activation of muscarinic receptors stimulates both hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol (PI) and inhibition of adenylate cyclase. The specificity of three muscarinic receptor antagonists, pirenzepine, methoctramine and (-)quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate [(-)QNX], in blocking carbachol-stimulated hydrolysis of PI and inhibition of adenylate cyclase were determined. Pirenzepine was found to be nonspecific in blocking the carbachol-stimulated hydrolysis of PI and inhibition of adenylate cyclase, while methoctramine specifically antagonized carbachol-stimulated inhibition of adenylate cyclase with 600 times greater potency than carbachol-stimulated hydrolysis of PI. (-)Quinuclidinyl xanthene-9-carboxylate was approximately 20 times more potent in blocking the carbachol-stimulated hydrolysis of PI than inhibition of adenylate cyclase. Studies of the ability of these three antagonists to block the binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate [( 3H]QNB) to muscarinic sites on membranes from cerebellar granule cells, revealed that all three antagonists displayed binding characteristics, characteristic of two binding sites, possibly representing the two types of muscarinic receptors. However, the ratio of the affinities for each of the two binding sites was about ten for pirenzepine, 100 for methoctramine and 650 for (-)QNX. Thus, the specificity of these antagonists, in blocking the inhibition of adenylate cyclase and hydrolysis of PI did not correlate with their specificities obtained with the binding studies with [3H]QNB.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ flux was studied in cultured rat retinal ganglion cells and neocortical neurons. Intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i was measured with fura-2 fluorescence imaging. Baseline [Ca2+]i was 59 +/- 5 nM. In low [Mg2+]o, 200 microM NMDA reversibly increased [Ca2+]i to 421 +/- 70 nM. This rise in [Ca2+]i was blocked by the NMDA antagonists APV (200 microM) or [Mg2+]o (1 mM), but only slightly inhibited by the non-NMDA antagonist CNQX (10 microM). Chemical reduction with dithiothreitol (DTT) had no effect on resting [Ca2+]i. However, DTT increased the NMDA-induced rise in [Ca2+]i approximately 1.6-fold; the oxidizing agent dithiobisnitrobenzoic acid (DTNB) reversed this effect. In patch-clamp experiments, DTT increased NMDA-activated whole-cell conductance approximately 1.7-fold in low and high [Ca2+]o. The Ca2+/Na+ permeability ratio of approximately 7 for NMDA channels remained unaltered by chemical reduction. Thus, redox modulation of the NMDA receptor/channel complex results in a dramatic alteration in current magnitude but no change in ionic permeabilities.
A case of intradural herniation of a thoracic disc in a patient with a flaccid paraplegia is described. Intradural herniation of a thoracic disc is considered a rare event. A review of the relevant patient literature revealed 14 other reports involving 28 patients. No other report has described a patient with an intradural thoracic disc herniation who developed a flaccid paraplegia.

Behavioral effects of aprophen, atropine and scopolamine, in rats, were examined under a multiple schedule of food presentation and at different injection-test times. The effects of the varied treatments were compared to the ability of the drugs, under identical conditions, to prevent the behavioral effects of the anticholinesterase, physostigmine. Potencies of the antagonists to decrease response rates varied across three log units. All three antagonists produced dose-related attenuation of the response suppressant effects of physostigmine. In general, aprophen was a better antagonist than scopolamine or atropine. It blocked behavioral effects of physostigmine across a wider range of doses than the other compounds, and did so with less behavioral disruption. Although substantial differences between the three antagonists were observed, the behavioral effects of all three antagonists (when administered alone) were positively correlated with their efficacy as antagonists of the response suppressant effects of physostigmine.
Several studies have reported that MK-801 impairs the acquisition of various learning and memory tasks, while others suggest that MK-801 may interfere with performance rather than having a specific effect on memory. To characterize further the effects of MK-801 on learning and memory, MK-801 (0.05 mg/kg, SC) was administered prior to or immediately after learning trials in a trial-independent water maze task. Since MK-801 may affect nonassociative variables that may influence learning and memory, motor activity and general reactivity measures were also determined for 0.0125, 0.025, or 0.05 mg/kg of MK-801 administered SC. Since MK-801 may also be used to treat children with epilepsy, we investigated the possible persistent cognitive effects on neonates. MK-801 (0.02 mg/kg, SC) was administered at postnatal days 9-15 and tested in the same task as above starting at day 36 of age. There were no persistent effects of neonatal treatment. However, in adult rats, MK-801 impaired the acquisition of the water maze task but did not affect performance during a recall task in the same apparatus. At doses affecting learning, there were no effects on motor activity or general reactivity in adult rats. These results are consistent with the conclusion that MK-801 interferes with acquisition of spatial learning in the rat.



An inexpensive technique is described for measuring eyelid closure during classical (Pavlovian) conditioning experiments. This technique employs a Coulbourn Instruments Co. densitometric device that focuses a beam of infrared light on the cornea. Reflection of the light is interrupted by the eyelids when they are closed, which is sensed by an infrared detector. The latter causes a voltage change to occur, which can then be measured in a variety of ways. Details of both the hardware required and software developed for this purpose are described.
Schizophrenia has been the subject of intensive neuropsychologic, neuroradiologic, neuropathologic, and neurochemical investigations. The most consistent and reproducible result from all this effort has been the demonstration of a mild degree of enlargement of the cerebral ventricles. The existence of this finding is no longer a subject of controversy, and it clearly occurs independently of psychiatric treatment and chronicity of disease. This finding represents the strongest evidence to date that a structural lesion of the central nervous system underlies schizophrenia. The localization of the lesion responsible for ventricular enlargement and for the clinical findings in schizophrenia is not as clear. Pathologic alterations in the anteriomedial temporal lobe, particularly in the hippocampus, have been independently identified by several groups, using both in vivo neuroimaging and postmortem anatomic techniques. The details and etiology of temporal lobe-hippocampal pathologic states remain to be elucidated. Neuropsychologic and cerebral blood flow studies suggest that the frontal lobe is dysfunctional in schizophrenics. However, there is little known about the neuropathologic basis and neurochemical correlates of this deficit. One of the intriguing new hypotheses about the neurologic findings in schizophrenia is that they are the result of an abnormality in the early development of the brain. The possibility that the clinical illness is a delayed manifestation of this process, perhaps because of an interaction between the early developmental deficit and later maturing functional neural systems, is a subject of speculation. While much study has been devoted to the structural and functional abnormalities underlying schizophrenia, much remains to be discovered. In the past 20 years, the development and application of new techniques, including CT, MRI, rCBF, and PET, have revolutionized the study of schizophrenia, and have produced the first consistent neuropathologic findings in this disorder. The pace of discovery has been gradually accelerating. Application of new techniques and careful use of patient selection criteria will help further decipher the neurologic basis of this disorder. There is reasonable hope that by the end of this century, the pathology and pathophysiology of this common but baffling illness will be revealed.

Studies of invertebrate and vertebrate nervous tissue have demonstrated that free arachidonic acid and its lipoxygenase metabolites are produced in a receptor-dependent fashion. The intracellular actions of these compounds include the regulation of activity of membrane ion channels and protein kinases. In this article Daniele Piomelli and Paul Greengard review the evidence that these lipophilic molecules constitute a novel class of intracellular second messenger, possibly involved in the modulation of neurotransmitter release.
High-molecular-mass RNAs [transfer-(t-), 5S-, 18S- and 28S-RNA] in 25 mM sodium acetate buffer (pH 6.0) were separated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) on hydroxyapatite using a linear gradient (120 min-duration) from 0.03 to 0.147 M of phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 0.3 M potassium chloride and 1 mM sodium azide with a slope of 2 mM/ml at a flow-rate of 0.5 ml/min. When the RNAs were dissolved in 4 M guanidine isothiocyanate-25 mM sodium acetate buffer (pH 6.0)-0.1 M beta-mercaptoethanol (4 M GIT), t-, 5S- and 18S- or 28S-RNAs but not 18S- and 28S-RNAs were separated. RNAs extracted from rat superior cervical ganglia with 4 M GIT could be separated. Thus, HPLC on hydroxyapatite is a rapid and accurate means of quantifying and/or preparing high-molecular-mass RNAs such as t- and ribosomal RNAs.
Detection and identification modes for the rapid, selective, highly sensitive and simultaneous determination of catecholamines, indoleamines and related metabolites by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with series of coulometric working electrodes (CWE) were investigated. Five detection modes were examined: (1) oxidative single mode using a single CWE, (2) oxidative screen mode using a series of two CWE, (3) redox mode using a series of two CWE, (4) redox-reductive screen mode using a series of three CWE and (5) redox-reductive screen mode using a series of four CWE. For the highly sensitive detection of catechol compounds, oxidative single, redox and redox-reductive screen modes were suitable. Oxidative single and oxidative screen modes were better than the other modes for indole and o-methylated catechol compounds. For the selective detection of these compounds, however, the redox-reductive screen mode was best. The specific ratio obtained in HPLC with the redox or redox-reductive screen mode is useful as an index for identification purposes. These findings suggest that HPLC with the redox-reductive screen mode of detection is applicable to neuroscience studies.
Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a moderate level (2.2 atm) of traumatic brain injury (TBI) using fluid percussion. Injured animals were allowed post-trauma survival periods of 5 min, 3 and 24 h. Regional glutamate receptor subtype binding was assessed with quantitative autoradiography in each group for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), quisqualate and kainate receptor subpopulations at approximately the -3.8 bregma level and compared to a sham control group. [3H]glutamate binding to the NMDA receptor was significantly (P less than 0.05) decreased at 3 h post-TBI in the hippocampal CA1 stratum radiatum, the molecular layers of the dentate gyri and the outer (layers 1-3) and inner (layers 5 and 6) overlying neocortex. NMDA receptor binding was significantly reduced in layers 5 and 6 of the neocortex at all post-trauma survival times but no further differences were seen in the hippocampi. No significant changes were observed with [3H]AMPA binding to quisqualate receptors and [3H]KA binding was significantly reduced only in layers 5 and 6 of the neocortex at 24 h after TBI. These data further confirm the pathological involvement of the NMDA receptor complex in brain regions selectively vulnerable to moderate levels of TBI in this model.

Inescapable, but not escapable, stress inhibits the induction of Long Term Potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of hippocampus, a process that is dependent upon activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Since inescapable stress also produces a syndrome of behavioral depression sensitive to clinically effective antidepressants, we examined the actions of functional antagonists at the NMDA receptor complex in animal models commonly used to evaluate potential antidepressants. A competitive NMDA antagonist (2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid [AP-7]), a non-competitive NMDA antagonist (Dizolcipine [MK-801]), and a partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors (1-aminocylopropanecarboxylic acid [ACPC]) mimicked the effects of clinically effective antidepressants in these models. These findings indicate that the NMDA receptor complex may be involved in the behavioral deficits induced by inescapable stress, and that substances capable of reducing neurotransmission at the NMDA receptor complex may represent a new class of antidepressants. Based on these findings, the hypothesis that pathways subserved by the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of affective disorders may have heuristic value.
Our previous studies indicated that opioid-induced prolongation of the Ca2+ component of the action potential duration (APD) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons is mediated by excitatory opioid receptors that are coupled to cyclic AMP-dependent voltage-sensitive ionic conductances. In the present study, DRG neurons were treated with cholera toxin (CTX), or with the A subunit of CTX, in order to determine if these excitatory opioid receptors are positively coupled via the GTP-binding protein Gs to the adenylate cyclase/cyclic AMP system. In contrast, inhibitory opioid receptors have been shown to be linked to pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi/Go regulatory proteins that mediate APD shortening responses. After pretreatment of DRG-spinal cord explants with remarkably low concentrations of CTX-A (1 pg/ml-1 ng/ml; greater than 15 min) or whole toxin (1 pg/ml-1 microgram/ml) the APD prolongation elicited in DRG neurons by 1-10 nM delta/mu (DADLE) or kappa (U-50,488H) opioids was blocked (29 out of 30 cells), whereas APD shortening by microM opioid concentrations was unaffected. Opioid-induced APD prolongation was blocked even when the initial treatment with CTX or CTX-A alone did not prolong the APD. The blocking effects of CTX and CTX-A were reversed in tests made 2 h after return to control medium. The mechanisms underlying the unusually potent blocking effects of CTX and CTX-A on opioid excitatory modulation of the APD of DRG neurons require correlative biochemical analyses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study describes stress-induced changes in high-affinity uptake and release of glutamate by synaptosomal preparations from several regions of rat brain. The results demonstrate that restraint stress can lead to increased glutamate uptake and release in limbic forebrain regions (frontal cortex, hippocampus and septum) but not in the striatum. The increase in glutamate uptake was evident after 30 min of stress. A plateau (140-150% of unhandled controls) was reached after 1 h and was maintained after 4 h of continuous stress. The stress-induced increase in glutamate uptake was observed with glutamate concentrations of up to 10 microM, but not with 500 microM. the results indicate that forebrain glutamatergic terminals are activated by stressful stimuli in a regionally selective manner, and suggest that enhanced high-affinity uptake is important in clearing increased levels of released glutamate.
Analysis of the periodic distribution of amino acids in tropomyosin has revealed the presence of seven or 14 quasi-equivalent actin-binding sites. We tested the hypothesis of periodic actin-binding sites by making deletions of chicken striated alpha-tropomyosin cDNA using oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis. The deletions corresponded to one-half (amino acid residues 47 to 67), two-thirds (residues 47 to 74) and one actin-binding site (residues 47 to 88), on the basis of there being seven sites. The mutant cDNAs were expressed as fusion and non-fusion proteins in Escherichia coli and analyzed for actin binding and regulatory function. Fusion tropomyosin binds to actin with an affinity similar to that of muscle tropomyosin. Of the mutant fusion tropomyosins, only that with a full site deleted retained actin affinity and the ability to inhibit the actomyosin S1 ATPase, though it was less effective than wild-type. We conclude that an integral number of half-turns of the tropomyosin coiled-coil, and the consequential sevenfold periodicity, as well as the correct orientation of the ends with respect to each other, are important for actin binding. On the other hand, non-fusion tropomyosin binds well to actin only in the presence of troponin, and the binding is calcium-sensitive. Assay of non-fusion mutant tropomyosins showed that mutants with deletion of one-half and one actin binding site both had high affinity for actin, equal to or slightly less than wild-type. The ability of these two mutants to regulate the actomyosin or acto-S1 ATPase with troponin in the absence of calcium was indistinguishable from that of the wild-type. The normal regulatory function of the mutant with a 1/14 deletion (removal of a quarter turn or half a site) indicates that a 14-fold periodicity is adequate for regulation, consistent with the presence of two sets of seven alpha and seven beta quasi-equivalent actin-binding sites. An alternative explanation is that the alpha-sites are of primary importance and that proper alignment of the alpha-sites in every second tropomyosin, as when half a site is deleted, is sufficient for normal regulatory function. Deletion of a non-integral period (2/3 of a site) severely compromised actin-binding and regulatory function, presumably due to the inability of the mutant to align properly on the actin filament.
With [3H]cytidine as a precursor, phosphoinositide turnover can be localized in brain slices by selective autoradiography of the product [3H]cytidine diphosphate diacylglycerol, which is membrane-bound. In the cerebellum, glutamatergic stimulation elicits an increase of phosphoinositide turnover only in Purkinje cells and the molecular layer. In the hippocampus, both glutamatergic and muscarinic cholinergic stimulation increase phosphoinositide turnover, but with distinct localizations. Cholinergic stimulation affects CA1, CA3, CA4, and subiculum, whereas glutamatergic effects are restricted to the subiculum and CA3. Imaging phosphoinositide turnover in brain slices, which are amenable to electrophysiologic studies, will permit a dynamic localized analysis of regulation of this second messenger in response to synaptic stimulation of specific neuronal pathways.
Neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells (NG108-15) were used as a model system to characterize neuronal-glial type angiotensin (ANG) receptors by covalent crosslinking analysis. After differentiation with 1.5% DMSO and 0.5% fetal bovine serum for four to five days, saturation analysis revealed a single high affinity site with a Kd = 1.35 +/- 0.42 nM and a Bmax = 468 +/- 106 fmol/mg protein. Using the homobifunctional crosslinking reagent bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) suberate (BS3), a site with an estimated Mr of 78 kDa was specifically labeled with 125I-ANG II as determined by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Both ANG II and ANG III (10(-6) M) inhibited specific labeling. The Ki for ANG III binding was similar by both pharmacologic (Ki = 3.33 +/- 0.98 nM) and gel densitometric (Ki = 2.65 +/- 0.32 nM) analyses. We conclude that the 78 kDa protein represents a high affinity ANG binding site with similar affinities for both ANG II and ANG III.
In order to determine the distribution of the peptide cholecystokinin (CCK) within the cerebellum and medullary precerebellar nuclei of the adult opossum, sections of these brain regions were processed for peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemistry. Within the inferior and superior cerebellar peduncles, fine-beaded fibers are evident and a beaded plexus of fibers is present in all the cerebellar nuclei. In the overlying cerebellar cortex, CCK-positive mossy fiber rosettes are present in all lobules, where their morphology varies from simple enlargements to more complex rosettes. However, their distribution varies particularly in vermal lobules II, III, VII, and IX where they are organized in parasagittal bands. Climbing fibers that are positive for CCK are present in very restricted areas of vermal lobules IV, VII, and VIII. After colchicine pretreatment, CCK-positive cell bodies are seen in restricted regions of the posterior interposed and fastigial nuclei as well as within several precerebellar nuclei known to give rise to mossy fibers. Such nuclei include the lateral cuneate nucleus, the nucleus prepositis hypoglossi, the nucleus reticularis lateralis, the nucleus raphe obscurus, the paramedian reticular nucleus, the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis, and the medial vestibular nucleus. To localize the brainstem origin(s) of the CCK fibers in the cerebellum, a double-label paradigm employing a retrograde tracer and CCK immunohistochemistry was used. These experiments indicate that CCK mossy fibers originate primarily within the lateral cuneate nucleus, the perihypoglossal complex, and the lateral reticular nucleus. Some also originate within the medial vestibular nucleus and the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis. In addition, double-labeled cell bodies are present within the caudal medial accessory inferior olive, the likely source of the CCK-positive climbing fibers. These data indicate that specific populations of climbing fibers and mossy fibers may utilize CCK to alter the firing rate of their target neurons.
Galanin (GA) is a recently described neuropeptide that has been demonstrated to be widely distributed in the hypothalamus of experimental animals. So far there is no immunohistochemical description of GA in the human hypothalamus and, in particular, no studies of the colocalization of this neuropeptide with other transmitter candidates in the human hypothalamus. We have now investigated this question immunohistochemically by using human brains fixed by vascular perfusion within 24 hours of death. Nerve cell bodies and fibers stained for GA were observed throughout the hypothalamus. Major populations of GA-ir cell bodies were found in the suprachiasmatic, intermediate, supraoptic, paraventricular, arcuate, tuberomammillary, and supramammillary nuclei. Scattered positive neurons were found in the periventricular preoptic area, the posterior hypothalamic nucleus, the lateral hypothalamic area, and zona incerta. A few positive cells were located in the dorsomedial and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei. The number of GA-ir neurons estimated from three brains was 11,100 +/- 2,400 for the intermediate nucleus, 57,800 +/- 9,100 for the supraoptic nucleus and 47,400 +/- 13,900 for the paraventricular nucleus. GA-ir fibers were widely distributed in the hypothalamus. They were more dense in the periventricular and medial hypothalamic zones, whereas the lateral tuberal nuclei and the dorsolateral part of the supraoptic nucleus contained sparse positive fibers. The mammillary complex contained almost no GA-ir fibers. In the ventromedial tuberal region, GA-ir axons formed bundles travelling down in the infundibular stem. In the median eminence the vascular plexus was wrapped by GA-ir fiber networks. The coexistence of GA with arginine vasopressin (AVP), oxytocin (OXY), and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was examined in the supraoptic, paraventricular, and suprachiasmatic nuclei in adjacent paraffin sections. Neurons containing both GA and AVP were very common in the supraoptic nucleus and also occurred in the paraventricular and suprachiasmatic nuclei. The supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei also contained some neurons immunoreactive for both GA and OXY. Neurons positive for GA and TH were rare. The topographic distribution of GA-ir neuronal structures in the hypothalamus and the colocalization of GA, principally with AVP and to a lesser extent with OXY, in some hypothalamic nuclei constitute anatomical evidence that this neuropeptide may be involved in the regulation of endocrine, autonomic, and behavioural homeostatic responses.
Northern blot hybridization analysis was used to study regulation of nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) mRNA content by glucocorticoids. Treatment for 6 h with dexamethasone (1 microM) caused a 40% decrease of NGFR mRNA content in PC12 cells and a 60% decrease in C6-2B glioma cells which was time and dose dependent. Dexamethasone (1 microM/kg) administered s.c. for two days to 21-day-old rats, elicits a 60% decrease in NGFR mRNA content in septum. These results suggest that the expression of NGFR gene in the brain could be inhibited by endogenous glucocorticoids. Whether dexamethasone inhibits NGFR gene expression by directly affecting cis-regulatory elements in the promoter regions of the gene remains to be elucidated.
Here we have explored whether dopamine is able to modulate the release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from striatal terminals to substantia nigra pars reticulata, entopeduncular nucleus, globus pallidus and caudate-putamen. The type of dopamine receptors involved was assessed by the blocking effect of either SCH 23390 (D1 antagonist) or (-)-sulpiride (D2 antagonist) of the dopamine effect. Dopamine stimulated (EC50 3.2 microM) the depolarization-induced release of [3H]GABA from slices isolated from all of the above mentioned nuclei. SCH 23390 dose-dependently blocked the dopamine stimulation, but (-)-sulpiride did not show any blocking effect. The results suggest that dopamine via D1 receptors modulates the release of GABA from striatal GABAergic terminals.
In vivo microdialysis was used to examine the effect of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) administration upon dopamine (DA) in extracellular fluid both in intact striatum and in striatum of rats treated with the catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-HDA). Basal extracellular levels of DA were not significantly altered by 6-HDA unless the DA content of striatal tissue was reduced to less than 20% of control. Peripheral aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) inhibition (RO4-4602, 50 mg/kg i.p.) followed by L-DOPA treatment (100 mg/kg i.p.) elevated extracellular DA in striatum of control rats from 37 +/- 5 to 68 +/- 11 pg/sample (n = 7; values corrected for recovery of the dialysis probe). In animals with severe bilateral depletions of DA in striatal tissue (mean depletion 87%; n = 6), L-DOPA increased extracellular DA in striatum from 8 +/- 3 to 266 +/- 60 pg/sample. In animals with large unilateral depletions of DA in striatal tissue (mean depletion 96%; n = 6), the increase in extracellular DA in striatum after L-DOPA was greater on the lesion side (from 7 +/- 4 to 245 +/- 67 pg/sample) than on the intact side (from 28 +/- 11 to 61 +/- 8 pg/sample). Animals with unilateral DA depletions showed contralateral circling behavior after L-DOPA. Increases in extracellular DA approaching the magnitude of those occurring in DA-depleted striata were observed when intact animals were treated with nomifensine (5 mg/kg i.p.; n = 5), an inhibitor of high-affinity DA uptake, in addition to L-DOPA.
In a previous study we reported significant elevations of TRH in neocortex, hippocampus and combined amygdala/pyriform cortex in rats 48 h after the last of a series of stage 5 kindled seizures. In the present study, to determine whether the increases in TRH were proportional to the intensity of the convulsions, and the degree of development of the kindling process, we compared the effects of partially kindled (stage 2) vs fully kindled (stage 5) seizures. As a further refinement, we examined separately the TRH responses in the pyriform, cingulate and frontal cortices. The responses were especially marked in the pyriform cortex, where TRH increased 7-fold after stage 5 kindled convulsions, compared with 2-fold increases after stage 2-3 seizures. Increases were seen in other cortical regions, as well, but only after stage 5 seizures. These findings are consistent with reports suggesting that the increases in brain TRH occurring after convulsions are aftereffects of the seizures, possibly representing homeostatic anticonvulsant responses, and that the pyriform cortex is a site that is uniquely activated by convulsions.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) was demonstrated in a slice preparation of piriform (olfactory) cortex. LTP could be reliably induced in both afferent and association fiber pathways. The magnitude of the observed potentiation was greater in the association fiber pathway. 2-Amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) blocked induction of LTP in both pathways, indicating that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation is required for induction.
Two potent cocaine analogs have been developed that have the highest known affinities for the cocaine binding site in rat striatum. Both 3 beta-(4-chlorophenyl)- (RTI-COC-31) and 3 beta-(4-methylphenyl)-tropane-2-carboxylic acid methyl ester (RTI-COC-32) compete for [3H]WIN 35,428 and [3H]mazindol binding with a IC50 that is 100 times more potent than that of (-) cocaine. Additionally, these compounds inhibit [3H]dopamine uptake with a similar, high potency. These results may lead to the development of high affinity probes for the cocaine binding site.
To analyze the descending pathways of the paralemniscal pontine reticular formation (PLRF), a technique was used for the selective activation of cell bodies by localized injection of putative neurotransmitters in the PLRF. When a small amount (less than 0.1 microliter) of 0.1 M glutamate was injected into the PLRF unilaterally in thalamic cats, the forelimb contralateral (c-forelimb) to the injection was extended, and occasionally the ipsilateral forelimb was flexed. These responses were similar to those obtained by electrical stimulation of the PLRF, but were relatively weaker. Unit spikes of PLRF neurons were increased in frequency following administration of glutamate. The latent periods and durations of increases in spike frequency varied depending on the concentration and quantity of the glutamate solution, and were roughly similar to those of the extensor EMG in the c-forelimb. Since the firing of PLRF neurons preceded the EMG with 11 ms latency, the unit spike of PLRF neurons could be used as a triggering signal to observe a spike triggered averaged EMG response in the extensor muscle of the c-forelimb. Results similar to those with glutamate were observed upon administration of quisqualate, kainate and aspartate. The most effective compound was quisqualate. Application to the PLRF of 1-naphthylacetyl spermine (1-NA-Spm), an analogue of the natural spider toxin JSTX-3 and an antagonist of glutamate, suppressed both the PLRF neuron activity and the extensor EMG of the c-forelimb. These observations suggest that extensor muscles of the forelimb are excited by the contralateral PLRF, perhaps via the crossed reticulospinal tract from the PLRF. PLRF neurons may be activated by glutamate (quisqualate) receptors.
Neurotransmitter-specific uptake and retrograde axonal transport of [3H]glycine were used to identify glycinergic projections to the inferior colliculus in chinchillas and guinea pigs. Six h after injection of [3H]glycine in the inferior colliculus, autoradiographically labeled cells were found ipsilaterally in the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the lateral superior olive and the dorsomedial periolivary nucleus. These 3 regions accounted for 95% of the labeled projection neurons, with the remainder scattered elsewhere in the ipsilateral superior olivary complex. No labeled cells were found contralaterally even after survival times as long as 24 h. Retrograde transport of HRP from the inferior colliculus in these same cases confirmed the presence of additional projections that did not accumulate [3H]glycine. These included ipsilateral projections from the medial superior olive and cochlear nucleus and contralateral projections from the inferior colliculus, dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, lateral superior olive, periolivary nuclei and cochlear nucleus. The results implicate uncrossed projections from the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, lateral superior olive, and dorsomedial periolivary nucleus as the principal sources of inhibitory glycinergic inputs to the inferior colliculus.
Southern blot analysis was performed with genomic DNAs from 86 human subjects using the 32P-labeled cDNA for polymorphic arylamine N-acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.5) in human liver recently cloned in our laboratory. Three types of N-acetyltransferase gene were identified. Gene 1 contains a 5.5-kilobase (kb) KpnI fragment with a BamHI site; gene 2 contains a 5.5-kb KpnI fragment without a BamHI site; and gene 3 contains a 5.0-kb KpnI fragment with a BamHI site. The combination of these three genes generated five genotypes. Acetylator phenotypes were determined in 29 healthy volunteers by isoniazid loading tests, and they were classified as rapid (10 subjects), intermediate (16 subjects), or slow (3 subjects) acetylators. Rapid acetylators were homozygotes of gene 1. Intermediate acetylators were heterozygotes of either genes 1 and 2 or genes 1 and 3. There were two exceptional cases who were classified as intermediate acetylators but were homozygotes of gene 1. Slow acetylators were either heterozygote of genes 2 and 3 or homozygotes of gene 3. These results indicate that gene 1 corresponds to high N-acetyltransferase activity, while gene 2 and gene 3 give rise to low N-acetyltransferase activity.
Using the sequence homology approach for cloning related genes within the G-protein-coupled receptor gene family, we have cloned the gene for the rat beta 1-adrenergic receptor (beta 1-AR). The rat beta 1-adrenergic receptor gene was isolated from a lambda EMBL3 rat genomic DNA library using the hamster beta 2-adrenergic receptor (beta 2-AR) coding sequence as a probe under low stringency hybridization conditions. The rat beta 1-AR gene encodes a protein of 466 amino acids that contains one consensus site for N-linked glycosylation (Asn-15) and three consensus sites for cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation (Ser-296, Ser-301, and Ser-401). The encoded rat beta 1-AR is 98 and 91% similar at the amino acid level with the human beta 1-AR in the transmembrane domains and in the overall sequence, respectively. Genomic Southern blot and gene dosage analyses indicate that the rat beta 1-AR gene is a single copy gene. The tissue distribution of the rat beta 1-AR mRNA was highest in the pineal gland with other brain regions and peripheral tissues, including the heart, expressing the mRNA at moderate levels. The bacteriophage clone containing the rat beta 1-AR gene with its natural promoter was co-transfected with the selectable marker (pRSVneo) conferring neomycin resistance into beta 1-AR-deficient mouse L cells. Analyses of the selected transfectant demonstrates efficient expression of the beta 1-AR gene and functional receptor. 125I-Labeled iodocyanopindolol bound transfectant membranes with an affinity of KD = 24 pm; the beta 1-AR-selective antagonist ICI 89,406 displaced iodocyanopindolol binding with a Ki approximately 140 times lower than that for the beta 2-AR-selective antagonist ICI 118,551. In addition, in the transfectant cell line, adenylylcyclase was stimulated by beta-adrenergic receptor agonists with the rank order of potency of isoproterenol greater than norepinephrine = epinephrine, consistent with properties expected of the beta 1-AR subtype.


This article reports the development of case vignettes as a method of assessing the short-term in-service training of primary care medical officers in mental health care. A pool of 18 case vignettes representing common psychiatric problems and a standard response sheet were written first. This was mailed to 45 psychiatrists for their comments. Based on the comments received from 21 psychiatrists, 2 sets of questionnaires with 7 vignettes in each set were developed. When administered to a group of 32 medical officers, this method of assessment was found to be sensitive in detecting gain in knowledge and skills following training. Further, performance on case vignettes was found to correlate positively with clinical skills when actual cases were given for assessment.

We performed positron emission tomography using 18F-6-fluorodopa on four Guamanians with an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis syndrome, eight Guamanians with parkinsonism, and seven clinically normal Guamanians; the results were compared with those of nine Vancouver control subjects. The Guamanian subjects had all been exposed to similar Chamorro lifestyles. The scans were analyzed using a graphic method that calculates a constant for whole striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake. The parkinsonian subjects all had significantly reduced striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake. The group with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis had significantly reduced uptake that was intermediate between that of the control group and the parkinsonian group. Two Guamanian normal subjects had reduced striatal 18F-6-fluorodopa uptake. The nigrostriatal dopaminergic lesion in Guamanian parkinsonism is similar to that found in idiopathic parkinsonism. The nigrostriatal lesions in the subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and the Guamanian normal subjects are examples of subclinical neuronal damage demonstrable in living subjects with positron emission tomography.
The 5-HT3 hydroxytryptamine receptor from NCB 20 cells was solubilized and the molecular and hydrodynamic properties of the receptor were investigated. The receptor was identified by binding of the radioligand 3-NN'-[3H]dimethyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octanyl indol-3-yl carboxylate ester [( 3H]Q ICS 205-930) to NCB 20 membranes (Bmax = 1.19 +/- 0.31 pmol/mg of protein; Kd = 0.43 +/- 0.076 nM) and was optimally solubilized with 0.5% deoxycholate. [3H]Q ICS 205-930 labelled one population of sites in solution (Bmax = 1.11 +/- 0.4 pmol/mg of protein; Kd = 0.48 +/- 0.06 nM; n = 4). The characteristics of [3H]Q ICS 205-930 binding were essentially unchanged by solubilization, and competition for [3H]Q ICS 205-930 binding by a series of 5-HT3 agonists and antagonists was consistent with binding to a 5-HT3 receptor site and was similar to that observed for 5-HT3 receptors solubilized from rat brain [McKernan, Quirk, Jackson &amp; Ragan (1990) J. Neurochem. 54, 924-930]. Some physical properties of the solubilized receptor were investigated. The molecular size (Stokes radius) of the [3H]Q ICS 205-930-binding site was measured by gel-exclusion chromatography in a buffer containing 0.2% Lubrol and 0.5 M-NaCl and was determined as 4.81 +/- 0.15 nm (mean +/- S.E.M.; n = 6). Sucrose-density-gradient centrifugation was also performed under the same detergent and salt conditions to determine the partial specific volume (v) of the detergent-receptor site complex. This was found to be 0.794 ml.g-1. Sucrose-density-gradient centrifugation was carried out in both 1H2O and 2H2O to allow correction for detergent binding to the receptor. The Mr of the 5-HT3 receptor under these conditions was calculated as 249,000 +/- 18,000 (n = 3). The size and physical properties of the 5-HT3 receptor are similar to those observed for members of the family of ligand-gated ion channels.

Psychiatry is under threat from developments within mental health care. In educating future psychiatrists, more emphasis should be placed upon: collaborative research; integrated teamwork, without interprofessional rivalry; work in primary care; the non-scientific components of psychiatry, centred upon relationships with patients; less dogmatic attitudes for or against psychoanalysis: psychiatry as a branch of medicine; and modern management and audit methods. Younger psychiatrists should be encouraged to take responsibility for shaping the future of the profession.
Brain mitochondrial enzyme activities were examined in 15-day-old suckling mice which were daily injected with D-penicillamine (DP), a chelating agent of copper. Newborn mice treated with DP (1 g/kg/day) showed retarded weight gain, hyperelasticity of skin, and a bizarre forelimb posture with subcutaneous edema on experimental day (ED) 7. Paraparesis or dragging of the hindlimbs was observed by ED 15. Brain copper contents of DP-treated mice decreased to 34% of the controls of ED 15. Cytochrome c oxidase activity (complex IV) in the brain showed 51% decrease of the controls, on the contrary, rotenone-sensitive NADH cytochrome c reductase (complex I + III) and succinate cytochrome c reductase (complex II + III) were normal. Histochemistry of cytochrome c oxidase in the cerebellum of DP-treated mice disclosed diffuse reduction of staining, especially in Purkinje cells. These data show that DP-induced copper deficiency in the brain subsequently disturbs mitochondrial electron transport system, selectively cytochrome c oxidase activity. This seems to be a useful animal model not only for Menkes' kinky hair disease but also for mitochondrial encephalomyopathy.
Following destruction of entorhinal cortical (EC) input to the dentate gyrus there is an increase in protein synthesis within the denervated dendritic laminae. The present study utilized in situ hybridization to determine whether there were increases in the messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for beta-actin and beta-tubulin within the denervated neuropil of the dentate gyrus during the time of increased protein synthesis. Animals were prepared for in situ hybridization 2-21 days after a unilateral lesion of the EC. Brain sections were hybridized with either 3H or 35S-labeled riboprobes prepared from chick beta-actin and chick beta-tubulin mRNA. Analysis of light microscopic autoradiograms revealed increases in the mRNAs for beta-actin and beta-tubulin within the denervated neuropil between 6 and 8 days postlesion when compared to the intact dentate gyrus of the contralateral side. Labeling over the granule cell body layer was comparable on the two sides for both probes. Increases in both mRNAs were also observed in the scar tissue at the lesion site. These results suggest that local protein synthesis within the denervated neuropil of the dentate gyrus involves, in part, an increase in the production of actin and tubulin.
Injury to the cerebral cortex of the rat brain has been shown to induce the expression of neurotrophic factors for dissociated peripheral and central neurons in culture. We confirm this phenomenon and report that Xenopus laevis oocytes injected with mRNA extracted from wounded rat cortex expressed similar neurotrophic activity. To detect the low amounts of neurotrophic factors that could be expected from the oocyte translation system, a miniaturization of the assay for neurotrophic and cell-surviving activity was developed using Terasaki microtiter plates for culture of chicken embryo sympathetic ganglion cells. Messenger RNA (mRNA) was size-fractionated on a sucrose gradient and RNAs from each fraction were injected into oocytes. Neurotrophic activity was recovered from the homogenates and from the incubation media of oocytes injected with mRNA from 7 day post-lesion cortex. Messenger RNAs in the active fractions ranged in size from 0.8 to 1.8 kb. As much as 20% of the activity was secreted by the oocytes. No significant neurotrophic activity was detected from oocytes injected with mRNA fractions extracted from the cortex of control rats or from other gradient fractions from post-lesion cortex.
The purpose of this study was to obtain direct evidence that the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathway modulates the metabolism of striatal dynorphin and [Met5]-enkephalin. This was achieved by repeated injections of apomorphine (APO) or D-amphetamine (AMP) in unilateral nigral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats. Three weeks after a 6-OHDA lesion, dynorphin A(1-8)-like immunoreactivity (DN-LI) and the level of mRNA encoding prodynorphin in the striatum on the lesioned side were decreased compared with the contralateral control side. Activation of DA receptors by 7 daily injections of APO (5 mg/kg, Bid, s.c.), however, caused a large increase (3- to 4-fold of saline control) in striatal levels of DN-LI and prodynorphin mRNA on the 6-OHDA lesioned side, which is far greater than the increase on the contralateral side (2-fold of saline control). Presumably, the potentiated effect of APO in 6-OHDA lesioned rats is due to hypersensitivity of DA receptors resulting from DA denervation. Seven daily injections of AMP (5 mg/kg, Bid, s.c.), a DA-releasing agent, increased striatal DN-LI (187% of saline control) on the non-lesioned side, but not on the 6-OHDA-lesioned side. Taken together, the data indicate that the nigrostriatal pathway exerts a tonic excitatory influence over the biosynthesis of dynorphin and that this influence is not maximal since an additional increase in dopaminergic tone further increases the expression of dynorphin. In contrast, [Met5]-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ME-LI) in the striatum was increased by a 6-OHDA-lesion (145% of contralateral control), which was blocked by repeated administration of APO but not AMP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Manual tracking performance was studied in five patients with cerebellar incoordination due to unilateral cerebellar hemisphere lesions. The subjects were required to track a target on an oscilloscope screen by moving a cursor controlled by flexion-extension movements of the wrist. In comparison to normal subjects, the cerebellar patients, using their clinically affected arm, demonstrated irregular tracking patterns with inappropriate accelerations and decelerations, numerous high velocity peaks of movement, and an increased time lag between the cursor and the target. The addition of a viscous load provided by feeding back wrist velocity to a torque motor coupled to the apparatus resulted in significant improvement in tracking performance and suppression of the high velocity peaks. Increasing elastic stiffness by feeding back wrist position or inertial load by adding weights to the hand did not improve performance on this task. It is proposed that a hypotonic cerebellar limb behaves like an underdamped mechanical system. The addition of viscous loads helps restore more normal damping during voluntary movements of the arm.
The contribution of the cerebellar cortex to coordination of a multi-joint throwing movement was studied by measuring various movement and EMG parameters while normal control subjects and patients with cerebellar cortical atrophy threw a ball at a target. Although patients did not throw as accurately as controls, several coordination measurements were normal in the patients. These included parameters used by us to assess elbow-wrist coordination and the coordination of hand opening with activation of more proximal arm muscles. Postural support for the movement at the shoulder was also normal in that the shoulder was not pushed backwards by the reaction forces resulting from the rapid forward acceleration of the forearm and hand. In contrast, however, patients were unable to coordinate the muscles so as to produce the same hand direction from trial to trial when throwing at the same target. In addition, EMG onset times were abnormal in the antagonist muscles relative to agonist EMG bursts and kinematic parameters of the movement. In conclusion, our patients with cerebellar cortical atrophy showed abnormalities in visual-motor coordination, in that they were unable to consistently produce the appropriate hand direction in response to a visual target. Agonist-antagonist relationships were also impaired. Other aspects of coordination, such as the relative timing of EMG onsets of agonist muscles, even when these were active at different joints, were normal.
We examined the ability of selective CCK-A and CCK-B receptor antagonists to induce or modulate the locomotor stimulant effects of dopamine agonists in MPTP-treated squirrel monkeys. Administration of 1-100 micrograms/kg i.p. of either the selective CCK-A receptor antagonist devazepide (MK-329) or the CCK-B receptor antagonist L-365,260 alone failed to stimulate a locomotor response in parkinsonian monkeys. In contrast, treatment with L-365,260 caused a 50-60% potentiation of the locomotor stimulatory effects of L-DOPA or (+)-PHNO. No such modulatory effects were observed following pretreatment with devazepide. We suggest that CCK-B receptor antagonists may be useful adjuncts to existing dopamine replacement therapy for improved management of Parkinson's disease.


The composition and metabolism of molecular species of glycerolipids, including phosphatidic acid (PA), phosphatidylinositol (PI) and diacylglycerol (DG), were studied in four frog retinal fractions prepared by discontinuous sucrose gradient centrifugation. Six glycerolipid classes were isolated from the lipid extracts of each fraction and converted to their corresponding 1,2-diacylglycerol acetates by acetolysis for quantitation of their molecular species by HPLC. Rod outer segments (ROS) showed a distinctive molecular species composition in all glycerolipid classes except phosphatidylcholine (PC). The relative amounts of dipolyunsaturated species in ROS were higher in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylserine (PS), and PA, compared to the other retinal fractions. PI and DG of ROS had a similar molecular species composition and contained only small amounts of dipolyunsaturated species. A unique feature of the molecular species of ROS PI and DG was that they had high amounts of species containing docosahexaenoic acid (22: 6 omega 3), while PI and DG from the other retinal membranes consisted mostly of species containing arachidonic acid (20: 4 omega 6). Following in vitro incubation of frog retinas with [2-3H] glycerol, the mass and radioactivity distributions among molecular species were determined following HPLC fractionation. The unique species composition of PS in ROS is determined mainly by selective translocation from the inner segments to ROS, since the dpm %, representative of newly synthesized species composition of the same glycerolipid classes in the other membrane fractions. This suggests that the distinctive species composition of PE and PA in ROS is determined not by selective translocation from the inner segments, but by remodeling processes taking place in the ROS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have shown that vertebrate rod outer segments (ROS) have a light activated phospholipase C which hydrolyzes phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphonate (PIP2). Three different experimental approaches have been used to test the hypothesis that the phosphatidylinositol (PI) biosynthetic cycle is present in ROS and that PIP2 can be regenerated from DG independent of rod inner segments. In the first study, enzyme activities of the PI cycle were assayed simultaneously in the presence of CTP, myo-inositol and [gamma-32P]ATP using endogenous lipids as substrates. Under these conditions, broken (leaky) ROS prepared by continuous sucrose gradient centrifugation showed PI, PIP and DG kinase activities similar to those found in intact ROS and non-ROS membranes, whereas PI synthetase activity was much lower in the leaky ROS than in the other two fractions. The relative distribution of PI synthetase specific activity in the three membrane preparations was similar to that of the microsomal enzyme marker cytochrome c reductase. ROS prepared by discontinuous sucrose gradient centrifugation showed only 2-3% of whole homogenate PI synthetase or phosphatidyl: cytidyl transferase activities, and the distribution of activities was the same as for microsomal and mitochondrial marker enzymes. In the second study, whole retinas were incubated with myo-[2-3H]inositol or [2-3H]glycerol in vitro, and the time course of incorporation of radioactivity into PI and other phospholipids was determined for ROS and three other retinal fractions. Over a 10-hr period, the rate of incorporation of myo-[2-3H]inositol or [2-3H]glycerol into PI in ROS was lowest among the various retinal fractions. In the third study, chemical analysis of the molecular species composition of PI, DG and phosphatidic acid (PA) from ROS shows that PA is substantially different from PI and DG, the latter two being quite similar. These results are consistent with a precursor-product relationship between PI and DG, but not with the conversion of DG to PA or of PA to PI. Taken together, these three studies indicate that ROS do not have PI synthetase or phosphatidyl: cytidyl transferase activities, but do have DG, PI and PIP kinase activities. Thus, the PI in ROS lost through rapid turnover must be replaced with molecules derived from de novo synthesis in the inner segment of the photoreceptor cell.
As part of a study designed to examine the response of photoreceptor cells to outer segment injury (retinal detachment), the pattern of RNA labeling ([3H]uridine incorporation) has been determined in detached cat retinas. Retinas were experimentally detached from the adjacent cellular layer (the retinal pigment epithelium:RPE) by injecting fluid into the extracellular space between the retina and RPE. Twenty-four hours before the animals were killed they received intravitreal injections of [3H]uridine. Autoradiograms were prepared from plastic sections 1.0 micron thick taken from detached retinal regions and, because the detachments do not encompass all of the retina, from nearby attached retinal regions. Twenty-four hours after retinal detachment there is a decrease in labeling intensity of the photoreceptors and Mller's glia in the region of detachment (compared to cells in nearby attached regions). Seventy-two hours after retinal separation, the same result is obtained in the photoreceptors, but labeling intensity is greatly increased in both the nuclei and cytoplasm of Mller's glia. The decrease in [3H]uridine labeling of the photoreceptors correlates with a decreased staining intensity of the cytoplasm and ultrastructural signs of necrosis. The striking change in the pattern and intensity of labeling of the Mller cells precedes extensive hypertrophy of these cells and the appearance within their cytoplasm of numerous 10-nm diameter filaments. Two weeks, and also 1 month, after detachment the pattern and labeling levels are similar to those observed 1 day after retinal separation. These data suggest a highly localized change in metabolism because the change in RNA labeling is restricted to the region of detached retina.
We have determined the pattern of RNA labeling (uridine incorporation) in the normal retina of the domestic cat. One eye in each of eight cats was labeled by injecting [3H]uridine into the vitreous cavity. Two of the labeled eyes had the lens and vitreous removed 10 days before labeling. Three additional animals received intravenous (i.v.) injections of [3H]uridine. All animals were injected 4 hr into the light period and fixed 24 hr later; then the retinas were divided into quadrants (ST = superior temporal, SN superior nasal, IT = inferior temporal, and IN = inferior nasal). The ST quadrant contains the area centralis and the SN quadrant the optic nerve head. Autoradiograms were prepared from plastic sections 1 micron thick taken near the centre of each quadrant. In animals receiving intravitreal [3H]uridine, the ganglion cells and the inner and outer nuclear layers (INL; ONL) were heavily labeled; the synaptic layers and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) were very lightly labeled. Amacrines were the heaviest labeled cells in the INL; cones were more heavily labeled than rods in the ONL. This finding indicates that amacrines and cone photoreceptors may be synthesizing RNA more actively than other retinal neurons. In animals receiving intravenous [3H]uridine the pattern of labeling was the same as above except that the RPE was heavily labeled. Because cells in the ST quadrant appeared to be more heavily labeled than the same cell types in the other retinal quadrants, silver grains over the ONL in each quadrant were counted as grains micron -2 or grains per rod nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fluorescein conjugates of the high-affinity benzodiazepine receptor ligands Ro 15-1788 and Ro 7-1986 were synthesized. The binding of these fluorescent ligands (BD 621 and BD 607) to benzodiazepine receptors was characterized by direct fluorescence measurement. Both the equilibrium dissociation constants (KD) of BD 621 and BD 607 and the maximum number of binding sites (Bmax) estimated by fluorescence monitoring were consistent with values obtained by using radioligand binding techniques. The binding of BD 621 and BD 607 assessed by fluorescence measurement was reversible, abolished by photoaffinity labeling with Ro 15-4513, and unaffected by a variety of substances that do not bind to benzodiazepine receptors. The potencies of chemically diverse benzodiazepine receptor compounds to inhibit fluorescent ligand binding were highly correlated (r = 0.94, P less than 0.001), with potencies obtained from radioligand binding techniques. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of using direct fluorescence measurement techniques to quantitate ligand-receptor interactions.

While insulin induced hypoglycemia is the principle method of producing hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress response, the mechanism by which this occurs may be different from that produced by other stressors. In a pilot study, we explored ways to standardize lower body negative pressure (LBNP), as a simulator of hemorrhage, to determine its utility for future studies of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. Reduced atmospheric pressure of -40 mmHg applied at the level of the iliac crests during LBNP rapidly lowers blood pressure in most subjects, simulating acute hemorrhage. In 6 normal subjects, ACTH and cortisol values were measured before, during and after the application LBNP at 0800, 1600 and 2300 hours in the baseline state and at 1600 hours on the day following 1 mg of dexamethasone. Peak ACTH values of 60-250 pg/ml occurred 2 to 10 minutes after the cessation of the stimulus in subjects experiencing presyncope or having a systolic or diastolic blood pressure decrease of greater than 20 mmHg with a rise in pulse of 30 beats per minute or more. There was no significant difference between ACTH responses at different times of day. Peak cortisol values of 25-30 micrograms/dl occurred 15-20 minutes after cessation of the stimulus. In all subjects, administration of dexamethasone greatly attenuated the ACTH response and decreased but did not ablate the cortisol response. In conclusion, these data indicate that LBNP may be used to simulate hemorrhage as a stimulus of the HPA axis. HPA axis changes occur only when physiologic evidence of hypovolemic stress is present. Dexamethasone may be used to modulate the response to this stress paradigm.
Sections of seven human epiretinal membranes of diverse pathologic origin were labeled with antibodies to cellular retinaldehyde binding protein (CRALBP) and two intermediate filament proteins: glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin. All of the membranes studied contained heterogeneous cell populations that exhibited diverse morphologic characteristics. Double labeling with both anti-GFAP and anti-CRALBP positively identified one of the cellular components in these membranes as Mller's glia. In addition, other epiretinal cells exhibited immunolabeling patterns consistent with those found in fibrous astrocytes and retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells normally. The results demonstrate that a double-labeling method using CRALBP antibodies, in combination with antibodies to other appropriate antigens, can be used to distinguish between the different epiretinal cell types.
The immunolabeling patterns for vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were studied in five rhesus monkeys that had undergone retinal detachment or detachment and reattachment. Anti-vimentin and anti-GFAP labeling intensity increased in Mller cells after 2 days of detachment. Weak anti-vimentin labeling of the basal RPE cytoplasm, which was absent in control tissue, was detected 2 days after detachment. After detachment for 7 days and reattachment for 7 or 14 days, the pattern and extent of intermediate filament (IF) labeling changed. In Mller cells, the labeling, which in controls was restricted to processes near the vitreal border of the retina, was present in Mller processes spanning the entire retina. In retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells, prominent anti-vimentin labeling was identified in the basal and basolateral cytoplasm. The extent of RPE and Mller cell IF labeling in two animals whose retinas had been detached and then reattached for 150 days was different from that found at either the 7- or 14-day reattachment time points. This suggests that the abnormal IF distribution triggered by detachment may be attenuated after a lengthy period of reattachment.
We discuss the most important current problems relative to the recording procedures and methods of analysis, using inter alia spatio/temporal topographic maps, of some cognitive event-related potentials (CNV complex etc.) in normal and pathological conditions. After these initial premises of neurocognitive electrophysiology, we summarize the results for 8 patients in whom we examined the effects on CNV activity formation of surgical or spontaneous bihemispheric deafferentation of prefrontal/premotor cortical associative areas. These observations bear out the hypothesis that the bidirectional homohemispheric long and short distance pathways connecting associative parieto-temporal and occipital cortical areas to the prefrontal ones, play an important role in the genesis of the long-latency cognitive event-related potentials.
The performance of 11 Alzheimer's (DAT) and 8 anomic aphasic stroke patients is contrasted with that of 32 normal elderly subjects on both the Boston Naming Test (BNT) and the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COW), a letter-category verbal-fluency test. While both tests require phonological processing, only the BNT requires semantic processing (object recognition). Both DAT and anomic aphasic stroke patients were significantly impaired on the BNT, with mean z scores (based on the performance of the normals) of -4.08 and -2.57, respectively; the DAT patients were significantly farther from normal than were the anomic aphasics. Their relative levels of impairment on the COW were reversed: The anomic aphasics' performance (z = 1.79) was worse than that of the DATs (z = -0.66). This pattern of performance on the two tests is consistent with the hypothesis that impaired word finding reflects impaired processing mainly of semantic information for the DAT subjects, mainly of lexical-phonological information for the anomic aphasic subjects.
Cytoplasm from lactating cells is included with some milk fat globules at secretion. The objective was to search for factors causing this phenomenon. Globules bearing crescents of cytoplasm were selectively stained with the fluorescent dye, acridine orange, and their proportion in the globule population was obtained by counting from photomicrographs. Incidence of crescents on fat globules in milk samples of 50 human donors ranged from 1 to 29%, and the mean was 7.2%. Two bovine milk samples, both representing over 100 animals, contained 1% or less of globules with crescents. Globules in individual milkings of five beef cows showed the same low proportion of crescents. In addition to species, genetic and diurnal factors influenced numbers of crescents. Two sisters showed evidence within and between lactations of a persistent high proportion (greater than 25%) of globules with crescents. Samples collected in the a.m. contained a lower percentage of globules with crescents (6.5%) than those obtained in the p.m. (9.7%). Crescent incidence was not correlated with lipid or protein content of human milk, interval within a milking, days in lactation, or the donor's age. Evidence is presented to suggest that the concentration, distribution, and acylation of butyrophilin and xanthine oxidase, coat proteins of the apical plasma membrane, are important factors in globule crescent formation.
The appearance of mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid receptors was examined in primary cultures of embryonic rat brain. Membranes prepared from striatal, hippocampal, and hypothalamic neurons grown in dissociated cell culture each exhibited high-affinity opioid binding sites as determined by equilibrium binding of the universal opioid ligand (-)-[3H]bremazocine. The highest density of binding sites (per mg of protein) was found in membranes prepared from cultured striatal neurons (Bmax = 210 +/- 40 fmol/mg protein); this density is approximately two-thirds that of adult striatal membranes. By contrast, membranes of cultured cerebellar neurons and cultured astrocytes were devoid of opioid binding sites. The opioid receptor types expressed in cultured striatal neurons were characterized by equilibrium binding of highly selective radioligands. Scatchard analysis of binding of the mu-specific ligand [3H]D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5-enkephalin to embryonic striatal cell membranes revealed an apparent single class of sites with an affinity (KD) of 0.4 +/- 0.1 nM and a density (Bmax) of 160 +/- 20 fmol/mg of protein. Specific binding of (-)-[3H]bremazocine under conditions in which mu- and delta-receptor binding was suppressed (kappa-receptor labeling conditions) occurred to an apparent single class of sites (KD = 2 +/- 1 nM; Bmax = 40 +/- 15 fmol/mg of protein). There was no detectable binding of the selective delta-ligand [3H]D-Pen2,D-Pen5-enkephalin. Thus, cultured striatal neurons expressed mu- and kappa-receptor sites at densities comparable to those found in vivo for embryonic rat brain, but not delta-receptors.
Neuronal and muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit combinations expressed in Xenopus oocytes were tested for sensitivity to various neurotoxins. Extensive blockade of the alpha 3 beta 2 neuronal subunit combination was achieved by 10 nM neuronal bungarotoxin. Partial blockade of the alpha 4 beta 2 neuronal and alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta muscle subunit combinations was caused by 1,000 nM neuronal bungarotoxin. The alpha 2 beta 2 neuronal subunit combination was insensitive to 1,000 nM neuronal bungarotoxin. Nearly complete blockade of all neuronal subunit combinations resulted from incubation with 2 nM neosurugatoxin, whereas 200 nM neosurugatoxin was required for partial blockade of the alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta muscle subunit combination. The alpha 2 beta 2 and alpha 3 beta 2 neuronal subunit combinations were partially blocked by 10,000 nM lophotoxin analog-1, whereas complete blockade of the alpha 4 beta 2 neuronal and alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta muscle subunit combinations resulted from incubation with this concentration of lophotoxin analog-1. The alpha 1 beta 1 gamma delta muscle subunit combination was blocked by the alpha-conotoxins G1A and M1 at concentrations of 100 nM. All of the neuronal subunit combinations were insensitive to 10,000 nM of both alpha-conotoxins. Thus, neosurugatoxin and the alpha-conotoxins distinguish between muscle and neuronal subunit combinations, whereas neuronal bungarotoxin and lophotoxin analog-1 distinguish between different neuronal subunit combinations on the basis of differing alpha subunits.
Three patients (ages 5, 16 and 21 years) with chronic, refractory, partial epilepsy and temporal lobe ganglioglioma were evaluated for surgical treatment. Noncontrast CT revealed a low attenuation, cystic temporal lesion in 2 patients. One neoplasm demonstrated focal calcification and temporal altrophy, while the other had mass effect and surrounding edema. Contrast enhancement of the mass was seen in one instance. Non-contrast and post-contrast CT were completely normal in the remaining patient. MR was abnormal in both patients in which it was performed (including the patient with a normal CT examination). Lesions were hyperintense on T2W inmages and iso-to-hypointense on T1W images when compared to normal parenchyma. Regions of calcification were missed on standard spin-echo sequences. Continuous video EEG monitoring captured habitual partial seizures in all patients; focal onset correlated with tumor location in each instance. Intraoperative electrocorticography corroborated the EEG results. Two of three patients underwent gross total resection. Pathologic features were characteristic of ganglioglioma in all instances. All patients have been seizure-free postoperatively [mean follow-up: 16 months (range 13-18 months)] and without evidence of tumor recurrence. Although ganglioglioma is an unusual cause of refractory temporal lobe epilepsy, our short term follow-up suggests excellent outcome with both partial and gross total resection.
1. The hypothesis that the exaggerated tendon jerks and stretch reflexes that follow chronic spinal cord lesions in humans result from alterations in transmission from group I muscle afferents to motoneurons was tested by making observations on nine normal subjects and 25 patients with spinal cord lesions. All the patients had increased tendon jerks, one-third of them had both increased tendon jerks and increased, velocity-dependent stretch reflexes (i.e.g spasticity). 2. Changes in the firing probability of single, voluntary-activated soleus or tibialis anterior motor units during stimulation of the muscle nerve below the threshold of the alpha-motoneuron axons were used to derive the characteristics of the postsynaptic potentials produced by group I volleys in single motoneurons. Paired stimuli were used to test how multiple volleys in group I muscle afferents were transmitted to motoneurons. 3. Stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve produced a short-latency period of increased firing probability representing the homonymous composite Ia excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) in all soleus motoneurons tested. There was no detectable alteration in the magnitude, duration, or profile of the short-latency facilitation in the patients with spinal lesions when compared with normal subjects. 4. In patients with traumatic spinal cord lesions less than 8 wk in duration the magnitude of the facilitation representing the composite Ia EPSP was significantly larger than normal, although only one out of the four patients in this group had spasticity. 5. In the patients with the greatest spasticity, group I volleys produced a second period of facilitation 11-15 ms after the facilitation representing the composite Ia EPSP. This is presumed to represent enhanced transmission through polysynaptic pathways from group I afferents to motoneurons. 6. In normal subjects the facilitation of motoneurons produced by the second of two group I volleys is greater 5 and 10 ms after the first volley and less 20, 30, and 50 ms after the first volley. These changes involve at least two factors: 1) changes in excitability of peripheral nerves and 2) changes in transmission at the Ia-motoneuron synapse. 7. In patients with spinal lesions the facilitation produced by the second of two muscle-afferent volleys was less depressed at the 30-ms interstimulus interval. 8. Thus two separate abnormalities have been uncovered in human subjects with chronic spinal lesions: 1) a change in the transmission of multiple volleys from muscle afferents to motoneurons and 2) an increase in transmission through polysynaptic pathways from Ia afferents to motoneurons. Both could contribute to the increased tendon jerks and exaggerated stretch reflexes.
Carboxypeptidase E (CPE), also referred to as enkephalin convertase or carboxypeptidase H (EC 3.4.17.10), is present in neurotransmitter secretory granules and can remove C-terminal basic residues following endopeptidase cleavage during peptide processing. Using in situ hybridization with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes, we have mapped the localization of CPE mRNA in the rat brain. Specificity for CPE was confirmed by control experiments, which included production of identical patterns hybridization with 3 different antisense oligonucleotide probes, loss of label with RNase pretreatment of sections or co-incubation with excess unlabeled probe, and lack of labeling with sense orientation probes. In addition, the regional distribution of CPE mRNA by Northern blot analysis corresponded with distribution of labeling by in situ hybridization. The highest levels of CPE mRNA were found to be present in the pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, the pituitary anterior and intermediate lobes, the ependymal cells of the lateral ventricle, the endopiriform nucleus, the basolateral amygdala, the supraoptic nucleus, and the paraventricular nucleus. Intermediate levels were present in the thalamus, medial geniculate nucleus, lateral septal nucleus, piriform and entorhinal cortex, nucleus of the tractus solitarius, cerebellar cortex, pontine nuclei, and inferior olive. The lowest levels were found in the hippocampal granule cell layer, lateral hypothalamus, globus pallidus, and brain stem reticular formation. Ibotenic acid lesions of the hippocampus eliminated the majority of the label, which had been present over pyramidal cells, though labeling was increased over areas of reactive gliosis, suggesting that activated astrocytes can also synthesize CPE mRNA. In general, the localization of CPE mRNA in the rat brain corresponded to the distribution of enkephalin and other peptide neurotransmitter-synthesizing neurons, though CPE mRNA was also present in neurons that do not secrete known peptides and in reactive glia. The widespread yet specific localization of CPE mRNA in the rat brain suggests it may be an excellent marker for peptide synthesizing cells in the CNS.
To investigate cellular responses of injured mammalian CNS neurons, we examined the slow transport of cytoskeletal proteins in rat retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons within the ocular stump of optic nerves that were crushed intracranially. RGC proteins were labeled by an intravitreal injection of 35S-methionine, and optic nerves were examined by SDS PAGE at different times after injury. In one group of rats, the RGC proteins were labeled 1 week after crushing. From 14 to 67 d after axotomy, the labeling of tubulin and neurofilaments was reduced in relation to other labeled proteins and to the labeling of tubulin and neurofilaments in the intact optic nerve of controls. To determine whether this reduction in labeling was due to an alteration in axonal transport after axotomy, we prelabeled RGC proteins 1 week before crushing. In such experiments, the rate of slow axonal transport of tubulin and neurofilaments decreased approximately 10-fold from 6 to 60 d after injury. Our results cannot be due only to the retrograde degeneration of RGCs and injured axons caused by axotomy in the optic nerve, because fast axonal protein transport and the fluorescent labeling of many axons were preserved in the ocular stumps of these optic nerves. This selective failure of the slow axonal transport of tubulin and neurofilaments may affect the renewal of the cytoskeleton and contribute to the gradual degeneration of RGCs that is observed after axotomy. The alterations in slow transport we document here differ from the enhanced rates we previously reported when injured RGC axons regenerated along peripheral nerve segments grafted to the ocular stump of transected optic nerves (McKerracher et al., 1990).
The limited success of immunogold labeling for pre-embedding immunocytochemistry of neuronal antigens is largely attributed to poor penetration of large (5-20 nm) colloidal gold particles. We examined the applicability of using silver intensification of 1 nm colloidal gold particles non-covalently bound to goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin (1) for single labeling of a rabbit antiserum against the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and (2) for immunogold localization of rabbit anti-TH simultaneously with immunoperoxidase labeling of a mouse monoclonal antibody against the opiate peptide, leucine-enkephalin (LE). Vibratome sections were collected from acrolein fixed brains of adult rats. These sections were immunolabeled without use of freeze-thawing or other methods that enhance penetration, but damage ultrastructure. By light microscopy, incubations in the silver intensifier (Intense M, Janssen) for less than 10 min at room temperature resulted in a brownish-red reaction product for TH. This product was virtually indistinguishable from that seen using diaminobenzidine reaction for detection of peroxidase immunoreactivity. Longer incubations produced intense black silver deposits that were more clearly distinguishable from the brown immunoperoxidase labeling. However, by light microscopy, the gold particles seen by electron microscopy were most readily distinguished from peroxidase reaction product with shorter silver intensification periods. The smaller size of gold particles with shorter periods of silver intensification also facilitated evaluation of labeling with respect to subcellular organelles. Detection of the silver product did not appear to be appreciably changed by duration of post-fixation in osmium tetroxide. In dual-labeled sections, perikarya and terminals exhibiting immunogold-silver labeling for TH were distinct from those containing immunoperoxidase labeling for LE. These results (1) define the conditions needed for optimal immunogold-silver labeling of antigens while maintaining the ultrastructural morphology in brain, and (2) establish the necessity for controlled silver intensification for light or electron microscopic differentiation of immunogold-silver and peroxidase reaction products and for optimal subcellular resolution.
Essential blepharospasm is a chronic, potentially disabling disorder for which there is no known cause or cure. The term blepharospasm derives from the Greek word 'blepharon' meaning eyelid and the word 'essential' implies unknown cause. In neurological literature blepharospasm is classed as a focal dystonia. Lack of recognition of the disease may cause patients to consult numerous physicians as well as acupuncturists, chiropractors, faith healers and others in an effort to find a cure to what they are sure is not just a psychological problem. Nurses who are knowledgeable about the disease entity can easily recognize the symptoms. They can also prevent disability by recommending appropriate professional help. Treatment for the control of symptoms has only recently become available. It is the purpose of this discussion to review current information about blepharospasm that has particular relevance for neuroscience nurses in their personal as well as professional lives.
Depression has been found to be increased in individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS). Depression is currently being studied as either a reactive response, a part of the symptomatology or a precipitating factor of the disease. The purpose of this article is to provide a review of the research literature on depression in multiple sclerosis. In addition, implications for neuroscience nurse who work with MS individuals are identified.
Previous studies have shown that there are dramatic accumulations of polyribosomes under developing synapses on dendrites of CNS neurons. The present study was designed to evaluate what types of proteins might be synthesized by the synapse-associated polyribosomes. Hippocampal slices from rat pups sacrificed at 4, 7, 10, 12, 14, and 21 days after birth as well as slices from adult animals were incubated in a modified Eagle's medium containing 3H-leucine. After a 30 min exposure to radiolabeled amino acids, the slices were microdissected, separating the dendritic enriched molecular layer from the cell bodies of the dentate gyrus and the hippocampus proper. The level of protein synthetic activity was assessed by comparing the incorporation in cell body and dendritic laminae. Polypeptides present in each dissected zone were separated electrophoretically on 1D SDS-polyacrylamide gels according to their molecular weight and the newly synthesized proteins were analyzed through gel fluorography. The overall level of 3H-amino acid incorporation into protein (measured as cpm/microgram protein) was higher than that of the adult at all postnatal ages. When the entire slice was analyzed, the maximum incorporation was at 12 days after birth. In the dissected subregions of the slice the peak protein synthetic activity in cell-body-enriched regions of dentate gyrus and hippocampus proper was at 4-7 days postnatal, declining between 7 and 21 days to values comparable to the adult. By contrast, protein synthesis in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus did not peak until 12 days after birth, decreasing toward adult rates after 14 days. The overall pattern of Coomassie stained polypeptides present in the dentate molecular layer was comparable at all ages examined. Moreover, one-dimensional gel analysis showed no qualitative differences in the proteins that were synthesized in the three dissected zones across ages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have used a number of pharmacological manipulations of calcium influx to alter the nerve growth factor (NGF)-elicited neurite outgrowth response of SCG neurons. Our results indicate that influx of extracellular calcium is critical to sympathetic SCG neurite outgrowth. Effective blockade of this process was produced by the inorganic calcium channel blockers Cd2+ (with an IC50 of 48 microM), Co2+ (129 microM), and Ni2+ (180 microM). More specifically, there is a significant contribution from dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type calcium channels to NGF-activated neurite outgrowth, as evidenced by the significant inhibition of neurite outgrowth by diltiazem (IC50 of 17 microM) and nifedipine (3 microM). Further, increases in calcium influx can elicit an enhanced neurite outgrowth response, as shown by the calcium channel agonist Bay K 8644 which potentiated neurite outgrowth by up to 40%.
1. The effects of acetylcholine (ACh) on excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by stimulating Schaffer-commissural afferents and on ionophoretically applied L-glutamate ligands, were investigated in CA1 neurones of hippocampal slices using current- and voltage-clamp techniques. 2. ACh produced a transient suppression followed by a long-lasting facilitation of EPSPs. The facilitation was also seen in Cs(+)-filled cells under voltage-clamp conditions. Both suppressing and facilitating effects were blocked by atropine. 3. All components of the EPSP were reduced in the initial phase of ACh action, while only the slow component was enhanced during the later phase. The facilitation was blocked by an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, d-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (2-APV) and by hyperpolarization. 4. ACh also facilitated responses to ionophoretically applied NMDA in voltage-clamped, Cs(+)-filled cells in Ba2(+)-treated slices. ACh facilitated responses to L-glutamate which was blocked by 2-APV. ACh failed to affect responses to kainate or quisqualate. 5. We conclude that ACh, acting on muscarinic receptors, exerts a primary effect in the hippocampus to specifically amplify NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic responses and thereby facilitate EPSPs.
The influence of Ca on the membrane binding and lytic activity of lymphocyte pore-forming protein (perforin) was studied. In the absence of Ca, perforin did not bind to the target membranes and did not support lysis of the target cells. In contrast, in the presence of Ca perforin was able to bind to the cell membrane (Km greater than 0.2 mM). Almost all the perforin molecules bind to the membrane within 1 min at 0 degrees C. The addition of EDTA abolished the binding, indicating that the effects of Ca on the membrane binding are reversible. On the other hand, the perforin-mediated lysis of target cells was temp-dependent and also required the presence of Ca in the reaction mixture (Km = 0.05 mM). The difference between the Km values for the membrane binding and lytic activity suggests the presence of two distinct Ca-requiring steps in perforin-mediated target cell lysis.

We administered 3 commonly employed tests of mental status (the Information-Memory-Concentration test [IMC], the Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE], and the Dementia Rating Scale [DRS]) to 92 patients with probable dementia of the Alzheimer type. The 3 tests were readministered to 55 of the patients (2-year subgroup) approximately 1 year later, and administered a 3rd time to 20 of the patients (3-year subgroup) approximately 2 years after their initial assessment. In all cases, scores on the 3 tests were highly correlated with each other. Examination of the annual rate of change (ARC) in score for the 2-year subgroup revealed an average decline of -3.24 error points on the IMC, 2.81 points on the MMSE, and 11.38 points on the DRS. Of the 3 tests, only the DRS evidenced greater sensitivity to change with increasing dementia severity. In the 3-year subgroup, the ARC between years 1 and 2 was not correlated with ARC between years 2 and 3 for any of the 3 tests. This finding suggests that a patient's rate of progression in 1 year may bear little relationship to future rate of decline.
In the developing mammalian visual system, retinal fibers grow through the optic chiasm, where one population crosses to the opposite side of the brain and the other does not. Evidence from labeling growing retinal axons with the carbocyanine dye Dil in mouse embryos indicates that the two subpopulations diverge at a zone along the midline of the optic chiasm. At the border of this zone, crossed fibers grow directly across, whereas uncrossed fibers turn back, developing highly complex terminations with bifurcating and wide-ranging growth cones. When one eye is removed at early stages, uncrossed fibers from the remaining eye stall at the chiasm midline. These results suggest that crossed and uncrossed retinal fibers respond differently to cues along the midline of the chiasm and that the uncrossed fibers from one eye grow along crossed fibers from the other eye, both guidance mechanisms contributing to the establishment of the bilateral pattern of visual projections in mammalian brain.
Ryanodine binding proteins of the CNS have been identified using monoclonal antibodies against avian skeletal muscle ryanodine binding proteins. These proteins were localized to intracellular membranes of the dendrites, perikarya, and axons of cerebellar Purkinje neurons using laser confocal microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy. Ryanodine binding proteins were not found in dendritic spines. Immunoprecipitation and [3H]epiryanodine binding experiments revealed that the cerebellar ryanodine binding proteins have a native molecular weight of approximately 2000 kd and are composed of two high molecular weight (approximately 500 kd) polypeptide subunits. A comparable protein having a single high molecular weight polypeptide subunit was observed in the remainder of the brain. If the ryanodine binding proteins in muscle and nerve are similar in function, then the neuronal proteins may participate in the release of calcium from intracellular stores that are mechanistically and spatially distinct from those gated by inositol trisphosphate receptors.
Photic information entrains a circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the mammalian hypothalamus to environmental light/dark cycles. To determine whether light regulates c-fos gene expression in the SCN, we have measured c-fos mRNA levels in the SCN of the golden hamster. We report that, during the subjective night, light causes a rapid increase in levels of c-fos mRNA in the SCN. Light pulses of 5 min duration are sufficient to induce c-fos mRNA, and the highest mRNA levels occur 30 min following the onset of light. The minimum level of illumination required to induce an increase in c-fos mRNA is indistinguishable from the minimum irradiance that produces a phase shift in the hamster's circadian rhythm of activity. In addition, the induction of c-fos mRNA in the SCN by light is itself under circadian regulation. Light induction of c-fos mRNA occurs only during the subjective night, at circadian times when photic phase shifting of activity occurs. Taken together, these data suggest that c-fos may be a molecular component of the photic pathway for entrainment of mammalian circadian rhythms.
Both systemic and intracerebral administrations of the cholinergic muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, have been shown to inhibit naturally occurring sexual behavior in intact, cycling female rats. The present study examined the facilitative effects of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine (eserine), on sexual behavior in intact, cycling female rats. Cycling was determined by daily monitoring of sexual behavior and vaginal cytology. When administered during either early proestrus or proestrus, physostigmine activated lordosis 15 min and 1 hr after intraventricular infusion (10 micrograms bilaterally). However, infusion of physostigmine failed to facilitate lordosis 15 min after administration during either diestrus I, mid-diestrus, or diestrus II. The administration of this cholinergic agent did not interrupt cyclicity patterns. Because estrogen levels are highest during proestrus and cholinergic facilitation appears to be limited to this time, it is suggested that estrogen priming of central cholinergic systems is necessary for the cholinergic regulation of sexual behavior in intact, cycling female rats.
Locomotor stepping can be elicited by brain stimulation at various diencephalic sites under moderate levels of Nembutal. This study determined if locomotor initiation measured under anesthesia provides a valid measure of the intersite factors which determine initiation in the awake condition. We compared the latencies to initiate locomotor stepping elicited by electrical stimulation (50 microA, 0.5-msec pulses, 10 to 160 Hz) by rats tested while awake and unrestrained in a rotary runway or anesthetized and held in a stereotaxic apparatus. In the latter tests, initial anesthesia was provided by Nembutal (25 mg/kg) and 2% halothane and maintenance anesthesia was provided by 7 mg/kg as needed and local injections of lidocaine. For 30 sites in 16 rats, average locomotor initiation latency in the awake condition and the shortest latencies in the anesthetized condition were positively correlated (r = .78). Locomotion at sites with long latencies in the awake condition was frequently blocked in the anesthetized condition, but sites with short latencies were rarely blocked. The results indicate that the shortest locomotor latencies in the anesthetized condition approximate the latencies measured in the awake condition. It is concluded that the anesthetized condition can provide valid initiation measures, but sites with long latencies in the awake condition are prone to depression under anesthesia.
At moderate levels of Nembutal, within the anesthetic range, locomotor stepping can be elicited by brain stimulation. We determined if Nembutal (7, 14 and 28 mg/kg) had different effects on locomotion elicited by stimulation at different brain regions. Two regions were compared: the medial forebrain bundle (MFB, 13 sites) and the areas medial and dorsal to it (MED/DORSAL, 20 sites). Locomotion was produced by electrical stimulation (50 microA, 0.5 msec pulses, 10 to 160 Hz) of unrestrained rats in a rotary runway. The latency to initiate locomotion and the time to complete 1 revolution of the rotary were measured. With no drug, MFB locomotion was initiated sooner but took longer to complete than MED/DORSAL locomotion. Nembutal at 7 mg/kg did not affect initiation of MFB or MED/DORSAL locomotion. Nembutal at 14 mg/kg shortened MFB initiations, but this dose prolonged MED/DORSAL initiations. Initiations with both types of sites were blocked with 28 mg/kg. The 7 and 14 mg/kg doses prolonged the locomotor completion times of the MFB sites but not of the MED/DORSAL sites. The results indicate that the response to Nembutal differs qualitatively for locomotion elicited by stimulation of the MFB and locomotion elicited by stimulation of the medial and dorsal hypothalamus. The mechanisms underlying the difference remain to be elucidated; they may relate to nonlocomotor behaviors also elicited by stimulation or to the motivational states reflected in those behaviors.
Locomotion initiated by electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus could be due to activation of local neurons or of fibers of passage descending from locomotor regions in the basal forebrain. This study mapped hypothalamic sites for electrically elicited locomotion in six rats with electrolytic lesions of the ipsilateral basal forebrain sources of descending fibers of passage. For mapping, anesthetized rats were held in a stereotaxic apparatus supported by a sling so that stepping movements rotated a wheel. Anesthesia was maintained by periodic injections of Nembutal (7 mg/kg) supplemented by lidocaine injections. Stimulation (25 and 50 microA, 50 Hz, 0.5 msec cathodal pulses, 10 sec trains) was applied through 50-80 microns diameter pipettes filled with 2 M saline. In all cases, locomotor stepping could be elicited by stimulation in sites ipsilateral to the lesion at currents of 50 microA or less. In the one case in which 25-microA sites were not found in the lateral hypothalamus, the lesion extended caudally to within 1 mm of the stimulation sites. These findings do not exclude a locomotor role for fibers of passage but they suggest that activation of lateral hypothalamic neurons is sufficient to initiate locomotion.
For the past 3 decades, functional characterizations of the hippocampus have emphasized its intrinsic trisynaptic circuitry, which consists of successive excitatory projections from the entorhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus, from granule cells of the dentate to the CA3/4 pyramidal cell region, and from CA3/4 to the CA1/2 pyramidal cell region. Despite unequivocal anatomical evidence for a monosynaptic projection from entorhinal to CA3 and CA1/2, few in vivo electrophysiological studies of the direct pathway have been reported. In the experiments presented here, we stimulated axons of entorhinal cortical neurons in vivo and recorded evoked single unit and population spike responses in the dentate, CA3, and CA1 of hippocampus, to determine if pyramidal cells are driven primarily via the monosynaptic or trisynaptic pathways. Our results show that neurons within the three subfields of the hippocampus discharge simultaneously in response to input from a given subpopulation of entorhinal cortical neurons and that the initial monosynaptic excitation of pyramidal cells then is followed by weaker excitatory volleys transmitted through the trisynaptic pathway. In addition, we found that responses of CA3 pyramidal cells often precede those of dentate granule cells and that excitation of CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells can occur in the absence of granule cell excitation. In total, these results argue for a different conceptualization of the functional organization of the hippocampus with respect to the propagation of activity through its intrinsic pathways: input from the entorhinal cortex initiates a two-phase feedforward excitation of pyramidal cells, with the dentate gyrus providing feedforward excitation of CA3, and with both the dentate and CA3 providing feedforward excitation of CA1.
The turnover and processing of the Alzheimer beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) has been studied in PC12 cells after treatment with agents that regulate protein phosphorylation. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, an agent that stimulates protein kinase C, decreased the levels of mature beta APP and increased the levels of 15- and 19-kDa peptides. These peptides appeared to be COOH-terminal fragments of beta APP, which arose when phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate increased the rate of proteolytic processing of mature forms of beta APP. Okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, also led to decreased levels of mature beta APP and increased levels of the 15- and 19-kDa peptides. H-7, an inhibitor of protein kinase C and of several other protein kinases, apparently decreased the rate of proteolytic processing of mature beta APP. The sizes of the putative COOH-terminal fragments observed after treatment with either phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate or okadaic acid suggest that one or both may contain the entire beta/A4 region of beta APP and thus be amyloidogenic. Our results support the hypothesis that abnormal protein phosphorylation may play a role in the development of the cerebral amyloidosis that accompanies Alzheimer disease.
To elucidate the role of the amygdala in visual perception and cognition, the effects of ablations of the amygdala and inferotemporal cortex on several visual tasks were compared with each other, and also the distribution patterns of the projections between them were investigated. The findings indicate that the inferotemporal cortex plays a critical role in visual perception, cognition and memory, whereas the amygdala is involved fundamentally in controlling emotional and motivational behavior. However, the amygdala is concerned with vision in the following ways: It receives neutral visual information highly processed in the visual cortex, invests the information with emotional and motivational significance through interactions with the cortical and subcortical systems of emotion and motivation, and then it returns the information coded to the visual areas to be re-processed; to be consciously perceived in area TEO, and to be meaningfully cognized, recognized and memorized in areas TE and TEG. Therefore, two channel model regarding the mechanism of visual information processing in the inferotemporal cortex is proposed: A first channel is concerned with processing neutral information, while the second one, with processing meaning information coded emotionally and motivationally in the amygdala. In addition, the present studies demonstrate that area TEG, which is cytoarchitecturally a transitional area between areas TE and TG and whose functional significance has remained unclear, is involved significantly in visual cognition rather than visual perception.
To investigate the nature underlying the process of pattern discrimination learning, a series of seven experiments on seven working assumptions were undertaken. The main findings are as follows. The pattern discrimination learning consists of two time-dependent stages: The initial or first learning stage is the period of performance at chance, and the succeeding or second stage is the period of performance from just above the chance to a criterion level. The duration of the first stage is dependent on the degrees of cue-response separations, whereas that of the second stage is independent of. During the first stage, monkeys do not attend to the discriminative cue even at small cue-response separations, whereas during the second stage, they achieve pattern discrimination, or pattern perception and cognition, regardless of cue-response separations. After having learned the first pattern task with a cue-response separation, they learned new pattern tasks by means of the second stage, showing marked saving of the duration of the first stage. The findings in the present studies indicate that the first stage of learning is predominantly involved in the process of attending to the discriminative cues remote from the response site (a selective attention to the cue), whereas the second stage is concerned with the process of perception and cognition of the discriminative cue.
Studies of sympathetic neurons developing in cell culture revealed a surprising degree of transmitter plasticity and established the role of environmental factors in determining transmitter choice. The sympathetic neurons that innervate sweat glands undergo a change in neurotransmitter phenotype from noradrenergic to cholinergic during normal development similar to that observed in culture. Cross-innervation experiments indicate that the target sweat glands induce the switch and thereby specify the phenotype of the neurons that innervate them. Thus, both the transmitter plasticity and the role of environmental influences initially elucidated in culture are part of the developmental repertoire of sympathetic neurons in vivo. Further, these findings extend considerably our understanding of the role that targets may play during development; targets may not only determine how many neurons survive but also what their properties will be.

The ocular-following responses elicited by brief unexpected movements of the visual scene were studied in human subjects. Response latencies varied with the type of stimulus and decreased systematically with increasing stimulus speed but, unlike those of monkeys, were not solely determined by the temporal frequency generated by sine-wave stimuli. Minimum latencies (70-75 ms) were considerably shorter than those reported for other visually driven eye movements. The magnitude of the responses to sine-wave stimuli changed markedly with stimulus speed and only slightly with spatial frequency over the ranges used. When normalized with respect to spatial frequency, all responses shared the same dependence on temporal frequency (band-pass characteristics with a peak at 16 Hz), indicating that temporal frequency, rather than speed per se, was the limiting factor over the entire range examined. This suggests that the underlying motion detectors respond to the local changes in luminance associated with the motion of the scene. Movements of the scene in the immediate wake of a saccadic eye movement were on average twice as effective as movements 600 ms later: post-saccadic enhancement. Less enhancement was seen in the wake of saccade-like shifts of the scene, which themselves elicited weak ocular following, something not seen in the wake of real saccades. We suggest that there are central mechanisms that, on the one hand, prevent the ocular-following system from tracking the visual disturbances created by saccades but, on the other, promote tracking of any subsequent disturbance and thereby help to suppress post-saccadic drift. Partitioning the visual scene into central and peripheral regions revealed that motion in the periphery can exert a weak modulatory influence on ocular-following responses resulting from motion at the center. We suggest that this may help the moving observer to stabilize his/her eyes on nearby stationary objects.
Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activities were found in the cytosolic fractions of rat brain. Using the gel filtration chromatography, two major peaks of PLA2 activities were demonstrated: PLA2-H (200-500 kDa) and PLA2-L (100 kDa). PLA2-L was active at both neutral and alkaline pH and absolutely required Ca2+ for the activity, while the activity of PLA2-H was detected only at alkaline pH and independent of Ca2+. The activation of PLA2-L by Ca2+ was biphasic; the first observed at 1-100 microM Ca2+ and the second at 10 mM Ca2+. In the reconstitution system of partially purified PLA2-L and synaptosomal membranes from rat brain, PLA2-L associated with the membranes in a Ca2(+)-dependent manner. The association was completed within 5-10 min at 25 degrees C both at 10 microM and 1 mM Ca2+, though amount of PLA2-L translocated was dependent on Ca2+ concentrations. These results suggest that Ca2+ promotes the translocation of the cytosolic PLA2-L to membranes where phospholipids, substrate of PLA2, are present.
Two cDNAs, one containing the entire coding region of alpha subunit of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) and the other containing only its protein kinase domain, were separately ligated into the bacterial expression vector pET3a and expressed in Escherichia coli. The activity of the recombinant alpha subunit protein was dependent on Ca2+/calmodulin, whereas the activity of the recombinant protein containing only the protein kinase domain (recombinant alpha-I protein) was absolutely independent of Ca2+/calmodulin. These proteins showed similar enzymatic properties to brain CaM kinase II with some minor differences. These results directly demonstrated that the protein kinase domain alone without the rest of the subunit was sufficient to exhibit its activity.
To screen for putative amyloid A4-splitting proteinases, model peptide substrates homologous to the N- and C-terminal portions of the A4 protein were synthesized. The N-terminal A4-splitting enzyme activity was found to be higher in the hypothalamus and limbic area, compared with in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum in 2-month-old rat. The activity decreased throughout the brain in 20-month-old rat. On the other hand, the activity of the putative C-terminal A4-splitting enzyme was significantly higher, 1.4-fold, in the hippocampus than in the cerebral cortex in the young rat. The activity also significantly decreased in the brain of 20-month-old rat, but was still higher in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum.
Immunoreactive staining for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the rat superficial dorsal horn (L4-L5 segments) was examined following electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve. Electrical stimulation for twenty minutes at an intensity to elicit both A and C fiber volleys resulted in a significant decrease in CGRP immunoreactivity in the medial two-thirds of the dorsal horn on the stimulated side as compared to the non-stimulated side of the spinal cord. The change was most pronounced in the medial area of the dorsal horn, with a 54% decrease in immunostaining density compared to the non-stimulated side. In contrast, when the sciatic nerve was stimulated for the same period at an intensity that stimulates only A fibers, there was no significant difference in the density of immunoreactive staining in the dorsal horn between the non-stimulated and stimulated sides of the spinal cord. These results suggest that activity in a specific population of primary afferent fibers causes a dramatic depletion of CGRP in the dorsal horn.
The effects of the mixed N- and L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel (VSCC) antagonist, omega-conotoxin GVIA and the L-type VSCC agonist Bay K-8644 on calcium-dependent, potassium evoked release of [3H]5-hydroxtryptamine ([3H]5-HT) were investigated in slices of rat hippocampus. Bay K-8644 (1 microM) enhanced, whilst omega-conotoxin (10-30 nM) attenuated, but did not abolish, evoked release of [3H]5-HT. The facilitatory actions of Bay K-8644 on evoked release were unaffected by concentrations of omega conotoxin that significantly inhibited [3H]5-HT release. The experiments indicate that concentrations of omega-conotoxin which inhibit neurotransmitter release by blockade of N-type VSCC, may leave L-type calcium channel activity unaffected.
The regulation of spike generation in rat midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons was investigated using in vitro intracellular recordings. DA neurons fired long (greater than 1.8 ms) action potentials that exhibited comparatively depolarized spike thresholds (approx. -35 to -45 mV). Depolarization of the DA neuron increased the duration and the threshold of subsequent action potentials. The action potential was composed of two distinct components, a fast (0.8-1.5 ms duration) initial segment (IS) spike which triggered a slow (1.5-3 ms duration) somatodendritic (SD) component. Cobalt application (2 mM) blocked the SD spike component and revealed fast TTX-sensitive spikes. These fast spikes were also observed in untreated neurons following large hyperpolarizing pulses, and showed consistent changes in threshold and amplitude during membrane depolarization. Administration of 4-aminopyridine decreased the threshold of this TTX-sensitive spike, whereas tetraethylammonium (TEA) had no effect. When the fast spike was blocked by TTX, depolarization was ineffective in triggering further spike activity. However, after the administration of TEA (but not 4-AP), high threshold cobalt-sensitive spike activity could be triggered by relatively small depolarizations. TEA increased the duration of the SD portion of the action potential without altering the action potential threshold. The effect of 4-AP on spike threshold and the increase in SD spike duration caused by TEA were similar in nature to the changes in action-potential waveforms produced by polarizing the DA neuron membrane. Drawing from evidence gathered here and in previous in vivo studies, the properties of the TTX-sensitive fast spike are consistent with those of the IS spike component of the action potential, whereas the SD component is similar in nature to the high threshold calcium spike. One hypothesis that can be drawn from these studies is that dendritic and axonal spiking regions may exist in different functional subcompartments of the DA neuron, and may be independently modulated by pharmacologically distinct conductances. Under these conditions, synaptic influences could exist to modulate dendritic excitability and thus regulate putative dendritic spike-dependent functions, such as neuronal activity state, electrical coupling, and dendritic DA synthesis and release.
The distribution of type II calmodulin kinase (CaM kinase) immunoreactivity was studied in control and septally kindled rat brains. CaM kinase was concentrated in limbic structures, such as the hippocampus, lateral septum and amygdala. Within the hippocampus, the molecular layer of the endal limb of the dentate gyrus, the stratum radiatum, and lacunosum moleculare of CA1 were the most heavily stained regions. The cerebellum was stained only in the molecular and Purkinje cell layers, and very low amounts of immunoreactive protein were present in the brainstem and white matter. Kindling resulted in a significant decrease in CaM kinase immunoreactivity in CA3 and in the dentate of the ventral hippocampus but not in the lateral septum. These data suggest that kindling decreases the number of CaM kinase molecules or alters its antigenic distribution, and provides further evidence that alterations of this enzyme may be important in the kindling phenomenon.
Protein kinase C (PKC) and substrate proteins such as F1/GAP-43 have been previously implicated in the synaptic plasticity of long-term potentiation (LTP). As a first step in determining whether they participate in the plasticity observed during the critical period of visual cortex development, we have studied cytosol and membrane PKC activity as well as the endogenous phosphorylation of visual cortical proteins in cat cortical areas 17, 18 at postnatal days 1 and 3, weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 13, 28 and 51, and adult year 5. There was an 8.4 to 10.9 fold increase in cytosolic PKC activity relative to day 1 level during the critical period of synaptic plasticity (weeks 3-13) which then dramatically decreased back to 2.5-fold of day 1 level by week 51. This was near the adult level of cytosolic PKC. Since there was an increase of 1.8- to 2.1-fold in membrane PKC activity during the critical period, this argues against a PKC translocation event and for an increase in enzyme synthesis. Endogenous phosphorylation in the same visual cortex tissue revealed an increase in protein F1 phosphorylation during the critical period. This level of PKC substrate activity was maintained in the adult providing a mechanism for plasticity in adult cat visual cortex.
We studied the expression and distribution of the polypeptide diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) in rat peripheral organs by immunocytochemistry, radioimmunoassay, Northern blot analysis and binding assay. Variable amounts of the DBI peptide and DBI mRNA were found in all the tissues examined (liver, duodenum, testis, kidney, adrenal gland, heart, ovary, lung, skeletal muscle and spleen), with the highest level of expression in liver (220 pmol of DBI/mg protein) and the lowest in spleen (11 pmol of DBI/mg protein). A good correlation between DBI-like immunoreactivity (DBI-LI) and mRNA content was found in all tissues except the heart. The immunohistochemical analysis revealed discrete localization of DBI-LI in cell types with specialized functions: for example, the highest DBI-LI content was found in steroid-producing cells (glomerulosa and fasciculata cells of adrenal cortex, Leydig cells of testis); lower DBI-LI immunostaining was found in epithelial cells specialized for water and electrolyte transport (intestinal mucosa, distal convoluted tubules of kidney). Hepatic cells contained moderate immunoreactivity however the total content of DBI in liver is relatively high and is due to the diffuse presence of DBI in every hepatocyte. Cells with high expression of DBI have been shown to contain a high density of mitochondrial benzodiazepine (BZ) binding sites. This observation led us to perform a competitive binding assay between DBI and [3H]PK11195 (a ligand for the mitochondrial BZ binding sites) on mitochondrial membranes of adrenal cortical cells. In this experiment, DBI yielded an apparent competitive inhibition of the binding of PK11195 to the BZ binding sites. Our data support a possible role for DBI as endogenous regulator of intracellular metabolic functions, such as steroidogenesis, via the mitochondrial BZ receptors.
Neurons of the rat superior colliculus projecting to the intralaminar thalamus were tested for their responses to somatosensory stimulation. They were identified by antidromic stimulation of the parafascicular nucleus and central lateral nucleus. To establish the existence of descending as well as ascending axon collaterals antidromic stimulation was applied to the upper cervical spinal cord in some cases. Somatosensory receptive fields were delineated and their laminar location in the superior colliculus was noted. Units were distributed throughout the intermediate and deep tectal layers, none were located in the superficial layers. Units with somatosensory receptive fields could be classified as low threshold, high threshold, wide dynamic range or complex. The majority of the peripherally responsive units (52%) were low threshold somatosensory units with contralateral receptive fields. All units were distributed throughout the intermediate and deep layers. Their distribution reflected the typical somatotopic organization of the superior colliculus. These results indicate that the intralaminar thalamus receives some sensory information by way of the tectum. In turn, the basal ganglia may gain direct access to this information by way of the thalamoneostriatal projection.

Clozapine, an atypical neuroleptic drug devoid of extrapyramidal side effects, was a moderately potent, competitive inhibitor of the binding of [3H]quaternised ICS 205-930 to 5-HT3 receptor sites in rat cortical membranes, possessing a pKi value of 7.0. In contrast, several other antipsychotic agents, including fluphenazine, alpha-flupenthixol, haloperidol, spiperone and (-)-sulpiride were essentially inactive. Clozapine also antagonised the 2-methyl 5-HT-induced depolarisation of the rat isolated superior cervical ganglion, a response known to be mediated via 5-HT3 receptors. Clozapine (0.1-1 microM) induced parallel displacements to the right of the dose-response curve to 2-methyl 5-HT in this tissue, possessing a pKb value of 7.3. These data suggest that the atypical antipsychotic profile of clozapine may be related, at least, in part to its ability to interact with central 5-HT3 receptor sites.
Immunoreactivity (IR) for the calcium binding protein, calbindin, was localized in sensory ganglia (nodose, trigeminal and dorsal root), in parasympathetic ganglia (otic and sphenopalatine) in sympathetic chain ganglia and in sympathetic pre-vertebral ganglia of guinea pig. In sensory ganglia, fine nerve fibres with calbindin-IR surrounded the majority of cell bodies, a low proportion of which were themselves reactive. In cranial parasympathetic and in sympathetic chain ganglia, a small proportion of nerve cells was surrounded with baskets of calbindin-IR nerve fibres, but very few cell bodies were reactive. In prevertebral sympathetic ganglia, dense networks of terminals surrounded many cell bodies, but few somata were themselves reactive. In the coeliac and inferior mesenteric ganglia, the calbindin-IR nerve fibres surrounded somatostatin-IR cell bodies, but not those with neuropeptide Y-IR. It is concluded that specific subgroups of peripheral autonomic and sensory neurones have calbindin-IR.
Human platelets can be stimulated by thrombin or ionomycin to secrete soluble truncated amyloid beta-protein precursor and particulate membrane fragments which contain C-terminal and N-terminal immunoreactive amyloid beta-protein precursor. This suggests a possible circulating source of beta-protein in serum which may play a role in the formation of amyloid deposits. The release of soluble amyloid beta-protein precursor could be involved in normal platelet physiology.
Lithium lengthens the period of free-running circadian rhythms in a variety of species, but this effect has not been demonstrated unequivocally in primates. Because of the possible link between lithium's action on the circadian clock and its therapeutic action in human mood disorders, we tested the ability of lithium to lengthen circadian period in a diurnal primate with circadian properties similar to those of humans. Lithium carbonate was administered in food pellets to 8 adult male squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) for at least 27 consecutive days. Serum lithium levels on the last day of lithium administration ranged from 0.76 to 2.02 mEq/liter, comparable to the therapeutic range for treatment of bipolar disorder in humans (0.6-1.2 mEq/liter). Circadian periods of perch-hopping activity were longer during lithium treatment than during baseline in 7 of the 8 monkeys (changes of -0.08 to +1.41 hr, mean +0.55 hr, p = 0.01), and returned toward baseline values when lithium was discontinued. In most cases, the period change was evident within a few days after beginning full lithium dose, and was not accompanied by changes in level or pattern of activity, nor in amplitude of the circadian rhythm. Food consumption and body weight were reduced during lithium treatment, and rebounded on return to lithium-free diet. Period change was related to lithium dose (p less than 0.05), but did not correlate with food consumption, body weight, or baseline circadian period. These results, by establishing that lithium lengthens circadian period in primates, suggest that studying the cellular mechanisms of this circadian effect may be relevant to understanding lithium's therapeutic effect on mood in humans.
Acetylcholine (ACh) in the brain stem has been implicated in the generation of paradoxical sleep (PS). In order to clarify the relationship between local ACh release in the dorsal tegmental field (FTD), a possible PS-generating locus, and sleep-wake states in 6 cats. ACh was measured by the method of in vivo microdialysis and high performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection. It is noteworthy that ACh release was about 2 times higher (P less than 0.001) during PS than during slow-wave sleep and wakefulness in FTD, but not in the caudate nucleus, a control region. ACh release in FTD appeared to begin to increase prior to the onset of PS. Electrical and chemical (glutamate) stimulations of the nucleus magnocellularis (MC) enhanced ACh release in FTD and shortened PS latency. These results suggest that this PS-related enhancement of ACh release in FTD is induced by some cholinergic projections from glutamate-receptive neurons in MC.

A monoclonal antibody (3A3) raised against a rat neural cell line (PC12) was shown previously to bind to the surfaces of these cells, inhibiting substratum adhesion. Immunochemical and other data indicated that the heterodimer recognized by 3A3 was a member of the integrin family of adhesive receptors and had a beta 1 subunit. The relationship of the alpha subunit to other integrins was unknown. Here we show that 3A3 recognizes in rat tissues a heterodimer (approximately 185 kDa, approximately 110 kDa; unreduced) that is electrophoretically and immunochemically indistinguishable from the antigen in PC12 cells. Immunoaffinity purification of the heterodimer from neonatal rats and protein microsequencing indicate that the alpha subunit is identical at 11 or 13 N-terminal residues with VLA-1, an integrin on human hematopoietic cells. Monoclonal antibody 3A3 inhibits the attachment of rat astrocytes to laminin or collagen but not to fibronectin or polylysine. These data suggest strongly that the integrin recognized by 3A3 is the rat homologue of VLA-1, i.e., alpha 1 beta 1, and that alpha 1 beta 1 is a dual laminin/collagen receptor.
In order to test the hypothesis that visual information reaching the cerebellum through the pontine nuclei is involved in the control of visually guided movements, the effects of bilateral kainic acid pontine lesions have been analysed in cats performing a reaching movement towards a spot of light that was either stationary or moving. In 4 cats, the lesion was restricted either to the ventromedian region (cortical-recipient zone) or to the dorsolateral nucleus (tectal-recipient zone) of the pons. A major and persistent impairment was seen when the cerebellum was deprived of the pontine information influenced by the colliculus. While cats displayed no impairment when reaching towards a stationary target, they exhibited a strong accuracy deficit associated with an increased reaction time when reaching towards a moving target. In contrast, lesioning the pontine zone influenced by the visual cortex induced a transient accuracy deficit with moving targets and a transient delay in movement onset whatever the mode of target presentation. These results emphasise the involvement of visual pontine regions in the guidance of movements; they also confirm previous results showing that tectal visual information plays a more important role than that originating in the visual cortex when movements are directed towards moving targets.
Three cats were raised with monocular deprivation for 5.2-7.2 years, and ganglion-cell densities and soma sizes were measured in their flat-mounted retinae. The retinae were Nissl-stained so that ganglion cells could be measured whether or not they maintained normal central projections. Measurements were made in the area centralis, peripheral binocular segment, and monocular segment of the retinae. There were no significant differences between the deprived and non-deprived retinae in the densities or soma-sizes of alpha cells or other (non-alpha) ganglion cells at any of these retinal locations. These results support the view that the most distal effects of monocular deprivation occur at the retino-geniculate contact, and they suggest that even after long-term monocular deprivation, effects in the lateral geniculate nucleus do not produce secondary, retrograde changes in the retina.
The relationship between immune function and the preferred direction of behavioral asymmetry was examined in several mouse strains. Mixed leukocyte reaction, natural killer cell activity, cytotoxic T lymphocyte response and lymphoproliferation in response to mitogens were investigated in animals with left or right paw preference. From the 7 strains and substrains examined, it appeared that differences in immune function between left and right pawed mice, when present, vary in directionality. Thus, in C3H/HeJ and 129/J, left pawed mice had higher immune responses than right pawed mice, whereas in C3H/HeNCr MTV- and BALB/cJ animals, the reverse was found. In C3H/HeNCr MTV+, C57BL/6J and Collin's heterogenous control population for the high/low asymmetry lines, no differences between animals with left or right paw preference were found. The statistical significance of these differences were not uniform for all the immune parameters studied. These data indicate that the association between immune function and preference for using the left versus right paw is a strain-dependent phenomenon and may suggest that the inconsistent evidence for an association between immune deficiency and left-handedness could be due to genetic heterogeneity among subpopulations.
Retinal application of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonists block direction-sensitive (DS) responses in turtle in two ways: (1) the selectivity of DS retinal ganglion cells in vitro, and (2) the eye's ability to track the direction of full field image motion. The experiments described below demonstrate that an important locus for retinal slip computation by the accessory optic system (AOS) occurs in the retina. Visual responses were measured physiologically and behaviorally from turtles which had their telencephalon removed. Physiological responses to visual field movement were recorded in the AOS using an in vitro brain preparation. DS responses of single cells were blocked by intravitreal application of bicuculline. The behavioral approach was to measure optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) in lesioned animals. OKN occurred in the absence of the telencephalon, yet was disrupted following an intravitreal injection of bicuculline. Thus, both experimental approaches showed that DS processing exists without the telencephalon, yet is disrupted by GABA antagonists applied to the retina.
The contributions of fiber hypertrophy and new fiber formation to the onset of stretch-induced muscle enlargement were evaluated in the anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) of adult Japanese quails, because it was not known whether the mechanisms which initiate new fiber formation were dependent on first achieving significant fiber hypertrophy. A weight corresponding to 10% of the bird's body mass was attached to one wing, and eight birds were killed after each day during the first week of stretch. Muscle mass was significantly increased after 48 h of stretch; however, the elevation in nonmuscle tissue accounted for this increase. Muscle mass corrected for non-muscle tissue was significantly greater than the intra-animal control by the fourth day of stretch. Mean fiber cross-sectional area did not change during days 0-6, but cross-sectional area was 30.0 +/- 17.2% greater than the intra-animal control areas at day 7. Fiber number determined after nitric acid digestion of connective tissue was 27.1 +/- 5.8% greater than the intra-animal control at days 5-7 of stretch, but the number of fibers in the control muscles at days 5 and 6 were lower than at day 0. Thus new fiber formation was not preceded by significant fiber hypertrophy. These results fail to support a mechanism for new fiber formation which involves fiber splitting from hypertrophied myofibers during the first week of stretch.
We are in an era when the common denominators accounting for the major favorable effects of the different psychotherapies merit further clarification. At the same time, definite progress has been made in determining those specific psychotherapeutic techniques and methods that produce the desired results most efficiently with particular types of patients with specific types of problems. Continuing psychotherapy research will be required, and such research will need to be linked and co-ordinated with the new scientific progress being made in biological psychiatry and the neurosciences.
An ischemic cerebral lesion involves a progressive metabolic damage to neurons and neurotransmitter alterations. The consequent functional deficits give rise to the neurological and cognitive impairment seen in most stroke patients. As soon as neuronal loss brings synaptic activities to an end, a maximum release of neurotransmitters and peptides occurs, no longer balanced by effective synthesis activity. This unbalanced control of neurotransmitters causes the typical neurological and psychological disturbances of the post-stroke phase. In particular, the unbalance of the catecholaminergic and/or serotoninergic system seems to be related to emotional disturbances, whereas the cholinergic unbalance seems to be the cause of cognitive impairment (which is manifested in memory and learning capacity deficits). The recent demonstration that peptides also act as synaptic transmission modulators supplied the rationale to propose the use of neuropeptides as a substitutive therapy in many neurodegenerative pathologies and particularly in post-traumatic encephalopathies and stroke sequelae. Furthermore, one of these neuropeptides, protirelin, has been proved to have neurotransmitter and neuromodulator activities as well as being capable of inducing the functional maturity and regeneration of neurons and improving functional recovery and vigilance in cases of stroke sequelae. A double-blind multicenter trial versus placebo was therefore performed to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of protirelin tartrate (TRH-T) in this pathology. The neuropsychological functions (attentiveness, learning capacity, memory) were evaluated in 136 patients with stroke sequelae, treated with TRH-T or with placebo.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Until a few years ago physicians were not rehabilitation-oriented, but recent discoveries regarding the plasticity of the nervous system have made the patient with an acute cerebrovascular lesion a clinical model of great interest. Furthermore, the severity of the frequent residual invalidities and the high social costs are the reasons why this field of medicine is becoming increasingly important. The clinical study of stroke has not changed much during the past century. Perhaps our semeiological abilities are not the same but we have improved our knowledge of the neurosciences and we know that in the acute phase we have to look towards the patient's future and not only at his current condition. A certain degree of recovery occurs immediately after stroke thanks to the resolution of secondary events such as edema and ischemia. Other factors that may have important effects on recovery include the localization, nature, extension and degree of brain damage, the patient's sex and age, the duration of coma, the patient's original cognitive capacity, his personality and motivation as well as the duration and intensity of rehabilitation and the time before starting rehabilitation. Many of these variables are difficult to check in trials performed in humans. Statistical problems make it difficult to prove any beneficial effect of rehabilitation. Some recent trials have shown statistically significant improvements attributable to rehabilitation. For instance, exercise under visual stimulation around a scotoma has been shown to reduce the area of blindness. The improvements occurred only after exercise and never spontaneously. What happens when rehabilitation favours recovery?(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 42-year-old woman suffered two focal right hemisphere strokes, sequentially damaging different components of a proposed cerebral network for the spatial distribution of attention. Her first stroke was centered in the right frontal lobe and resulted in left hemi-spatial neglect but only for tasks that emphasize exploratory-motor components of directed attention. A second stroke occurred 20 days later in the parietal lobe and led to the emergence of perceptual-sensory aspects of neglect. This case strongly supports the existence of a distributed anatomic-functional network subserving directed attention.
We studied the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in 3 patients with Shy-Drager syndrome, by using positron emission tomography and [18F]6-fluoro-1-dopa to determine whether their parkinsonism correlated with impaired functional integrity of the presynaptic nigrostriatal pathway. One patient had short duration of disease, mild parkinsonism, and a normal positron emission tomographic scan, suggesting pathological changes functionally distal to the nigrostriatal pathway. Two patients with longer duration of disease had more severe parkinsonism and reduced [18F]6-fluoro-1-dopa uptake, suggesting impaired nigrostriatal dopaminergic function with progression of Shy-Drager syndrome.
The relationship between central (cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]) and peripheral (plasma) monoaminergic metabolites and psychotic symptoms was examined in 22 drug-free schizophrenic inpatients. The CSF homovanillic acid levels did not differ significantly between patients and normal controls (n = 33). The CSF homovanillic acid levels, however, were negatively correlated with ratings of psychosis and positive symptoms, and the CSF homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels correlated negatively with individual deficit symptoms. Stepwise and hierarchical multiple-regression analysis revealed that among monoaminergic measures, only the CSF and plasma homovanillic acid levels contributed significantly to the total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and positive symptom variance with negative and positive partial correlations, respectively. Levels of CSF 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol, but not of CSF norepinephrine, were significantly elevated in the schizophrenic patients compared with controls, and plasma 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol levels were positively correlated with negative symptoms. We discuss the potential implications of these findings for a model of dopaminergic dysfunction in schizophrenia involving distinct cortical and subcortical contributions.
Regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc), as measured with positron emission tomography, and neuropsychological function were studied longitudinally (range, 15 to 48 months) in 11 mildly impaired patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and compared with results from patients with moderate and severe DAT and from controls. At initial evaluation, association cortex metabolic asymmetries were greater in patients with DAT than in controls for all dementia severities and correlated significantly with neuropsychological discrepancies between visuospatial and language abilities in patients with moderate dementia. In mildly impaired patients, right-left metabolic asymmetries in the association cortices were directionally stable and became more pronounced over time. At initial evaluation, these patients had significant impairment, relative to controls, on tests of memory and attention to complex tasks but not on tests of language and visuospatial function. Memory, attention, language, and visuospatial impairments, however, all worsened significantly over time. In mildly impaired patients, correlations between right-left metabolic asymmetries and neuropsychological discrepancies were insignificant initially but were significant at last evaluation. These results demonstrate that heterogeneous nonmemory language and visuospatial impairments in early DAT are related to and predicted by the earlier-appearing distribution of metabolic reductions in the association neocortex.
Serum viral antibody titers against 21 viruses were studied in 19 of 23 same-sex twin pairs with multiple sclerosis derived from the Finnish Twin Cohort. Thorough neurologic examinations showed two monozygotic pairs to be concordant, whereas all dizygotic pairs were discordant. Special attention was given to measles, mumps, and rubella viruses, against which the antibody levels were determined with the complement fixation, hemagglutination inhibition, hemolysis-ingel, and enzyme immunoassay methods. Epstein-Barr virus antibody levels were determined by enzyme assay. In pairwise comparisons, the measles, mumps, and Epstein-Barr virus-IgG antibody levels were more often elevated in the patients with multiple sclerosis, compared with the healthy co-twins. The same antibody levels were more often above the median in the diseased twin, compared with the healthy twin, but the difference was not significant. No human T-cell lymphotropic virus type I antibodies were found in any of the individuals examined. The total IgG, IgA, and IgM levels did not differ between the diseased and healthy subjects. The HLA types, severity of the disease, and cell-mediated immunity parameters did not influence antibody levels.

The sequence of discoveries that has followed the investigation of this small yellow spot shows the value of studies begun out of &quot;mere curiosity&quot;. The spot occurs on the stellate ganglion of octopods. It proved to be an enclosed sac, perhaps a gland. The search for it in squids and cuttlefishes led to the discovery of the giant nerve fibres. At first they were thought to be veins but we soon showed that they were nerve fibres concerned with jet propulsion. Their action potentials, membranes and synapses have been used for thousand of studies, including those that led to the Hodkin Huxley equations. They have been the basis of much of modern neuroscience. The epistellar body itself proved not to be a gland but a photoreceptor. Comparable photosensitive vesicles are especially large in the heads of deep-sea squids. In the mesopelagic ones they allow the squid to conceal itself by counterillumination, matching its own light output to the light coming from above. In bathypelagic squids the vesicles are enormous and probably keep the animals in the dark, where they breed. The function of the epistellar body, lying within the mantle of octopods is still unknown. It may act in the transparent larval stage to trigger the ejection of luminous plankton, which would be a hazard.
The retrograde transport of WGA-HRP adsorbed to colloidal gold was combined with the indirect immunoperoxidase technique to study the origin of enkephalin-containing afferents to the medial and ventral regions of the globus pallidus (GP). On the injected side, the nerve cell bodies labeled retrogradely or double labeled were numerous in the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACe), scattered in the bed nucleus stria terminalis (BNST) and few in the fundus striati. In the ACe, approximately 40% and 20% of the retrogradely labeled perikarya were found immunoreactive for Met-enkephalin and Leu-enkephalin, respectively, whereas they were only 30% and 15% in the BNST. It is concluded that the enkephalinergic afferents of the ventro-medial region of GP, which contains the basal nucleus of Meynert in the rat, are largely of limbic origin.
Neurochemical recovery was investigated in male, Fischer-344 rats up to 3 months after lesions of the nucleus basalis. Bilateral injections of colchicine (1.0 micrograms/site) into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) resulted in a 30% decrease in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in frontal cortex 4 weeks after surgery, compared to unlesioned controls. ChAT activity in the frontal cortex gradually recovered to control levels by 12 weeks. The loss of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons in the NBM observed 4 weeks after surgery was still evident 12 weeks after surgery. These results suggest that surviving cholinergic neurons in the NBM contribute to recovery of ChAT activity in the neocortex.
In this study we used propylthiouracil (PTU), a thyroid hormone-inhibiting compound, to render +/+, wv/+, and wv/wv embryos hypothyroid in order to test if the appearance of external granule layer (EGL) cell death in the weaver cerebellum is affected by alteration of granule cell development. At birth, the number of EGL cells in the PTU-treated cerebellum was reduced, compared to control animals, by 50%. Also, the amount of cell death was reduced in the PTU-treated wv/wv cerebellum. As adults, no differences were seen between PTU-treated and untreated mutant or normal cerebella. If the hypothyroid treatment that results in a 50% decrease in EGL cell number is due to an extension of cell cycling time, then the expression of the weaver phenotype of cell death likely follows granule cell exit from the cell cycle.
DARPP-32, a dopamine- and adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate regulated neuronal phosphoprotein, Mr 32 kDa, is a phenotypic marker of the medium-size spiny neurons of the mammalian caudate-putamen. In the present study, we examined the ontogeny of DARPP-32 protein and mRNA, and compared it to the ontogeny of tyrosine hydroxylase and synapsin I, a synaptic-vesicle phosphoprotein. In vivo, the amount of DARPP-32 protein per mg total protein increased throughout the first three postnatal weeks, and then declined to plateau at adult levels. The mRNA level closely paralleled the protein, except that its rise preceded that of the protein. Tyrosine hydroxylase levels rose throughout the first 4 postnatal weeks, and synapsin I levels rose steadily during the same period. Primary reaggregate cultures containing cells from the caudate-putamen expressed DARPP-32 with a time course similar to that seen in vivo. The level of expression was not altered by coculturing with dopaminergic neurons from the rostral mesencephalic tegmentum. Thus, the postnatal increase in DARPP-32 levels in the caudate-putamen appears to be independent of transsynaptic or end-organ influences from the substantia nigra.
The usefulness of global field power (GFP) determinations in assessing the cognitive event-related potential latency to an auditory &quot;odd-ball&quot; discrimination paradigm was explored in thirty epileptic patients. Relationships to measurements of intellectual and neuropsychologic test parameters were compared between conventional peak determinations and those obtained by GFP. Latencies as determined by GFP showed a greater number and more consistent relationships with neuropsychologic test measures than those obtained by conventional peak determinations. In some instances, GFP gave however also ambiguous results and the method cannot be substituted for conventional peak determinations, but must be used in conjunction in order to avoid spurious results.
In organ culture conditions, in the absence of in vivo factors, the newborn rat right atria acquire a high sensitivity to agonists similar to that seen before sympathetic innervation and after denervation. In the present study, we examined the effects of various extracts and substances on the development of supersensitivity to norepinephrine (NE) to obtain information on the in vivo factors that regulate myocardial sensitivity. Addition of rat serum, right atrial extract, superior cervical ganglionic extract, vas deferens extract, carbachol, insulin, cortisone, thyroxin, and neuropeptide Y in the culture medium did not prevent the development of supersensitivity. Addition of NE completely inhibited the development of supersensitivity. This effect of NE was blocked by sotalol but not by phentolamine. Addition of calcitonin gene related peptide, forskolin, and 8-bromo-cAMP partially inhibited the development of supersensitivity. These results are consistent with the view that NE released from sympathetic nerve terminals in the newborn atria maintains myocardial sensitivity at normal level by acting on beta-adrenergic receptors, and that the effect may be partially mediated by a rise in intracellular cAMP concentration.
A peculiar adherent cell clone (R613BM) was established under muscle tissue free conditions from bone marrow of a Wistar rat. The cloned cell line was able to form myofibrils and expressed nicotinic acetylcholine receptors specific for skeletal muscles. The muscle specific characteristics have been maintained consistently for more than five years. These results suggest that bone marrow contains a precursor cell which has the potency to differentiate into muscle cells.
Two hundred and sixty-four patients were included in an open, randomized, multicenter trial, with the aim of determining whether nicardipine can be useful in the prevention of cerebral infarction. The patients had experienced one or more transient ischemic attacks, reversible ischemic neurologic defect, or stroke with minor permanent neurological deficit in the 12 months before enrolling in the study. Each patient was randomly assigned to received 250 mg of aspirin once daily plus 20 mg of nicardipine thrice daily (n = 170) or 250 mg of aspirin once daily (n = 94) for 12 months. During the 12-month treatment period, 12% of the aspirin-plus-nicardipine group and 19% of the aspirin-only group experienced an ischemic cerebrovascular event; at six months, the cumulative incidence of events was significantly lower in the aspirin-plus-nicardipine group than in the aspirin-only group. One patient in each group died of a recurrent stroke. Aspirin-related side effects were dyspepsia (reported by four patients), heartburn (by seven), nausea and vomiting (by four), and melena (by five); nicardipine-related side effects were transient hypotension (by two), headache (by four), ankle edema (by three), and constipation (by four). Results indicate that the addition of nicardipine to antiplatelet treatment may safely prevent the recurrence of ischemic cerebrovascular events.
We have previously shown that a nerve conditioning lesion (CL) made 2 weeks prior to amputation results in an earlier onset of limb regeneration in newts. Studies in fish and mammals demonstrate that when a CL precedes a nerve testing lesion, slow component b (SCb) of axonal transport is increased compared to axons that had not received a CL. We wanted to know whether the earlier initiation of limb regeneration after a CL was associated with an increase in SCb transport. The transport of [35S]methionine labeled SCb proteins was measured by using SDS-PAGE, fluorography, and scintillation counting. The rate of transport and quantity of SCb proteins was determined at 7, 14, 21, and 28 days after injection of [35S]methionine into the motor columns of normal; single lesioned (i.e., transection axotomy, amputation axotomy, or sham CL followed by amputation); and double-lesioned limb axons (i.e., nerve transection CL followed 2 weeks later by amputation axotomy). The rate of SCb transport in axons of unamputated newt limbs was 0.19 mm/day. There was an increase in the amount of labeled SCb proteins transported in axons regenerating as the result of a single lesion but no acceleration in the rate of SCb transport, which was 0.21 mm/day in axons that received a sham CL followed by limb amputation. The rate of SCb transport doubled (0.40 mm/day) and the amount of labeled SCb proteins being transported was increased when amputation was preceded by a CL. This study demonstrates that the earlier onset of limb regrowth, seen when amputation follows a CL, is associated with an increased transport of SCb proteins. This suggests that limb regeneration is, in part, regulated by axonal regrowth. We propose that the blastema requires a minimum quantity of innervation before progressing to the next stage of limb regeneration, and that the transport of SCb proteins determines when that quantity will be available.
A 14-year-old girl developed a movement disorder after a streptococcal infection. In the acute phase of the illness she exhibited simple and complex motor tics and chorea, but all abnormal movements ceased over the following eight months, without recurrence. This case raises questions about the relationship between tics, chorea and auto-immune reactivity.
To study the frequency of germ-line transformation and to examine the reproducibility of tissue-specific transgene expression, we produced several lines of transgenic zebrafish expressing a recombinant chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene. Supercoiled plasmids containing both Rous sarcoma virus and SV-40 promoter sequences upstream of the CAT coding region were injected into zebrafish embryos prior to first cleavage. CAT activity could be detected in batches of injected embryos as early as 8 h and up to at least 12 days post-fertilization. Approximately 18% of injected fish raised to maturity exhibited CAT activity in their fins, and approximately 5% of injected fish became stable germ-line transformants. Breeding studies indicated that although transgenic founder fish were frequently germ-line mosaics, transgenic individuals of subsequent generations were fully hemizygous for the transgene marker. The transgenes present in the F1 progeny of four independent lines were relatively well expressed in fin and skin, while lower levels of expression were observed in heart, gill and muscle. Little or no CAT expression was observed in the brain, liver and gonad. A monoclonal antibody directed against the CAT gene product consistently revealed variegated patterns of CAT expression in ectodermally derived fin epidermal cells in three of these lines. These results show that it is possible to efficiently produce stable germ-line transformants of the zebrafish and to observe reproducible tissue-specific patterns of transgene expression in this organism. Possible mechanisms for the variegated expression observed within tissues are also considered.
By using the decomposition technique developed by ourselves to investigate the scalp topography of evoked potentials, a computer model for the scalp topography of giant SEPs was computed from 5 patients with progressive myoclonic epilepsy and was compared with those obtained from 6 normal subjects. Components of giant SEPs were similar to those of normal SEPs with respect to various parameters, although the former were much larger than the latter. An experimental enlargement of some of the early cortical components of the normal SEP model gave rise to a wave form closely resembling that of the giant SEP. These findings support our previous conclusion, derived from study of the scalp topography of the original SEP wave form, that the giant SEP results from a pathological enhancement of certain early cortical components of the normal SEP. The underlying neuronal hyperexcitability seems to involve more than one subunit of the sensorimotor cortex.
Biological hypothesis in obsessive-compulsive disorder is recent and firstly initiated through pharmacological data. The supporting evidences are scant but sufficiently provocating; the review of the literature data on these hypothesis suggests more questions than concluding responses; the introduction of new psychobiological models (like ethologic, cybernetic, cognitive and behavioral models...) and the functional &quot;cutting&quot; (or the transnosologic approach) of the disorder may allow more specific applications for the neurobiological research, and more refined predictions on clinical and experimental observations (responses to psychoactive drugs, biological abnormalities...).
In order to compare prohormone processing in two distinct pituitary cell types, somatomammotrope cells (GH3) and corticotrope cells (AtT-20) were stably transfected with vectors encoding preproneuropeptide Y (preproNPY) containing four different pairs of basic amino acids at the single endoproteolytic cleavage site: wildtype or KR (lysine-arginine), RR, RK, and KK. The GH-NPY cell lines cleaved proNPY to a similar extent, regardless of the sequence of the basic amino acids at the cleavage site (KR = RR = RK = KK). AtT-20-NPY cells are known to exhibit a strong hierarchy of cleavage site preference when processing wildtype and mutated proNPY forms (KR = RR greater than RK much greater than KK). All four types of GH-NPY and AtT-NPY cells faithfully produced NPY (1-36) NH2 from proNPY (1-69), regardless of the amino acid sequence at the cleavage site. All four types of GH-NPY cells produced some of the expected proNPY-COOH-terminal peptide with Ser40 at its NH2-terminal [proNPY (40-69)]. GH3 cells expressing the RR, RK, and KK forms of proNPY yielded in addition some proNPY-COOH-terminal peptide retaining the amino terminals Lys39 or Arg39 residue. In contrast, AtT-NPY-RK cells produced only the Lys39 form of proNPY-COOH-terminal peptide while the other three AtT-NPY lines (KR, RR, and KK) produced only the Ser40 form of proNPY-COOH-terminal peptide. The residence time of proNPY and NPY in GH3 cells was dramatically increased by treatment with insulin, estradiol, and epidermal growth factor, in concert with the expected increase in PRL synthesis and decrease in GH synthesis; increased residence time in the cells did not result in an increase in the extent of cleavage of proNPY to NPY. AtT-20 cells did not respond to the somatomammotrope-specific set of hormones. Thus, there are several important differences in the posttranslational processing and storage of peptide hormones in corticotropes and somatomammotropes.
Cold stress stimulates the release of both ACTH and TSH from the pituitary. More striking changes in ACTH content have been seen in the intermediate lobe after cold stress. Therefore, this study was designed to test responses of individual anterior lobe corticotropes to cold exposure. Male rats were exposed to either 30 min of cold (+3-5 C), 30 min of a novel, temperate environment (+24 C) or were unstressed (+24 C). Pituitaries were fixed and embedded in preparation for immunolabeling for ACTH or TSH-beta at the light (semithin sections) and electron microscopic levels. The semithin sections were used to measure areas of corticotropes and thyrotropes with Bioquant image analysis equipment. Separate groups of pituitaries were dissociated and the cells were cultured for 2 or 15 h. Then the cells were stimulated for 5-10 min with biotinylated analogs of corticotropin-releasing hormone (bio-CRH) or arginine vasopressin (bio-AVP) to detect the target cells cytochemically. A third group of dissociated cells were fixed for immunolabeling for ACTH, 16K fragment of pro-opiomelanocortin, beta-endorphin, or TSH-beta. Cold exposure resulted in a 1-4-fold increase in the levels of serum ACTH over that of unstressed rats. This was correlated with a 40% increase in the percentage of cells that contained 16K fragment and a 30-40% increase in percentages of cells storing ACTH or beta-endorphin. Cold stress also increased the percentage of cells that bound bio-CRH or bio-AVP by 45%. Analyses of semithin sections showed that areas of corticotropes increased by 21% following cold stress. The number of rows of immunolabeled (ACTH) secretion granules also increased in corticotropes from cold-stressed rats. Exposure to a novel environment for 30 min resulted in no significant increase in serum ACTH over that of unstressed rats. There was, however, a 20% increase in percentages of cells that stored 16K fragment, beta-endorphin, or target cells that bound bio-CRH. However, the corticotropes were not significantly larger. Many of the cells exhibited reduced numbers of immunolabeled secretory granules. Other corticotropes resembled those from cold-stressed rats. When TSH cells were studied, their percentages increased from 8 +/- 3% to 15.8 +/- 4% and their areas increased by 22% following exposure to cold. After exposure to a novel environment, percentages of cells that stored TSH-beta increased to 11 +/- 2%, however, no changes in areas of TSH cells were measured. These studies demonstrated that the anterior lobe corticotrope is clearly activated by exposure to both cold and novel environment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Analyses of HLA-DRB1 gene using polymerase chain reaction and sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes reveal that the amino acid sequence Glu-Gln-Arg-Arg-Ala-Ala-Val at positions 69-75 of the third hypervariable region (HVR) of HLA-DR beta 1 chain is significantly associated with HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (HAM). Since the frequency of this sequence in HTLV-I carriers is almost the same as that in controls from Kagoshima (an endemic area of HTLV-I), this sequence may be related to susceptibility to HAM rather than to susceptibility to HTLV-I infection. Since this third HVR functions as putative antigen-binding sites and T cell recognition sites, the amino acid sequence of positions 68-73 was analyzed in detail. The analysis reveals that Gln70 and Arg71 are relevant to the occurrence of HAM.
In vivo studies of the roof plate of the spinal cord and midline optic tectum in rodent and the developing subplate in the telencephalon of the chick showed that two glycosaminoglycans, keratin sulfate and chondroitin sulfate, possibly in the proteoglycan form (KS-PG, CS-PG, or KS/CS-PG), were present at times when axons approach closely but do not invade these territories. To address the question of whether KS/CS-PG actively inhibits growth cone elongation and to determine which component(s) of the proteoglycan may be critical to this phenomenon, we used a technique employing nitrocellulose-coated petri dishes onto which stripes of various purified macromolecules were attached. Isolated E9 chick dorsal root ganglia were grown on lanes of KS/CS-PG in alteration with lanes of the growth-promoting molecule laminin (LN). Neurite outgrowth was abundant along stripes of LN. In contrast, upon encountering a stripe containing KS/CS-PG, neurites either stopped abruptly or turned and traveled along the KS/CS-PG stripe border. The effect was dependent upon the concentration of the proteoglycan with intermediate concentrations producing intermittent patterns of crossing. We mixed LN with the KS/CS-PG, where the LN was in concentrations which alone support outgrowth, and observed that the KS/CS-PG was still inhibitory when such a growth-promoting molecule was present. A 10-fold higher concentration of LN was able to overcome the inhibitory effect of the KS/CS-PG. These results suggest that the interaction of inhibitory and growth-promoting molecules can interact to produce a wide spectrum of neurite patterns ranging from complete inhibition to totally unimpeded outgrowth. Selective enzymatic removal of the KS or CS from the KS/CS-PG permitted various degrees of neurite outgrowth to occur across the previously inhibitory lanes, and digestion of both glycoaminoglycan moieties, leaving only the protein core of the molecule, resulted in a complete lack of inhibition. These assays demonstrated that KS/CS-PG is inhibitory to embryonic dorsal root ganglia neurites in vitro and that complete inhibition requires contributions from both KS and CS moieties.
To assess the role of white matter inhibition as a barrier to neurite outgrowth in vivo, we unilaterally transected three consecutive lumbar dorsal roots (L4-L6), incised the spinal cord, and transplanted the peripheral stump of L4 either medially onto the white matter of the dorsal columns or laterally, just superficial to the gray matter of the dorsal horn at the level of L5. Three weeks to seven months later, the translocated root was retransected, and its central stump was anterogradely labeled with HRP. The staining pattern demonstrated that regenerating sensory axons had entered the spinal cord from both medially and laterally placed roots. Axonal staining from medially placed dorsal roots (onto the white matter of the dorsal columns) was sparse and limited to the white matter. Staining of laterally placed roots revealed a small subpopulation of regenerating axons which had entered the gray matter and formed terminal arbors. Successful axonal regeneration into the gray matter, albeit minimal, was associated with a localized and limited inflammatory response near the sites of axonal ingrowth.
To overcome obstacles to the regeneration of crushed dorsal root fibers at the dorsal root entry zone, we have employed specially designed Millipore implants coated with embryonic astrocytes to serve as a substrate for axonal growth. This strategy was successful in promoting the growth of crushed dorsal root axons into the grey matter of the adult mammalian spinal cord in a small number of animals. Fiber ingrowth into the spinal cord was closely associated with the surface of the polymer implant. In addition, unique terminal arbor malformations, not normally present, were seen in several animals. A consistent finding was the presence of a limited inflammatory response in regions immediately adjacent to the implant where axons penetrate the spinal cord. Our findings suggest that providing the dorsal root entry zone with an embryonic milieu can stimulate a limited amount of axonal regeneration into the adult mammalian spinal cord.
Spontaneous catecholamine (CA) release from bovine chromaffin cells maintained in primary tissue culture has been measured after pre-loading the cells with [3H]noradrenaline. Ouabain inhibited 86Rb+ uptake and increased 3H release in a concentration-dependent manner during a 60 min incubation period. Low external Na+ (5 mM: Li+ substitution) also increased 3H release. Whereas the 3H-releasing action of ouabain was maintained, the Li(+)-evoked release decreased with time. The effects of both ouabain and low Na+ solution on 3H release were completely inhibited by removal of Ca2+ from the external medium even though in Ca2(+)-free solution ouabain further inhibited 86Rb+ uptake into the cells. Readmission of Ca2+ to Na(+)-loaded cells (10-4 M-ouabain in Ca2(+)-free-1 mM-EGTA solution for 60 min) markedly increased the release of 3H. In the additional presence of diphenylhydantoin (DPH, 10-4 M) 3H release was significantly less on Ca2+ readmission. The 3H release from Na(+)-loaded cells was proportional to the concentration of Ca2+ readmitted. The 3H release was further increased from Na(+)-loaded cells in response to Ca2+ readmission when [Na+]o was lowered from 149 to 5 mM (Li+, choline+, Tris+ or sucrose substitution) though Li+ was less effective than the other Na+ substitutes. Potassium removal from the external medium significantly inhibited the 3H release evoked by Ca2+ readmission to Na(+)-loaded cells, even when [Ca2+]o was greater than normal (7.5 mM) or if Ca2+ was readmitted in low [Na+]o solution. Rb+, Cs+ or Li+ could substitute for K+ with the order of potency: Rb+ greater than or equal to K+ greater than Cs+ greater than Li+. A slight increase of external K+ (10.8 mM) potentiated the 3H release from Na(+)-loaded cells on Ca2+ readmission, but a higher concentration of K+ (149.4 mM) had the opposite action. The data is consistent with the hypothesis that ouabain-evoked CA release from bovine chromaffin cells is, in part, a consequence of an internal Na(+)-dependent Ca2+ influx. The evidence also suggests that there is Na(+)-Ca2+ competition at the external arm of the exchanger together with a monovalent cation activation site.
Nicotine is a drug of abuse that presumably exerts its psychoactive effect through its interactions with nicotine binding sites in the central nervous system. Among its potential sites of action are the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and the neuronal alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites. In this review we focus on the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, their diversity, distribution, and functions as nicotine receptors or as mediators of synaptic transmission in the mammalian brain. We find that the complexity characteristic of the gene family encoding the subunits of these receptors is reflected both in the pattern of expression of the genes and in the pharmacological diversity of the expressed receptors.
Glutamate is an important excitatory amino acid at many central nervous system synapses. After its release from presynaptic nerve terminals, glutamate transiently binds to specific neuronal membrane receptors, which transduce its signal by the generation of intracellular second messengers before being rapidly cleared from the synapse. However, during ischemia, the glutamate concentration at synapses surrounding the focal lesion can be increased for sustained periods of time, resulting in abusive stimulation of glutamate receptors that can eventually be neurotoxic. To develop drugs capable of selectively blocking the pathological effects of glutamate in neurons surrounding ischemic lesions while leaving the physiological actions of glutamate in nonlesioned areas of the brain unaffected, it is essential to delineate glutamate-induced intracellular events that are specific to receptor abuse. This article describes the intracellular sequelae of physiological and pathological glutamate receptor activation and suggests potential targets for such receptor abuse-dependent antagonists (RADAs).

Conventional neurochemical animal models of tardive dyskinesia are based upon the production of dopamine postsynaptic receptor supersensitivity by the chronic administration of neuroleptics. This study demonstrates that the same result is obtained by injecting Sprague-Dawley rats with a single ('high') dose of ipomorphine. It is hence suggested that apomorphine-induced time-dependant potentiation of dopaminepostsynaptic receptor response may be a more convenient neurochemical animal model of tardive dyskinesia; related theoretical and practical issues are discussed briefly, as also he methodological differences between the present study and an earlier report.
The UKCC's proposal to introduce mandatory refreshment for nurses will affect all qualified nurses and those in training. This article reviews the advantages and disadvantages where similar changes have been effected. It discusses concerns to the individual and the profession and considers the implementation during a period of change.
The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the practicability of the 'topographic components model' proposed by Mcks for the spatio-temporal characterization of multi-channel evoked potentials (EP), and to present a complete and detailed algorithm for this method of analysis. Details of the algorithm are discussed along with various computational issues, especially with regard to contrasts with traditional principal components analysis. The algorithm is applied to multi-channel pattern-shift visual EP data obtained from normal subjects, and the model is demonstrated to provide data reduction of 71% with a relative mean-squared error (MSE) of 2%. Obvious features of the data are seen to be reflected in the estimated model parameters, lending support to the appropriateness of the model. The results also demonstrate that although the model parameters are uniquely identifiable in theory, care must be taken when fitting the model to insure that the MSE is not so insensitive to perturbations in the model parameters that they are rendered 'non-unique' for all practical purposes. The proper selection of model order is shown to play a critical role in avoiding this problem. Finally, a theoretical analysis is presented which evaluates the relationship between parameter 'uniqueness', model order, and the non-orthogonality of the model components.
The response of noradrenaline (NA) axons to the effects of systemic injections of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) was studied in the rat brain. Antibodies to NA and to dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) were employed to assess by immunohistochemistry the effects of DSP-4 on NA axons between 6 h and 2 weeks after drug administration. The changes in NA and DBH staining after DSP-4 treatment were restricted to brain regions innervated by the locus coeruleus. In these areas, DSP-4 induced profound loss of both NA and DBH from NA axons, but with a distinctly different time-course. While NA disappeared within hours after drug treatment, DBH staining of NA axons remained unchanged during the first 4 days after DSP-4 treatment. Thereafter, there was an abrupt loss of DBH staining which coincided with the appearance of numerous brightly stained, thick and swollen NA axons. The distribution of these fibres suggests that they represent the distal ends of preterminal NA axons. Two weeks after drug treatment, NA axons could no longer be visualized by either NA or DBH immunohistochemistry in regions affected by DSP-4. During this 2-week time-period, the staining of cell bodies in the locus coeruleus and of ascending NA axons in the dorsal bundle was unaffected. The results suggest two phases in the response of NA axons to DSP-4: an acute phase, marked by loss of transmitter, and a neurodegenerative phase, characterized by loss of DBH and structural disintegration of NA axons.
When observers are presented with hierarchical visual stimuli that contain incongruous coarse (&quot;global&quot;) and fine (&quot;local&quot;) pattern attributes, the global structure interferes with local pattern processing more than local structure interferes with global pattern processing. This effect is referred to as &quot;global precedence.&quot; The present experiments tested the hypothesis that global precedence depends on the presence of low spatial frequencies using stimuli constructed from &quot;contrast balanced dots.&quot; Stimuli composed of contrast balanced dots are largely devoid of low-frequency content. Choice reaction time to identify either the local or global pattern information was the dependent measure. Global precedence was found only for control stimuli that contained low spatial frequencies. In the absence of low-frequency information, local precedence was obtained. These findings suggest that global precedence is heavily dependent on the low spatial frequency content of the patterns.
The lateral distribution of the P300 component of the event-related brain potential (ERP) was studied in five epileptic patients whose corpus callosum had been surgically sectioned and in seven neurologically intact controls. The P300 was elicited in an auditory &quot;oddball&quot; task using high- and low-pitched tones and in a visual oddball task in which target words were presented either to the left or right visual fields, or to both fields simultaneously. Commissurotomy altered the normal pattern of bilaterally symmetrical P300 waves over the left and right hemispheres, but in a different manner for auditory and visual stimuli. The auditory P3 to binaural tones was larger in amplitude over the right than the left hemisphere for the patients. In the visual task, the laterality of the P300 varied with the visual field of the target presentation. Left field targets elicited much larger P300 amplitudes over the right than the left hemisphere, as did bilateral targets. In contrast, right field targets triggered P300 waves of about the same amplitude over the two hemispheres. The overall amplitude of the P300 to simultaneous bilateral targets was less than the sum of the individual P300 amplitudes produced in response to the unilateral right and left field targets. These shifts in P300 laterality argue against the view that the P300 is an index of diffuse arousal or activation that is triggered in both hemispheres simultaneously irrespective of which hemisphere processes the target information. The results further demonstrate that the P300 does not depend for its production on interhemispheric comparisons of information mediated by the corpus callosum, as suggested recently by Knight et al. (1989).
The capacity of each disconnected cerebral hemisphere to control a variety of facial postures was examined in three split-brain patients. The dynamics of facial posturing were analyzed in 30-msec optical disc frames that were generated off videotape recordings of each patient's response to lateralized stimuli. The results revealed that commands presented to the left hemisphere effecting postures of the lower facial muscles showed a marked asymmetry, with the right side of the face sometimes responding up to 180 msec before the left side of the face. Commands presented to the right hemisphere elicited a response only if the posture involved moving the upper facial muscles. Spontaneous postures filmed during free conversation were symmetrical. The results suggest that while either hemisphere can generate spontaneous facial expressions only the left hemisphere is efficient at generating voluntaly expressions. This contrasts sharply with the fact that both hemispheres can carry out a wide variety of other voluntary movements with the hand and foot.
This study investigates whether interhemispheric interactions mediated by the corpus callosum play a role in orienting attention across the vertical meridian. Patients with complete or partial section of the corpus callosum participated in a spatial precueing task under conditions that required covert shifts of attention within or between the visual fields. Patients with complete callosal section demonstrated normal costs on invalid trials when the cue and target appeared in the same visual field. However, these patients were impaired on invalid trials in which attention had to be redirected across the vertical meridian. The between-within difference emerged only for patients with complete callosal section; it was not evident for a patient with section restricted to the anterior two-thirds of the callosum. Control experiments demonstrated that the deficit (1) is specific to shifts across the vertical meridian, (2) is not due to shifting between left and right hemispace, and (3) is related to the voluntary allocation of attention in response to the cue. These results suggest that interhemispheric communication, which is normally mediated by the posterior region of the corpus callosum, contributes to the efficient movement of attention between visual fields.
We present experimental and anatomical data from a case study of impaired auditory perception following bilateral hemispheric strokes. To consider the cortical representation of sensory, perceptual, and cognitive functions mediating tonal information processing in music, pure tone sensation thresholds, spectral intonation judgments, and the associative priming of spectral intonation judgments by harmonic context were examined, and lesion localization was analyzed quantitatively using straight-line two-dimensional maps of the cortical surface reconstructed from magnetic resonance images. Despite normal pure tone sensation thresholds at 250-8000 Hz, the perception of tonal spectra was severely impaired, such that harmonic structures (major triads) were almost uniformly judged to sound dissonant; yet, the associative priming of spectral intonation judgments by harmonic context was preserved, indicating that cognitive representations of tonal hierarchies in music remained intact and accessible. Brainprints demonstrated complete bilateral lesions of the transverse gyri of Heschl and partial lesions of the right and left superior temporal gyri involving 98 and 20% of their surface areas, respectively. In the right hemisphere, there was partial sparing of the planum temporale, temporoparietal junction, and inferior parietal cortex. In the left hemisphere, all of the superior temporal region anterior to the transverse gyrus and parts of the planum temporale, temporoparietal junction, inferior parietal cortex, and insula were spared. These observations suggest that (1) sensory, perceptual, and cognitive functions mediating tonal information processing in music are neurologically dissociable; (2) complete bilateral lesions of primary auditory cortex combined with partial bilateral lesions of auditory association cortex chronically impair tonal consonance perception; (3) cognitive functions that hierarchically structure pitch information and generate harmonic expectancies during music perception do not rely on the integrity of primary auditory cortex; and (4) musical priming may be mediated by broadly tuned subcomponents of the thala-mocortical auditory system.
The literature pertaining to the representation of language in the right hemisphere of hemispherectomy and callosotomy patients is reviewed to ascertain whether it provides an empirical basis for the assertions that (1) the right hemisphere participates in the recovery of language in aphasia, (2) the right hemisphere mediates the reading errors of deep dyslexic and pure alexic patients, and (3) the right hemisphere plays a fixed role in normal reading processes. At present, there appears to be some support for the first assertion, limited support for the second (if individual variation in representation can be accepted), and disconfirming evidence for the third in the data from these populations.
The medial geniculate body (MGB) of the rat was studied with Golgi methods to determine the distribution of neurons identified by dendritic morphology. These findings were compared with major divisions and constituent nuclei established by somatic and fiber architectonics, and by connections with temporal neocortex (Clerici et al.: Society of Neuroscience Abstracts 12:1272, 1986; 13:325, 1987; Anatomical Record 218:23, 1987; Winer and Larue: Journal of Comparative Neurology 257:282-315, 1987; Clerici and Coleman: Journal of Comparative Neurology 297:14-31, 1990). It was found that an elaboration of the prototypical scheme proposed by Morest (Journal of Anatomy 98:611-630, 1964) for partitioning the mammalian MGB is valid for characterizing the rat MGB. Two predominant categories of principal neuron dendritic patterning were identified: a bushy cell having tufted dendritic fields and a stellate cell with a radiate dendritic domain. Tufted neurons have large caliber dendritic trunks that divide profusely into daughter branches close to the soma with intertwining higher order branches that maintain a relatively restricted dendritic field. Stellate neurons typically emit primary dendrites in all directions that then divide dichotomously at wide angles at subsequent orders of branching to produce a somewhat spheroidal dendritic field. In the present study, the rat MGB is found to be a tripartite structure composed of ventral (MGv), dorsal (MGd), and medial (MGm) divisions, each uniquely characterized by constituent dendritic morphology. The paramount neuronal class of the MGv is the tufted principal cell. In the ventral and ovoid nuclei of the MGv the neuronal orientation of highly oriented bitufted cells is in register with afferent brachial axons. In the ventral nucleus, this arrangement approximates vertical with a dorsomedial tilt most prominent rostrally; in the ovoid nucleus, tufted cells adhere to the double spiraled course of afferent axons. The transition zone between ventral and ovoid nuclei contains tufted neurons that align with radially oriented fibers issuing from the junction of the ovoid and midgeniculate bundles. Bitufted neurons of the marginal zone parallel fibers at the lateral margin of the geniculate. Within the MGd the dorsal and caudodorsal nuclei are characterized by stellate cells with extensive dendritic arbors and busy neurons with dendritic branches less tufted than those observed in the MGv. The deep dorsal nucleus contains bitufted neurons that polarize with the long axis of the midgeniculate bundle and intermingle with stellate neurons. The suprageniculate nucleus includes neurons with large somata and long, sparsely branched and dorsoventrally oriented dendrites orthagonal to corticothalamic axons, as well as smaller neurons and classical stellate cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The retinal vasculature of the fovea of squirrel monkeys was studied in retinal whole mounts and in sections of the same retinas. At the center of the fovea there is an approximately circular avascular zone surrounded by a set of terminal capillaries in the inner nuclear layer. Within the foveal depression, four capillary planes that bear a precise relationship to the neuronal organization appear in a specific sequence with increasing eccentricity. The first plane to be established is the dominant, most voluminous one, located closest to the photoreceptors at the deep (sclerad) border of the inner nuclear layer. A second major plane appears next at the sclerad border of the ganglion cell layer. The two remaining, less voluminous planes occur at a slightly greater eccentricity. One of these, located at the shallow (vitread) border of the inner nuclear layer, often drains into the ganglion cell plane. The fourth plane is initially situated at the vitread border of the ganglion cell layer; with increasing eccentricity it moves into the nerve fiber layer. These capillaries are oriented like the nerve fibers with which they travel. Both the shallow inner nuclear and nerve fiber planes of capillaries show marked regional variations. The capillary planes are within or adjacent to regions of high cytochrome oxidase activity. The retinal vascular network is an unrecognized contributor to the optical filtering properties of the eye. In much of the central retina, a photon has a 40-50% chance of encountering one or more capillaries before it reaches a photoreceptor.
The organization of microtubules in hair cells of the guinea-pig cochlea has been investigated using transmission electron microscopy and correlated with the location of tubulin-associated immunofluorescence in surface preparations of the organ of Corti. Results from both techniques reveal consistent distributions of microtubules in inner and outer hair cells. In the inner hair cells, microtubules are most concentrated in the apex. Reconstruction from serial sections shows three main groups: firstly, in channels through the cuticular plate and in a discontinuous belt around its upper perimeter; secondly, forming a ring inside a rim extending down from the lower perimeter of the plate; and thirdly, in a meshwork underlying the main body of the plate. In the cell body, microtubules line the inner face of the subsurface cistern and extend longitudinally through a tubulo-vesicular track between the apex and base. In outer hair cells, the pattern of microtubules associated with the cuticular plate is similar, although there are fewer present than in inner hair cells. In outer hair cells from the apex of the cochlea, microtubules occur around an infracuticular protrusion of cuticular plate material. In the cell body, many more microtubules occur in the region below the nucleus compared with inner hair cells. The possible functions of microtubules in hair cells are discussed by comparison with those found in other systems. These include morphogenesis and maintenance of cell shape; intracellular transport, e.g., of neurotransmitter vesicles; providing a possible substrate for motility; mechanical support of structures associated with sensory transduction.
Although rehabilitation services have been provided for stroke patients for several decades, no well-designed controlled studies have actually correlated statistically significant outcomes with a set of therapeutic guidelines. This paper reviews five recently published studies which attempted to evaluate the relative benefit of rehabilitation for victims of stroke. Relevant issues concerning study design are examined in the context of each report. Considering both the growing impact of this illness as well as the paucity of accurate information on the benefits of rehabilitative therapy, Congress should allocate funds to invoke a national stroke registry as a first step toward future analyses of stroke care needs.
Previous demonstrations that problem solving deficits may occur early in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD) have been taken to support the view that disturbances in the functioning of the frontal lobes are responsible for the initial cognitive deficits in this disease. However, no specific pattern of responding associated with poor problem solving by PD patients has been observed consistently. In an effort to clarify the nature of the problem solving deficits in PD we administered the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) and the California Card Sorting Test (CCST), a new test which provides separate measures of concept generation, concept identification, and concept execution as well as several different measures of perseveration. On both tests PD patients of lower than normal mental status performed poorly and their patterns of performance resembled those previously described for patients with focal frontal lobe lesions, but PD patients of normal mental status performed normally. Because poor problem solving in association with increased perseverative responding was only observed for patients with global cognitive deficits these findings do not necessarily support the idea that frontal dysfunction is the principal cause of impaired cognition in PD. Although the overall pattern of results was similar for the WCST and the CCST, the CCST was more sensitive for detecting deficits than was the WCST.
A simple, reliable method was developed for measuring brain acetylcholine (ACh) turnover using HPLC methodology. Mice were injected intravenously with [3H]choline ([3H]Ch), and the turnover rate of ACh was calculated from the formation of [3H]ACh. Ch and ACh were separated from phosphorylcholine and from other radioactive compounds using tetraphenylboron extraction and counterion/reverse-phase chromatography. Endogenous Ch and ACh were quantified electrochemically through hydrogen peroxide production in a postcolumn reactor containing covalently bonded ACh esterase and Ch oxidase. Labeled Ch and ACh were quantified in the same sample by collecting the chromatographic fractions for radioactive content determinations. The method is rapid, well adapted to large series, and highly reproducible, with recoveries of 72.1% for Ch and 79.3% for ACh. The turnover value in mouse cerebral hemispheres was 16.02 nmol g-1 min-1 and decreased to 9.94 nmol g-1 min-1 in mice treated with oxotremorine.
DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 32,000, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) is a neuronal phosphoprotein that is enriched in neurons which possess dopamine D1 receptors, particularly striatonigral neurons. In rat brain slices, the phosphorylation state of DARPP-32 is regulated by dopamine, acting through the dopamine D1 receptor and the adenylyl cyclase system. This study reports that chronic blockade (21 days) of either dopamine D1 receptors by SCH-23390 or dopamine D2 receptors by raclopride does not affect the concentrations of DARPP-32 in specific rat brain regions (striatum, thalamus, hippocampus, frontal cerebral cortical pole). Northern blot analysis indicates that the steady-state level of DARPP-32 mRNA in striatum is also unchanged by these treatments.
The relationship between intrasynaptosomal total (CaT) and free ([Ca2+]i) calcium and 45Ca accumulation was studied under physiological and K(+)-depolarised conditions in rat cortical synaptosomes. Under physiological conditions, CaT (10.7 mM) was approximately 10,000 times higher than [Ca2+]i (118 nM), showing that there is a large reservoir of sequestered calcium in synaptosomes. 45Ca accumulation was rapid (initial rate, 3.4 nmol/mg protein/min), substantial (7 nmol/mg protein in 2 min), and depolarisation dependent, and reached equilibrium after 5 min. At equilibrium, only 10% of CaT was freely exchangeable. This pool was much larger than the free Ca2+ pool. CaT, [Ca2+]i, and 45Ca accumulations were directly related to the Ca2+ concentration in the buffer, suggesting that [Ca2+]i is not highly conserved but is maintained by simple equilibria between the various pools. Clonidine reduced 45Ca accumulation in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Maximum inhibition (40% at 100 microM) occurred at 2 min and the IC50 was 80 nM. The reduction caused by clonidine (1 microM) reached equilibrium after 5 min, but this equilibrium value was lower than in controls, suggesting that clonidine changes the exchangeable Ca2+ pool size. The effects of clonidine (1 microM) on [Ca2+]i (26% reduction) and on 45Ca accumulation (24% reduction) were most apparent under physiological conditions. However, while it was not dependent on depolarisation, it did not occur in physiological buffer containing low K+ concentration (0.1-1 mM). The inhibitory effect of clonidine on 45Ca accumulation is receptor mediated as it was antagonised by idazoxan (1 microM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In synaptosomes prepared from rat cerebral cortex, free cytosolic calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured using the fluorescent dye fura-2. Incubation of fura-2-loaded synaptosomes with carbachol increased [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner (1-1,000 microM), with a maximum response of 22 +/- 2% at approximately 100 microM and an EC50 (calculated concentration producing 50% of the maximum response) of 30 microM. The effect of carbachol (100 microM) on [Ca2+]i was antagonised by atropine, but not by hexamethonium (10 microM). The calculated concentration of atropine needed for 50% inhibition (IC50) was 260 nM. The rise in [Ca2+]i produced by carbachol was reduced in the absence of extrasynaptosomal Ca2+ and effectively blocked by the L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine (with an IC50 of 29 nM). The response to carbachol was reduced if the synaptosomes were preincubated with the protein kinase inhibitors H7 [1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2- methylpiperazine] (from 17% in the solvent control to 4%) and staurosporine (from 20% in the solvent control to 3%). These results show that stimulation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in synaptosomes increases [Ca2+]i by protein kinase-dependent activation of 1,4-dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channels.
It is essential to image the carotid bifurcation adequately in patients with symptomatic carotid territory ischaemia if they are being considered for carotid endarterectomy. Optimal resolution is achieved by selective intraarterial contrast angiography which is an invasive procedure carrying some risk. The overall risk-benefit of carotid endarterectomy is currently being investigated in several large randomised trials in Europe and North America. Because cerebral angiography is a prerequisite for carotid endarterectomy, the risks of cerebral angiography will need to be added to those of surgery when considering whether carotid endarterectomy is effective in the management of these patients. This study evaluated prospectively 382 patients with symptomatically mild carotid ischaemia who had cerebral angiography to visualise a potentially resectable lesion at the carotid bifurcation. Complications followed 14 cerebral angiograms in 13 patients (3.4%); two complications were local (0.5%), two systemic (0.5%) and 10 were neurological (2.6%). The neurological complications were transient (TIA 1, generalised seizure 1) in two patients (0.5%), reversible (stroke) in three (0.8%) and permanent (stroke) in five patients (1.3%). There were no deaths. The significant risk factors for post angiographic stroke were (1) stroke before angiography compared with transient ischaemic attacks of the eye or brain and (2) the presence of greater than or equal to 50% diameter stenosis of the symptomatic internal carotid artery; unfortunately it may be the latter patients who are most at risk of stroke as part of the natural history of their disease and therefore most in need of prophylactic carotid endarterectomy (which requires cerebral angiography). The absolute risk of post-angiographic stroke of patients for cerebral angiography using clinical evaluation and Duplex carotid ultrasound screening.
1. Intracellular recordings were made from granule cells in combined slices of the hippocampus and parahippocampal cortex from adult Wistar rats. The neurons had a mean resting membrane potential (EM) of -85.1 +/- 0.7 (SE) mV, input resistance (Rin) of 30.9 +/- 1.5 M omega and action potential (AP) amplitude of 79.9 +/- 1.06 mV measured from the threshold potential. The threshold for AP generation was approximately 40 mV positive to EM. 2. The passive current-voltage relationship showed anomalous rectification, with Rin increasing by 34% on average at modest depolarizations. With large excursions of the EM (by +/- 30 mV or more), there was a marked fall in Rin. 3. With extracellular recording, a monophasic, positive-going field potential of 5-15 mV was evoked by stimulation of the perforant path (PP). Intracellularly, an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) of up to 40 mV in size was recorded. It was unusual to evoke an AP on orthodromic stimulation. Perfusion with picrotoxin (PTX, up to 20 microM) had small and variable effects on the EPSP, which implies that GABAergic inhibition does not play a major role. 4. Tonic depolarization reduced the EPSP. Hyperpolarization either had no effect or again decreased the EPSP. 5. The role of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor subtypes in mediation of the EPSP was investigated. Perfusion with the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) caused a dose-dependent reduction of the EPSP with a shift to the right of the input-output relationship. The ED50 for this effect was approximately 2 microM. 6. In the presence of 5-10 microM CNQX a small component of the EPSP usually remained, which could be blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist +/- 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV, 20-50 microM). This depolarizing component was markedly enhanced during perfusion with Mg2(+)-free medium. It increased in size and duration when the membrane was depolarized and decreased with hyperpolarization. These properties are consistent with the mediation of this potential via NMDA receptors. 7. These results indicate that NMDA receptors contribute to transmission at the synapse between the PP and the granule cell. This was confirmed by demonstrating that APV caused a small reduction in the size of the untreated EPSP and a shortening of the recovery phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The properties of single voltage-gated calcium channels were investigated in acutely exposed CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurons and granule cells of area dentata in the adult guinea pig hippocampal formation. 2. Guinea pig hippocampal slices were prepared in a conventional manner, then treated with proteolytic enzymes and gently shaken to expose the somata of the three cell types studied. Standard patch-clamp techniques were used to record current flow through calcium channels in cell-attached membrane patches with isotonic barium as the charge carrier. 3. Single-channel current amplitudes were measured at different membrane potentials. Single-channel current-voltage plots were constructed and single-channel slope conductances were found to fall into three classes. These were (approximately) 8, 14, and 25 pS, and were observed in all three cell types. 4. The three groups of channels differed from each other in voltage dependence of activation: from a holding potential of -80, the small-conductance channel began to activate at about -40 to -30 mV, the medium-conductance channel at about -20 mV, and the large-conductance channel at approximately 0 mV. 5. Ensemble averages of single-channel currents during voltage steps revealed differences in voltage-dependent inactivation. The small-conductance channel inactivated completely within approximately 50 ms during steps from -80 to -10 mV or more positive. Steps to less positive potentials resulted in less inactivation. The medium-conductance channel displayed variable inactivation during steps from -80 to 0 mV. Inactivation of this channel during a 160-ms step ranged from virtually zero to approximately 100%. The large-conductance channel displayed no significant inactivation during steps as long as 400 ms. 6. The large-conductance channel was strikingly affected by the dihydropyridine agonist Bay K8644 (0.5-2.0 microM), resulting in a high probability of channel opening, prolonged openings, and an apparent increase in the number of channels available for activation. The medium and small-conductance channels were not noticeably affected by the drug. 7. The large-conductance channel could be induced to open at very negative membrane potentials by holding the patch for several seconds at 20 or 30 mV and stepping to -30 or -40 mV. This process was enhanced by Bay K8644, resulting in prolonged openings at potentials as negative as -100 mV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Advances in the neurosciences and immunology provide a framework for understanding how mental health status may be a co-factor in the progression of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. The authors discuss the interrelatedness of the central nervous system and the immune system, discuss the possible relevance of such connections to HIV immunopathology, and review research that demonstrates the effect of psychiatric and psychosocial factors on immunological status and medical outcome. An application of psychoneuroimmunology to HIV infection warrants careful consideration of the many complexities involved.
The present study evaluates the time course of increased expression of the mRNA for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) within the dentate gyrus and hippocampus after unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex. Levels of GFAP mRNA were evaluated by dot blot hybridization of mRNA isolated from the hippocampus and quantitative in situ hybridization. For dot blot hybridization, RNA was isolated from pooled hippocampi obtained from animals killed at 12 hr, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 14, and 30 d postlesion. A separate set of animals killed at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 32 d were prepared for in situ hybridization. The dot blot analyses of mRNA isolated from the hippocampus revealed that on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, the levels of GFAP mRNA increased rapidly, reaching a peak at 2 d postlesion. The increases were not evident by 12 hr postlesion, but by 24 hr, levels of GFAP mRNA were 5-fold higher than control, and by 48 hr, the levels were over 6-fold higher than control. The levels of GFAP mRNA decreased after 2 d postlesion. At 4 and 6 d postlesion the levels were about 2-fold higher than control. At later postlesion intervals, mRNA levels were comparable to the control. At 2 d postlesion, the levels of GFAP mRNA were also increased about 2-fold over control levels on the contralateral side. After 2 d, the levels of GFAP mRNA on the contralateral side were comparable to the control. In situ hybridization revealed a complex pattern of changes in the levels of GFAP. At 2 d postlesion, the levels of GFAP mRNA increased dramatically throughout the hippocampus bilaterally. The increases were most pronounced in the denervated portions of the neuropil; however, the levels of GFAP mRNA were also substantially elevated in laminae that do not receive direct projections from the entorhinal cortex. GFAP mRNA levels were also increased in other areas that receive projections from the entorhinal cortex, including the septum, lateral-dorsal thalamus, and entorhinal cortex contralateral to the lesion. In addition, GFAP mRNA levels were increased in regions bordering the ventricles throughout the brain, and over the surface of the tectum. After 2 d postlesion, the increases in the levels of GFAP mRNA were for the most part restricted to areas containing terminal degeneration. The generalized increases throughout the hippocampus were no longer apparent. Areas bordering the ventricles continued to exhibit higher labeling than in control animals, but this effect was not as prominent as at 2 d postlesion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Decreased levels of protein kinase C (PKC) and a reduction in the in vitro phosphorylation of a Mr 86,000 protein (P86), the major PKC substrate, are biochemical characteristics of brain tissue from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (Cole et al., 1988). In the current study, we utilized antibodies against individual isozymes of PKC to assess the degree of involvement of different PKC isoforms in AD. The concentration of PKC(beta II) was lower in particulate fractions prepared from AD hippocampal and cortical tissue than in controls and higher in AD cytosol fractions from the cortex than in controls. Immunohistochemical studies in AD neocortex revealed reduced numbers of anti-PKC(beta II)-immunopositive neurons and diminished staining intensity. In contrast, AD hippocampal neurons in CA3-CA4 were more intensely stained with anti-PKC(beta II) antiserum than were controls. The concentration of PKC(beta I) was lower in particulate fractions prepared from AD hippocampus than in controls and was higher in soluble fractions prepared from AD cortex than in controls. The concentration of PKC(alpha) was lower in AD particulate fractions than in controls in the hippocampus. Immunohistochemistry with PKC(alpha) antiserum revealed moderately intense neuron staining and an intense staining of glial cells in AD neocortex. The concentrations and histochemical distributions of PKC(gamma) were not altered in the disease. PKC immunoreactivity was also found in neuritic plaques. The staining patterns of neuritic plaques with different isoform antibodies varied considerably. Anti-PKC(alpha) faintly stained entire plaques and surrounding glial cells; anti-PKC(beta I) stained dystrophic plaque neurites; and anti-PKC(beta II) stained the amyloid-containing portions of plaques.
On July 25, 1989, President Bush signed a bill declaring the 1990's to be the Decade of the Brain. This offers the clinical and basic neuroscience communities an opportunity to join with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in moving ahead vigorously with research aimed at preventing and treating neurological disease. Neurosurgery must be an active participant in this national endeavor; its influence, skills, and contributions are needed.


The adrenergic nervous system is active in kidney function, and the kidney has large numbers of adrenergic receptor subtypes. Because of the cellular complexity of the kidney, it is difficult to obtain direct assessments of adrenergic receptor binding characteristics over specific tissue compartments. Qualitative autoradiography allows the localization of adrenergic receptors over tissue types in the kidney, but quantitative autoradiography allows direct comparison of adrenergic receptor number over different cellular compartments. The purpose of this study was to obtain direct assessments of alpha 1, alpha 2, and beta adrenergic receptor numbers over different tissue compartments of the kidney using quantitative autoradiography. Sections of Sprague-Dawley rat kidney were incubated in several concentrations of 3H-dihydroalprenolol to label beta receptors, 3H-prazosin to label alpha 1 receptors and 3H-rauwolscine to label the alpha 2 receptors. Sections of rat heart incubated in 3H-dihydroalprenolol were included as standards. The sections were then prepared for receptor autoradiography. After processing, the grains were then quantified on an image analysis system, and binding curves constructed from the specific binding. In some animals, the proximal tubules were stained to localize the proximal convoluted tubules. Significant Scatchard analyses were obtained in the glomeruli with dihydroalprenolol (5.18 X 10(9) receptors/mm3) and with rauwolscine (2.48 X 10(9) receptors/mm3). Significant Scatchard analyses were obtained in the cortex with rauwolscine (9.47 X 10(9) receptors/mm3) and with prazosin (3.9 X 10(9)). In addition, specific binding was seen with rauwolscine and prazosin to the kidney arterioles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Three patients with a clinical diagnosis of stiff-man syndrome were studied with simultaneous video-electroencephalographic-surface electromyographic recordings in addition to routine electromyography in order to obtain objective data to confirm their diagnosis, to improve our understanding of the diagnosis of stiff-man syndrome, and to define reproducible clinical and neurophysiologic criteria for the stiff-man syndrome. These patients had the following features of this syndrome: (1) continuous muscle activity that varied with awake and sleep states, posture, passive and active movements, and medications; (2) superimposed intermittent generalized contractions while awake, which continued into drowsiness and interfered with onset of sleep; and (3) abnormal cocontractions of antagonistic muscles. The characteristic findings in the stiff-man syndrome can be recorded by using video-electroencephalographic-surface electromyographic techniques, a useful application of equipment already available in most electroencephalography laboratories. Neurophysiologic techniques can help in elucidating the clinical findings in the stiff-man syndrome. Further systematic study in patients before and during treatment is needed to identify common diagnostic criteria for this syndrome.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded as subjects silently read a set of unrelated sentences. The ERP responses elicited by open-class words were sorted according to word frequency and the ordinal position of the eliciting word within its sentence. We observed a strong inverse correlation between sentence position and the amplitude of the N400 component of the ERP. In addition, we found that less frequent words were associated with larger N400s than were more frequent words, but only if the eliciting words occurred early in their respective sentences. We take this interaction between sentence position and word frequency as evidence that frequency does not play a mandatory role in word recognition, but can be superseded by the contextual constraint provided by a sentence.
The contribution of polyphosphoinositides to muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover has been evaluated for intact and digitonin-permeabilized human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. Addition of carbamoylcholine to [3H]inositol-prelabeled intact cells resulted in a rapid (5-10 sec) loss of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate and the concomitant appearance of radiolabeled inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate, inositol-1,3,4-trisphosphate, and inositol tetrakisphosphate. In the presence of the agonist, production of these inositol polyphosphates remained enhanced for up to 45 min. Inositol mono- and bisphosphates steadily accumulated in response to receptor activation and in the presence of Li+ comprised greater than 95% of agonist-stimulated inositol phosphate formation at incubation times greater than 5 min. The major inositol bisphosphate isomer was the 1,4-species. Of the two inositol monophosphates produced, radioactivity recovered in inositol-4-monophosphate increased continuously, whereas that in the inositol-1-monophosphate/inositol-3-monophosphate fraction was delayed in appearance but thereafter progressively accumulated. Omission of Ca2+ reduced carbamoylcholine-stimulated inositol phosphate release by greater than 50% but did not significantly influence the ratio of inositol monophosphates formed. Upon addition of atropine to agonist-pretreated cells, radioactivity was lost from inositol phosphates in the following order: inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate greater than inositol-1,3,4-trisphosphate greater than inositol-1,4-bisphosphate = inositol-4-monophosphate greater than inositol-1-monophosphate/inositol-3-monophosphate. Although carbamoylcholine addition to digitonin-permeabilized cells also resulted in a sustained release of inositol monophosphates, relatively more inositol-4-monophosphate was produced in these preparations. Omission of ATP from permeabilized cell incubations inhibited carbamoylcholine-stimulated 'inositol phosphate formation by greater than 70%. Whole homogenates of SK-N-SH cells metabolized added inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol-1,4-bisphosphate exclusively to inositol-4-monophosphate, whereas inositol-1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate was degraded to inositol-1- or 3-monophosphate. Measurement of inositol trisphosphate 3'-kinase and 5'-phosphatase activities revealed that, following permeabilization, 3'-kinase activity was diminished, whereas that of 5'-phosphatase was enhanced. The results indicate that occupancy of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in SK-N-SH cells elicits a continuous Ca2(+)-dependent breakdown of the polyphosphoinositides rather than of phosphatidylinositol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In membranes of rat olfactory bulb acetylcholine stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in a concentration-dependent manner. The maximal stimulation corresponded to 53% increase of basal enzyme activity and was obtained with 100 microM acetylcholine. The concentration of the cholinergic agonist eliciting a half-maximal effect was 0.4 microM. The stimulatory effect of acetylcholine was antagonized by 0.1 microM atropine but not by 10 microM (+)-tubocurarine. Moreover, the addition of micromolar concentrations of GTP was absolutely required for the enzyme stimulation by acetylcholine. The results demonstrate the presence in rat olfactory bulb of muscarinic receptors coupled to stimulation of adenylate cyclase probably via a GTP regulatory protein and provide evidence for a novel signal transduction mechanism of central muscarinic receptors.
A monoclonal antibody to the nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) (IgG 192) was used to visualize differences in immunohistochemical labeling of young (10 months) and old (35 months) rats. Three parameters were analyzed; cell counts, immunoreactive cross-sectional surface area (SA) and optical density (OD) of labeled cells. Large reductions in all three parameters were recorded in the medial septum (MS). Both OD and immunoreactive SA were reduced in the VDB, while only OD was reduced in the HDB. This observation confirms that NGFR labeling is reduced in the aged rat septum and adds that the loss of labeling is differential, with greater deficits in the MS-VDB complex than in the HDB.
The Notch locus in Drosophila encodes a transmembrane protein required for the determination of cell fate in ectodermal cells. When these cells are faced with a choice of two possible fates, Notch enables some of them to advance from the fate that represents a &quot;default&quot; state. The decision appears to involve both an interaction between cells and the presence of the Notch product on the surface of those advancing from the default state. The timing of gene action suggests that Notch plays a role in the stabilization of the choice of cell fate and that the Notch-mediated interaction occurs between presumptive epidermal cells. Several properties of the Notch product are characteristic of an adhesion molecule, and thus cell adhesion may play a role in the determination of cell fate.




Dissociated neurointermediate lobe cells (75%) bound [biotinyl-Ser1]corticotropin releasing hormone (bio-CRH) and secreted adrenocorticotropin [ACTH(25-39)] in a reverse hemolytic plaque assay (RHPA). The bio-CRH was rapidly internalized (less than 1 min) in vesicles and scattered vacuoles. Plaque percentages increased from 26 +/- 4% to 53 +/- 8% after CRH stimulation. Areas increased from 1688 +/- 791 microns 2 to 3773 +/- 788 microns 2. After AVP treatment for 1 hr, plaque percentages and areas were augmented further. The heterogeneity in secretion may indicate the presence of quiescent IL cells or cells secreting an opiocortin peptide not detected in the plaque assay.
Bilateral intra-amygdalar (i/am) microinjections of TRH (1 and 10 micrograms) and physostigmine (10 micrograms) into the central nucleus (CEA) aggravated cold restraint stress (3 hr at 4 degrees C) induced gastric ulcer formation in rats, whereas atropine (1, 5 and 10 micrograms) attenuated this phenomenon. Similar stress ulcer reducing effects were seen with chlordiazepoxide (CDP, 10 mg/kg, IP) and midazolam (1, 3 and 10 micrograms, i/am). Pretreatment of rats with atropine or CDP antagonized the ulcerogenic effects of both TRH and physostigmine. Further, when administered intra-CEA, midazolam neutralized the effects of TRH in a dose-related manner. These results are discussed in light of TRH-acetylcholine-benzodiazepine/GABA interactions within the amygdaloid complex during stress ulcer formation.
Direct electrical stimulation of either the dorsal or ventral hippocampal formation elicits wet dog shakes and overt seizures. Destruction of dentate granule cells in the dorsal hippocampal formation does not significantly reduce the number of wet dog shakes elicited by ventral hippocampal stimulation. However, destruction of dentate granule cells in the ventral hippocampus virtually eliminates wet dog shaking elicited by dorsal hippocampal stimulation. Destruction of either dorsal or ventral dentate granule cells lowers the threshold for eliciting forelimb clonus with rearing. These results suggest that dentate granule cells in the ventral hippocampus are essential for wet dog shakes elicited by intrahippocampal stimulation. However, dentate granule cells throughout the hippocampal formation appear to play an important inhibitory role in the spread of seizure activity within the hippocampus.
Radial glial cells and their processes play critical roles in organizing the spatial arrangement of the nervous system in the embryonic brain. It has been thought that following completion of their roles in the embryo, most of the radial glial processes disappear before or shortly after birth. Here we use R2D5, a monoclonal antibody to a soluble cytosolic protein, to demonstrate that a specific system of midsagittal radial glial cells persists in postnatal and adult brain. In the brainstem of postnatally developing and adult rabbits and cats, the R2D5-positive processes of radial glial cells were observed to be arranged in a precisely parallel array at the midsagittal seam. These radial glial processes formed a continuous palisade separating the right and left brainstem. In early postnatal animals, R2D5-positive radial processes were found to reach the pial surface and to cover the entire midsagittal seam of the brainstem. These processes embraced dendrites and somata of neurons in almost all of the midsagittal nuclei, including the raphe nuclei, suggesting that the radial glial cells may interact with the midsagittal groups of neurons. In addition, the palisade of R2D5-positive radial processes formed loose openings for crossing axonal bundles at the midline decussations of fiber tracts. In more mature brains, somata of R2D5-positive radial glial cells that had migrated ventrally were observed within the palisades, and in adult cats, most of the R2D5-positive radial processes were found to have retracted from the ventral parts of the midsagittal seam. The spatial arrangement of R2D5-positive processes suggests that they may have persistent functional roles as an interface between ventricular humoral signals and midsagittal groups of neurons in the postnatally developing brainstem and in the adult brainstem. The structure of the midline glial system suggests also that it plays a role in organizing the spatial arrangement of decussating axons during development.
Brain extracts from rats with hepatic encephalopathy due to thioacetamide-induced fulminant hepatic failure contained 4- to 6-fold higher concentrations of substances that inhibit radioligand binding to benzodiazepine receptors than corresponding control rat extracts. Both isocratic and gradient-elution HPLC indicated that this inhibitory activity was localized in 3-8 peaks with retention times corresponding to deschlorodiazepam, deschlorolorazepam, lorazepam, oxazepam, diazepam, and N-desmethyldiazepam. The presence of diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam was confirmed by mass spectroscopy. Both mass spectroscopic and radiometric techniques indicated that the concentrations of N-desmethyldiazepam and diazepam in brain extracts from encephalopathic rats were 2-9 and 5-7 times higher, respectively, than in control brain extracts. While benzodiazepines have been identified previously in mammalian and plant tissues, this report demonstrates that concentrations of these substances are increased in a pathophysiological condition. These findings provide a rational basis for the use of benzodiazepine receptor antagonists in the management of hepatic encephalopathy in humans.
The recent explosion in knowledge in the neurosciences has heightened both the expectation of significant progress in understanding the underlying mechanisms involved in the psychoses as well as frustration over the failure of such progress to occur. As biological sophistication increases, it contrasts with the obsolescence of our nosological tools, which, through their influence upon research strategy, constitute a potential obstacle to progress. Currently dominant nosological paradigms are heavily based upon assumptions concerning the links between pathophysiology and symptoms, and between symptoms and the more distal consequences of disease. This review seeks to illustrate that the linkages between disease and its consequences are in fact much looser and more plastic than acknowledged by existing paradigms, which are constrained by tradition. Since faulty assumptions concerning these linkages are so fundamental to the current nosology, it is argued that major reform is necessary. While this can be justified on research grounds alone, there are also compelling clinical reasons why reform of this kind is important and overdue.



Parkinson's disease is associated with degeneration of the dopaminergic component of the nigrostriatal pathway. However, the neurological symptoms of this disorder do not emerge until the degenerative process is almost complete. A comparable phenomenon can be observed in animal models of Parkinson's disease produced by the administration of the selective neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Studies using such models suggest that the extensive loss of dopaminergic neurons is compensated, in large part, by increased synthesis and release of dopamine (DA) from those DA neurons that remain, together with a reduced rate of DA inactivation. These findings may have important implications for the diagnosis and treatment of a variety of neurological and psychiatric diseases, as well as for our understanding of plasticity in monoaminergic systems.
During the past decade, electrophysiological approaches have greatly improved understanding of the involvement of the basal ganglia in motor behaviour. This review reports that the basal ganglia contribute to the initiation of movement by arousing executive motor centres via a disinhibitory mechanism. We propose that the basal ganglia output is used as a movement template specifying the motor elements to be engaged in directing movement in space.

In a series of physiological experiments, a total of 203 neurons at the Area 17/18 border were recorded with a callosal link either demonstrated by antidromic or transsynaptic activation from stimulating electrodes located in the homotopic contralateral hemisphere (CH), or in the splenial segment of the corpus callosum (CC). Forty-four percent of the transcallosal cells could also be driven from stimulating electrodes in or just above the lateral geniculate nucleus (OR1). The majority (69%) of transcallosal neurons were classifiable as belonging to the complex family (B and C cells) and most of these were found in the supragranular laminae and in lamina 4A. The ocular dominance distribution of transcallosal cells was trimodal, consisting of roughly equal numbers of monocularly dominated and binocularly balanced neurons. Estimates of conduction time and synaptic delay were obtained for neurons driven from CH, CC, and from OR1, and in most instances the response latency was short enough to suggest a monosynaptic input from either the ipsi- or contra-lateral hemisphere. The distribution of transcallosal conduction times showed that S cells, as a class, had significantly faster conduction than cells of the complex family but otherwise there was no obvious signs of multimodality in the distribution curve. An analysis of the synaptic delays in transcallosal activation produced a mean of 0.6 to 0.7 ms but some were too short to be consistent with a transsynaptic drive, suggesting that some cells with an antidromic drive may have been included in the transsynaptic category. Results are interpreted in terms of the contribution made by the corpus callosum to stereoscopic vision.
Many studies on human retinal development have cited the third gestational month as a period when the posterior retina undergoes rapid differentiation and maturation, including a lining up of cone precursors. Ultrastructural data on the posterior retina during the third month are very limited, and totally lacking for the cone monolayer. We have examined two human fetal retinas between ten and 11 gestational weeks. Before the appearance of the cone monolayer, the outer neural retina consists of a homogeneous population of undifferentiated neuroblasts. Mitotic figures are still evident, even posteriorally. There is no outer plexiform layer (OPL). The interface of neural retina to retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is largely featureless. By 11 weeks, the posterior retina has a thin OPL that separates the many rows of cells in the developing inner nuclear layer from the single tier of macular cone precursors. The RPE monolayer consists of cuboidal cells whose apical surface elaborates ridges of cytoplasm and branched processes that project into the subretinal space. The large, cuboidal cones are linked to each other and Mller cells at the outer limiting membrane. They show definitive signs of the structural polarity typical of vertebrate photoreceptors. Their apical cytoplasm contains many organelles common to the inner segment, while the basal cytoplasm has synaptic ribbons and vesicles, and receives invaginating contacts from processes in the OPL neuropil arising from differentiating second-order neurons. Lateral cone surfaces are mutually underlain by large subsurface cisterns.
In order to evaluate the normal eye movements of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans, the positions of each eye were recorded simultaneously using two search-coil contact lenses. Optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) was strikingly unyoked in this animal such that one eye's slow-phase velocity was substantially independent of that of the other eye. On the other hand, the fast-phase motions of both eyes occurred more or less in synchrony. An eye's slow-phase gain is primarily dependent on the direction and velocity of the stimulus to that eye. Using monocular stimuli, the highest mean gain (0.54 +/- 0.047; mean +/- standard error of mean) occurred using temporal-to-nasal movement at 2.5 deg/s. The mean OKN gain for nasal-to-temporal movement was only 0.13 +/- 0.015 at that velocity. Additionally, using the optimal monocular stimulus (temporal-to-nasal stimulation at 2.5 deg/s) only drove the occluded eye to move nasal-to-temporally at 0.085 deg/s, equivalent to a &quot;gain&quot; of only 0.034 +/- 0.011. The binocular OKN gain during rotational stimuli was higher than monocular gain, especially during nasal-to-temporal movement at high velocities. Also the difference in slow-phase eye velocity between the two eyes was smaller during binocular rotational stimuli. In contrast, when each eye simultaneously viewed its temporal-to-nasal stimulus at an equal velocity, two behaviors were observed. Often, OKN alternated between an animal's left eye and right eye. Occasionally, both eyes moved at equal but opposite velocities. These behavioral data provide a quantitative baseline to interpret the properties of the retinal slip information in the turtle's accessory optic system. Those properties are similar to the behavior of the turtle in that both are tuned to direction and velocity independently for each eye (Rosenberg &amp; Ariel, 1990).
The historical roots of the term are treated as well as the story of Selye's theory of biological stress as a nonspecific response of the body. In the discussion of preceding approaches to describe processes which today one would name stress, the importance of Francois Magendie and John Brown as precursors is accentuated. Additionally, neurophysiological and psychological aspects are discussed.
In the central nervous system of 11.5-day mouse embryos, the expression of CRABP was spatially restricted to the anteroposterior axis. CRABP was most strongly expressed in the rhombencephalon and the anterior part of the neural tube. In 14-day mouse embryo, CRABP drastically decreased in the brain and the anterior part of the neural tube. The transient expression and spatial distribution of CRABP in the central nervous system strongly suggest that retinoic acid is involved in the neurogenesis during development.
Scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, was measured in rat plasma and brain using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry with electron-impact ionization detection. Extracted scopolamine was either directly derivatized or first hydrolyzed to scopine, then derivatized with heptafluorobutyric anhydride, separated on a capillary column and quantified by mass fragmentography. Electron-impact ionization produced a common fragment peak at m/z 138 that was monitored along with trideuterated scopolamine, an internal standard (m/z 141). The method can be used to measure scopolamine concentrations of 2 ng/ml in rat plasma and 20 ng/g in rat brain.
Previous reports have suggested that the physical properties of cell membranes and calcium homeostasis in both the central and peripheral nervous system are changed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study has examined the biophysical properties of erythrocyte and platelet membranes by measuring the fluorescence anisotropy of 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene (DPH) and possible related changes in lipid peroxidation. In addition, we have studied calcium homeostasis by measuring thrombin-stimulated changes in intraplatelet free calcium and Ca2(+)-ATPase activity in AD and healthy age and sex-matched controls. Our results show that there was no significant difference in the fluorescence anisotropy of DPH in erythrocyte membranes isolated from the three groups. There was also no significant difference in lipid peroxidation levels in erythrocytes and plasma of AD patients compared to controls. However, there was a significant reduction in the fluorescence anisotropy of DPH in platelet membranes from AD patients, compared with healthy controls. Recent evident suggests that the increase in platelet membrane fluidity results from alterations in internal membranes. We measured the specific activities of enzyme markers associated with intracellular and plasma membranes in platelets from AD patients and healthy controls. There was a significant reduction in the specific activity of antimycin A-insensitive NADH-cytochrome-c reductase (a specific marker for smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER)), in AD patients compared to controls, but no change in the specific activity of bis(p-nitrophenyl)phosphate phosphodiesterase (a specific marker for plasma membrane). We have also shown that SER mediated [Ca2+] homeostasis is possibly impaired in AD platelets, i.e., the percentage of thrombin-stimulated increase in intraplatelet [Ca2+] above basal levels was significantly higher in AD compared to matched controls and there were significant reductions in the specific activities of Ca2+/Mg2(+)-ATPase and Ca2(+)-ATPase (but not Mg2(+)-ATPase) in AD platelets. Finally electron microscopic analysis of platelets showed that there was a significant increase in the incidence of abnormal membranes in AD patients compared to controls. The ultrastructural abnormalities seem to consist of proliferation of a system of trabeculated cisternae bounded by SER. These results suggest that both SER structure and function might be defected in AD platelets, which could explain the fluidity changes observed here.
We examined the timing and the laminar distribution of binocular interactions and non-dominant eye effects in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the alert macaque. Flash-evoked multiunit activity (MUA) was recorded simultaneously from multiple LGN laminae during contralateral eye, ipsilateral eye and binocular stimulation. Evidence of binocularity was noted in all laminae except 4. Inhibitory effects included (1) binocular suppression, a 15-70% reduction in the peak amplitude of MUA during binocular, compared to monocular stimulation of the dominant eye for that lamina, and (2) non-dominant suppression, a 10-45% reduction in MUA below its spontaneous level, with stimulation of the non-dominant eye. In lamina 3, the onset of this effect often preceded that of the excitatory response to stimulation of the dominant eye, and was coincident with non-dominant suppression in lamina 2, and with the dominant eye-mediated excitatory response in contralaterally innervated lamina 1. This is consistent with a parvo/magnocellular interaction. Corresponding excitatory effects, binocular and non-dominant facilitation, were also noted throughout LGN. The latter occurred both within the time frame of retinally driven activity (15-65 ms), and at longer latencies as well. The earliest response in lamina 6 of striate cortex, the origin of the corticogeniculate projections, was 30-35 ms, thus precluding a role of corticofugal modulation in the earlier effects in LGN.
Acetylcholine (ACh) caused various patterns of change in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. We studied the underlying mechanisms of the [Ca2+]i changes with simultaneous recording of [Ca2+]i and membrane potential/current. In most cases, [Ca2+]i rise was accompanied by a membrane depolarization. The [Ca2+]i change was significantly reduced when the membrane was voltage clamped, which implies that most of the [Ca2+]i rise results from the Ca2+ influx through the voltage-gated Ca2+ channel activated by the membrane depolarization. The membrane depolarizations were classified into two types, one associated with membrane conductance decrease and the other associated with membrane conductance increase. The former results from potassium conductance ((gK+) decrease, and the latter may result from the activation of a Na(+)-permeable channel. However, [Ca2+]i elevation was also observed in some neurons showing membrane hyperpolarization in response to ACh. This seems to show that ACh liberates Ca2+ from the intracellular Ca2+ store, resulting in the activation of a calcium-dependent K+ channel (KCa). The variations of ACh response in the hippocampal neurons seem to result from a variety of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and various species of ion channels governed by those receptors.
The ability of midbrain raphe (MR) cells grafted into serotonin-depleted brain to restore hippocampal responses to synaptically released serotonin was studied using a serotonin-releasing drug, D-fenfluramine (FFA). In normal rats, FFA enhances reactivity of the dentate gyrus (DG) to perforant-path stimulation, while suppressing spontaneous activity. These effects of the drug were dependent on the presence of normal serotonin neurotransmission in the hippocampus. Depletion of brain serotonin markedly attenuated DG reactivity to FFA. MR grafts (4-5 months after transplantation) restored the reactivity of the hippocampus to FFA. Immature MR grafts (3 weeks after transplantation) or septal control grafts could not reproduce the effects of mature grafts. These experiments demonstrate the possible functional incorporation of neural transplants in a host brain and the possible involvement of these grafts in regulation of normal host electrical activity. The combined utilization of a serotonergic graft and a releasing drug (i.e. FFA), in the serotonin-deprived brain, allows the study of serotonin functions in restricted parts of the brain.
The effect of potassium depolarization on dopamine D1 receptor activity in bovine retina was investigated. Preincubation of bovine retinas in buffer containing high KCl (56 mM) as compared to a low KCl control buffer resulted in a significant decrease in dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity with no change in basal or GTP-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. The apparent Vmax for dopamine was decreased from 102 +/- 15 pmol/min/mg protein in retinas preincubated in high KCl to 71 +/- 11 pmol/min/mg protein in control retinas (n = 5). The apparent Ka for dopamine stimulation of the enzyme did not change. The potassium-induced desensitization could be blocked by preincubation with the dopamine antagonist cis-flupenthixol suggesting that the desensitization was caused by the release of dopamine. The rapid desensitization was not accompanied by a change in D1 receptor density as assessed by binding of [3H]SCH23390 nor in agonist binding as assessed by competition of the selective D1 agonist, SKF38393, for [3H]SCH23390 binding. The potassium-induced desensitization was mimicked by preincubation of retinas in control medium containing isobutylmethylxanthine or dibutyryl cyclic AMP. Incubation of retinas in 56 mM KCl also led to a decrease in activation of adenylate cyclase by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. These results strongly suggest that potassium depolarization leads to a very rapid heterologous desensitization of adenylate cyclase in bovine retinas.
Joro spider toxin (JSTX), a specific blocker of glutamate receptors, was conjugated with biotin. Using the avidin-biotin complex method, specific binding sites of biotinylated JSTX were demonstrated in the cerebellum and hippocampus of the rat. In the cerebellum, strong binding of biotinyl JSTX was observed on perikarya and dendrites of the Purkinje cells with much less binding in the granular cell layer. In the hippocampus, a dense staining was observed in the pyramidal cell layer, with more heavy binding in CA3 than in other sectors of Ammon's horn. The area of distribution of biotinyl JSTX binding sites corresponded well with that of receptors preferentially activated by quisqualate.
Microinjection into the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum of the muscarinic agonist bethanechol, leading to activation of cholinoceptive pontine reticular formation (pRF) neurons and the related medullary inhibitory reticulospinal system, did not modify the threshold, latency and amplitude of the forelimb flexion elicited by unilateral stimulation of the corresponding motor cortex. However, the remaining limbs which displayed a diagonal pattern of postural adjustments showed a dissociation of their postural responses in 2 components: the early component of central origin greatly decreased in amplitude, while the late component attributed to reflex mechanism triggered by the unbalance brought about by the flexion movement increased. Further evidence indicated that the pRF system intervenes in the gain regulation of the early postural responses during the cortically induced limb movement.

The effect of the dopamine (DA) agonist, apomorphine, on oxytocin concentrations in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, septum and plasma was studied in male rats. Apomorphine dose dependently increased the concentration of oxytocin in the plasma and hippocampus, the minimal effective dose being 80 micrograms/kg s.c., which induced a 65% increase in plasma and a 45% increase in the hippocampus. The maximal effect (210 and 125% above controls) was induced with 240 micrograms/kg s.c. In contrast, there was a significant decrease (32%) in the oxytocin concentration in the hypothalamus, but only after the highest doses of apomorphine, while no change was found in the septum. The apomorphine effect in the hippocampus and hypothalamus was prevented by the mixed DA D-1/D-2 receptor blocker, haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg i.p.), and by the DA D-2 receptor blocker, (-)-sulpiride (20 mg/kg i.p.), but not by the DA D-1 receptor blocker, SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg s.c.). Similar effects were found in plasma, although SCH 23390 inhibited the apomorphine effect by 45%. Our results suggest that apomorphine stimulates oxytocinergic transmission in male rats and provide biochemical support for the hypothesis that a DA-oxytocin link exists in the central nervous system.
When two cDNAs respectively encoding the entire coding regions of alpha and beta subunits of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) were introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells, the expressed alpha and beta subunits were differently associated with subcellular structure. Although alpha subunit was loosely associated with subcellular structure, about 80% of CaM kinase II activity of alpha subunit was found in soluble fraction. More than 50% of the beta subunit bound to the membrane, and the remainder was soluble but was loosely associated with subcellular structure. The relative rate of phosphorylation for substrate proteins of the beta subunit bound to membrane was significantly different from that of the soluble form.
The response of corticospinal neurons to axotomy at postnatal ages from 5 days to adulthood was studied in the golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus). Corticospinal neurons were retrogradely labeled with fluorescent rhodamine latex beads injected into the cervical or lumbar spinal cord. A unilateral lesion of the medullary pyramidal tract was made 1-2 days later and the brains fixed 1-30 days after axotomy. Comparisons of labeled axotomized corticospinal neurons with labeled normal corticospinal neurons in the contralateral cortex showed that axotomy at 14 days or later caused cell shrinkage but not cell death. Axotomy prior to 14 days caused cell death of corticospinal neurons. More neurons died the earlier the lesion was made, culminating in virtual complete cell death of corticospinal neurons following axotomy at 5 days. Axotomy at a given age did not affect all corticospinal neurons uniformly. Lumbar projection neurons underwent cell death ranging from slight to complete following axotomy at 13 and 9 days, respectively. Cervical projection neurons, in contrast, survived axotomy after a lesion at 9 days but underwent complete cell death if the lesion occurred at 5 days. Since corticospinal axons innervate the cervical cord from postnatal days 4-8 and the lumbar cord from 10-14 days (Reh and Kalil, '81; J. Comp. Neurol. 200:55-67), the ability of corticospinal neurons to survive axotomy appears to be temporally well correlated with their innervation of spinal targets. These neurons die if their axons are cut prior to target innervation but are able to survive if axotomy occurs after their axons innervate spinal targets. The results show that plasticity in the corticospinal pathway documented in previous reports cannot take the form of regrowth of severed axons, since early lesions cause extensive corticospinal cell death. Aberrant corticospinal pathways resulting from early lesions must therefore arise from undamaged axons. Additional retrograde labeling experiments showed that the opposite cortex responded to contralateral pyramidotomy by sprouting into denervated areas of the spinal cord. Thus another source of plasticity after early pyramidal tract lesions is sprouting from corticospinal axons arising from the intact cortex.
Although astroglial scar formation is a common response to almost any type of injury to the adult central nervous system, lesions in fetal and neonatal rats have been reported to induce little or no scar formation. To examine this developmental difference further, rats ranging in age from 1 to 65 days postnatal were unilaterally enucleated, a surgical procedure that causes the axons in the optic nerve to degenerate. The optic nerves were processed for light and electron microscopy at times ranging from 7 to 365 days postenucleation. Pronounced and permanent glial scars were formed in every age group examined, including the neonates. However, the time course for removal of the degenerating axonal debris and formation of a compact, debris-free glial scar varied as a function of developmental age. In neonatal rats, a compact glial scar formed in 1-2 weeks whereas 3-5 months were required for compact glial scar formation in juveniles and adults. Changes in cross-sectional area were also associated with optic nerve degeneration and glial scar formation. Whereas lesioned neonatal optic nerves underwent little change in area, there was a substantial decrease in area in the juvenile and adult. Morphometric analysis showed that irrespective of the age of the animal at the time of enucleation, the final area of the compact glial scar was 10-20% of the unlesioned adult control. These results suggest that conflict in the literature over the ability of neonatal astrocytes to form a glial scar may be due to the nature of the lesion or the method of detection since astrocytes in the neonatal rat optic nerve clearly have the capacity to become reactive and form a glial scar.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) receptor sites were studied in human brain using saturation binding experiments and receptor autoradiography. Additionally, the affinities and densities of [3H]NPY binding sites were compared in the temporal cortex, hippocampus and putamen of patients dying from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and aged matched controls. High densities of [3H]NPY binding sites were found in the putamen (192 +/- 32 fmol/mg protein), followed by the hippocampus (165 +/- 42 fmol/mg protein) and temporal cortex (118 +/- 19 fmol/mg protein). Receptor autoradiography revealed that these sites were especially concentrated in certain layers of the hippocampus, laminae I and IV-V of the temporal cortex and the amygdalo-hippocampal area. No significant changes in [3H]NPY binding affinities were seen between the AD and aged-matched groups (Kd ranges: 2.5-6.8 nM). However, significant decreases in [3H]NPY receptor densities (Bmax) were found in temporal cortex (-43%) and hippocampus (-49%) in AD brains. No significant change in [3H]NPY Bmax values was found in the putamen. It is therefore possible that decreases in [3H]NPY receptor densities may be associated to the degenerative process taking place in certain brain regions in AD, although further work will be necessary to confirm this hypothesis. Part of this work was presented at the 17th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience.
The present study shows that 28% of the myelinated and 27% of the unmyelinated axons in the L5 and S1 rat dorsal roots are immunolabeled for galanin. By contrast only 10% of the myelinated and 15% of the unmyelinated axons are immunolabeled for calcitonin gene-related peptide, which is the numerically predominant primary afferent peptide marker for dorsal root ganglion cells. Thus galanin, because of its presence in so many primary afferent fibers, emerges as an important primary afferent marker. In addition, since our data also show that galanin is present predominantly in unmyelinated and fine myelinated sensory axons, a hypothesis is that it is particularly concerned with the transmission of noxious information.

Intracellular activity was recorded from CA1 neurons in the slice preparation, by using K-acetate-, Bapta- or EGTA-filled micropipettes. The calcium chelator, Bapta, clamps [Ca]i more rapidly than EGTA and is less associated with pH changes. Neurons recorded with Bapta-filled micropipettes were much less sensitive to 5-HT and baclafen than those recorded with the standard K-acetate- or EGTA-filled micropipetes. These results suggest that [Ca]i is important for the generation of the 5-HT-dependent potassium current.

A sensitive method was developed for the determination of deuterated and non-deuterated 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline by combined capillary gas chromatography and negative-ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry. 1-Methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline was converted into a trifluoroacetyl derivative after pretreatment with fluorescamine and extraction with ethyl acetate. The derivative was separated by capillary gas chromatography and determined by selected-ion monitoring. In the determination, [3,3,4,4-2H4]-1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline was used as an internal standard. The method developed in this work was used for the determination of deuterated and non-deuterated 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline in human urine samples collected before and after administration of [3,3-2H2]-L-tryptophan.
Immunohistochemical studies of ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons indicate that individual cells can contain dopamine as well as the neuropeptide neurotransmitters cholecystokinin (CCK) and neurotensin (NT). We have defined the distribution of the cells expressing the mRNAs encoding these two dopamine cotransmitter peptides in each of the subnuclei of the ventral tegmental area, and quantitated the extent of expression of each gene by using in situ hybridization methods. These studies reveal significant differences in the patterns of expression of each of these two genes within various subdivisions of the VTA. The rostral linear nucleus contained numerous CCK positive cells, some of which appeared to express preproCCK-mRNA at a very high level, but this nucleus contained relatively few NT-expressing cells. The parabrachialis pigmentosus contained numerous NT and CCK positive cells. The paranigralis and interfascicularis nuclei displayed positive CCK cells but with expression at only modest levels. NT cells were very few in these nuclei. The caudal linear nuclei contained the highest number of NT-expressing neurons and these cells expressed very high levels of NT mRNA. The selective distribution of these peptide genes within the VTA subnuclei may have specific consequences. Studies of the connectivity of neurons in the VTA show that the different subnuclei of this region project to several functionally and architectonically different regions of the cerebral cortex and subcortically to nuclei related to the limbic system. Results from our study show very prominent expression of CCK mRNAs in those subnuclei that project heavily to the prefrontal, other cortical areas, and the amygdaloid complex. The NT gene is expressed prominently in those subnuclei of VTA that project heavily to the entorhinal cortex and amygdaloid complex. These results provide support for a differential role for the NT-expressing neurons than that of CCK-expressing neurons of VTA in &quot;reward&quot; mechanisms and in drug-seeking and motivational behavior. These observations could be applied to create working hypotheses and experimental paradigms to test the differential functional activity of the subdivisions of VTA and their potential roles in the pathogenesis and treatment of drug-seeking behavior and other neuropsychiatric disorders.
Collateral projections are an important feature of the organization of ascending projections from the spinal cord to the brain. Primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons with collaterals to the periaqueductal gray (PAG) were studied by means of a fluorescent double-labeling method. Granular Blue and rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres were placed in the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus and the periaqueductal gray, respectively. Single and double labeled neurons were studied in the upper cervical cord, cervical enlargement, thoracic cord, lumbar enlargement, and sacral segments. The laminar distribution of double labeled neurons was similar to that of spinomesencephalic tract (SMT) neurons. Most double labeled (STT-SMT) neurons were located in contralateral laminae I, V, VII, and X. Relatively more lamina I STT-SMT neurons were found in the cervical enlargement and more lamina V STT-SMT neurons in the lumbar enlargement. The density of STT-SMT neurons in the upper cervical segments and cervical enlargement was almost equal. The density of STT-SMT neurons in the lumbar enlargement was 40% of that in the cervical enlargement. The thoracic and sacral segments had the lowest density of STT-SMT neurons, about 10% of that in the cervical enlargement. STT-SMT neurons constituted 14.7% of SMT neurons and 6% of STT neurons in the cervical enlargement and 15.3% of SMT neurons and 2.9% of STT neurons in the lumbar enlargement. The branch points of eight STT-SMT axons were studied electrophysiologically. The average percentage of conduction time spent in the parent axon was more than 85% for an antidromic action potential from the VPL nucleus and 91% from the PAG. Branch points of STT-SMT axons were calculated to be 9-13 mm caudal to the PAG, in the pons or rostral medulla.
The peripheral nervous system (PNS) in the gill of Aplysia plays an important role in the mediation of adaptive gill withdrawal reflex (GWR) behaviors. It has proven difficult to determine whether or not neuronally active agents work directly on PNS neurons, the muscle or both. We have now been able to isolate individual gill muscle fibers in culture and thus begin an analysis of how endogenous neurotransmitters and/or neuromodulators act. We report here that both dopamine and FMRF-amide act directly on gill muscle fibers to cause contractions.
The present study investigated the effects of the GABA agonist muscimol on the behaviors produced by acute injections of selective D1 and D2 agonists and antagonists. Muscimol potentiated the intensity of stereotyped behaviors shown by rats treated with the D2 agonist quinpirole; in contrast, it suppressed the repetitive bouts of grooming shown by rats treated with SKF38393. Muscimol potentiated the catalepsy produced by either a D1 (SCH23390) or D2 (metoclopramide) antagonist, suggesting that the cataleptic behaviors produced by these compounds may contain a common GABAergic mechanism.
ARPP-16 (cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr = 16,000) is a substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase and is enriched in the basal ganglia. ARPP-16 has been purified to homogeneity from the soluble fraction of bovine caudate nuclei. An additional substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase of Mr = 19,000 (ARPP-19) was found to cross-react with rabbit anti-serum prepared against purified ARPP-16. Immunological analysis indicated that ARPP-16 was enriched in the basal ganglia while ARPP-19 was present in similar levels in all brain regions studied and was also present in non-neuronal tissues. ARPP-19 was also purified to homogeneity from bovine caudate nucleus cytosol. Using oligonucleotide probes based on the partial amino acid sequence of purified ARPP-16, cDNA clones for ARPP-16 and ARPP-19 were isolated from a bovine caudate nucleus cDNA library and sequenced. The predicted amino acid sequences of the two proteins were identical except that ARPP-19 had an additional 16 amino acids at the NH2-terminal. The two cDNA clones share an identical 3'-untranslated region of 756 nucleotides. The cDNA clone for ARPP-16 contained 806 additional nucleotides located 3' to this common sequence. The 5'-untranslated regions of the two clones were entirely different. The results suggest the possibility that ARPP-16 and ARPP-19 are produced by alternative transcription and splicing.
We have expressed the 57-amino acid Kunitz domain of the Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP751) as a bacterial fusion protein. The protease inhibitory properties of the purified fusion protein, BX9, were virtually identical in all respects tested to those of purified secreted APP751. Both proteins strongly inhibited pancreatic trypsin (Kis = 0.2 and 0.3 nM) and less well epidermal growth factor-binding protein (Kis = 1 and 3.5 nM), alpha-chymotrypsin (Kis = 3 and 6 nM), and the gamma-subunit of nerve growth factor (Kis = 8 and 9 M). Neither protein appreciably inhibited plasma and pancreatic kallikreins, thrombin, lung tryptase, neutrophil elastase, or cathepsin G. The remarkable similarity of the protease inhibitory profile of BX9 to that of secreted APP751 suggests that proper intramolecular disulfide bond formation has occurred in the bacterial fusion protein and leads to the conclusion that the amyloid precursor protein Kunitz domain is a relatively specific inhibitor of only a few trypsin-like arginine esterases.
The spontaneous activity of single striatal neurons was recorded extracellularly from 3-4-month-old adult rats that had been given dopamine (DA)-depleting brain lesions 3 days after birth. Behavioral observations made prior to recording indicated no gross sensorimotor deficits, yet subsequent biochemical analyses revealed that animals had sustained near-total DA depletions (greater than 99%). Electrophysiological results showed that the firing rates of type II striatal cells were greatly increased relative to control levels. This finding contrasts sharply with the effects of DA-depleting brain lesions given to adult animals, in which similarly high levels of striatal cell activity are invariably associated with akinesia.
Glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp) are considered to be the neurotransmitters of the optic pathway in submammalian species, but their roles in mammals is uncertain. Recently, N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) has been proposed as a neurotransmitter in mammalian optic pathway; however, the release of endogenous NAAG on stimulation of the optic pathway has not been demonstrated. Using an in vivo microdialysis technique, we now report that electrical stimulation of rat optic nerve markedly increased the extracellular concentration of NAAG but not Glu/Asp in superficial superior colliculus where retinal afferents terminate, whereas non-specific stimulation of neurotransmitter release by high potassium or veratridine increased both extracellular Glu/Asp and NAAG concentration in the perfusate. The release of NAAG was dependent on Ca2+ and the presence of optic terminals. We conclude that NAAG is a better candidate as a neurotransmitter of rat optic nerve terminals than Glu/Asp.
A68930 (5,6-dihydroxy-3-phenyl-1-aminomethyl-isochroman) is a potent (EC50 = 2.5 nmol/L) partial agonist at the D-1 dopamine receptor. In contrast, A68930 is a much weaker agonist (EC50 = 3,920 nmol/L) at the D-2 dopamine receptor. The orientation of the 3-phenyl substituent in the molecule is critical for the affinity and selectivity of the molecule towards the D-1 receptor in vitro and in vivo. The role of the D-1 receptor in the functioning of the basal ganglia is discussed.
L-Phenylalanine transport across the blood-nerve barrier was studied by perfusing Ringer solution containing trace amounts of L-[14C]phenylalanine and [3H]dextran (a vascular marker) through the hindlimb of an anesthetized rat. At the end of perfusion, a segment of sciatic nerve was removed, frozen, desheathed, and processed for radioactivity counting. The permeability-surface area product of the blood-nerve barrier (PABNB) to L-[14C]phenylalanine decreased from 58 +/- 9 X 10(-5) to 1.7 +/- 0.3 X 10(-5) (SE) ml.s-1.g wet wt-1, as the perfusate concentration of unlabeled L-phenylalanine was increased to 10 mM. D-Phenylalanine had less of an inhibitory effect on L-[14C]phenylalanine uptake than did L-phenylalanine. PABNB did not change in the presence of 50 mM alpha-(methylamino)isobutyric acid (MeAIB) in the perfusion medium, nor by replacing NaCl by Tris.HCl. However, addition of 50 mM 2-aminobicyclo(2,2,1)heptane-2-carboxylic acid (BCH) reduced PABNB to 2.1 +/- 0.3 X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g wet wt-1 (n = 4). PA at epiperineurial barrier (PAper) of L-[14C]phenylalanine at the epiperineurial barrier, determined from in situ incubation, was 1.4 +/- 0.2 X 10(-5) ml.s-1.g wet wt-1 (n = 6) and was unaffected by 10 mM L-phenylalanine concentration in the incubation medium. The results demonstrate for the first time carrier-mediated transport system for L-phenylalanine at the blood-nerve barrier of the rat peripheral nerve.
Agents that inhibit or stimulate Na+ transport were tested for their effects on the ionic composition and volume of the in vivo choroid plexus (CP) epithelium. Ketamine-anesthetized adult Sprague-Dawley rats treated 1 h with acetazolamide or insulin were analyzed for choroid cell [Na+]i, [HCO3-]i, and pHi (dimethadione method); for transmembrane Na+ and H+ gradients; and for the kinetics of penetration of 22Na from plasma to plexus epithelium to CSF. Acetazolamide (25 mg/kg) reduced [Na+]i by 5-10 mmol/l and substantially elevated [HCO3-]i and pHi; the concurrent 22Na uptake by the in vivo choroid plexus and CSF, as quantified by the transfer coefficient, Kin (ml.g-1.h-1), was curtailed by 55-60%. Such effects on Na+ transport and distribution are likely secondary to the alkalinization of pHi induced by carbonic anhydrase inhibition. Conversely, insulin (3 U/kg ip) stimulated Na+ transport, i.e., manifested as enhanced uptake of 22Na from plasma to choroid cell and increased [Na+]i. For various treatments altering the basolateral membrane H+ gradient, the regression analysis of the 22Na Kin vs. log [H+]i/[H+]ISF (where ISF is interstitial fluid) was significant at P less than 0.01. This is consistent with effects mediated by Na(+)-H+ exchange. K+ and Cl- redistribution phenomena were coincident with altered Na+ transport, as choroidal cells retained K+, Cl-, and H2O after acetazolamide but lost K+, Cl-, and H2O with insulin treatment. A model is presented relating alterations in CP Na+ transport, KCl content, and cell volume. Overall, the findings encourage the postulate for effects of these drugs on Na+ transport basolaterally, either indirectly by attenuating [H+]i/[H+]ISF (acetazolamide) or directly by accelerating Na+ transport (insulin).
Basolateral Na(+)-H+ exchange was analyzed with an in vivo model of choroid plexus (CP) epithelium in nephrectomized adult rats anesthetized with ketamine. Acid-base balance in blood was altered for 1 h over a pH continuum of 7.19 to 7.53 by equimolar intraperitoneal injections of HCl, NH4Cl, NaCl, or NaHCO3. Compartmental analysis enabled determination of CP intracellular pH (pHi) [dimethadione (DMO) method] and the choroid cellular concentration of 23Na (stable) and 22Na (tracer). HCl acidosis reduced the outwardly directed transmembrane basolateral H+ gradient, lowered the [23Na]i by 25%, and decreased the influx coefficient (Kin) for 22Na from blood into CP parenchyma (by 45% from 0.211 to 0.117 ml.g-1.h-1) and into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (by 43%, from 0.897 to 0.516). Compared with acid-loaded rats (HCl or NH4Cl), the NaHCO3-alkalotic animals had significantly enhanced uptake of 22Na into the CP-CSF system. This pH-dependent transport of Na+ from blood to CP was abolished by pretreatment with amiloride, an inhibitor of Na(+)-H+ exchange. Except in severe acidosis (HCl), the choroid cell pHi (7.05 +/- 0.02 in NaCl controls) and [HCO3-] (11-12 mM) remained stable in the face of acidemic and alkalemic challenges. With respect to reaction of the blood-CSF barrier to plasma acid-base perturbations, the responses of the fourth ventricle plexus pHi, [Na+]i, and 22Na uptake were similar to corresponding ones in lateral plexuses. We conclude that in the choroidal epithelium there is a Na(+)-H+ exchange activity capable of modulating Na+ flux into the CSF by approximately 50% as arterial pH is varied from 7.2 to 7.5.
To determine the potential value of abnormal neurological findings as markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their relationship to the stage of AD, we compared standardized neurological examinations in 135 community-dwelling patients with AD and 91 nondemented elderly individuals. After correcting for differences in age and education between the two groups, we found that rigidity, stooped posture, graphesthesia, neglect of simultaneous tactile stimuli (face-hand test), and snout, grasp, and glabella reflexes were present significantly more often in patients with AD than in control subjects. These findings increased in prevalence in patients with AD according to the severity of dementia. However, in a multivariate logistic regression model only the grasp reflex, graphesthesia, and the face-hand test were statistically significantly associated with the degree of cognitive impairment. Although abnormal neurological findings occur regularly in AD, they are too infrequent early in the course of AD to serve as diagnostic markers. Prospective studies are needed to determine whether patients with the early onset of extrapyramidal or other findings form a distinct subgroup of AD.
Visually-induced self-motion sensation and postural reflexes were first explored in microgravity on the Spacelab 1 mission where four subjects demonstrated that visual orientation effects were stronger in microgravity than preflight. Extended testing of two more subjects during the Spacelab D-1 orbital flight confirmed this finding. The development of visual substitution for inappropriate graviceptor information occurs over the first day or two in microgravity. Additional instrumentation to measure postural reactions failed to produce a more reliable indicator of visual effects than subjective orientation. Localized tactile cues applied to the feet changed the qualitative nature of vection and reduced its subjective strength.

The hypothesis that neonatal norepinephrine (NE) depletion lessens the behavioral consequences of differential housing was tested. Male Wistar rats were injected with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or vehicle twice within 24 hr of birth, weaned at 25 days, and reared under either impoverished (IC) or enriched conditions (EC) for 30 days. In 3 experiments, rats were tested in the Morris water maze, the colony-intruder test, and 2 tests of dominance. 6-OHDA treatment reduced cortical and hypothalamic NE concentrations and increased brainstem NE concentrations. EC housing increased cortical dopamine (DA). Behavioral differences caused by postweaning enrichment-isolation were reduced by neonatal NE depletion, primarily in early test trials. The authors conclude that forebrain NE afferents from the locus coeruleus are important for housing-related behavioral changes and responsivity to novel testing environments.
The xanthine derivative propentofylline has been reported to exhibit protective effects on neuronal cells in the brain, which include improvement of impaired learning and memory and protection against delayed ischemically-induced neuronal cell death in the hippocampal CA1 subfield. To investigate the mechanism of action of this drug, we examined its effect on nerve growth factor (NGF) synthesis in cultured mouse astroglial cells because NGF is known to function as a neurotrophic molecule that is required to maintain neuronal activities. The drug was found to increase the NGF content in the conditioned medium to a level over ten times that of the control. This result suggests that the action of propentofylline in the brain includes stimulation of synthesis/secretion of NGF in astroglial cells.
Synapsin I and II are a family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins involved in the short-term regulation of neurotransmitter release. In this review, we discuss a working model for the molecular mechanisms by which the synapsins act. We propose that synapsin I links synaptic vesicles to actin filaments in the presynaptic nerve terminal and that these interactions are modulated by the reversible phosphorylation of synapsin I through various signal transduction pathways. The high degree of homology between the synapsins suggests that some of the functional properties of synapsin I are also shared by synapsin II.
The purpose of this study was to consider reading disorders in children within the context of their general perceptual development. A review of the literature suggested that visual and auditory perceptual skills advance from a holistic to an analytical approach, and that reading skills also show this progression. It was proposed that poor readers might show impairments in visual and auditory segmentation tasks, if these skills are important factors in reading development. This hypothesis was tested on a sample (N = 20) of poor readers in the primary age range who were assessed against reading age and chronological age control groups. The hypothesis was partially borne out, a quarter of the sample performing very poorly on both types of tasks. It was argued that segmentation problems in perceptual tasks may underlie reading failure in some children, although the direction of the causation has yet to be determined.
Cerebral lateralization has been suggested to play a regulatory role in immune function. In this study, several measures of immune function were evaluated in mice selectively bred for either a strong (HI) or weak (LO) degree of behavioral asymmetry (paw preference) and compared to an unselected control population (HET). Both HI and LO animals had fewer spleen cells but higher degrees of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA (on a per cell basis) than HET mice. However, only HI mice had lower immune functions compared to HET controls manifest as reduced mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR), cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity, and natural killer (NK) cell activity. These findings indicate that although both extremes in the degree of paw preference may be associated with deviations from the norm, a high degree of behavioral lateralization is associated with decreased immune responsiveness in this animal model.
The effect of omega-conotoxin GVIA, a potent and selective inhibitor of N-type calcium channels and of the organic calcium channel inhibitors nimodipine, verapamil and flunarizine, on stretching, yawning and penile erection induced by ACTH 1-24 was studied in male rats. omega-Conotoxin (1-10 ng ICV 15 min before ACTH, 10 micrograms ICV), but not carboxymethylated omega-conotoxin, induced a dose-dependent prevention of all ACTH effects. In contrast, organic calcium channel inhibitors (20 mg/kg IP 30-60 min before ACTH) failed to modify ACTH-induced stretching and yawning but induced a 25% decrease in the number of penile erection episodes induced by the peptide, and prevented, like ICV omega-conotoxin, oxytocin- and apomorphine-induced yawning and penile erection. When injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, omega-conotoxin prevented the above behavioral responses induced by apomorphine and oxytocin but not by ACTH 1-24. The present results suggest that ACTH induces stretching, yawning and penile erection by mobilizing calcium through central omega-conotoxin-sensitive calcium channels in brain sites different from those sensitive to oxytocin and apomorphine.
Extra- and intracellular recordings were obtained in vivo from dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons in rat pups ranging in age from postnatal day (PD) 1 to PD28, and in adult rats. Neurons from PD1-3 rats were active at very low rates in a random pattern, rarely showed bursting activity, and often exhibited long periods of up to several minutes of silence. Spontaneous spikes were of relatively low amplitude and long duration. The mean firing rate increased and became more regular over time, and short bursts consisting of only 2 spikes were observed. By the second postnatal week, the initial segment component of the spontaneous spike resembled that seen in adults, but the somadendritic component was still relatively small, and there was often a very marked temporal delay between the two. Near the end of the second postnatal week, neurons exhibited a transient phase of pacemaker-like activity. Mean firing rates continued to increase with time, as did the incidence and complexity of bursting activity. The spontaneous firing rate, pattern and spike morphology approached adult values by the fourth postnatal week. Antidromic responses from neostriatum were obtained as early as PD1, and consisted of a significantly greater proportion of full initial segment-soma dendritic spikes compared to nigrostriatal neurons from adult rats. There was usually a long delay between the initial segment and somadendritic components of the spike. Mean antidromic latency and mean antidromic threshold did not vary significantly from PD1-3 to adults. Axonal conduction velocity reached maximal adult values by PD16-21. Neostriatal-evoked orthodromic responses consisted principally of a poststimulus inhibition whose duration decreased from PD1 through adulthood. Pure excitatory responses were very rarely observed at any age. Intracellular recordings from PD2, PD3 and PD5 rats revealed striatal-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in non-dopaminergic nigral neurons with a mean onset latency (9.8 +/- 3.8 ms) which did not differ from that previously reported for adult rats.
While fetal cranial sonography has been used for the sensitive detection of ventriculomegaly, ancillary imaging techniques may be needed for precise delineation of structural abnormalities. This report outlines the radiologic and clinical results using maternal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in ten patients with suspected fetal intracranial anomalies. Imaging was accomplished at 17-39 weeks gestational age, using spin-echo, a multislice technique with intramuscular morphine sulfate for sedation. In four cases, MRI significantly clarified the sonographic diagnosis, while in two cases the scan agreed with the sonographic findings. In one patient, MRI failed to image a lumbar meningomyelocele associated with the Chiari II malformation. In two patients with the Chiari II malformation, both sonography and MRI failed to delineate the anatomic pathology completely. Optimal imaging resolution was achieved in the third trimester. Four patients died in the perinatal period. All the surviving patients required shunting to treat intracranial hypertension: only two patients were meeting cognitive milestones. We conclude that due to the high incidence of multiple anomalies in the fetus with ventriculomegaly, precision in neuroradiological diagnosis is essential. MRI can be a useful adjunct to cranial sonography for the specific delineation of abnormalities of the fetal central nervous system.
Altered extracellular matrix produced by Steel mutant fetuses affects the pigmentation of neural crest cells in vitro (K. Morrison-Graham, L. West-Johnsrud, and J.A. Weston, 1990, Dev. Biol. 139). Here, we demonstrate that collagen bundle morphology and hyaluronidase sensitivity of the glycosaminoglycans associated with the collagen fibrils differ between normal and mutant dermis. Although no differences were detected in the amounts of collagen or glycosaminoglycans produced in vitro or present in vivo, hyaluronic acid was more readily extracted from Sld/Sld than from normal skin. We suggest that the Steel mutation alters the organization of collagen bundles and associated hyaluronic acid within the extracellular matrix.
The Steel mutation is a non-cell-autonomous defect in mice that affects the development of several stem cell populations, including germ cells, hematopoietic cells, and neural crest-derived pigment cells. To characterize the environmental lesion caused by the Steel mutation, we have compared the ability of normal and mutant extracellular matrix material to support the differentiation of normal mouse neural crest cells in vitro. Extracellular matrix deposited by cultured skin cells isolated from normal fetuses enhanced melanogenesis by crest cells over that observed on plastic substrata. In contrast, matrix material produced by Steel-Dickie (Sld) fetal skin cells failed to enhance melanogenesis. Adrenergic differentiation by neural crest-derived cells was promoted equally by both normal and mutant extracellular matrix compared to control substrata. We conclude that the environmental defect in mutant embryos selectively affects a melanogenic subpopulation of neural crest cells and resides, at least in part, in the extracellular matrix.
An antibody was used to detect antigens in zebrafish that appear to be homologous to the frog homeodomain-containing protein XlHbox 1. These antigens show a restricted expression in the anteroposterior axis and an anteroposterior gradient in the pectoral fin bud, consistent with the distribution of XlHbox 1 protein in frog and mouse embryos. In the somitic mesoderm, a sharp anterior limit of expression coincides exactly with the boundary between somites 4 and 5, and the protein level fades out posteriorly. A similar, graded expression of the antigen is seen within the series of Rohon-Beard sensory neurons of the CNS. We also immunostained the mutant spt-1 ('spadetail'), in which the trunk mesoderm is greatly depleted and disorganized in the region of XlHbox 1 expression. The defects stem from misdirected cell movements during gastrulation, but nervertheless, newly recruited cells that partially refill the trunk mesoderm express the antigen within the normal span of the anteroposterior axis. This finding suggests that the mutation does not delete positional information required for activation of the XlHbox 1 gene.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 12 subjects as they attended to the left or right hemifield of a visual display while fixating a central point. Stimuli were presented to the left or right visual fields on separate trials (unilateral stimuli) or to both fields simultaneously (bilateral stimuli). In different conditions, the stimulus sequences contained only bilateral stimuli, only unilateral stimuli, or a mixture of unilateral and bilateral stimuli. Bilateral stimuli elicited an enhanced positivity lasting from about 75 to 250 msec that was largest at posterior electrode sites contralateral to the attended hemifield. The early phase of this attention-related positivity appeared to be an enhancement of the exogenous P1 component. In contrast, both the posterior P1 and N1 components were enhanced in response to attended unilateral stimuli. Moreover, the N1 attention effect was reduced when the preceding stimulus contained elements in the attended field. It was concluded that modulations of the N1 and P1 components in these experiments represent different aspects of visual spatial attention: N1 may represent the orienting of attention to a task-relevant stimulus, whereas P1 may represent a facilitation of early sensory processing for items presented to a location where attention is already focused.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from the scalp while subjects attended to sequences of bilaterally symmetrical arrays of 4 letters (2 in each visual half-field) that were flashed briefly at intervals of 280-520 msec. These sequences also included randomized presentations of unilateral 'probe' stimuli consisting of irrelevant bars (experiment 1) or potentially relevant letter pairs (experiment 2). The task was to pay attention to the letter pairs in either the left or the right half-field on a given run and to press a button when the two letters matched one another (targets). The ERPs to the bilateral arrays included an early positive wave (P1, peaking at 135 msec) that was enhanced over posterior scalp sites contralateral to the attended visual field. Both types of probe stimulus also elicited a larger early positivity in the P1 latency range (100-200 msec) when delivered to the attended half-field, followed in some cases by a more prolonged positive deflection. Notable for its absence was any sign of an enlarged posterior N1 component (160-200 msec), which was prominent in the ERP to attended-field stimuli in previous studies using randomized sequences of unilateral stimuli. Attended-field targets elicited large N2 and P3 (P300) components, which were greatly reduced or absent when targets occurred in the unattended field. The observed ERP effects were interpreted in terms of early sensory selection during visual spatial attention.
Some of the functional effects of beta-endorphin on immune cells are resistant to inhibition by naloxone. To further characterize the beta-[125I]endorphin-binding site mediating these effects and its response to cations and GTP, the human monocyte-like cell line U937 was used. Incubation of intact cells and beta-[125I]endorphin for 60 min at 4 C demonstrated a saturable, high affinity binding site [Kd = 1.2 +/- 0.5 X 10(-8) M (mean +/- SE; n = 4] competed by equimolar beta-endorphin and N-acetyl (Ac)-beta-endorphin but not by naloxone, morphine, or selective opiate receptor agonists. Competition studies showed that beta-endorphin-(6-31) and beta-endorphin-(28-31) were approximately 5- and 100-fold less potent, respectively, whereas beta-endorphin-(1-16) or -(1-27) was ineffective. Covalent cross-linking of beta-[125I]endorphin to intact cells and resolution by gel electrophoresis showed dominant bands at 59K and 44K and a minor band at 66K. The bands at 44K and 66K were completely displaced by increasing equivalent concentrations of beta-endorphin and N-Ac-beta-endorphin. Increasing concentrations of mono (Na+, K+)- and divalent (Ca2+, Mg2+, Mn2+) cations reduced the binding of beta-[125I]endorphin to U937 membrane; beta-[125I]endorphin binding to rat brain membrane showed similar cation sensitivity. GTP gamma-sulfate (GTP gamma S; 10(-4) M) alone reduced binding to U937 membrane by 25%. In the presence of Na+ (100 or 150 mM) or Mg2+ (10 mM), GTP gamma S reduced binding by an additional 50%. Moreover, GTP gamma S (10(-8)-10(-4) M) in the presence of Na+ (100 mM) reduced binding in a dose-dependent manner, whereas GMP was ineffective. In conclusion, beta-endorphin binds to sites on human U937 cells similar to those observed on normal murine splenocytes. Although naloxone insensitive, these sites exhibit properties, such as size, salt sensitivity, and coupling to a GTP-binding protein, that are similar to those observed for agonist binding to brain opiate receptors.
A method for the determination of release of endogenous neurotransmitter from cultured neurons has been developed. Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons from postnatal rats were cultured on polyethyleneimine-coated membrane filter with nerve growth factor. The membrane filter, on which the neurons lived and extended neurites, was packed in a cell bed chamber for a closed perfusion. The perfusate was fractionated and the content of acetylcholine released from cultured neurons was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection (HPLC-ECD). Acetylcholine release evoked by glutamate and high K+ was 1.5- and 3-fold greater than the spontaneous level. This method for the determination of the neurotransmitter released from cultured neurons is very advantageous for investigating regulation of transmitter release in central neurons.
We administered tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA), a cholinesterase inhibitor, to rats with bilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions and measured their performance in a spatial learning task. The subjects, 34 male Fischer-344 rats, received bilateral excitotoxic NBM lesions; 10 other rats served as unlesioned controls. Two weeks later the animals were tested in a circular water maze for time and distance swum to find a submerged platform. We tested three different doses (5.0, 2.5, and 1.25 mg/kg) of daily subcutaneous THA against a lesioned control group receiving saline and a fifth group of untreated unlesioned controls. The saline-treated lesioned group showed a significant impairment of acquisition. The 1.25 mg/kg group performed significantly better than the lesioned controls with respect to latency. Analysis of swim speed data showed slowing in the 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg groups. Analysis of the distance swum to find the platform, an untimed task that corrects for the difference in swim speeds, showed statistically significant improvement in all three treated groups. Additionally, spatial memory for the platform location was improved by two of the three doses of THA tested. Passive avoidance retention was not impaired by our lesion. All lesioned groups had comparable reductions of cortical choline acetyltransferase. Our data show significantly improved spatial learning with THA. These data provide an additional rationale for further clinical testing of THA and other centrally active cholinergic agents in diseases with cholinergic loss.
The time course of regeneration of supraspinal and descending brachial intraspinal axons was studied using HRP retrograde tracing and kinematic analysis. Five groups of salamanders (10 salamanders/group) received complete thoracic transection 1.0 cm rostral to the hind limbs abolishing swimming. Groups 1-4 recovered for 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks, respectively, before being filmed to record the animal's ability to swim. After filming, a second transection was made 1.0 cm caudal to the first (at the level of the lumbar enlargement) and HRP was used to label descending axons which had grown past the first lesion. The fifth group was filmed every 2 weeks for 12 weeks before the second transection was made for HRP application. The films were used to perform frame by frame computer analysis of the amplitude and timing of cyclic lateral flexion waves which make up swimming behavior. The earliest return of coordinated swimming behavior was seen 4 weeks after transection (1 of 20 animals). At 6 weeks post-transection, 5 of 10 animals exhibited coordinated swimming. However, the behavior in these animals was subnormal. In the group surviving 8 weeks post-transection, 5 of 10 animals recovered coordinated swimming behavior. In the group that was filmed every 2 weeks, 5 of the 10 salamanders which did recover, exhibited coordinated swimming behavior by the eighth week post-transection. Kinematic analysis of salamanders that exhibited a return of coordinated swimming revealed quantitative differences compared to normal salamanders. While continuous head to tail undulatory waves were present, the propagation time and period were faster than those in normal salamanders. Retransection of the spinal cord abolished coordinated swimming. The numbers and distribution of HRP-labeled supraspinal neurons varied greatly among the animals that displayed recovery of locomotor abilities. In the salamanders examined 6 weeks post-transection the majority of labeled cells were found in medullary nuclei. In recovered salamanders examined 8 and 12 weeks post-transection, HRP-labeled neurons were found in the red nucleus, in the interstitial nucleus of the fasciculus longitudinalis medialis, and in the mesencephalic as well as the medullary reticular neurons. Recovery of coordinated swimming was only observed in salamanders in which descending supraspinal and intraspinal axons were present at the level of the lumbar enlargement (as demonstrated by HRP retrograde labeling). These results indicate that recovery of locomotion is dependent on the reestablishment of descending input and is not a result of changes in spinal reflexes or propagation of electrical activity through the body wall.
Evidence has accumulated to implicate the excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters, glutamate and aspartate, in the pathophysiology of central nervous system (CNS) ischemic injury. It appears from both in vivo and in vitro experiments that they exert their excitotoxic effects in CNS ischemia by their actions at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex. In the present study, we examined the effects of MK-801 and ketamine, two noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists, in a model of spinal cord ischemia in conscious rabbits produced by occluding the infrarenal aorta for 25 min. Five minutes after reperfusion, animals were treated with either saline, ketamine, or MK-801. By 6 h postreperfusion, all treatment groups exhibited an initial recovery of hindlimb motor function, after which the saline- and ketamine-treated groups had a similar progressive deterioration in function over the next 48 h. However, the MK-801-treated rabbits continued to recover motor function such that neurological scores in these rabbits were significantly improved relative to those of the saline-treated animals at 48 h. Histopathological evaluation showed that MK-801-treated rabbits tended to have a lesser degree of central gray matter necrosis. These results indicate that MK-801 protected against the secondary deterioration associated with this model and strengthen the potential therapeutic use of NMDA receptor antagonists in the treatment of CNS ischemia.
A number of studies have reported in vivo and in vitro stimulation of nerves by means of induced currents. We have found that purely inductive stimulation of the frog sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle using unshielded or shielded whole toroids could not be achieved with techniques and EMF intensities and durations consistent with those reported by other investigators. In those instances where stimulation was achieved, our findings suggest that it resulted from capacitive coupling between unshielded toroids and a nerve/grounding electrode. Maximum primary voltages ranged up to 80 V. Corresponding secondary EMF's and pulse durations were as much as 5 V and 100 microseconds, respectively, in different experiments. Stimulating capacitive current densities near the nerve were estimated to be in the range of 100 to 400 mA/cm2, while maximum induced current densities were estimated to be in the range of 10 to 30 mA/cm2 for the same pulse duration.
The purpose of our studies was to learn more about the regulation of keratinocyte migration. Human keratinocytes freshly harvested from skin were relatively immotile cells, whereas keratinocytes harvested from cell culture migrated on type I collagen or fibronectin as measured in a phagokinesis assay. Development of migratory competence by keratinocytes varied depending on the culture substratum. Cells cultured on plastic were activated more quickly and to a greater extent than cells cultured on dermis. The effect of the culture substratum on migratory competence was reversible. That is, cells cultured on plastic showed reduced activity after subculture on dermis. Cells cultured on dermis showed increased activity after subculture on plastic. Freshly isolated as well as cultured keratinocytes contained beta 1 integrin subunits, but only cultured cells were able to organize the subunits into focal adhesions. These adhesion sites also contained vinculin. In epidermal explants, beta 1 integrin subunits were mostly in basal cells, often more prominent between lateral cell borders than at the epidermal-dermal interface. In keratinocytes that migrated out of skin explants, there appeared to be an increase in the intensity of beta 1 integrin subunit immunostaining, possibly because of the change in shape of migrating cells. Also, beta 1 integrin subunits were found around and beneath migrating keratinocytes. These results show that changes in the distribution of beta 1 integrin subunits accompany development of migratory competence.
The primate neocortex possesses an extraordinary degree of regional specialization. Virtually all cortical functions are dependent upon a complex system of reciprocal connections between related cortical regions that allow for distributed information processing. Although some aspects of the organization of these corticocortical projections are understood, little is known about the morphology and afferents to the cells of origin of long corticocortical projections in primates. We combined intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow (LY) in fixed tissue with in vivo retrograde transport of fast blue to study the dendritic morphology of neurons within the inferior temporal gyrus (ITG) and the superior temporal sulcus (STS) that furnish corticocortical projections to the prefrontal cortex. The fast blue retrogradely labeled cells formed two clearly defined bands within the inferior temporal cortex: a supragranular band that corresponded to layer III, and an infragranular band that corresponded to layers V and VI. After Lucifer Yellow intracellular filling, these retrogradely labeled cells projecting to the prefrontal cortex were found to be morphologically very heterogeneous. Although all filled cells had spiny dendrites, they presented a wide range of cell body sizes and dendritic tree morphologies. In layer III, the majority of cells were typical pyramids of various sizes. In layers V-VI, numerous typical pyramidal cells were present. In addition, significant numbers of modified pyramidal forms were found, including vertical and horizontal fusiform cells, asymmetrical pyramids and multipolar cells. The entire dendritic arbor of individual subtypes in layers III, V, and VI was restricted to a few cortical layers, but as a group these cells had dendrites spanning the whole cortical depth. We suggest that corticocortically projecting cells are distinct from subcortically projecting cells and consist of a defined set of morphological and functional subgroups, each of which is driven by a distinct set of afferents and likely possesses different response properties.
To gain some insight into possible functions of nerve growth factor (NGF), we suppressed the endogenous levels of NGF in newborn rats by subcutaneous injections (3 microliters/g body weight) of rabbit antibodies to purified mouse beta-NGF (ANTI-NGF). Fiber and axonal areas and perimeters were measured for unmyelinated and myelinated sensory fibers in T9 dorsal roots (DR) in three groups of animals: 1) ANTI-NGF treated littermates, 2) preimmune sera treated littermates (PREIMM), and 3) untreated littermates (UNTR). In some rats, fibers in ventral roots (VR) were measured and, in other rats, sensory processes in peripheral nerves (PN) were measured following radical ventral rhizotomy. The only outer area and perimeter measurements that were statistically different were those in the ventral root (P less than 0.013 and P less than 0.043, respectively). However, myelin thickness was significantly thinner in the dorsal roots of the ANTI-NGF group than in the dorsal roots of the UNTR and PREIMM groups (P less than 0.000009 and P less than 10(-6), respectively). Myelin thickness in the ventral roots of the ANTI-NGF group was also statistically thinner than that in the UNTR group (P less than 0.001). There were no statistically significant differences when comparing the UNTR group to the PREIMM group. In the peripheral nerves studied, there was no significant change in the myelin thickness between the ANTI-NGF and UNTR groups of animals. These results indicate that Schwann cell-neuronal interactions are altered by the inactivation of NGF, and that 1) the central processes of sensory fibers are affected and not the peripheral processes and 2) motor fiber myelination is altered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gap junctional conductance (gj) between cardiac ventricular myocyte pairs is rapidly, substantially, and reversibly reduced by sarcoplasmic acidification with CO2 when extracellular calcium activity is near physiological levels (1.0 mM CaCl2 added; 470 microM Ca++). Intracellular calcium concentration (Cai), measured by fura-2 fluorescence in cell suspensions, was 148 +/- 39 nM (+/- SEM, n = 6) and intracellular pH (pHi), measured with intracellular ion-selective microelectrodes, was 7.05 +/- 0.02 (n = 5) in cell pair preparations bathed in medium equilibrated with air. Cai increased to 515 +/- 12 nM (n = 6) and pHi decreased to 5.9-6.0 in medium equilibrated with 100% CO2. In air-equilibrated low-calcium medium (no added CaCl2; 2-5 microM Ca++), Cai was 61 +/- 9 nM (n = 13) at pHi 7.1. Cai increased to only 243 +/- 42 nM (n = 9) at pHi 6.0 in CO2-equilibrated low-calcium medium. Junctional conductance, in most cell pairs, was not substantially reduced by acidification to pHi 5.9-6.0 in low-calcium medium. Cell pairs could still be electrically uncoupled reversibly by the addition of 100 microM octanol, an agent which does not significantly affect Cai. In low-calcium low-sodium medium (choline substitution for all but 13 mM sodium), acidification with CO2 increased Cai to 425 +/- 35 nM (n = 11) at pHi 5.9-6.0 and gj was reduced to near zero. Junctional conductance could also be reduced to near zero at pHi 6.0 in low-calcium medium containing the calcium ionophore, A23187. The addition of the calcium ionophore did not uncouple cell pairs in the absence of acidification. In contrast, acidification did not substantially reduce gj when intracellular calcium was low. Increasing intracellular calcium did not appreciably reduce gj at pHi 7.0. These results suggest that, although other factors may play a role, H+ and Ca++ act synergistically to decrease gj.
Currently available specific synaptic markers have made it possible to estimate the synaptic density by immunochemical techniques. In the present study we labeled the neocortical presynaptic terminals in histological sections of human autopsy tissue with a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin. The characteristic granular neuropil reaction was quantified by measuring the average optical density (OD) in the different layers of the parietal cortex with the aid of image analysis equipment. The raw neuropil OD was corrected by subtracting the OD of the white matter in the same section. Our study showed that consistent microdensitometric results can be obtained on 5-microns paraffin sections from specimens with less than 8 hr of post-mortem time before fixation, incubated with 5 micrograms/ml of anti-synaptophysin. The corrected OD measurements were slightly larger in neocortical layers II, III, and V than in layers I, IV, and VI, but the differences were not statistically significant. In area 17, layer IV was denser than the others. We conclude that with certain precautions this method can be used to measure relative amounts of synaptophysin-like immunoreactivity and to infer the density of presynaptic boutons in human situations and in animal models.
Correlations between regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose, determined by positron emission tomography with [18F]-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, have been used to indicate functional associations between pairs of brain regions. This method was applied to data from 14 healthy adult subjects with trisomy 21 Down's syndrome (age less than 34 years) and from 24 age-matched healthy controls. Correlations were obtained between ratios of regional-to-global resting glucose utilization. In comparison to age-matched controls, the Down's syndrome group had many smaller correlations for region-pairs within and between the frontal and parietal lobes; some correlations were large and negative in the Down's syndrome group, but large and positive in the controls. One region so affected was the inferior frontal gyrus that includes Broca's area. This result is consistent with the relatively greater language impairment in Down's syndrome subjects. The thalamus also had smaller correlations with temporal and occipital regions in the Down's syndrome group compared to controls. These results suggest that Down's syndrome is accompanied by a functional disruption of neural circuits associated with directed attention.
Because 1-methyl-4-phenyl-2,3-dihydropyridinium ion (MPP+) appears to damage the dopaminergic neuron and cause neuronal death, we characterized [3H]MPP+ binding sites in mouse brain membranes. Among several compounds tested, debrisoquin [3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-isoquinolinecarboxamidine] and some analogues were able to antagonize [3H]MPP+ binding. Debrisoquin is able to block adrenergic transmission and inhibit the activity of monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A). We found a certain correlation between the ability of these agents to displace [3H]MPP+ from its binding sites and their capacity to inhibit MAO-A activity. These data and the finding of a higher number of [3H]MPP+ binding sites in human placenta compared to mouse brain suggest that these sites may correspond to MAO-A enzymes. Recently it has been demonstrated in human brain that neurons in regions rich in catecholamines are positive for MAO-A. Accordingly, we suggest MAO-A as a possible accumulation site of MPP+ within the dopaminergic neuron. We also indicate the chemical structural requirement associated with the best binding of debrisoquin analogues with [3H]MPP+ sites. It would be reasonable to test the effects of debrisoquin-like drugs able to pass the blood-brain barrier on 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine toxicity.
Recent studies indicate that circulating peptides or plasma proteins, such as insulin or transferrin, or modified proteins, such as cationized albumin, undergo receptor-mediated or absorptive-mediated transport through the brain capillary wall, i.e., the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Although morphologic studies such as autoradiography or immunoperoxidase labeling can demonstrate transport of blood-borne protein into brain, there is a need for a rapid, sensitive, and quantifiable physiology-based technique for comparing the relative rates of transport of several different blood-borne peptides or proteins into brain. Therefore, the present investigations describe a carotid arterial infusion technique coupled with a capillary depletion method for quantifying transport of blood-borne cationized albumin, cationized IgG, and acetylated low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Because differentiation of true transcytosis into the postcapillary compartment of brain parenchyma from binding and/or endocytosis to the brain microvasculature is important, the present studies use a dextran density centrifugation step to deplete brain homogenate of the vasculature. In addition, 3H-labeled native albumin is used as a vascular space marker to account for release of capillary contents into the postcapillary supernatant following homogenization of brain. This study demonstrates rapid transport of cationized IgG or cationized albumin into brain, as these compounds achieve a volume of distribution of 20-30 microliters/g within 10 min of arterial perfusion. Conversely, acetylated LDL, although rapidly bound by cerebral microvasculature, is shown not to undergo transport into the post-capillary compartment of brain parenchyma. These studies provide the basis for a sensitive, quantifiable technique for studying transport of radiolabeled blood-borne peptides and proteins across the BBB of anesthetized animals.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) stimulates rat retinal adenylate cyclase activity in a concentration-dependent manner. The half-maximal effect is obtained at 50 nM CRF and the maximal stimulation corresponds to approximately 90% increase of basal enzyme activity. The CRF effect is counteracted by the CRF antagonist alpha-helical CRF 9-41 with a Ki value of 40 nM. Other CRF-like peptides such as sauvagine and urotensin I are as effective as CRF with a rank order of potency of urotensin I greater than or equal to sauvagine greater than CRF. The sauvagine and urotensin I effects are not additive with that elicited by CRF. Moreover, the CRF stimulation is not additive with the increase of enzyme activity produced by vasoactive intestinal peptide or dopamine. The CRF effect is independent of the concentration of free Ca2+, is optimal at 5-10 mM MgCl2, and requires GTP. The results indicate that rat retinal adenylate cyclase is modulated by CRF via a receptor-mediated mechanism.
The binding of [3H]3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid ([3H]CPP), a rigid analogue of 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) and reported to be a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, was studied in rat striatal membranes using a centrifugation procedure to separate bound and free radioligand. [3H]CPP bound with high affinity (KD = 272 nM) in a saturable, reversible, and protein concentration-dependent manner. Specific binding was suggested to involve a single class of noninteracting binding sites. The most potent [3H]CPP binding inhibitors tested were CPP, L-glutamate, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, and AP7. NMDA, L-aspartate, and alpha-aminoadipate were also shown to be efficient in inhibiting the binding, whereas quisqualate, D,L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate, kainate, L-glutamate diethylester, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid were found to be essentially inactive. These data are therefore consistent with the view that [3H]CPP selectively binds to NMDA receptors in the rat striatum. Lesions of intrastriatal neurons using local injections of kainic acid revealed a marked decrease in [3H]CPP binding, suggesting an almost exclusively postsynaptic location of binding sites in the striatum. Conversely, bilateral lesion of corticostriatal glutamatergic fibers resulted in an increased number of [3H]CPP striatal binding sites, providing evidence for a putative supersensitivity response to this striatal deafferentation. Interestingly, lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons using intranigral 6-hydroxydopamine injections resulted, 2-3 weeks later, in a similar increase in the number of [3H]CPP striatal binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have studied the effects of psychotropic drugs on patterns of protein synthesis in human lymphomononuclear cells by two-dimensional gel electrophoretic analysis. Drugs effective in treatment of schizophrenia specifically increased the relative synthesis of a 30-kDa polypeptide in cultured human lymphomononuclear cells whereas dopamine (DA) or psychoactive drugs lacking antipsychotic properties did not. The effect was stereospecific with respect to the clinically active and inactive isomers of flupenthixol. Synthesis of the 30-kDa polypeptide appears therefore to be correlated with antipsychotic properties but not with DA receptor binding. It is possible that such effects may be associated with the clinically beneficial effect of antipsychotic drugs in the brain.
Abstract Plasma levels of growth hormone in male rats exhibit an ultradian rhythm having a periodicity of 3 to 4 h, bursts of growth hormone being separated by troughs when growth hormone secretion ceases. To determine if neurons in the vicinity of somatostatin neurons in the preoptic/anterior hypothalamic area participate in the generation of the rhythm, we temporarily inhibited this region with injections of the gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist, muscimol, in unanaesthetized rats previously prepared with a venous catheter and stereotaxically implanted intracerebral guide tubes. The injection resulted in an immediate burst of growth hormone release, followed by a trough period and another growth hormone burst, 3.4 +/- 0.1 h later. The induction of a trough and synchronization of growth hormone bursts was not reproduced by a burst of intravenously injected exogenous growth hormone at least as large as the first burst initiated by muscimol. These findings indicate that, in the short term, the ultradian rhythm is independent of growth hormone feedback and provide the first evidence that structures in the anterior hypothalamus receiving a gamma-aminobutyric acid input are an important component of the neural generator of the ultradian rhythm of growth hormone.
Abstract In an attempt to localize the opioid receptor(s) (mu, delta and kappa) involved in opioid-stimulated prolactin release in the conscious male rat, opioid agonists were microinjected into the mediobasal hypothalamus and prolactin levels measured before and after injection. The specific mu agonist, DAGO ((D-Ala(2), NMe-Phe(4), Gly-ol(5))-enkephalin) was the most effective in eliciting prolactin release, the smallest effective dose being 0.01 nmoles. The specific delta agonist, DPDPE ((D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5))-enkephalin) had no significant effect even at the highest dose of 10 nmoles. The specific kappa agonist, U50,488H ((trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl)-benzene acetamide) was effective at the doses 1.0 and 10 nmoles. We conclude that mu and kappa opioid receptors in the mediobasal hypothalamus are involved in opioid-stimulated prolactin release and that delta receptors are not.
In vitro intracellular recordings of membrane potential obtained from the oxytocin and vasopressin neurons of the mammalian hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system in slices (1-3) and expiants (4, 5) have demonstrated many of the intrinsic properties of these magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs). Voltage-clamp techniques, which are required to study directly the currents underlying intrinsic or transmitter-evoked potential changes, have been applied to cultured embryonic (6) or neonatal supraoptic neurons (7-9) and have been successfully applied to adult supraoptic neurons in situ in only one laboratory (10, 11). We have modified a technique for dissociation of viable adult guineapig hippocampal neurons (12) to dissociate supraoptic MNCs from adult rats for voltage-clamp studies. MNCs were selectively labelled with a fluorescent dye in vivo so that they could be identified after dissociation and prior to making recordings. These data have been published in abstract form elsewhere (13, 14).
We analyzed the pattern and development of the earliest tracts and followed pathfinding by the growth cones of an identified cluster of neurons in the brain of zebrafish embryos. Neurons were labeled with an antibody which labels many embryonic neurons, a lipophilic axonal tracer dye, and intracellular dye injections. The embryonic brain is extremely simple, and at 28 hr of development, the forebrain and midbrain consist of 8 main axonal tracts which are arranged as a set of longitudinal tracts connected by commissures. Each tract is established by identified clusters of approximately 2-12 neurons found in discrete regions of the brain. Many identified clusters of neurons project axons in a defined direction appropriate for the cluster and have axons with stereotyped trajectories, suggesting that their growth cones follow cell-specific routes. This was confirmed with intracellular dye injections for neurons of the nucleus of the posterior commissure. The growth cones of these neurons arrive at a site in the anterior tegmentum where 4 tracts meet. At this site, they could, in principle, turn in a number of directions but always extend posteriorly into one of the tracts. The pattern of pathfinding by these growth cones suggests the testable hypothesis that the growth cones of identified clusters of neurons establish the simple set of early tracts by selecting cluster-specific pathways at such intersections in order to reach their targets in the brain.
Fluorescent staining of neuronal elements has become an important tool in neuroscience research; however, investigations have been limited by the toxic effects produced by most dyes, especially following excitation by strong epifluorescent illumination. The present study investigated effects produced by the methylpyridinium fluorescent dyes, 4-di-1-ASP and 4-di-2-ASP, on electrophysiologic responses from corneal A-delta and C fiber afferents. Rabbit corneal tissue was isolated and maintained in vitro to facilitate staining, visualization, and electrophysiologic recording of corneal nerves. Nerve fibers were selectively stained by the dyes and could be followed from their point of entry in small nerve bundles at the cornea-sclera border to individual free nerve ending terminals in the corneal epithelium. Neither the dyes nor epifluorescence, alone or in combination, produced any statistically significant changes (P greater than 0.1; t test) in spontaneous discharge activity, spike amplitude, spike dV/dt or stimulus evoked activity in A-delta and C fibers. Epifluorescent visualization of corneal afferents and simultaneous electrophysiologic recording will permit detailed investigations of sensory transduction processes and structure-function relationships in mammalian sensory nerves.
Participation in clinical drug trials is becoming a common expectation of many neuroscience nurses. Prior to assuming responsibilities associated with a research study, the roles, rights and responsibilities involved must be thoroughly understood. The effective neuroscience nurse brings to the research arena a thorough knowledge of the drug under study, outstanding skills as a clinician and a commitment to ensure the safety and comfort of the participant as the search is made for better and more effective drug regimens.
This study examined trends in neuroscience nursing research from 1960 to 1988. The review was an extension of a study analyzing trends in cardiovascular nursing from 1960 to 1985. Four questions (similar to those developed by Yarcheski regarding elements essential to development of a scientific base) framed the present analysis of neuroscience nursing research studies. The sampling frame for the study consisted of four journals: Nursing Research, 1960-1988; Western Journal of Nursing Research, 1979-1988; Research in Nursing and Health, 1978-1988; Journal of Neurosurgical Nursing, 1969-1985; and Journal of Neuroscience Nursing, 1986-1988. These journals were canvassed for studies meeting specified criteria as neuroscience nursing research studies. A total of 71 studies meeting the stated criteria were included in the final sample and reviewed in a systematic manner to identify such characteristics as variables measured, type of approach to theory development, type of research design, number and type of subjects, data analysis procedures, interpretation and conclusions of the study. Findings of the study indicate there has been a substantial increase in the number of neuroscience studies conducted and reported by nurses and an increase in the number of principal authors with advanced degrees. The orientation of studies has shifted from chronic care or rehabilitation to acute care research. An absence of studies about prevention of head and spinal cord injury was noted. Although a trend toward the theory-then-research approach was detected, the research-then-theory approach has been and continues to be the primary strategy for the development of a body of scientific knowledge. It is possible that clinical nurses are using research more frequently to solve problems. Finally, the scientific methods employed in this group of studies have become more complex and varied over time.

The distribution of radioactivity within brain metabolic compartments was examined following the intravenous injection of [9,10-3H]palmitate into awake rats. Brain radioactivity reached a maximum value by 15 min after [9,10-3H]palmitate injection and remained unchanged for at least 4 hr. Regional differences in radioactivity could be determined with high resolution by quantitative autoradiography, at the level of cell layers within the hippocampus and cerebral cortex, and between striosomes of the caudate nucleus. Regional brain radioactivities were converted to normalized regional radioactivities (k) by dividing them by the integrated plasma fatty acid radioactivity (integrated over the time course of the experiment). These values reflected incorporation mainly into brain phospholipids; radioactivity due to nonlipid components was minimal. Indeed, about 85% of brain radioactivity was within lipids between 5 min and 4 hr postinjection, the remainder being equally divided between protein-associated pellet and aqueous-soluble metabolites. The major lipids labeled were phospholipids, particularly phosphatidylcholine, which contained about 75% of phospholipid radioactivity. The results show that [9,10-3H]palmitate can be used to examine incorporation of plasma palmitate into individual brain regions via quantitative autoradiography. Furthermore, the tracer is a rather selective marker for phosphatidylcholine and can be used to examine turnover and synthesis of this phospholipid. [9,10-3H]palmitate has advantages over [U-14C]palmitate for autoradiographic studies of incorporation; following the 14C-tracer, significant label even at 4 hr after injection is in nonlipid compartments (glutamate and aspartate), and the long path length of 14C limits resolution at the cell layer level.


The transcriptional regulation of the chicken myosin alkali light-chain (MLC) L23 gene was analyzed. Two different types of cis-regulatory regions were identified: one was a silencerlike region located between 3.7 and 2.7 kilobases upstream of the mRNA initiation site, and the other was essential for the expression of L23 in skeletal muscle cells and was located between 106 and 91 base pairs upstream of the cap site. This 16-base-pair cis-acting element was designated as the MLC box since it is well conserved in various muscle-specific MLC promoter regions. The activity of the MLC box showed tissue specificity. To analyze the relationship between the nucleotide sequence and the activity of the MLC box precisely, mutation analysis was performed. The 16-base-pair sequence was indispensable for the active transcription of L23 gene, and the MLC box could function in either orientation. The inverted sequence of the MLC box was similar to the sequence of the alpha-actin CArG box. By using a gel mobility retardation assay, the nuclear protein(s) that binds to both MLC box and CArG box was detected with nuclear extract prepared from chicken embryonic breast muscle. These observations imply that a common factor regulates the coordinate expression of these contractile proteins in muscle differentiation.
Dermorphin structural analogues were utilized to determine the nature of opioid receptor subsite specificity, affinity, and selectivity in rat brain membranes. The data suggest that these parameters are influenced by the amino acid composition and sequence and the known solution conformation of dermorphin, in addition to the conformation of the membrane receptor. Two hydrophobic components of dermorphin are required for optimal binding. One component encompasses the stacked phenol groups in Tyr1 and Tyr5; the second involves the phenyl group of Phe3. Evidence to support this proposal includes the following results: (a) removal of aromaticity, as occurs in [des-Tyr5]- and [Gly5]dermorphin, drastically reduced binding to both mu and delta sites; (b) inversion of the Phe3-Gly4 sequence in dermorphin to the Gly3-Phe4 in enkephalin enhanced binding to delta receptor sites, yet the peptide remained mu-selective; (c) substitution of Pro4 for Gly4 disrupted the solution conformation of dermorphin and decreased affinities at both receptor subsites, substantiating the requirement for the Phe3-Gly4-Tyr5 sequence in dermorphin to interact with mu sites; and (d) modification of the serine residue, as occurs in [Ser(Bzl7)] dermorphin and [Ser-NHNHZ7]dermorphin, enhanced interaction with delta opioid receptors; the apparent delta affinity increased over 50-fold with [Ser(Bzl7)]dermorphin, although it retained a weak mu-selectivity. However, both [Ser(Bzl7)]- and [Ser-NHNHZ7]dermorphin exhibited high affinity for mu receptor sites. Furthermore, the D-configuration about the alpha-carbon of residue 2 and the alpha-amine function and hydroxyl group on Tyr1 are essential for receptor binding. We conclude that mu-opioid receptors contain distinct regions that accomodate the stacked phenol groups of Tyr1 and Tyr5 residues and the phenyl group of Phe3.

We induced and characterized a recessive lethal mutation, nic-1, in zebrafish that blocks the function of muscle acetylcholine (ACh) receptors. Homozygous nic-1 embryos are nonmotile and fail to respond to exogenous application of cholinergic agonists, although their muscles contract in response to direct electrical stimulation. Moreover, we do not detect cell surface labeling by alpha-bungarotoxin or monoclonal antibodies that recognize the other three subunits of ACh receptors. Motoneurons, however, establish morphologically normal patterns of innervation and normal neuromuscular junctions. We suggest that neither transmitter-mediated nerve signaling nor any other aspect of ACh receptor function is required for the formation of appropriate nerve connections in this system.
We previously used a retroviral vector to mark clones in the postnatal rodent retina and showed that at least two types of neurons and Mller glia can arise from a common progenitor. Here we describe the use of exo utero surgery to introduce a marker retrovirus into the proliferative zone of the retinas of embryonic day 13 and 14 mice. Analysis of marked clones in the resulting adult retinas shows that almost all progenitor cells that continued mitosis were multipotential and that a single progenitor can generate most retinal cell types. The size of marked clones indicates that retinal cells do not employ a stem cell mode of division, but instead, both daughter cells of a progenitor can continue to divide. These results suggest that cell type determination in the rodent retina is independent of lineage. We propose a model for the generation of retinal cell types in which the cessation of mitosis and cell type determination are independent events, controlled by environmental interactions.
When serotonergic Retzius (R) neurons of the leech contact pressure-sensitive (P) neurons in culture, P cells selectively lose a protein kinase C-dependent cationic response to serotonin and the R cell reforms the inhibitory, chloride-dependent synapse seen in vivo. In P cells not contacted by R cells, cell-attached patches contained single cation channels sensitive to serotonin and phorbol ester with characteristic properties and high incidence (present in about one-half of the patches). P cells paired with R cells had a cation channel with similar biophysical properties and incidence, but channel activity was not stimulated by serotonin and phorbol ester. These results suggest that the early clearing of the non-synaptic (excitatory) response to serotonin is due to the loss of activation by protein kinase C (and not the number) of cation channels as a prelude to inhibitory synapse formation.
Caffeine was chronically administered in four doses (0, 10, 25, and 50 mg/kg/day) to rats via twice-daily intraperitoneal injections for 30 days. Concentrations of brain tissue monoamines, dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and serotonin (5HT), and monoamine metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA), were determined. At the 10 mg/kg/day dose, no significant changes were found compared with controls. At 25 mg/kg/day and 50 mg/kg/day significant changes were observed within each monoamine system. In striatum, DA and 5HT were increased, while DOPAC was decreased. In frontal cortex, NE was increased. In cerebellum, 5HT and MHPG were increased.
To investigate how motor programs can be modified by sensory inputs we recorded kinematic and EMG patterns from normal human subjects performing well-practised wrist flexion movements in response to an auditory tone. On random trials unexpected wrist perturbations were introduced at varying times after the signal to move had been given. Extension perturbations delivered before agonist EMG onset resulted in an increased maximum velocity (MV) during the wrist flexion movement and in an increased target overshoot even though the wrist was further from the target than expected by the subject at the onset of the movement. The first agonist EMG burst and the antagonist burst were both increased in magnitude in these perturbed trials. Flexion perturbations delivered before the agonist EMG onset moved the hand nearer to the target just prior to movement onset. These resulted in a reduced MV, but the expected increased target overshoot did not occur. The first agonist burst was reduced in magnitude, and the antagonist burst was increased in magnitude. Perturbations delivered after agonist EMG onset produced less change in the first agonist and antagonist EMG burst, and less compensation for the perturbation was evident in wrist position and velocity recordings. These results indicate that, at least in some situations, motor programs for rapid voluntary movements can be modified by afferent inputs. This interaction between central motor commands and sensory feedback might occur at the cortical or spinal level, depending on when perturbations occur relative to onset of EMG and movement. The timing of the EMG changes suggest that both reflex mechanisms and longer latency 'voluntary' adjustments contribute to the compensatory changes in movement trajectory.
In 1980 the American Psychiatric Association published the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistics Manual (DSM-III). The DSM-III introduced post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as a new diagnostic category in psychiatry. This provided firstly a framework for studying the consequences of extremely stressful life events, and secondly it has stimulated a substantial number of research publications in this area. The purpose of this paper is to review the literature on PTSD and to report nine cases seen in Papua New Guinea over a period of nine months.
Hans Kuypers, who died in September 1989, was one of the founding fathers of neuroscience. Kuypers studied medicine in Leiden, The Netherlands and trained as a neuroanatomist with Nauta. His early work at Maryland and at Cleveland led to a wealth of new discoveries about descending motor pathways. Subsequently at Rotterdam, where he was foundation professor, and at Cambridge, England he searched for new brain probes, including retrograde fluorescent tracers and viruses for labelling chains of interconnected neurons. He saw the need to relate new neuroanatomical findings to brain function: in particular, how the brain steers hand and arm movements. He will be greatly missed by a long and distinguished list of collaborators on every continent.
The Alz-50 immunoreactive proteins, designated A68, are detected by electrophoretic blot analysis of 100,000 x g pellet fractions of brain tissue from individuals with Alzheimer disease (AD). In exploring the biochemical nature of these proteins, we have found that a preincubation of such fractions with 5 mM ATP results in loss of Alz-50 immunoreactivity on immunoblots. The loss of antigenicity is complete after a 1-hr incubation at 37 degrees C and is stringently dependent on ATP. Hydrolysis of ATP is required, since the inhibition is not supported by the nonhydrolyzable analog adenosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (ATP[gamma S]) and is prevented when the ATPase inhibitors o-vanadate and oligomycin are present. Upon further characterization, it was found that certain protease inhibitors, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, antipain, tosylphenylalanine chloromethyl ketone, and aprotonin prevent the loss of the epitope. This suggests that hydrolysis of ATP is coupled with proteolysis of A68, leading to loss of Alz-50 immunoreactivity. Since a variety of proteins are believed to be degraded by an ATP/ubiquitin-dependent pathway, a possible role for ubiquitin (Ub) in this effect was investigated. Two polyclonal antibodies against Ub protected A68 from proteolysis and were also effective in immunoprecipitating A68 after incubation with ATP in the presence of Ub and phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride. The proteolysis of A68 was also blocked by hemin, an inhibitor of the protease that cleaves Ub-protein conjugates. Taken together, these findings indicate that loss of Alz-50 immunoreactivity with A68 is due to ATP-dependent/Ub-mediated proteolysis. This mechanism may be relevant to the physiological role for A68 in AD or it may simply represent an attempt to abort an aberrant protein.
The amyloid beta peptide (A beta P) is a small fragment of the much larger, broadly distributed amyloid precursor protein (APP). Abundant A beta P deposition in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease suggests that altered APP processing may represent a key pathogenic event. Direct protein structural analyses showed that constitutive processing in human embryonic kidney 293 cells cleaves APP in the interior of the A beta P, thus preventing A beta P deposition. A deficiency of this processing event may ultimately prove to be the etiological event in Alzheimer's disease that gives rise to senile plaque formation.
As data accumulate, the mammalian brain reveals its complex and subtle synaptic mechanisms. In the simplest system, a neurotransmitter binds to the receptor portion of a molecular complex incorporating an ion channel and thus alters the membrane potential, leading to excitatory or inhibitory effects. In more complex systems, receptors are coupled to second messenger systems to generate signals of longer duration and to modulate more diverse molecular mechanisms. The cerebellar cortex has a relatively simple wiring diagram with the primary neurotransmitter of most inhibitory and excitatory synapses well established. The second messenger signalling systems are more complex and those of the cerebellar output, the Purkinje cells, are the best characterized. More recently, molecules that might act as neuromodulators, carrying messages between neurons and between neurons and glial cells, have been identified, such as endothelin and nitric oxide. The classic neurotransmitters and novel neuromodulators, together with second messenger-activated trophic factors, can interact in complex ways; in this review Christopher Ross, David Bredt and Solomon Snyder discuss how studies of cerebellar circuitry and biochemistry are revealing such interrelations.
The distribution of ganglion cells in the retina of the silver lamprey, Ichthyomyzon unicuspis, was revealed by retrograde labeling from the optic nerve with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and fluorescent-labeled dextrans in live animals and with the fluorescent dye DiI in aldehyde-fixed tissue. The majority of ganglion cells (74%) termed the &quot;outer ganglion cells,&quot; are multipolar and are located at the vitread boundary of the inner nuclear layer. The remaining ganglion cells (26%), termed the &quot;inner ganglion cells&quot; are bipolar and are distributed in a sublamina within the inner plexiform layer. The dense, dendritic meshwork of the outer ganglion cells is largely restricted to the sclerad half of the inner plexiform layer with some cells possessing dendrites which pass through the inner nuclear layer to terminate within the outer plexiform layer. The dendrites of the inner ganglion cells form a thin, dendritic network apposing the inner limiting membrane. Axons from both populations of ganglion cells originate from dendrites or the soma and form fascicles lying adjacent to the outer ganglion cell somata. Retinopetal fibers, originating from bilaterally distributed neurons of the tegmental midbrain, were thin and varicose and ran parallel to the ganglion cell axons to terminate either with a varicose enlargement or a few short sidebranches in the sclerad third of the inner plexiform layer. The unusual organization of the lamprey retina and outgroup comparison with hagfish suggests that agnathans share a presumably primitive type of retinal ganglion cell organization compared to that of gnathostomes.
Effect of electroconvulsive shock (ECS) on central serotonin (5-HT) receptor function was studied in order to elucidate its antidepressive mechanism. Repeated ECS treatment, but not imipramine treatment, increased the density of [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetraline ( [3H]8-OH-DPAT) binding in hippocampus, and enhanced 5-HT metabolism in all regions except hippocampus. Parachloroamphetamine (PCA), a neurotoxin of 5-HT neuron, did not affect the up-regulation of [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding (5-HT1A receptor) induced by ECS. These results suggest that presynaptic 5-HT terminal does not modulate the up-regulation of 5-HT1A receptor induced by ECS. In addition, 5-HT1A-receptor-mediated behavior (forepaw treading) was enhanced by repeated ECS treatment, but unchanged by imipramine treatment. The effect of ECS on 5-HT1A function is not parallel with that of imipramine, thus it is difficult to explain 5-HT1A receptor mainly contributes to the antidepressive effect of ECS. The above results suggested that the up-regulation of 5-HT1A receptor induced by repeated ECS treatment did not directly relate to presynaptic 5-HT function and other receptors might modify the effects of ECS.
An antiserum raised against the N-terminal actin-binding portion of dystrophin cross-reacted with a 130-kDa protein in fast skeletal muscle. The results of purification and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and its immunological properties demonstrated that this protein is identical to a 130-kDa basic isoform of fast-C-protein. These results suggest that the actin-binding domain of dystrophin shares one or more antigenic determinants with those of C-protein.
Behavioral and neuroanatomical evidence in rats suggests that substance P may mediate hormonally induced sexual receptivity. To determine if progestin receptor-containing neurons in the guinea pig hypothalamus also contained substance P, we used a double antibody, immunocytochemical technique. Ovariectomized, adult guinea pigs were estradiol-primed for one week. Two days prior to perfusion, colchicine was infused into the lateral ventricle. Substance P-immunoreactive neurons and progestin receptor-immunoreactive neurons were found throughout the hypothalamus and caudal preoptic area. However, substance P and progestin receptor immunoreactivity occurred in the same neurons almost exclusively in the ventrolateral area of the hypothalamus, an important site in the hormonal regulation of female sexual behavior in guinea pigs. Within this area, approximately 35% of the progestin receptor-immunoreactive neurons also contained substance P immunoreactivity. These neuroanatomical data are consistent with the hypothesis that substance P may mediate some of the neural actions of progesterone.
The effects of various manipulations of brain 5-HT mechanisms on the behavioural responses induced by the selective NK-3 tachykinin agonist senktide in rodents were assessed. Senktide elicited wet dog shakes in the rat which were attenuated by the 5-HT1C/2 antagonist mianserin and the selective 5-HT2 antagonist altanserin. Senktide-induced forepaw treading was stereospecifically attenuated by the 5-HT1A + B antagonist (-)-alprenolol. Senktide also elicited chewing mouth movements and yawning, which were unaffected by mianserin, altanserin, (+)- or (-)-alprenolol, or the selective 5-HT3 antagonist ICS 205-930, but attenuated by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. Penile grooming elicited by senktide was attenuated by mianserin, but was unaffected by the other antagonists. Senktide-induced wet dog shakes were enhanced by the 5-HT reuptake inhibitors citalopram and fluoxetine, suppressed by the monoamine oxidase (MAO)-B inhibitor pargyline, but unaffected by the MAO-A inhibitor clorgyline. Forepaw treading was potentiated by citalopram and clorgyline, but not significantly altered by fluoxetine or pargyline. Depletion of 5-HT by p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) in the rat attenuated senktide-induced wet dog shakes and forepaw treading. Neither PCPA nor 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine affected senktide-induced behaviours in the mouse, but the degree of brain 5-HT depletion caused by these treatments in mice was relatively small. These findings indicate that stimulation of NK-3 tachykinin receptors by senktide results in a complex behavioural syndrome which is mediated by multiple 5-HT receptors, and dependent upon intact stores of endogenous 5-HT. Independent stimulation of brain cholinergic mechanisms by senktide is also confirmed.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) can be readily elicited in a number of hippocampal pathways, but has not been seen in the dentate commissural pathway. The dentate commissural pathway is similar to the commissural/Schaffer collateral projection to CA1 except that it produces powerful inhibition that occurs nearly concurrently with the excitation. The present study evaluates whether this inhibition prevents the pathway from expressing LTP. Acute neurophysiological experiments were carried out in urethane anesthetized rats. To locally block inhibition in the dentate gyrus, a recording micropipette filled with 8 mM bicuculline was positioned in the dentate gyrus. A control saline-filled micropipette was positioned nearby. The commissural pathway was activated by stimulating electrodes in the contralateral CA3/CA4 region. Brief high-frequency stimulation of the commissural pathway reliably elicited LTP at the bicuculline electrode but not at the control electrode. This LTP required a threshold level of stimulation for its initiation, suggesting that like most other examples of LTP, the LTP in the commissural system depended upon activation of a voltage-dependent receptor. The high-frequency stimuli used to induce LTP produced an extracellular negativity at the bicuculline electrode that was not present at the control electrode. This negative potential was selectively blocked by ketamine and MK801, suggesting that the negative potential reflects N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. Taken together, these results suggest that LTP is not normally expressed by the dentate commissural pathway because the simultaneous inhibition prevents the depolarization-related relief of Mg2+ blockade of the NMDA receptor.
A quantitative autoradiographic assay for a novel L-[3H]glutamate binding site in rodent brain has been developed. Binding to this site was distinguished by its high affinity for quisqualate (QA), ibotenate, glutamate and trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD), but low affinity for [RS]-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). 'AMPA-insensitive, QA-sensitive [3H]glutamate binding' (AiQsGB) had a heterogeneous distribution in rat brain with high levels observed in molecular layer of cerebellum, striatum, and lateral septum. AiQsGB was reduced in molecular layer of cerebellum in mice lacking Purkinje cells. AiQsGB appears to represent binding to the 'metabotropic' neuronal excitatory amino acid receptor linked to phosphoinositide metabolism.
The effect of acetylcholine (ACh) on intracellular responses to ionophoretic application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was examined in rat hippocampal slice. Recordings were obtained from CA1 neurons under current- and voltage-clamp conditions. Drugs were applied topically by ionophoretic and microdrop techniques. ACh produced an atropine-sensitive potentiation of responses to NMDA. The effect of ACh on NMDA receptor-mediated responses was independent of changes in voltage or potassium conductances caused by ACh. ACh also potentiated responses to L-glutamate but not to kainate or quisqualate. This effect was blocked by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (2-APV), an NMDA receptor antagonist. We conclude that ACh, acting on muscarinic receptors, potentiates selectively, the NMDA subclass of L-glutamate receptor.
Two general categories of GABA-immunoreactive (GABA-Ir) boutons are present in the monkey basilar pontine nuclei (BPN). One type characterized by a pale or lucent appearance is involved both in glomerular arrangements that include serial, triadic synapses, and in non-glomerular synapses. The second type of GABA-Ir bouton exhibits a wide variety in size and shape and contains a greater complement of synaptic vesicles than the first type, giving it a darker appearance in comparison to the pale GABA-Ir boutons. Such boutons participate only in non-glomerular synapses. It is suggested that the pale GABA-Ir boutons arise from the intrinsic population of GABA neurons, while the darker appearing boutons might take origin from one of the GABA-ergic afferent systems that reach the BPN.
We investigated the laminar profile of visually evoked paroxysmal discharge following bicuculline administration in area 17 of the alert macaque. Paroxysmal discharge was focussed in lamina 3, with lesser concomitants in infragranular laminae. There were no marked effects on the flash-evoked laminar activation sequence. The neocortex of the alert macaque studied with the present techniques may provide a model for evaluating basic mechanisms of epilepsy, and for linking these to the macroscopic phenomena seen in humans.
Membrane fluidity and lipid peroxidation in 4 brain areas from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and matched controls were determined by measuring fluorescence anisotropy of the lipophilic probe 1,6-diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene (DPH) and by the thiobarbituric acid test respectively. Fluorescence anisotropy of DPH was not changed in any of the 4 areas in AD compared to controls. Basal levels of malondialdehyde (MDA; an intermediate in the lipid peroxidation process) were also not changed in different brain regions of AD and controls. However, stimulated MDA production determined by incubating tissue with FeSO4 plus H2O2 produced significantly higher MDA levels in AD brain than in controls.
An acute intraperitoneal injection of phencyclidine (PCP) caused a tetrodotoxin-reversible increase in extracellular release of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the dialysates from the medial frontal cortex of the rat. Moreover, there was an increase in the tissue content of DOPAC and HVA with acceleration of dopamine (DA), but not noradrenaline, utilization in the cortical area after systemic administration of PCP. These results suggest that PCP facilitates DA metabolism in the medial frontal cortex by increasing impulse flow in the DA neurons projecting to the prefrontal region.
We considered the drug-induced circling behaviour of rats monolaterally lesioned with kainic acid (KA) as a marker of the dopamine (DA) concentration in the synaptic space. D-Amphetamine produced a dose-related increase in the DA concentration of the dialysate from an intact striatum and a proportional number of ipsilateral circlings. Pargyline or L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa), alone or in combination with benserazide, increased the concentration of DA to a similar or even higher level than d-amphetamine, but failed to elicit a circling response. Apomorphine given after these drugs at the peak of DA accumulation always induced circling behaviour. The results suggest that released DA may undergo different inactivation processes before reaching the dialysis probe, and that these processes may be differentially affected by drug treatments. Alternatively, it may be suggested that DA can be released into the synaptic space, in a functional manner, or into the interstitial fluid, from where it cannot reach the synaptic receptors.
This report aimed to evaluate the mental health knowledge of primary care medical officers following short-term training in mental health care using a multiple-choice questionnaire. Seventy-eight medical officers who underwent 2 weeks' training in mental health care were assessed using parallel forms of a standardized multiple-choice questionnaire administered before and soon after the training. Young doctors scored significantly higher in the pretraining assessment. The medical officers demonstrated a significant gain in knowledge, although the amount of gain varied. Doctors who had relatively lower pretraining scores showed a higher gain. Six doctors (8%) showed less than acceptable posttraining scores. These doctors were older than the rest of the group. The doctors' pretraining knowledge was best with respect to epilepsy and poorest with respect to manic-depressive psychosis. Items pertaining to epidemiology and aetiology elicited relatively less gain than other clinical dimensions.
Sodium pentosan polysulfate (PPS), a negatively charged polymer of beta-D-xylopyranose units, was evaluated for its anti-HIV effects in normal human peripheral mononuclear cells (PMNC) and its possible synergism with AZT. In the presence of 25 nM AZT, 2.0 micrograms/ml of PPS reduced HIV-1 replication 110-fold, compared with a 3.9- and 7-fold decrease in the presence of either drug individually. Surprisingly, at low (below 1 microgram/ml) concentrations of either PPS or dextran sulfate, an enhancement of virus production was observed. PPS was nontoxic, had a proliferative effect on uninfected and a protective effect on infected PMNC. Virus enhancement at low concentrations of PPS appeared to be linked to its lymphoproliferative effect. These findings suggest that the use of PPS and others such agents as monotherapy for AIDS might have deleterious effects. However, due to its marked synergism with AZT and its lymphoproliferative activities, PPS might prove to be a useful agent in therapeutic trials of AIDS if used in combination with less than the usual dosage of AZT.
Antisera raised against neuron specific enolase (NSE), substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were used to reveal nerve fibres in the wall of the canine small and large intestine. The circular muscle of the colon was innervated by nerve fibre bundles that ran parallel to the muscle throughout its thickness. A plexus of fibre bundles was found against the inner (submucosal) surface of the circular muscle. Fibres with substance P, VIP and TH immunoreactivity all contributed to this innervation. The circular muscle of the small intestine was distinctly separated into outer and inner layers by a dense plexus of nerve fibres, the deep muscular plexus. The outer and inner circular muscle were innervated by substance P, VIP and TH fibres. Extrinsic denervation through the severing of nerve fibres in the mesentery caused TH fibres in the intestine to degenerate, but had no detectable effect on the fibres with substance P or VIP immunoreactivity. Myectomy (the removal of the myenteric plexus from the full circumference of the intestine over a distance of 2-3 cm), performed 7-13 days before tissue was taken, resulted in an almost complete loss of substance P fibres from the circular muscle of the colon and the outer circular muscle of the small intestine. However, many fibres persisted in the deep muscular plexus of the small intestine, and most fibres remained in its inner circular muscle. The changes in distribution of VIP fibres were almost identical, except that a small proportion of reactive fibres remained in the circular muscle of the colon and the outer circular muscle of the small intestine. It is concluded that the circular muscle layers of the small intestine and colon have dual sources of intrinsic nerve supply: the myenteric ganglia supply fibres primarily to the outer part of the muscle and the submucous ganglia supply fibres to the inner muscle. The present study further demonstrated that VIP fibres ran anally in the myenteric plexus of both the small and large intestine, whereas substance P fibres ran orally in the large intestine and both orally and anally in the small intestine. The innervation of the muscularis mucosae and mucosa by substance P and VIP fibres was not affected by myectomy or extrinsic denervation, and these structures are therefore likely to be innervated by nerve cells in the submucous ganglia.
Patients with left-sided visual neglect fail to copy the left part of drawings or the drawings on the left side of a sheet of paper. Our aim was to study the variations in copying drawings induced by passive stimulation in patients with left-sided visual neglect. No stimulation at all, tactile unilateral and bilateral, binaural auditory verbal, and nonverbal stimuli were randomly applied to 14 patients with right-hemisphere strokes. Only nonverbal stimuli decreased the neglect. As nonverbal stimuli mainly activate the right hemisphere, the decrease in neglect suggests right-hemispheric hypoactivity at rest in these patients. The absence of modification of neglect during verbal stimulation suggests a bilateral hemispheric activation and the persistence of interhemispheric imbalance. Our results showed that auditory pathways take part in the network involved with neglect. Passive nonverbal auditory stimuli may be of interest in the rehabilitation of patients with left visual neglect.
Performance on tasks evaluating &quot;executive and attentional&quot; processes presumably subserved by prefrontal cortex were compared in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy and with age- and education-matched control subjects. The results indicated that patients with progressive supranuclear palsy were particularly impaired when a task required sequential movements, conceptual shifting, monitoring the frequency with which stimuli are presented, or rapid retrieval of verbal knowledge. These deficits could not simply be accounted for by slowed information processing or by a deficit in representational knowledge. Conceivably, &quot;weak activation&quot; of frontal lobe representational knowledge characterized by an observed attentional deficit results in the neuropsychological impairments noted in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy. The oral administration of physostigmine, under double-blind placebo-controlled conditions, did not facilitate executive or attentional performance as evaluated by our tasks.
1. The inotropic and chronotropic sensitivity to noradrenaline and isoprenaline (Iso) of foetal and neonatal rat heart decreases as the heart becomes sympathetically innervated. In the present study, we have examined adenylate cyclase (AC) activation and beta-adrenoceptor binding to determine whether a developmental decrease in sensitivity was demonstrable in the beta-receptor-AC system of atrial and ventricular membranes from the 15 day foetus and 1 day and 7 day neonates. 2. While the maximum activation of AC by Iso increased with age, the sensitivity expressed in terms of pD2 values decreased from the 15th foetal day to the first day after birth in the atria, and from the first day to the 7th day after birth in the ventricle. 3. In contrast, activation of AC by forskolin was almost identical at all ages both in atria and ventricle. 4. The maximum equilibrium binding of [3H]-dihydroalprenolol decreased with age, the dissociation constant being about the same at all ages in both the atria and ventricle. 5. In conclusion, we have demonstrated a developmental decrease in the sensitivity of AC to Iso in myocardial membrane fractions consistent with the developmental decrease in chronotropic and inotropic sensitivity to beta-adrenoceptor agonists. Although a reduction in beta-adrenoceptor number partly accounts for the decrease in sensitivity, some other factors such as decreased coupling to AC may largely be responsible.
It has been questioned whether Asperger's syndrome (AS) is in fact a specific (high functioning) subgroup of autism, rather than a distinct entity. Thirteen AS patients were compared with 13 autistic patients and 13 developmentally disordered controls. While there was symptom overlap between AS and autism, patients could be separated into one or other group. However, current criteria are based on symptoms, and it is argued that studies of genetics and treatment response are needed to elucidate the relationship between these developmental disorders.
A monoclonal antibody, OK-2, against membrane proteins coded by a gene on chromosome 21 was obtained using hamster/human hybrid cells as an antigen, and used for a developmental study on the brains of Down's syndrome (DS) cases. The membrane proteins recognized by OK-2 were expressed earlier in neurons and vessels of DS brains than in normal brains, the difference being more marked in the temporal lobe than in the frontal lobe. This over-expression of the membrane proteins in DS brains, especially in the temporal lobe, may be related to the pathogenesis of or predisposition to Alzheimer type dementia in elderly DS cases.
The actions of serotonin (5-HT) and its putative agonists and antagonists were examined in vitro on hippocampal CA1 neurons using intracellular recordings, demonstrating that the cellular pharmacological effects can not necessarily be predicted from binding characteristics alone. The first response following 5-HT application was often a long-lasting (several minutes) hyperpolarization associated with decreased input resistance. Subsequent 5-HT applications caused only brief hyperpolarizations (30-120 s) and associated decreased input resistance, often followed by membrane depolarization. The post-spike train afterhyperpolarization (AHP) was prolonged for several minutes following the 5-HT induced hyperpolarization. 5-HT1 agonists (8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, 5-methoxytryptamine, MK-212) caused a prolonged hyperpolarization, decreased input resistance, and enhancement of the AHP. 5-HT applied following agonist application elicited only short-lasting hyperpolarizations. The 5-HT2 antagonists, cyproheptadine and mianserin, and a nonspecific 5-HT antagonist, methysergide, also caused a prolonged hyperpolarization with decreased input resistance. Spiperone, a nonspecific 5-HT antagonist, and ritanserin, a putative specific 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, depolarized CA1 neurons with little or no change in input resistance. The 5-HT-induced short-lasting hyperpolarization was not affected by drop application of 5-HT antagonists, except for methysergide, but perfusion of methysergide, ritanserin, and spiperone attenuated this response. The long-lasting 5-HT hyperpolarization might be mediated by 5-HT1A receptor activation, and the short-lasting hyperpolarization by another serotonergic receptor subtype.
Within the past two decades brain imaging techniques have given the clinician access to new anatomical and functional findings for dealing with affective disorder in the older age group. Despite the proliferation of such technology, the significance of findings on computerized axial tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) remains unclear in this patient group. The literature covering old age depression and imaging techniques is reviewed, and problems related to methodology, sample selection, and implications for the direction of future research are discussed. Current evidence particularly suggests that subcortical atrophy may be an important factor in the genesis of affective disorder in old age. The question of cognitive decline in the setting of affective disorder is examined. The use of brain imaging techniques may have particular bearing upon identification of etiology of affective disorder, prediction of treatment response, or risk of relapse.
The distribution of nerve cells with immunoreactivity for the calcium-binding protein, calbindin, has been studied in the small intestine of the guinea-pig, and the projections of these neurons have been analysed by tracing their processes and by examining the consequences of nerve lesions. The immunoreactive neurons were numerous in the myenteric ganglia; there were 3500 +/- 100 reactive nerve cells per cm2 of undistended intestine, which is 30% of all nerve cells. In contrast, reactive nerve cells were extremely rare in submucous ganglia. The myenteric nerve cells were oval in outline and gave rise to several long processes; this morphology corresponds to Dogiel's type-II classification. Processes from the cell bodies were traced through the circular muscle in perforating nerve fibre bundles. Other processes ran circumferentially in the myenteric plexus. Removal of the myenteric plexus, allowing time for subsequent fibre degeneration, showed that reactive nerve fibres in the submucous ganglia and mucosa came from the myenteric cell bodies. Operations to sever longitudinal or circumferential pathways in the myenteric plexus indicated that most reactive nerve terminals in myenteric ganglia arise from myenteric cell bodies whose processes run circumferentially for 1.5 mm, on average. It is deduced that the calbindin-reactive neurons are multipolar sensory neurons, with the sensitive processes in the mucosa and with other processes innervating neurons of the myenteric plexus.
This study demonstrates an approach to the problem of minimizing false-negative and false-positive laboratory findings. In this approach, we consider the fact that results of laboratory tests are correlated, utilize within-person test results to interpret current results, and minimize the impact of multivariate conservatism by examining test results in small groups. The procedure requires panels of tests to be divided into related subpanels, testing each subpanel independently, and using the Bonferroni inequality to determine whether any of the observed values for a given subpanel is &quot;out-of-range.&quot; The procedure is demonstrated, and its limitations are observed and discussed.

Environmental cues play an important role in determining the transmitter phenotype of developing sympathetic neurons. Several factors have been described which can induce cholinergic function in cultured sympathetic neurons. We have compared certain biological and immunological properties of three of them, cholinergic differentiation factor (CDF), membrane-associated neurotransmitter-stimulating factor (MANS), and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), to determine whether they are different. As previously reported, all three increased acetylcholine synthesis in cultured sympathetic neurons. In addition, MANS as well as CNTF and CDF decreased catecholamine synthesis. CNTF and MANS, but not CDF, promoted the survival of embryonic chick ciliary neurons. Affinity-purified antibodies raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the N-terminal sequence of CDF immunoprecipitated CDF, but not MANS or CNTF. These results indicate that although CDF, MANS, and CNTF have similar effects on transmitter synthesis by cultured sympathetic neurons, CDF lacks the ciliary neurotrophic activity of MANS and CNTF. Further, CDF possesses an N-terminal epitope which is absent from both MANS and CNTF. Thus, CDF is distinct from MANS and CNTF, and at least two factors exist which can alter the transmitter phenotype of sympathetic neurons in vitro.
The neural crest-derived precursors of the sympathoadrenal lineage depend on environmental cues to differentiate as sympathetic neurons and pheochromocytes. We have used the monoclonal antibody A2B5 as a marker for neuronal differentiation and antisera against catecholamine synthesis enzymes to investigate the differentiation of catecholaminergic cells in cultures of quail neural crest cells. Cells corresponding phenotypically to sympathetic neurons and pheochromocytes can be identified in neural crest cell cultures after 5-6 days in vitro. Expression of the A2B5 antigen precedes expression of immunocytochemically detectable levels of tyrosine hydroxylase in cultured neural crest cells. Glucocorticoid treatment decreases the proportion of TH+ neural crest cells that express neuronal traits. We conclude that environmental cues normally encountered by sympathoadrenal precursors in vivo can influence the differentiation of a subpopulation of cultured neural crest cells in the sympathoadrenal lineage.
Cells of the sympathoadrenal lineage, including sympathetic neurons, adrenal chromaffin cells (pheochromocytes), and small intensely fluorescent (SIF) cells, arise from the neural crest. We have used antisera against catecholamine biosynthesis enzymes in conjunction with the monoclonal antibody A2B5 and an antiserum against the 160-kDa neurofilament (NF) protein, as markers of neuronal differentiation, to characterize the ontogeny of the sympathoadrenal lineage in quail embryos. The precursors of sympathetic neurons and pheochromocytes, present in the primary sympathetic chains, express neuronal traits and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) early in development. The precursors that enter the developing adrenal gland from the primary sympathetic chain lose neuronal traits and later express the enzyme phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). No TH+ cells differentiate in cultures of early (E7) embryonic adrenal glands after all A2B5+ cells have been immunoablated. When transplanted onto the neural crest migratory pathway, cells present in older (E13) embryonic adrenal glands can give rise to NF+ cells in the sympathetic ganglia. We conclude that both sympathetic neurons and pheochromocytes in avian embryos arise from a common bipotential precursor that initially expresses neuronal traits.
Changes in intracellular proteinase activities were examined during DMSO-induced differentiation of murine erythroleukemia cells. Suc-APA-MCA hydrolytic activity was significantly decreased, and apparent ATP-dependent multicatalytic proteinase activity was also decreased with MEL cell differentiation. Cathepsin B and L activity was mainly present in the microsomal fraction of control cells, but a part of this activity had shifted to the lysosomal fraction of differentiated cells. With the translocation of cathepsin B from the microsomal to the lysosomal fraction, the pro-enzyme form of cathepsin B was converted into the mature enzyme. These results suggest that the lysosomal pathway contributes to the degradation of specific proteins with cell differentiation.
Active synaptic zones are cytoplasmic specializations that indicate where synaptic transmission occurs. We have used computerized three-dimensional reconstructions from serial ultrathin sections to define certain features of the geometry of these zones in mammalian spinal cord. Our main finding is that the active zones in the dorsal portion of the spinal cord can be placed in one of two categories with respect to curvature: (1) uncurved or slightly curved and (2) very curved. The very curved category is associated with simple axodendritic type synapses in which the axonal terminal arises from primary afferent fibers.

Strength characteristics of thin-silicon probes in neural tissues have been determined experimentally. It is shown that by proper selection of the substrate length, width, and thickness, silicon substrates can be designed and used to penetrate a variety of biological tissues without breakage or excessive dimpling. Thin-silicon structures have a maximum fracture stress which is a factor of six larger than bulk silicon, and are very flexible and capable of bending to angles larger than 90 degrees. Silicon substrates 15 microns thick x 30 microns wide can easily penetrate guinea pig and rat pia arachnoid layers with minimum dimpling and no breakage, while substrates 30 microns thick x 80 microns wide can penetrate guinea pig and rat dura mater repeatedly without breakage. Quantitative comparison on the relative toughness of neurophysiological tissues in rat and guinea pig have also been experimentally obtained.
Stress, distress and a variety of psychiatric illnesses, notably the affective disorders, are increasingly reported to be associated with immunosuppression. The concept that psychic distress may predispose to medical illness is centuries old but has only recently attracted the attention of the scientific community at large. Interdisciplinary collaboration has established psychoneuroimmunology, or neuroimmunomodulation, as a new field of investigation with the goal of rigorous scientific research into the elusive mind-body connection. This has resulted in the rapid accumulation of information which falls across the boundary lines of psychiatry, immunology, neurosciences and endocrinology. Here David Khansari, Anthony Murgo and Robert Faith review the effects of stress on the endocrine and central nervous systems and the interactions between these systems and the immune response after exposure to stress signals.
Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells in vivo have a polarized structure with specialized apical and basal faces. Isolated RPE cells lose but eventually regain their epithelial morphology under appropriate culture conditions. We evaluated the ability of isolated feline, primate, and human RPE cells to regain this morphology in culture with scanning electron, transmission electron, phase contrast, and immunofluorescence microscopy. In culture, isolated RPE cells lose their cuboidal shape, their apical microvilli, and their in vivo cytoskeletal organization. Stress fibers from in these cells; microtubules radiate from the cells' center to their periphery; and vimentin filaments radiate from the cells' nucleus to their periphery. As cultures become confluent, RPE cells aggregate into small groups, gradually regaining a cuboidal shape and acquiring microvilli on their apical surface. Filamentous actin redistributes to the apical face where it presumably forms the cytoskeletal core normally present in RPE microvilli. Stress fibers disappear and are replaced by a circumferential microfilament bundle (CMB). Confluent cells surrounding the colonies of differentiated RPE attain a cuboidal shape but do not show complete cytoskeletal redifferentiation. Such cells, while appearing to be differentiated by phase contrast microscopy, fail to develop a compacted CMB. In these cells, f-actin is organized as a loose peripheral band within the cell cytoplasm. Our observations indicate that confluency cannot be equated with the end stage of morphologic differentiation, and that cytoskeletal organization provides a more accurate gauge of RPE maturation in culture.
This study measured the ability of subjects to localize broadband sound sources that varied in both horizontal and vertical location. Brief (150 ms) sounds were presented in a free field, and subjects reported the apparent stimulus location by turning to face the sound source; head orientation was measured electromagnetically. Localization of continuous sounds also was tested to estimate errors in the motor act of orienting with the head. Localization performance was excellent for brief sounds presented in front of the subject. The smallest errors, averaged across subjects, were about 2 degrees and 3.5 degrees in the horizontal and vertical dimensions, respectively. The sizes of errors increased, for more peripheral stimulus locations, to maxima of about 20 degrees. Localization performance was better in the horizontal than in the vertical dimension for stimuli located on or near the frontal midline, but the opposite was true for most stimuli located further peripheral. Front/back confusions occurred in 6% of trials; the characteristics of those responses suggest that subjects derived horizontal localization information principally from interaural difference cues. The generally high level of performance obtained with the head orientation technique argues for its utility in continuing studies of sound localization.
Interaural envelope delays were measured in six human subjects as a function of the location of a movable sound source, bandpassed between 3 and 16 kHz. A total of 324 source locations were tested in horizontal and vertical increments of 10 degrees. A method is described for estimating the complex directional transfer function of the external ear, independent of the position of the recording microphone in the ear canal. To compute interaural envelope delays, directional transfer functions from the left and right ears were convolved with a critical-band filter, the envelopes were computed, and the envelopes were cross correlated. Interaural envelope delays, as well as interaural group delays, varied somewhat with the center frequency of the critical-band filter and with the vertical location of the sound source. Nevertheless, to a first approximation, envelope delays measured in the ear canals increased monotonically with increasing angle of incidence relative to the median plane, as they would for two microphones on the surface of a rigid sphere. The results are discussed in relation to the possible contribution of interaural envelope delays to sound localization behavior.
We studied the effects of chloralose anesthesia on the elevation in arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR), and regional CBF (rCBF) elicited by stimulation of the cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN). Rats were anesthetized with an initial dose of chloralose (40 mg/kg s.c.), paralyzed, and artificially ventilated. The FN was stimulated (50-100 microA, 50 Hz, 1 s on/1 s off) with microelectrodes stereotaxically implanted. During the stimulation AP was carefully maintained within cerebrovascular autoregulation. CBF was measured by the [14C]iodoantipyrine technique with regional dissection. In rats that received only the initial dose of chloralose, FN stimulation elevated rCBF in brain and spinal cord, up to 209 +/- 13% of control in frontal cortex (n = 5; p less than 0.01, analysis of variance). Administration of additional chloralose (10 mg/kg i.v., 30 min prior to measurement of CBF) did not affect resting rCBF (n = 5), the EEG, or the elevation in AP and HR elicited by FN stimulation (n = 4). However, the additional chloralose abolished the elevations in rCBF (n = 5; p greater than 0.05). Thus, the cerebrovasodilation elicited from the FN is more susceptible to the effects of additional anesthesia than the elevation in AP and HR. These results indicate that the cerebrovascular and cardiovascular responses elicited from the FN are functionally distinct and provide additional evidence for the notion that these responses are mediated by different neural pathways and transmitters.
The relationship between systemic arterial pressure (SAP) and neocortical microcirculatory blood-flow (CBF) in areas of focal cerebral ischemia was studied in 15 spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) anesthetized with halothane (0.5%). Ischemia was induced by ipsilateral middle cerebral artery/common carotid artery occlusion and CBF was monitored continuously in the ischemic territory using laser-Doppler flowmetry during manipulation of SAP with I-norepinephrine (hypertension) or nitroprusside (hypotension). In eight SHRs not subjected to focal ischemia, we demonstrated that 0.5% halothane and the surgical manipulations did not impair autoregulation. Autoregulation was partly preserved in ischemic brain tissue with a CBF of greater than 30% of preocclusion values. In areas where ischemic CBF was less than 30% of preocclusion values, autoregulation was completely lost. Changes in SAP had a greater influence on CBF in tissue areas where CBF ranged from 15 to 30% of baseline (9% change in CBF with each 10% change in SAP) than in areas where CBF was less than 15% of baseline (6% change in CBF with each 10% change in SAP). These findings demonstrate that the relationship between CBF and SAP in areas of focal ischemia is highly dependent on the severity of ischemia. Autoregulation is lost in a gradual manner until CBF falls below 30% of normal. In areas without autoregulation, the slope of the CBF/SAP relationship is inversely related to the degree of ischemia.
Unmodified stroma-free hemoglobin has been found to produce neurotoxicity and behavioral impairment in rats. In contrast, a recent assessment of a modified (diaspirin alpha-alpha cross-linked) hemoglobin (HbXL) solution found normal memory, learning, and brain histology after infusion of a clinically relevant dose of a 14% HbXL solution. The current study examined this potential resuscitation fluid for evidence of neurobehavioral toxicity under clinical conditions. Rats were trained to complete a water alley maze, had 50% of their total blood volume (30 ml/kg) withdrawn, were resuscitated with 14% HbXL solution (45 ml/kg), Ringer's lactate (60 ml/kg), or autologous shed blood, and were subsequently retested in the water maze. Rats resuscitated with HbXL or autologous shed blood survived resuscitation, while 20% of those resuscitated with Ringer's lactate died during treatment. No significant performance degradation was observed in the HbXL rats following resuscitation, and no brain pathology was observed at necropsy 10 days after treatment. Ischemic brain lesions were observed in three (25%) of the surviving rats resuscitated with Ringer's lactate solution. Renal tubule regeneration indicative of an earlier insult was observed in animals from all three groups. A significant correlation between the total pathology in the five organs examined and maze errors was observed (p less than 0.001). The survival, maze performance, and histology results suggest that resuscitation with 14% HbXL solution does not cause neurotoxicity, as assessed in this lethal hemorrhage model.
Displacement of [3H]MK-801 (dizocilpine, 1) binding to rat brain membranes has been used to evaluate the affinities of novel dibenzocycloalkenimines related to 1 for the ion channel binding site (also known as the phencyclidine or PCP receptor) on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of excitory amino acid receptor. In common with many other agents having actions in the central nervous system, these compounds contain a hydrophobic aromatic moiety and a basic nitrogen atom. The conformational rigidity of these ligands provides a unique opportunity to evaluate the importance of specific geometrical properties that influence active-site recognition, in particular the role of the nitrogen atom in hydrogen-bonding interactions. The relative affinities (IC50s) of hydrocarbon-substituted analogues of 1 and ring homologated cyclooctenimines illustrate the importance of size-limited hydrophobic binding of both aryl rings and of the quaternary C-5 methyl group. Analysis of the binding of a series of the 10 available structurally rigid dibenzoazabicyclo[x.y.z]alkanes, by using molecular modeling techniques, uncovered a highly significant correlation between affinity and a proposed ligand-active site hydrogen bonding vector (r = 0.950, p less than 0.001). These results are used to generate a pharmacophore of the MK-801 recognition site/PCP receptor, which accounts for the binding of all of the known ligands.
Induction of the 70-kDa heat shock protein, hsp70, was evaluated in cultured cerebellar astrocytes and granule cell neurons subjected to a hyperthermic stress, using a monoclonal antibody and an oligonucleotide probe that selectively recognize stress-inducible species of hsp70-related proteins and RNAs, respectively. Immunoblots of cultures enriched in either granule cells or astrocytes, and immunocytochemical localization studies in cocultures of these cell types, demonstrated that hsp70 induction was restricted to the astrocyte population. Amino acid incorporation experiments showed little difference in the loss and recovery of overall protein synthesis activity in these two cell types following transient hyperthermic stress. RNA blot hybridizations confirmed the preferential glial induction of hsp70. In vivo immunocytochemical studies in brains of adult rats following hyperthermia were consistent with earlier observations that suggested a primarily glial and vascular localization of the heat shock response in most brain regions, although the intense immunoreactivity in the cerebellar granule cell layer suggests that there is induction of hsp70 in these neurons under in vivo conditions. These results suggest the potential value of such defined cell cultures in identifying mechanisms responsible for differences in the heat shock response of various cell types in vitro, and in revealing factors that may account for the apparent absence of the stress response in cultured cerebellar granule cell neurons.
The actions of tumor promoters on the coupling of muscarinic receptors to the hydrolysis of inositol lipids and the generation of Ca2+ signals were examined in the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell line. Pretreatment of SH-SY5Y cells with 50 nM 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) for 5 days resulted in neuronal differentiation, a 28% decrease in both N-[3H]methylscopolamine and [3H]-scopolamine binding, and a significantly larger reduction (48%) in agonist-stimulated 3H-inositol phosphate generation. Whereas mezerein could mimic the effects produced by TPA, the biologically inactive 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate was without effect on both antagonist binding and agonist-stimulated phosphoinositide (PPI) turnover. A decline (approximately 50%) in the agonist-mediated rise in cytoplasmic Ca2+ and a substantial loss of protein kinase C activity also were observed following pretreatment with TPA or mezerein. The ability of fluoride, an agent capable of direct activation of guanine nucleotide binding proteins, to stimulate 3H-inositol phosphate release was significantly reduced in SH-SY5Y cells treated with these agents. Furthermore, pretreatment of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells with TPA or mezerein impaired 3H-inositol phosphate formation induced by the addition of either guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) or carbamylcholine to digitonin-permeabilized cells, but not that elicited by the addition of 2 mM CaCl2. Although cells cultured in the presence of serum-free media also exhibited neuronal differentiation, no significant alteration in either muscarinic receptor number or agonist-stimulated PPI hydrolysis was observed. The results suggest that TPA and mezerein decrease agonist-stimulated PPI hydrolysis and Ca2+ signaling in SH-SY5Y cells not only by a reduction in muscarinic receptor number but also through an inhibition of guanine nucleotide-stimulated PPI turnover.
To characterize the effect of beta-endorphin on T-lymphocyte activation, we examined its influence on membrane currents, intracellular calcium flux, and c-myc mRNA levels during mitogenic stimulation of Jurkat cells. While beta-endorphin weakly enhanced voltage-activated K+ currents of Jurkat cells by itself, it suppressed these currents in the presence of mitogen. Naloxone, by itself, also enhanced K+ current amplitude, but in the presence of mitogen partially reversed the suppressive effect of beta-endorphin. A 5-30 min exposure to beta-endorphin resulted in an increase in the rate of mitogen-stimulated intracellular calcium release and an increase in c-myc mRNA levels relative to controls. Longer exposure (1-2 h) to beta-endorphin retarded intracellular calcium release, and suppressed c-myc expression. The suppressive effects were reversed by naloxone and mimicked by the K+ channel blocker, tetraethylammonium ion. These data suggest that opiate receptors and K+ channels of Jurkat cells are functionally coupled in a way that modulates intracellular calcium release and c-myc expression - two key processes in T-cell mitogenesis.
1. Recordings were made from single nerve fibers in barbiturate-anesthetized cats in the midline trapezoid body, a location that permits selective sampling of efferent cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus. Single units were localized to either the dorsal or ventral components of the trapezoid body. The fibers were physiologically classified on the basis of their peristimulus time histograms (PSTH) and receptive-field properties. In addition, low characteristic frequency (CF) units were probed for rapid rate and phase shifts with increases in intensity. The projection patterns of some fibers were traced by iontophoresing horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into their axons. 2. HRP-labeled fibers most likely originated from globular bushy cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus in that they sent a large branch into the contralateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body which terminated in a calyceal ending and an ipsilateral branch into the lateral nucleus of the trapezoid body. A thin branch, usually starting from the large branch, wound its way through the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body to its termination in the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body. Additional branches from the parent axon could pass through medial periolivary groups throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the superior olivary complex. The parent fiber was traced as far as the ventral lateral lemniscus where it faded before reaching its termination. 3. The majority of units were recorded in the ventral component of the trapezoid body. Although the ventral component is comprised of both large and small diameter fibers, our sample was biased to the larger diameter fibers representing the activity of axons originating from globular bushy cells in the ventral cochlear nucleus. Ventral component units were not tonotopically arrayed and had CFs that spanned the audible range for cats. HRP labeling of ventral component axons revealed that the section of the axon traveling through the midline shifted its dorsal-ventral location. This pattern was compatible with the lack of tonotopy found in the ventral component. Recordings were also made from the dorsal component of the trapezoid body, which contained medium diameter axons. These axons originated from spherical bushy cells in the ventral cochlear nucleus. Dorsal component units were tonotopically arrayed and had CFs less than 7 kHz. 4. Cells were characterized by their PSTH at CF. Primary-like and phase-locked units constituted most of the dorsal component units.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The spike responses of 105 cells to visual-stimulus movement were analyzed in the turtle's basal optic nucleus (BON) in vitro in the absence of the telencephalon. All cells were direction sensitive (DS) and were driven solely by stimulation of the contralateral eye. These cells had large receptive fields and had vigorous responses to moving, textured patterns. Small moving spots generated only weak responses from these cells, as did the onset or offset of diffuse light flashes. 2. The direction tuning of BON cells was quite broad with most back and forth responses being DS. In fact, for 86% of the cells, there were seven to nine axes (out of 9 total, in 20 degrees increments) for which response to movement in one direction was at least twice that for the opposite direction. In instances where spontaneous activity was relatively high, a suppression of that spike firing was evident when the stimulus moved in directions opposite to preferred stimulus directions. 3. Cells preferring many different directions are found in the BON. More cells preferred inferior-temporal directed motion (49%), compared to superior-temporal (35%) and nasal stimuli (13%). 4. BON cells remained DS over 3 log units of velocity, with their strongest responses between 1 and 50 degrees/s. Responses were often non-DS for stimuli moving slower than 0.1 degrees/s. 5. The receptive fields of BON cells were large and occupied different parts of the retina. When different subregions of a receptive field were stimulated, the cell's directional tuning always remained the same as the full field direction tuning. 6. Thus, BON cells seem well-suited for the analysis of global, visual-field motion in any direction, performed by the accessory optic system. Other brain stem pathways necessary for optokinetic reflexes can be elucidated with the use of this whole-brain, eyes-attached in vitro preparation.
The localization of MARCKS (myristoylated, alanine-rich C-kinase substrate), a major specific substrate for protein kinase C, has been studied in the rat brain. Light microscopic immunocytochemistry and biochemical analysis demonstrated that the protein is widespread throughout the brain and enriched in certain regions, including the piriform and entorhinal cortices, portions of the amygdaloid complex, the intralaminar thalamic nuclei, the hypothalamus, the nucleus of the solitary tract, nucleus ambiguus, and many catecholaminergic and serotonergic nuclei. Electron microscopic analysis revealed immunoreactivity in axons, axon terminals, small dendritic branches, and occasionally in dendritic spines. In neuronal processes, immunoreactivity was particularly prominent in association with microtubules, but reaction product was also seen in cytosol and adjacent to plasma membranes. No reaction product was observed in large dendrites, somata, or nuclei. A population of strongly immunoreactive glial cells was also observed. Many of these glial cells were morphologically similar to microglial cells, although some resembled astrocytes. In glial cells, both cytoplasm and plasma membranes were heavily labeled. The distribution of the MARCKS protein did not coincide precisely with the distribution of any of the subspecies of protein kinase C. The results indicate that the MARCKS protein is expressed in the majority of cell types in the CNS, and they suggest that the protein may be involved both in glial cell functions and in neuronal functions involving cytoskeletal elements in small dendritic branches and axon terminals.
Carboxypeptidase E (CPE, enkephalin convertase, carboxypeptidase H; EC 3.4.17.10) is a carboxypeptidase B-like enzyme proposed to be involved in the synthesis of a variety of peptide hormones and neurotransmitters. In the present study we have localized CPE in the rat central nervous system using specific polyclonal antisera to the purified enzyme. Immunoreactive CPE occurs in a variety of cell somas and neuronal terminals in the central nervous system. The enzyme is most concentrated in the hypothalamus, especially in the median eminence, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, and suprachiasmatic nucleus. CPE is also found in axon terminals in the posterior pituitary gland, melanotropes of the intermediate pituitary gland, and select cells of the anterior pituitary gland. Immunoreactivity to CPE in the hippocampus is found in the pyramidal cells and in the inner part of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. CPE is also found in the central nucleus of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. These results suggest that CPE distribution corresponds to that of many neuropeptides at the fine structural level, thus further implicating CPE in peptide processing.
The effect of age on the ability of motor neurons to develop and maintain an enlarged total axonal and synaptic volume was compared in soleus muscles of 5-8-month and 25-30-month mice, 30-120 d after partial denervation. Before and after partial denervation (transection of the L5 root), the total number of muscle fibers was the same in all muscles. However, in young animals, there was only some transient atrophy and hypertrophy mostly receded by 120 d, whereas in old muscle, a more prominent early atrophy was followed by persistent hypertrophy. Ectopic endplates were not found. In zinc-iodide-osmium (ZIO) stained preparations, muscle fibers with small nerve terminals were present at 60 d and were still present in old muscle at 120 d. Fluorescent staining of nerve terminals and acetylcholine receptors revealed that in young muscle, postsynaptic sites were nearly or completely reoccupied by 60 d. In old muscle, about 22% of former junctions were denervated, with the remainder minimally to fully reinnervated. At 60 d and thereafter, collateral sprouts originated from nodes of Ranvier in both young and old muscle and were remyelinated in young but mainly unmyelinated and remarkably tortuous in old animals. These results, confirmed with immunofluorescent strains for myelin basic protein and neurofilaments, account for many of the physiological findings (Jacob and Robbins, 1990). Motor unit size expanded 2.5 times in young and 2 times in old muscle at 60 d after partial denervation. However, the increment in total quantal output and nerve terminal volume per motor neuron was 60-100% greater than control in young but only 20-25% greater in old muscle, with little further recovery. This inability of the motor neuron in old mice to expand the field of innervation may reflect a limitation imposed by reduced axonal transport. The present findings may elucidate the muscle weakness in postpolio syndrome and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
The response of the neuromuscular junction to expansion of the motor unit after partial denervation (section of L5 root) was compared in soleus muscles from young (5-8 month) and old (25-30 month) mice. The object was to determine the relative capacity of young and old motor neurons to adapt to an enlarged functional field of innervation, and to delineate physiological parameters that are compromised under these conditions. Neuromuscular function was studied at 30, 60, and 120 d after partial denervation. The initial (18-23) and postoperative number (5-8) of motor units was the same in both age groups. Twitch strength declined in proportion to loss of motor units at 30 d but returned completely (young) or nearly completely (old) by 60 d. In old but not young muscle, the safety factor (assayed by twitch depression in low calcium) was decreased even before functional sprouting had occurred, indicating a reduced safety factor in nondenervated junctions. The proportion of fibers with &quot;long&quot; latencies (delay between stimulation and endplate potential) increased transiently (at 30 d) in young muscle but persisted without recovery at 120 d in regenerated junctions in old muscle. After partial denervation, decline in miniature endplate potential (mepp) amplitude, in mepp frequency, and in estimated quantal content of evoked release was relatively more pronounced in old than in young mice, and in the case of mepp amplitude and frequency, more persistent. Mepp amplitude was also decreased in presumed nondenervated junctions of old muscles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the method described, the head of a fixed-stage microscope and the attached micromanipulator are simultaneously displaced during focussing movements of the microscope. This design allows axial displacements of the microscope towards the cell to be injected. This arrangement makes the filling of neurons in brain slices by intracellular iontophoresis injection of Lucifer yellow considerably easier.
Chronic (3 months) lead exposure increased the quinonoid dihydropteridine reductase activity and the tetrahydrobiopterin content but did not affect the GTP-cyclohydrolase activity and the dihydrobiopterin content. These results suggest that lead intoxication may enhance dopamine metabolism in neostriatum by increasing the content of tetrahydrobiopterin, the regulating cofactor of tyrosine hydroxylase activity.
The regeneration of the olfactory neuroepithelium following olfactory bulbectomy or peripheral deafferentation was studied with mRNA probes and antibodies for B-50/GAP43 and for olfactory marker protein (OMP). Two stages in the regeneration of the olfactory epithelium could be discerned with these reagents. The first stage occurs following either peripheral deafferentation of the olfactory epithelium with Triton X-100 (TX-100) or after bulbectomy and is characterized by the formation of a large population of immature olfactory receptor neurons. These newly formed neurons express B-50/GAP43, a phosphoprotein related to neuronal growth and plasticity. During the second stage of the regeneration process the newly formed olfactory neurons mature, as evidenced by a decrease in their expression of B-50/GAP43 and an increase in the expression of OMP. This stage is only manifested if the developing neurons have access to the target olfactory bulb. Formation of a full complement of OMP-expressing neurons occurs only after peripheral lesion with TX-100. In contrast, following bulbectomy the reconstituted olfactory epithelium lacks its normal target and is compromised in its ability to recover from nerve damage, as evidenced by the presence of a large number of B-50/GAP43-expressing neurons up to 3 months after the lesion and its failure to establish a full complement of OMP-expressing neurons. These results demonstrate that the olfactory epithelium is capable of replacing its sensory neurons independently of the presence of its target, the olfactory bulb. However, the differential patterns of expression of B-50/GAP43 and OMP at long times after peripheral lesion with TX-100 or bulbectomy illustrate the profound effect the olfactory bulb has on neuronal maturation in reconstituted olfactory neuroepithelium.
We investigated the Thy-1-like immunoreactivity during the development of chicken skeletal muscle using a group of monoclonal antibodies raised and characterised against purified chicken brain Thy-1. The immunoreactivity attributable to bona fide Thy-1 in muscle was present in nerves, connective tissue associated with the intrafusal capsule and blood vessels, and the extracellular matrix of the muscle fibres. During development there was no change in the staining of nerves, blood vessels or intrafusal capsules. However, the extracellular staining of muscle first appeared around hatching and gradually increased in intensity reaching maximal levels in the adult. The intensity of staining varied within and between the muscles examined. One of the antibodies (SB1 20.11) recognised an additional molecule that is not Thy-1 and that was localised in the cytoplasm of slow muscle fibres. This immunoreactivity was first detectable at E10 in all myotubes that contained both alkali and acid stable myosin ATPase activity (presumptive slow), but not in those myotubes with only alkali-stable myosin ATPase activity (presumptive fast). Thereafter, the staining increased to a maximum in the newly hatched animal and then decreased until reactivity was undetectable in the adult (greater than 25 weeks). All positive fibres initially stained with a uniform intensity but the time of commencement and the rate of loss of staining was variable. Those fibres that contained both acid stable and acid labile myosin ATPase activity lost the antigen much faster than the fibres containing only acid-stable myosin ATPase activity, which also tended to increase in intensity for a longer period. These may represent, respectively, the slow tonic type III fibres and the slow twitch type I fibres classified by Barnard et al. (1982).
Tauromustine (TCNU), 130 mg/sq m, was administered intraoperatively by nasogastric tube to 10 patients with malignant glioma (seven glioblastomas and three anaplastic astrocytomas). High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of 32 tumor specimens for TCNU revealed that tissue concentrations ranged from 0 to 554 ng/gm: TCNU was not detected in necrotic regions of the tumor. Levels of TCNU in brain adjacent to tumor were similar to those recorded within the gliomas (range 0 to 635 ng/gm). The variability in the tissue level of TCNU was partly attributable to variable absorption of the drug, since peak plasma TCNU levels ranged from 164 to 3333 ng/ml. There were close quantitative and temporal relationships between the times of peak plasma levels (median 456 ng/ml at 45 minutes after administration), peak tumor levels (median 250 ng/gm tissue at 55 minutes), and brain adjacent to tumor levels (median 256 ng/gm tissue at 50 minutes). Linear regression analysis of the ratio between tissue and plasma TCNU levels at particular times after drug administration suggest that plasma concentrations can be used to estimate tissue concentrations. This study demonstrates that TCNU enters malignant glioma. In view of the activity of TCNU against a range of tumors, a full clinical evaluation of this new nitrosourea in malignant glioma seems justified.
The disparity between the seizure sensitivity of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus to opioid peptides was studied by an in vitro electrophysiological method. Slices taken from the ventral (temporal) and dorsal (septal) regions of rat hippocampi were perfused in artificial cerebrospinal fluid bubbled continuously with 95% O2-5% CO2 at 34 degrees C. A stimulating electrode was placed in the stratum radiatum of CA3 region and electrical activity was recorded from the pyramidal cell body layer of the CA3b region. Paired dorsal and ventral hippocampal slices were perfused with [N-Me-Phe3-D-Pro4]morphiceptin (PL017), a specific mu opioid receptor agonist. Application of 0.05 microM PL017 produced triggered and spontaneous bursting in 20% of ventral hippocampal slices, but no such effect was observed in dorsal hippocampal slices. At 0.5 microM PL017, 80% of ventral hippocampal slices developed spontaneous bursting, whereas only 10% of dorsal hippocampal slices had spontaneous bursting. Slices from the ventral hippocampus consistently produced greater degrees of bursting at lower doses relative to the dorsal hippocampus. The addition of 0.1 microM naloxone before or after PL017 inhibited the triggered response but could not block the spontaneous bursting. Perfusion of ACSF for 1 hr also eliminated the triggered response but could only reduce the frequency of the spontaneous bursting. These results suggest that the ventral hippocampus has a higher susceptibility to PL017-induced epileptiform bursting, and this effect is mediated, at least in part, through mu opioid receptors.
In this study, we have examined the spontaneous efflux and stimulation-induced overflow of endogenous dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) from striatal slices prepared from adult rats. Partial destruction of striatal DA terminals with 6-hydroxydopamine reduced the electrically evoked overflow of DA and DOPAC, but by less than the DA content of the tissue slices. This resulted in an increase in the fractional overflow of DA and DOPAC, a measure of overflow from residual dopaminergic terminals. The increase in fractional DA overflow was related to the lesion size, reaching 7-fold with DA depletions of greater than 90%. Inhibition of DA re-uptake with nomifensine (10 microM) increased DA overflow and reduced DOPAC overflow by an equivalent amount, indicating that a portion of the DA released by electrical stimulation is recaptured and metabolized before appearing as DOPAC in the superfusate. However, 6-hydroxydopamine lesions further elevated fractional DA overflow above control even in the presence of nomifensine, suggesting that slices prepared from lesioned animals exhibit an increase in DA release from residual dopaminergic terminals. DA overflow was enhanced by the DA receptor antagonist sulpiride (1 microM) in control tissue but not in slices prepared from lesioned animals, suggesting that increased efflux per terminal was accompanied by reduced autoinhibition of release. Over a range of firing frequencies typical of nigrostriatal neurons in vivo (2-8 Hz), fractional DA overflow per pulse from lesioned slices was 3-fold higher than control overflow; however, fractional overflow per pulse was reduced from lesioned but not control slices when slices were exposed to a higher frequency (12 Hz). Thus, the lesion appeared to have increased DA release at moderate frequencies, but had reduced the effective range of frequencies over which the DA terminals could operate. Finally, 3-iodotyrosine (2 mM), an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase, reduced DA overflow from intact slices, but completely abolished overflow from lesioned slices, suggesting that 6-hydroxydopamine had increased the dependence of DA efflux on a sustained rate of DA synthesis. Taken together, these data suggest that after lesioning with 6-hydroxydopamine, DA released per pulse from residual terminals is increased relative to control, so long as the stimulation frequency is within the physiological range. This increase in release may serve a compensatory function, maintaining dopaminergic control over striatal function despite extensive loss of DA neurons.
Basic neuroscience research findings during the past five years have established a clear relationship between the excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmitters (glutamic and aspartic acid) and various pathological states. A major mechanism of neural tissue degeneration following cerebral ischemia, and perhaps other neurodegenerative diseases, seems to involve overactivity of the EAA system in brain. This process is called delayed excitotoxicity and it has become a focal point for the design of new drugs that inhibit its course (EAA receptor blockers). Very recently it has been shown that it is possible to block delayed excitotoxicity using adenosine A1 receptor agonists which inhibit EAA release pre-synaptically. This approach is very effective in reducing post-stroke neurological damage in a number of animal models and has certain advantages when compared to the EAA receptor blocker strategy. Adenosine agonists not only inhibit excitotoxicity but they also block granulocyte activation and the capillary no-reflow phenomenon which results. An additional adenosinergic approach involves brain permeable adenosine uptake blockers which would serve to increase adenosine levels somewhat selectively at ischemic foci thereby inhibiting EAA release. The adenosinergic approach to stroke therapeutics may be a potentially effective strategy for new drug development in neurology, and may have general applicability to other neurodegenerative disease states where excitotoxicity is being implicated.
To learn how neural segments are structured in a simple vertebrate, we have characterized the embryonic zebrafish hindbrain with a library of monoclonal antibodies. Two regions repeat in an alternating pattern along a series of seven segments. One, the neuromere centers, contains the first basal plate neurons to develop and the first neuropil. The other region, surrounding the segment boundaries, contains the first neurons to develop in the alar plate. The projection patterns of these neurons differ: those in the segment centers have descending axons, while those in the border regions form ventral commissures. A row of glial fiber bundles forms a curtain-like structure between each center and border region. Specific features of the individual hindbrain segments in the series arise within this general framework. We suggest that a cryptic simplicity underlies the eventual complex structure that develops from this region of the CNS.
The endogenous steroid metabolites 3 alpha,21dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one and 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one potentiate GABA-activated Cl- currents recorded from a human cell line transfected with the beta 1, alpha 1 beta 1, and alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2 combinations of human GABAA receptor subunits. These steroids are active at nanomolar concentrations in potentiating GABA-activated Cl- currents and directly elicit bicuculline-sensitive Cl- currents when applied at micromolar concentrations. The potentiating and direct actions of both steroids were expressed with every combination of subunits tested. However, an examination of single-channel currents recorded from outside-out patches excised from these transfected cells suggests that despite the common minimal structural requirements for expressing steroid and barbiturate actions, the mechanism of GABAA receptor modulation by these pregnane steroids may differ from that of barbiturates.
Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is a neuropeptide of 11 kDa molecular size and is unevenly distributed in human and rat brain. It appears to function as a negative allosteric modulator of GABAA receptors. In the present paper, using antibodies directed against several synthetic peptides, which correspond to selective regions of human DBI (DBI 51-70, DBI 37-50, DBI 81-101), it is shown that DBI is processed into at least 6 peptide fragments in both postmortem human brain and in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). One of these fragments was identified as the synthetic DBI 51-70 fragment (an eikosaneuropeptide, ENP) by combined chromatographic procedures. Immunoblotting analysis of the other fragments, by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), revealed an apparent molecular size, ranging from 3-4 kDa for four of them and a larger molecular form of 8 kDa. On the basis of the immunological properties, a tentative amino acid sequence was deduced.
The selective kappa-opiate agonist U50488H (1-100 microM) significantly reduced the uptake of 45Ca into cortical synaptosomes from the brain of the rat, in a time- and dose-dependent manner. In physiological medium, the maximum inhibition occurred after 2 min; this was approximately 55% (at 100 microM) and the IC50 was 80 nM. Nifedipine (1 microM) had no significant effect on the influx of Ca2+ in physiological medium (containing 5 mM K+), though, in fact, there was an approximately 20% decrease in the presence of 100 microM of drug. Nifedipine, however, did cause a significant blockade of the entry of 45Ca in medium containing 10 or 15 mM K+, demonstrating that L-type channels on synaptosomes were operational under depolarising conditions. Under these depolarising conditions, there was an additive inhibitory effect on entry of 45Ca into synaptosomes when U50488H (1 microM) and nifedipine (1 microM) were incubated together. Treatment of synaptosomes with omega-conotoxin (omega-CgTx, 0.5 microM) resulted in a 35% reduction in the uptake of 45Ca. omega-Conotoxin (0.5 microM) or naloxone (20 microM) abolished the inhibitory effect of U50488H on the uptake of 45Ca, but naloxone did not alter the blockade of L-type Ca2+ channels, caused by nifedipine. In conclusion, the data demonstrate that under depolarising conditions, there are functional L-type calcium channels on nerve endings in the CNS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Polychlorinated biphenyls are stable, lipophilic industrial compounds that are present in residue levels in human tissue, wildlife, and freshwater sediment. They are toxic, and are known to cross the placenta and intoxicate the fetus. Two large outbreaks of PCB poisoning have occurred in Asia; women pregnant at or after the exposures had children who were developmentally impaired. Laboratory experiments in rhesus monkeys and rodents, designed to assess neural or developmental effects, show altered activity levels, impaired learning, and delayed ontogeny of reflexes. Children exposed transplacentally to levels considered to be background in the U.S. have hypotonia and hyporeflexia at birth, delay in psychomotor development at 6 and 12 months, and poorer visual recognition memory at 7 months. Allowing for differences in testing, effects are roughly similar across species, but current methods used to calculate allowable or reference doses give results up to 4 orders of magnitude apart, with the lowest level based on the neurotoxicology level coming from the human data.
It has been well-known that a chronic abuse of amphetamines induces schizophrenia-like psychotic symptoms, namely amphetamine psychosis. When amphetamines are repeatedly administered to rodents, a reverse tolerance (behavioral sensitization) to the ambulation-increasing and/or stereotypy-producing effect is observed. The process of the reverse tolerance is affected by various factors. A clear reverse tolerance is produced when optimal doses of the drug (2 mg/kg, s.c. for mice, and 0.5-1 mg/kg, s.c., for rats) is administered at intervals of longer than 1 day rather than a shorter interval. Furthermore, the animal has to be put into a freely mobile situation during the presence of the acute drug effect. A cross reverse tolerance is observed between certain types of drugs that show an ambulation-increasing effect, although the potencies are different among the drugs. A reverse tolerance to the stereotypy (in particular sniffing and head-bobbing)-producing effect is also observed when comparatively higher doses of methamphetamine are repeatedly administered. The process is qualitatively identical with the reverse tolerance to the ambulation-increasing effect produced by the repeated administration of comparatively smaller doses. The reverse-tolerance, once established, to both ambulation-increasing and stereotypy-producing effects is almost irreversible even with various treatments such as repeated post-treatment with antipsychotics. The characteristics of reverse tolerance to methamphetamine in animals might be closely correlated to the amphetamine psychosis in humans. It is also necessary to search for a method that effectively reduces the established reverse tolerance to amphetamines.
Data from a number of studies indicate that patients' understanding and recall of information presented during the informed consent process are poor. The purpose of this survey was to determine patients' attitudes about, desired knowledge of, and involvement in clinical research in a tertiary medical care setting. A self-report questionnaire was completed by 277 patients on the oncology, obstetrics/gynecology, medicine, neurosciences, surgery, and ophthalmology services of a large tertiary care facility. While most respondents had generally positive attitudes about research, relatively few were aware that human subjects approval processes existed or that nurses conducted research. Areas of additional knowledge needed included specific information about purposes of research and risks and benefits. Individuals with higher levels of education appeared more willing to participate in clinical research even when personal benefit was minimal.
Immunoreactive oxytocin was determined in a peptidic extract of rat thymus by means of a highly specific radioimmunoassay combined with high pressure liquid chromatography fractionation. Rat thymus was found to contain 80 +/- 7.5 pg/g wet tissue (congruent to 0.56 pg/mg protein) of oxytocin-like immunoreactivity, which behaved like synthetic oxytocin in the radioimmunoassay and in two different high pressure liquid chromatography columns. Oxytocin concentration was increased by bilateral electrolytic lesion of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and by high doses of corticosterone (10 mg/kg IM for 7 days) but was not modified by low doses of corticosterone (1 mg/kg IM for 7 days) or by hypophysectomy. The results suggest that rat thymus synthesizes oxytocin and that thymic oxytocin concentration is modulated by the hypothalamus.
CNQX and DNQX are compounds that have recently been reported to show potent non-NMDA excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist activity. Effects of these compounds on seizures induced by homocysteine thiolactone and quisqualic acid were studied in order to examine the pharmacological properties of these compounds. In a dosage of 1.16 micrograms intracerebroventricularly (ICV), CNQX prolonged the latency to the onset of quisqualate-, but not homocysteine-induced seizures. DNQX was not effective when given either ICV or systemically, although a 3.78 micrograms dose of DNQX given ICV markedly increased the variability in latency to seizure onset, suggesting a combination of pro- and anticonvulsant effects. Higher dosages of both CNQX and DNQX induced seizure-like activity after ICV injection. These data confirm that CNQX has pharmacological effects corresponding to its effects on cellular responses to quisqualate and kainate agonists, but these effects are weak and may limit its usefulness as a pharmacological tool.
The effects of fighting and footshock on circulating adrenocorticotropin-like immunoreactivity (ACTH-LI), cortisol, corticosterone, beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (beta-EP-LI), and beta-lipotropin-like immunoreactivity (beta-LPH-LI) were examined. In the first experiment, catheterized males were paired with large, ovariectomized females for 15 min. Submissive males exhibited significant increases in plasma ACTH-LI, cortisol, corticosterone, and beta-EP-LI. In the second experiment, two males were paired to determine whether the hormonal response in submissive animals was different from that in dominant hamsters. The pattern and magnitude of the hormonal response was also compared to that following a commonly used stressor-footshock. Footshock was associated with large increases in each of the plasma hormones measured. Submission, but not dominance, was associated with smaller, but still significant, increases in ACTH-LI, cortisol, beta-EP-LI and beta-LPH-LI. The data indicate that fighting is not a generalized stressor. &quot;Losing,&quot; in particular, appears to be an example of a biologically relevant stressor.
Several observations suggest that the Ca2(+)-dependent postsynaptic release of nitric oxide (NO) may be important in the formation and function of the vertebrate nervous system. We explore here the hypothesis that the release of NO and its subsequent diffusion may be critically related to three aspects of nervous system function: (i) synaptic plasticity and long-term potentiation in certain regions of the adult nervous system, (ii) the control of cerebral blood flow in such regions, and (iii) the establishment and activity-dependent refinement of axonal projections during the later stages of development. In this paper, we detail and analyze the basic assumptions underlying this NO hypothesis and describe a computer simulation of a minimal version of the hypothesis. In the simulation, a 3-dimensional volume of neuropil is presented with patterned afferent input; NO is produced, diffuses, and is destroyed; and synaptic strengths are determined by a set of synaptic rules based on the correlation of synaptic depolarization and NO levels. According to the hypothesis, voltage-dependent postsynaptic release of this rapidly diffusing substance links the activities of neurons in a local volume of tissue, regardless of whether the neurons are directly connected by synapses. This property is demonstrated in the simulation, and it is this property that is exploited in the hypothesis to account for certain aspects of long-term potentiation and activity-dependent sharpening of axonal arbors.
Saposins (A, B, C, and D) are small glycoproteins required for the hydrolysis of sphingolipids by specific lysosomal hydrolases. Concentrations of these saposins in brain, liver, and spleen from normal humans as well as patients with lysosomal storage disease were determined. A quantitative HPLC method was used for saposin A, C, and D and a stimulation assay was used for saposin B. In normal tissues, saposin D was the most abundant of the four saposins. Massive accumulations of saposins, especially saposin A (about 80-fold increase over normal), were found in brain of patients with Tay-Sachs disease or infantile Sandhoff disease. In spleen of adult patients with Gaucher disease, saposin A and D accumulations (60- and 17-fold, respectively, over normal) were higher than that of saposin C (about 16-fold over normal). Similar massive accumulations of saposins A and D were found in liver of patients with fucosidosis (about 70- and 20-fold, respectively, over normal). Saposin D was the primary saposin stored in the liver of a patient with Niemann-Pick disease (about 30-fold over normal). Moderate increases of saposins B and D were found in a patient with GM1 gangliosidosis. Normal or near normal levels of all saposins were found in patients with Krabbe disease, metachromatic leukodystrophy, Fabry disease, adrenoleukodystrophy, I-cell disease, mucopolysaccharidosis types 2 and 3B, or Jansky-Bielschowsky disease. The implications of the storage of saposins in these diseases are discussed.
Research in schizophrenia illustrates that the field of psychophysiology lies at the interface of clinical science, cognitive science, and neuroscience. Electrodermal abnormalities in schizophrenic patients have been found reliably across laboratories, and data reported here demonstrate that these abnormalities are at least partially dependent upon the clinical state of the patients. Both tonic and phasic electrodermal activity increased when schizophrenic patients entered into a psychotic episode, and preliminary evidence suggests that the increases may serve as early prodromal signs of an impending episode. Significance of the electrodermal abnormalities for understanding cognitive and attentional deficits is suggested by associations with secondary reaction time and startle blink probe findings. Neuroscience implications are highlighted by the correlation of the electrodermal abnormalities with regional brain metabolic activity indexed by positron emission tomography. An important task for the future is to interrelate measures from these various domains. The field of psychophysiology is particularly well positioned for this task.






Excitatory amino acids play a crucial role in cerebral transmission. Numerous neuronal systems have been identified contributing to learning, memory and brain neuronal plasticity. Recent advances in neuropathology led to propose a crucial role of these neurotransmitters in neurodegenerative processes and acute cerebral strokes due to their excitotoxic properties. Consequently, development of excitatory amino acid antagonists constitutes a challenge for modern neuropharmacology.

Knowledge of the cells in which Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) persists is crucial to understanding the pathogenesis of TMEV-induced demyelinating disease; however, it is still uncertain whether oligodendrocytes or macrophages are the primary target for persistence. In this study, mononuclear cells (MNC) isolated directly from central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory infiltrates of TMEV-infected mice on discontinuous Percoll gradients were found to contain infectious TMEV. Macrophages appeared to be the principal MNC infected as determined by two-color immunofluorescence. Infectious center assay and double immunostaining together indicated the presence and possible synthesis of TMEV in approximately 1 in 225 to 1 in 1000 CNS macrophages, with 1 to 7 PFU produced per macrophage. On the basis of these findings, limited replication in macrophages is consistent with the total CNS virus content detected at any time during the persistent phase of the infection as well as the slow pace of the infection.
This commentary extends the review by Hiroyuki Uchiyama (1989) entitled &quot;Centrifugal pathways to the retina: influence of the optic tectum&quot; Visual Neuroscience 3, 183-206. A further scrutiny is made of the topography of the isthmo-retinal projection of the pigeon, which provides the most fully investigated example of a retinopetal projection. It is suggested that the topographical organization in this system is compatible with it's input being derived from the lower visual field (and upper retina) and it's output being directed to the horizon and lower retina. This is another form of attentional hypothesis for the centrifugal pathway, compatible with a role in ground feeding, and is testable by current tracing techniques in neurobiology.
Electrical responses of luminosity horizontal cells (L cells) to monochromatic stimuli were analyzed by intracellular recordings in the retinas of the freshwater turtle (Pseudemys scripta elegans) and of the sea turtle (Chelonia mydas mydas). Light intensity, duration, and wavelength were varied to assess temporal effects. For a given intensity of monochromatic light, response amplitude increased with stimulus duration until maximum amplitude occurred at a specific duration. This suprathreshold metric of temporal integration is called here summation time, and it is wavelength-dependent. L cells always had some level of red-sensitive cone input, although in some cells inputs from green- and blue-sensitive cones were also observed. For these latter cells, summation times were shorter for 640-nm than for 540-nm or 450-nm lights. These results were most evident in cells that received dominant inputs from blue- or green-sensitive cones. Responses of some other L cells were almost completely dominated by inputs from red-sensitive cones. Summation times of these cells were not wavelength-dependent. But when these inputs also included green-sensitive cones, shorter summation times were obtained to 640-nm light than to 540-nm light, even though dominant inputs were still from red-sensitive cones. These results, obtained from both retinal and 3,4-dehydroretinal photopigment systems, are consistent with reported observations in Pseudemys scripta elegans that show linear responses of red-sensitive cones to have shorter integration times and times-to-peak than green-sensitive cones. Responses from horizontal cells dominated by blue-sensitive cone inputs were the most sensitive of all; they also had the longest summation times.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An aftereffects paradigm was used to behaviorally measure contrast sensitivity of cats to gratings of three different test spatial frequencies after adaptation to gratings of various spatial frequencies, contrasts, and durations. Post-adaptation reductions in sensitivity occurred even after short periods of adaptation (less than 7 s) and could be as large as 1.0 log unit under some conditions. The magnitude of the adaptation effect varied monotonically with (1) adaptation grating contrast, (2) duration, and (3) the contrast sensitivity for the test grating. Average half-width (at half-height) of the spatial-frequency tuning curves constructed from the data was 1.4 octaves, and was not dependent upon the level of adaptation or the spatial frequency of the test grating. Post-adaptation psychometric functions of the cats showed reduced slopes and maxima suggesting that, unlike humans, in cats apparent contrast grows more slowly with increases in physical contrast after contrast adaptation. All of the characteristics observed are in excellent agreement with electrophysiologically measured properties of neurons in striate cortex of cats. In addition, there was a remarkable similarity of the cat tuning functions, both in shape and bandpass, to those measured in man with a similar paradigm suggesting that (1) the two visual systems are sufficiently similar to make the cat a useful spatial vision model and (2) there is a common functional plan to all mammalian visual systems despite significant anatomical differences between species.
Two retinoic acid-binding proteins, a high molecular weight one (90-100 kDa) (peak A) and CRABP (peak B), were obtained on gel filtration column chromatography of extracts of limb buds of chick embryos. The presence of a retinoic acid receptor (RAR) (45 kDa) and the absence of chick-CRABP type II (16.2 kDa) in the peak A fractions suggested that the 45 kDa RAR forms a homo- or hetero-dimeric structure (90-100 kDa) with other RARs or other nuclear proteins, but not with chick-CRABP type II, in the limb buds of chick embryos. We also demonstrated that there were no significant differences in the amount of RAR in the anterior, middle and posterior parts of limb buds (stages 23-25).
The patterns of colocalization of somatostatin (SOM), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), were examined in intramural neurones in dissociated cell culture preparations from the detrusor muscle of the urinary bladder of the newborn guinea-pig using an elution-restaining immunocytochemical technique. Large numbers of the intramural neurones contained NPY-like (70-85% of the total neuronal population) and SOM-like (60-75%) immunoreactivities, in contrast to a small population (1-6%) of neurones containing immunoreactivity to DBH. Some neurones were immunoreactive to NPY (15-20%) and SOM (5-10%) alone, while 55-70% of the total neuronal population showed immunoreactivity to both NPY and SOM. NPY-like immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies that did not contain SOM were predominantly binucleate, whereas neuronal cell bodies immunoreactive to SOM alone were mainly mononucleate. Although not seen in every culture preparation, neuronal cell bodies containing both NPY-like and DBH-like immunoreactivities were also observed (less than 5% of the total neuronal population), and most, if not all, of these neuronal cell bodies were binucleate. SOM-like and DBH-like immunoreactivities were not seen in the same neuronal cell body throughout this study. These results show that intramural bladder neurones can be divided into distinct subpopulations based upon the coexistence of specific peptides and enzymes, and the possibility that they sustain local integrative and modulatory roles in bladder function is discussed.
Stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or quisqualate (Quis) receptors by submicromolar concentrations of NMDA or Quis but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) reduced post-spike train after hyperpolarizations (AHPs) and blocked the underlying Iahp in dentate granule (DG) neurones in vitro. The NMDA but not Quis action was blocked by the NMDA receptor blocker 2-D,L-aminophosphonovaleric acid (APV). Actions of both NMDA and Quis were abolished by isoquinolinesulphonyl-2-methyl-piperazine dihydrochloride (H-7), an inhibitor of several protein kinases. These data suggest that there is a link between excitatory amino acid receptor activation, the protein kinase system, and neuronal excitability.
Mitral cells of the main and accessory olfactory bulbs have been shown to project monosynaptically to the supraoptic nucleus (SON) via the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) which uses excitatory amino acid transmitters. Data collected during characterization of these projections suggested that synaptic activation of SON neurons via LOT stimulation in slices influenced the incidence of dye-coupling. The present study pursued this suggestion using horizontally cut slices from male, virgin female and lactating rats. Neurons were confirmed to be excited by electrical stimulation of the tract, injected with Lucifer yellow, and synaptically activated for 10 min at 10 Hz (n = 92). Another 94 neurons were similarly confirmed and injected, but received no further stimulation. In an additional 8 slices, injected neurons were antidromically activated for 10 min at 10 Hz. Analyses done on 194 injected neurons from the 3 groups showed that synaptic activation resulted in a significant (P less than 0.01) increase in the incidence of coupling only in tissue from lactating rats. This increase was entirely due to larger numbers of cells being coupled dendrodendritically to the injected cells in the stimulated slices. Antidromic activation did not influence coupling. Increased coupling occurred among both oxytocin and vasopressin cell types. This is the first report of increased coupling resulting from synaptic activation in mammalian CNS. Changes seen only in lactating rats may be related to their altered SON ultrastructural morphology (i.e. dendritic bundling). Strong olfactory and vomeronasal input associated with some maternal behaviors may increase neuronal coupling and enhance hormone release in response to other incoming stimuli (e.g. suckling, dehydration).
The two inositol phosphate-binding proteins, the Ins(1,4,5)P3 (InsP3) and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 (InsP4) receptors, and the two particulate InsP3-metabolizing enzymes, InsP3 5-phosphatase and InsP3 3-kinase, were solubilized with detergent from rat cerebellar membranes. These four activities are shown to be distinct molecular species by separation using a variety of protein chromatographic steps. The pharmacology of the partially purified InsP4-binding site indicates that the binding has a high affinity and selectivity for InsP4 over InsP3. These results suggest the existence of a distinct specific InsP4-binding protein which may represent the receptor for this putative second messenger.
We describe a quantitative slab gel electrophoresis procedure that allows quantitative determination of plasma levels of discrete cholinesterase isozymes. Using this method, the effects of haloperidol treatment on plasma cholinesterase isozyme levels were examined in normal rats. Eight isozymes were detected by enzymatic reaction with either of two substrates (alpha-naphthyl acetate, NA; acetylthiocholine iodide, AcTCh), and then quantified using densitometric scanning. With AcTCh substrate, the activities of two major isozymes (1 and 2) were found to be linear with increasing quantities of applied plasma. With NA as substrate, Iso-OMPA (a pseudocholinesterase inhibitor) inhibited activities of all isozymes, except isozymes 2 and 8. With either substrate, BW284C51 (acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) inhibited 100% and 13% of activity of isozymes 2 and 8, respectively, and with AcTCh substrate, 37% of isozyme 1. Based on the differential patterns of substrate specificity and action of inhibitors, and the reproducibility of patterns, we propose that these isozymes represent distinct molecular species. Short-term (14 days) and long-term (45 days) haloperidol treatment both resulted in altered levels of specific cholinesterase (ChE) isozymes. On the average, with AcTCh substrate, haloperidol treatment increased levels of isozymes 1 and 2 by 30% and 8%, respectively, after 14 days, and by 50% and 30%, respectively, after 45 days. Isozymes 3 through 8 showed minor changes. Plasma levels of isozymes 1 and 2 returned to baseline pretreatment values after a 40-day drug-free period. No significant change was observed after either short- or long-term treatment with clozapine, imipramine, or saline, or after an acute (less than 5 days) haloperidol treatment. No change was noted in RBC-ChE levels as function of treatment. These findings indicate that, in the rat, chronic haloperidol treatment results in differential changes in the plasma levels of discrete ChE isozymes. We have suggested that these changes reflect an alteration of central dopaminergic-cholinergic balance.
We have characterized the odorant binding properties of purified bovine odorant-binding protein (OBP) using as a ligand [3H]3,7-dimethyloctan-1-ol ([3H]DMO). A broad variety of odorants, including terpenes, aldehydes, esters, and musks, bind to OBP with affinities of 0.2 to 100 microM. Odorant affinities for OBP correlate most closely with their stimulation of an odorant-sensitive adenylyl cyclase as well as hydrophobicity. We also measured the kinetics of binding for the ligands, [3H]DMO and 2-isobutyl-3-[3H]methoxypyrazine. Dissociation of both is markedly accelerated in the presence of excess unlabeled ligand. Competition curves of displacers for [3H]DMO binding are shallow, and saturation binding isotherms for 3H-odorants are curvilinear. These kinetic and equilibrium binding properties suggest that OBP interactions with odorant ligands are negatively cooperative.
A genomic clone encoding the Purkinje cell-specific L7 protein has been isolated and utilized to drive the expression of beta-galactosidase in mice. Three independent transgenic lines, germ line transformed with an L7-beta-galactosidase fusion gene, exhibit beta-galactosidase expression in both cerebellar Purkinje cells and retinal bipolar neurons. This distribution is the same as that previously determined for the L7 protein by immunohistochemistry. The transgenic murine lines can be used to obtain populations of marked Purkinje and bipolar neurons. Similar L7 promoter constructs can be used to express other foreign genes specifically in these two classes of neurons.
The cDNA clones encoding two chicken Deformed (Dfd) family homeobox containing genes Chox-1.4 and Chox-a were isolated. Comparison of their amino acid sequences with another chicken Dfd family homeodomain protein and with those of mouse homologues revealed that strong homologies are located in the amino terminal regions and around the homeodomains. Although homologies in other regions were relatively low, some short conserved sequences were also identified. E. coli-made full length proteins were purified and used for the production of specific antibodies and for DNA binding studies. The binding profiles of these proteins to the 5'-leader and 5'-upstream sequences of Chox-1.4 and Chox-a coding regions were analyzed by immunoprecipitation and DNase I footprint assays. These two Chox proteins bound to the same sites in the 5'-flanking sequences of their coding regions with various affinities and their binding affinities to each site were nearly the same. The consensus sequences of the high and low affinity binding sites were TAATGA(C/G) and CTAATTTT, respectively. A clustered binding site was identified in the 5'-upstream of the Chox-a gene, suggesting that this clustered binding site works as a cis-regulatory element for auto- and/or cross-regulation of Chox-a gene expression.
We examined the electrophysiological properties of cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band complex (MSDB) of the rat in the in vitro slice preparation. Cells were identified electrophysiologically, filled with Lucifer yellow, fixed and processed for immunohistochemistry with fluorescent labeled anti-choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) antibody. Cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons differed in action potential parameters, spike afterpotentials and in current-voltage relationships. In addition, cholinergic neurons expressed a potent transient outward rectification in response to a depolarizing current pulse.
Adrenergic innervation of tibial and vagus nerves was studied after 1-16 weeks duration of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in rats. Sucrose-phosphate glyoxylic acid (SPG) histochemistry and the formaldehyde-induced fluorescence (FIF) method were used to demonstrate adrenergic nerve fibers in the epi-perineurial and endoneurial compartments. Densities of innervation were quantitated with fluorescence microscopy. The density of periarteriolar adrenergic innervation in the epi-perineurium of the tibial and vagus nerves was increased 5 and 12 weeks after STZ injections as compared with control. At 16 weeks, mean densities of periarteriolar innervation in epi-perineurium had returned to or below control levels in both nerve types. In the endoneurium, however, the mean density of adrenergic nerve fibers decreased gradually at 5 weeks after induction of diabetes in both nerves, and was totally absent at 12 weeks. At 16 weeks no sign of recovering innervation in the endoneurium was seen. In conclusion, adrenergic innervation goes through similar pathological alterations both in tibial and vagus nerves shortly after the induction of streptozotocin diabetes. These changes may contribute to diabetic peripheral neuropathy by impairing the regulation of nerve blood flow.
We have used the polymerase chain reaction technique (PCR) to clone the cDNA of the D2 dopamine receptor from rat striatal mRNA. Two major PCR products were produced; one product was identical to a previously published rat cDNA, while the other, more abundant product differed only by an 87-nucleotide insert located in the region of the putative third cytoplasmic loop of the D2 receptor. A PCR approach for determining message abundance was used to determine the relative message abundance of the two forms of the D2 receptor in a variety of tissues. Possible implications of the two forms of the D2 receptor for dopamine-mediated signal transduction are discussed.

The chronic treatment of rats with antipsychotic drugs which increase striatal D2 dopamine receptors did not measurably increase the level of D2 receptor mRNA indicating that the observed increase in receptors was not primarily due to transcriptional regulation. These and other data suggest that the molecular mechanisms involved in receptor regulation in response to denervation or neurotransmitter depletion may be different from those which occur in response to chronic receptor blockade by antagonist drugs.
Epinephrine levels in the intermediolateral cell group in the rat spinal cord are very low, although there is a dense projection to this region from cells containing all the enzymes required for epinephrine biosynthesis. One explanation for this finding is that epinephrine in the nerve terminals is degraded as soon as it is synthesized, so that no epinephrine is actually stored in synaptic vesicles. To test this hypothesis, epinephrine levels were measured in spinal cord of rats pretreated with an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase, the major enzyme involved in epinephrine degradation. Selected other tissues (i.e. brainstem, hypothalamus, adrenal gland, superior cervical ganglion) were examined for comparison. Pargyline treatment (75 mg/kg i.p., 4 h prior to sacrifice) increased catecholamine levels in spinal cord, hypothalamus, and brainstem. However, the percent increase in epinephrine in the spinal cord and brainstem was much larger than that for dopamine and norepinephrine in the 3 central nervous system regions studied, as well as larger than that for epinephrine in the hypothalamus. These results suggest that phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-containing terminals in the rat spinal cord can synthesize epinephrine, but that little if any epinephrine is stored in synaptic vesicles due to the rapid metabolism of cytoplasmic catecholamines by monoamine oxidase. In contrast, pargyline pretreatment had no effect on catechol levels in the adrenal gland, suggesting that little metabolism of catecholamines takes place in those epinephrine-synthesizing cells. Furthermore, since pargyline pretreatment increased norepinephrine levels but decreased dopamine levels in the superior cervical ganglion, it is suggested that most of the dopamine in that sympathetic ganglion is present as a precursor to norepinephrine in noradrenergic postganglionic sympathetic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neuronal loss in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) has been consistently associated with learning and memory impairments. Previous studies have used excitotoxicants such as kainic acid or ibotenic acid to examine the behavioral consequences of NBM lesions. In the present study, rats were given bilateral injections of the neurotoxicant colchicine (1.0 micrograms/site) into the NBM and examined for changes in learning and memory. Unlike excitotoxicants, which can produce extensive subcortical damage, colchicine produced a lesion limited to the site of injection. Histological studies demonstrated that colchicine decreased the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive cells in the NBM, and resulted in a marked loss of cortical acetylcholinesterase staining. Separate neurochemical analysis showed that colchicine lesions decreased ChAT activity in the neocortex but not the hippocampus or caudate nucleus. Similar to previous studies, rats with NBM lesions showed a large deficit in a passive avoidance task. Lesions of the NBM impaired acquisition of a reference memory task in the Morris water maze. However, the deficit was transient and with continued training lesioned rats performed as well as controls. In a reversal test in the water maze the learning deficit reappeared. These data suggest that colchicine may be useful in producing lesions of the NBM, which primarily affects the rate of acquisition of a spatial reference memory task.
In the present study, tryptamine produced a slow hyperpolarization in a few neurons other than a slow depolarization in myenteric neurons of the isolated guinea-pig ileum. Neither the adrenergic neuron blocker, guanethidine nor the 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake inhibitor, zimelidine, which can inhibit the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine from enteric neurites induced by tryptamine (M. Takaki et al. (1985) Neuroscience 16, 223-240), affected this slow hyperpolarization. Therefore, it was concluded that the slow hyperpolarization induced by tryptamine in myenteric neurons was not mediated via the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine or noradrenaline. It might be possible that the hyperpolarization was induced by a direct action of tryptamine on myenteric neurons per se.
Receptors for the brain and gut peptide cholecystokinin (CCK) have been classified into two classes, CCK-A and CCK-B. To date, peptide analogues with selectivity for the CCK-B receptors have been identified, and selective antagonists for CCK-A and CCK-B receptors have been reported as well; until now, there have been no reports of highly selective CCK-A agonists. Herein we describe the properties of A71378 [desamino-Try(SO3H)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-(N-methyl)Asp-Phe-NH2], a highly selective CCK-A receptor ligand. Characterization of A71378 was carried out in the guinea pig pancreas, cortex, gastric gland, and ileum, as well as in NCI-H345 cells. The IC50 values of A71378 for the pancreatic CCK-A, cortical CCK-B, and gastrin receptor were 0.4 nM, 300 nM, and 1,200 nM, respectively. A71378 proved to be a potent agonist in eliciting pancreatic amylase secretion (EC50 = 0.16 nM) and ileal muscle contraction (EC50 = 3.7 nM). In contrast, A71378 was relatively weak (EC50 = 600 nM) in mobilizing intracellular calcium from NCI-H345 cells, which express CCK-B/gastrin receptors. The high potency and selectivity of A71378 for the CCK-A over CCK-B and gastrin receptors is unprecedented among CCK peptides. Studies on CCK-7 analogues indicate that N-methylation of the Asp residue is responsible for the observed selectivity for CCK-A receptors. This discovery of a selective CCK-A agonist should prove valuable for studies aimed at understanding the physiological roles of CCK-A receptors in the brain and periphery.
Regional loss of immunohistochemically identified neurons in serial sections through the brainstem of 4 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease was compared with equivalent sections from 4 age-matched control subjects. In the Parkinson brains, the catecholamine cell groups of the midbrain, pons, and medulla showed variable neuropathological changes. All dopaminergic nuclei were variably affected, but were most severely affected in the caudal, central substantia nigra. The pontine noradrenergic locus ceruleus showed variable degrees of degeneration. There was also a substantial loss of substance P-containing neurons in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. However, the most severely affected cell group in the pons was the serotonin-synthesizing neurons in the median raphe. In the medulla, substantial neuronal loss was found in several diverse cell groups including the adrenaline-synthesizing and neuropeptide Y-containing neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the serotonin-synthesizing neurons in the raphe obscurus nucleus, the substance P-containing neurons in the lateral reticular formation, as well as the substance P-containing neurons in the dorsal motor vagal nucleus. Lewy bodies were present in immunohistochemically identified neurons in many of these regions, indicating that they were affected directly by the disease process. These widespread but region- and transmitter-specific changes help account for the diversity of motor, cognitive, and autonomic manifestations of Parkinson's disease.

Tests of the perception and use of linear acceleration sensory information were performed on the science crews of the Spacelab 1 (SL-1) and D-1 missions using linear &quot;sleds&quot; in-flight (D-1) and pre-post flight. The time delay between the acceleration step stimulus and the subjective response was consistently reduced during weightlessness, but was neither statistically significant nor of functional importance. Increased variability of responses when going from one environment to the other was apparent from measurements on the first day of the mission and in the first days post-flight. Subjective reports of perceived motion during sinusoidal oscillation in weightlessness were qualitatively similar to reports on earth. In a closed-loop motion nulling task, enhanced performance was observed post-flight in all crewmembers tested in the Y or Z axes.
We investigated whether administration of monosodium L-glutamate (MSG) to neonatal female rats would block the selective increase in serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) concentration in immature rats in an attempt to provide a model in which to study the importance of the selective FSH rise on ovarian follicular development. In two separate experiments, s.c. injections of MSG (4 mg/g BW) on Days 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 after birth blocked the selective increase in serum FSH concentration observed on Days 7 and 15 without blocking basal FSH secretion. Serum luteinizing hormone (LH) levels were unaffected in the first experiment and changed little in the second. MSG-treated rats had smaller ovaries on Days 15 and 23. The ovaries of MSG-treated rats on Day 15 showed decreased follicular growth as evidenced by a decrease in the number and percentage of follicles with diameters greater than 50 microns, in the number of follicles with greater than 1 layer of granulosa cells, and in the number of follicles beyond the primary stage of follicular development. These differences between MSG-treated rats and controls all but disappeared by Day 23. The results demonstrate that neonatal administration of MSG blocks the selective increase in serum FSH concentration in immature female rats and suggest that this selective increase in serum FSH levels plays a role in the normal acceleration of ovarian follicular development but is not needed for the development of preovulatory follicles by the sixth week after birth.
Sixty young subjects in the 15-23 age range, selected on the basis of a questionnaire on the degree of exposure to amplified music, underwent 'high resolution' (4 min per octave) sweep-frequency Bksy tracking audiometry, and measurement of auditory frequency resolution at 4 kHz using the psychophysical comb-filtered noise masking technique. The more exposed groups had 10-15% wider bandwidths than the least exposed, and this difference achieved significance when subjects having audiometric notches were excluded, or when a subset of exposed subjects was taken in whom subjective evidence was obtained of Temporary Threshold Shift or post-exposure tinnitus. While the most exposed groups did not show significantly greater averaged thresholds, there was in the older age group, a significantly increased prevalence of notches in the audiograms in the 3.5-6 kHz range. We conclude that exposure to amplified music can be harmful, the earliest sign being decrease in frequency resolution, and that early elevation of thresholds is better detected by high-resolution Bksy tracking (extending over the range 2-8 kHz) than by conventional fixed-frequency audiometry.
Temporal modulation sensitivity functions were measured centrally and at eccentricities of 2.5 degrees, 5 degrees and 10 degrees in the temporal visual field of 12 patients with recovered optic neuritis and in a group of matched normal controls. A circular, spatially uniform stimulus of 1 degree angular subtense was presented with sinusoidal modulation at 5, 8, 14 and 23 Hz. The general pattern of results in patients was a loss of sensitivity relative to normal controls at all temporal frequencies at 0 degree and 2.5 degrees eccentricity, with rather greater losses occurring at the medium-to-lower temporal frequencies. At 5 degrees eccentricity, the losses were confined to medium temporal frequencies only, and at 10 degrees eccentricity there was no significant loss at any temporal frequency. These findings may be explained by a greater vulnerability of optic nerve fibers of small diameters to the effects of demyelinating disease.
The postnatal development of the distribution of somatostatin immunoreactive (SOMLI) neurons and fibers in the forebrain of the Balb/C mouse and their relationship to cholinergic afferents have been examined. SOMLI was first discernable in the hypothalamus on postnatal day (PND) 3 and increased gradually to reach adult levels by PND 30. In the limbic system, SOMLI is detectable at birth. In all other structures of the forebrain, SOMLI could be observed by PND 3 but the distribution, density and morphology of the immunoreactive neurons evolved over the following 2-3 weeks. In general, SOMLI cells and fibers increased for 1-3 weeks after their initial appearance and subsequently declined to achieve adult levels. The distribution pattern of SOMLI elements in adult mouse brain was similar to previous reports in rat with a few notable differences in thalamus, olfactory structures and, to a lesser degree, cortex and hippocampus. The temporal pattern of SOMLI expression in extrahypothalamus forebrain regions, during development, suggests a role of this peptide in differentiation and synapse formation. Such an hypothesis receives further support from neonatal lesions of the basal forebrain which resulted in transient cortical cholinergic deafferentation, a delay of cortical differentiation and a transient increase in the number of SOMLI cells in cortex.
In this paper we validate a methodology, ligand autoradiographic receptor screening (LARS), for detecting expression of full length receptor cDNAs in COS cells. The method involves transfection of COS cells with receptor cDNAs by spheroplast fusion, production of filter replicas of the cell fragments, ligand binding to the receptors expressed in the membranes, and autoradiographic detection of bound ligand. A beta-adrenergic receptor cDNA cloned into a eukaryotic expression vector reliably induces high levels of beta-adrenergic receptor expression in 2-12% of COS cell colonies transfected with this plasmid after experimental conditions are optimized. Receptor expression is monitored by autoradiographic detection of 125iodocyanopindolol binding to COS cell fragments immobilized on polyester filter replicas. Binding displays appropriate pharmacological properties. The number of high-density binding spots per filter depends on the fraction of the spheroplasts in the fusion mixture that contain the beta-adrenergic receptor cDNA. A 100-plate LARS experiment can assess receptor expression in more than 10(4) transfected colonies. Thus detection of receptor-encoding sequences present in libraries in proportions as low as 1 in 10(4) should be possible. This technique may therefore be useful in detecting expression of other receptor cDNAs for which selective radioligands are available.
The regulatory effect of the perforant path on opioid gene expression in the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal region was investigated. The left perforant path was electrically stimulated at the angular bundle under conditions which elicit wet dog shakes but no motor seizures in rats. Animals were given either an acute stimulation composed of several consecutive stimulation trials, or daily stimulations with a single trial every day for 6 days. Rats were then sacrificed at 24 h or 6 days after the last trial. The amounts of prodynorphin mRNA (DYN mRNA) and proenkephalin A mRNA (EK mRNA) in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex were measured by RNA blot analysis. Dynorphin A(1-8) and [Met5]enkephalin immunoreactivities were determined by radioimmunoassay. A decrease in DYN mRNA level of approximately 50-80% was found on both sides of the hippocampus 24 h after both acute and daily stimulation. Hippocampal dynorphin A(1-8) immunoreactivity was also reduced at 24 h, and persisted for at least 6 days. In contrast, bilateral increases in EK mRNA level were observed in the hippocampus (54-101%) and entorhinal cortex (97-165%) 24 h after the acute stimulation. Also, [Met5]enkephalin immunoreactivity in the hippocampus tended to be increased at this time. These results indicate that activation of the perforant path inhibits the gene expression of prodynorphin, but enhances that of proenkephalin in the entorhinal cortex-hippocampal region.
The high incidence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seropositivity among drug abusers prompted us to examine in an animal model the effects of morphine on aspects of the immune system that may be specifically related to HIV infection. We now report a robust, sustained elevation in the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ cells in the spleen and thymus of mice chronically treated with morphine. Since CD4+ cells have been reported to be target cells for HIV, these alterations, in concert with a marked cellular atrophy that appears to be restricted to organs of the immune system, suggest that opiates may serve as cofactors in altering the immune status of the host and thus contribute to the increased susceptibility to HIV infection and eventual development of AIDS in opiate abusers.
Three cases of children with spinal dysraphism are reported. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used as a primary diagnostic examination. The ages of the patients were 2 days, 4 years, and 16 years. In all instances the scan gave a precise diagnosis as well as well as an accurate delineation of the structural abnormalities before surgical treatment. Plain radiographs and ultrasound analysis may not be helpful, and invasive procedures can be associated with morbidity. Technical ease, safety, and anatomic precision suggest that MRI should be performed as a primary radiologic examination in the diagnostic workup of spinal dysraphism.
In the developing mammalian central nervous system astrocytes have been proposed as an important substrate for axon growth. In the adult central nervous system following injury, astrocytes are a major component of the gliotic response which has been proposed to block axon growth. Experimental transplantation studies using cultured astrocytes have suggested that immature but not mature cultured astrocytes have the capacity to support axon outgrowth when transplanted into the adult rodent CNS. These observations suggest that astrocyte maturation is accompanied by changes in the functional capacity of these cells to support axon outgrowth. To determine whether this functional change reflects an intrisic astrocyte property, the extent and molecular bases of neurite outgrowth from embryonic rat cortical and chick retinal neurons on cultures of purified immature and mature astrocytes have been compared in vitro. The rate and extent of neurite outgrowth from both neuronal populations are consistently greater over the surface of immature than over the surface of mature astrocytes. Furthermore, antibodies to NCAM and G4/L1 significantly reduce neurite outgrowth on immature but not mature astrocytes, while antibodies to the integrin B1 receptor reduced outgrowth on both immature and, to a lesser extent, mature astrocytes. These results suggest that in vitro mature astrocytes have a reduced capacity and different molecular bases for supporting neurite outgrowth compared to immature astrocytes and are consistent with the proposal that functional changes during astrocyte maturation may partially contribute to regulating axon growth in the mammalian CNS.
Dissociated neurons from the trigeminal (V) region of the metencephalic basal plate or the ventral spinal cord from chick embryos of Day 4 (V basal plate) or Day 5 (spinal cord) were cultured on a laminin substratum either in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF) or in control medium. Assessment was made of neuronal survival, the amount of neurite elaborated, and the percentage of neurons initiating neurites. The presence of motoneurons was verified by retrograde labeling with the fluorescent dye diI. NGF was found to significantly increase the quantity of neuritic processes produced by the spinal cord dissociates at both 24 and 48 hr in vitro. The percentage of neurons initiating neuritic processes was significantly increased by NGF in the trigeminal population at 48 hr in vitro. Neuronal survival was not enhanced by NGF in either group. Both trigeminal and spinal cord neurons were also found to specifically bind 125I-NGF in culture. These results provide direct evidence for an influence of NGF on process formation of early embryonic motoneurons in culture.
Radiolabeled Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) was injected into either the mandibular process of the first visceral arch or the limb bud of chick embryos at Days 3.5-14 or Days 4-13 of incubation, respectively. Control embryos received injections of labeled cytochrome-C or labeled NGF plus an excess of unlabeled NGF. The tissues were then processed for autoradiography. The 125I-NGF was retrogradely transported by motoneurons of the trigeminal (V) motor nucleus on Days 3.5-8 of incubation, but not at later stages. Similar transport was seen in motoneurons of the spinal cord lateral motor column from Days 4-10 of incubation, but not at later stages. Sensory neurons of the V ganglion and of the dorsal root ganglia transported NGF at all injection ages. In no instance was the 125I-cytochrome-C transported by sensory or motor neurons. The injection of an excess of cold NGF along with labeled NGF resulted in no evidence of retrograde transport of the labeled NGF indicating that the transport was saturable. The time of transport by these brainstem and spinal cord motoneurons corresponds closely to the points during development at which they have been found to exhibit specific NGF binding. The present results, then, provide further evidence for a possible biological role for NGF during early developmental stages of these motoneuron populations.
Certain types of glial structures, located at strategic positions along axon pathways, may provide the mechanical and/or chemical elements for the construction of barriers which can grossly direct the elongation of axons during development. The roof plate, a putative axon barrier, is located along the dorsal midline of the developing spinal cord and may be important for the guidance of the commissural and dorsal column axons. We examined the roof plate to determine the developmental morphology of the region and to determine which molecules were correlated with the barrier function when axons were growing nearby. Light and electron microscopic observations of the roof plate revealed that this glial domain undergoes a dramatic change in shape from a &quot;wedge&quot; with large extracellular spaces between the cell apices at E12.5 to a thin, dense septum with reduced extracellular space at E15.5. Immunocytochemical techniques demonstrated that highly sialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), the carbohydrate recognized by L2 monoclonal antibody, cholinesterase, stage-specific embryonic antigen 1, and a ligand that binds tetragonolobus purpureas agglutinin are expressed by the roof plate. These molecules, however, were also found in other regions of the spinal cord which are permissive or attractive to axon growth. A molecule which is unique to the roof plate when axons grow close to, but do not cross, the dorsal midline is a glycosaminoglycan (GAG), keratan sulfate. Keratan sulfate is also present in the tectal midline and in other noninnervated regions such as the outer epidermis and developing cartilage. Our data suggest that keratan sulfate, alone or in combination with other molecules expressed by the roof plate, may be responsible, in part, for the inhibition of axon elongation through the roof plate in the embryonic spinal cord.
We have analyzed lineages of cells labeled by intracellular injection of tracer dye during early zebrafish development to learn when cells become allocated to particular fates during development, and how the fate map is organized. The earliest lineage restriction was described previously, and segregates the yolk cell from the blastoderm in the midblastula. After one or two more cell divisions, the lineages of epithelial enveloping layer (EVL) cells become restricted to generate exclusively periderm. Following an additional division in the late blastula, deep layer (DEL) cells generate clones that are restricted to single deep embryonic tissues. The appearance of both the EVL and DEL restrictions could be causally linked to blastoderm morphogenesis during epiboly. A fate map emerges as the DEL cell lineages become restricted in the late blastula. It is similar in organization to that of an amphibian embryo. DEL cells located near the animal pole of the early gastrula give rise to ectodermal fates (including the definitive epidermis). Cells located near the blastoderm margin give rise to mesodermal and endodermal fates. Dorsal cells in the gastrula form dorsal and anterior structures in the embryo, and ventral cells in the gastrula form dorsal, ventral and posterior structures. The exact locations of progenitors of single cell types and of local regions of the embryo cannot be mapped at the stages we examined, because of variable cell rearrangements during gastrulation.
Beginning during the late blastula stage in zebrafish, cells located beneath a surface epithelial layer of the blastoderm undergo rearrangements that accompany major changes in shape of the embryo. We describe three distinctive kinds of cell rearrangements. (1) Radial cell intercalations during epiboly mix cells located deeply in the blastoderm among more superficial ones. These rearrangements thoroughly stir the positions of deep cells, as the blastoderm thins and spreads across the yolk cell. (2) Involution at or near the blastoderm margin occurs during gastrulation. This movement folds the blastoderm into two cellular layers, the epiblast and hypoblast, within a ring (the germ ring) around its entire circumference. Involuting cells move anteriorwards in the hypoblast relative to cells that remain in the epiblast; the movement shears the positions of cells that were neighbors before gastrulation. Involuting cells eventually form endoderm and mesoderm, in an anterior-posterior sequence according to the time of involution. The epiblast is equivalent to embryonic ectoderm. (3) Mediolateral cell intercalations in both the epiblast and hypoblast mediate convergence and extension movements towards the dorsal side of the gastrula. By this rearrangement, cells that were initially neighboring one another become dispersed along the anterior-posterior axis of the embryo. Epiboly, involution and convergent extension in zebrafish involve the same kinds of cellular rearrangements as in amphibians, and they occur during comparable stages of embryogenesis.
It is sometimes desirable to identify a brief seizure, occasional spike, single evoked potential, or other transient in the EEG. Transient detection in an EEG can be a difficult task, often requiring prior knowledge of the characteristics of the transient. A fractal is a shape which retains structural detail despite magnification (scaling). The complexity of the structure of such a set, invariant under this scaling, can be characterized by a single number: the fractal dimension. Regarding the EEG as a fractal, we have shown that transient deterministic data in the EEG have a fractal dimension different from the quasirandom background. An extensive introduction to fractals is presented with the assumption that the reader is unfamiliar with the theory. In the preliminary results presented here, analysis by fractal dimension is shown to be a promising method of transient detection, requiring no prior knowledge of the characteristics of the transient. Possible applications of the technique to evoked potential technology and epilepsy surgery are discussed. Other applications to biology, neuroscience and medicine are reviewed.
The spontaneous EEG, pattern reversal VEPs, and the P300 wave were studied in patients with liver cirrhosis and early stages of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). The sensitivities of the different neurophysiological methods in the early stages of hepatic encephalopathy were compared with each other and with several neuropsychological tests. P300 latency was shown to be the most appropriate neurophysiological method for detection of early HE. The diagnostic sensitivity of the P300 latency resembled that of the number connection test (NCT). These results are discussed with regard to methodological considerations and the clinical use of both methods.
The effects of low pass filtering on the brainstem auditory evoked potential (BAEP) were studied in the lightly anaesthetised rat. The high pass filter was kept fixed at 100 Hz in order to exclude the slow components on which the four fast waves of the BAEP are superimposed. The cut-off frequency of the low pass filter was systematically raised from 160 to 32 k HZ. With a band pass of 100-160 Hz, the BAEP waveform could barely be discerned. With a bandpass of 100-320 Hz, all four BAEP waves were apparent but of diminutive amplitude. With subsequent increases in the high frequency cut-off, the BAEP waveform became more clearly defined with increases in the amplitudes and decreases in the latencies of all four waves. However, beyond 8 k Hz, there was little additional change in waveform morphology. With widening of the bandpass, there was only a small concomitant decrease in brainstem transmission time. This implies that the effects of low pass filtering acted in a basically uniform manner on all four BAEP waves.
To examine the relationship between PRL and the mitogenic capacity of lymphocytes, we studied the relationships among circulating PRL levels, somatic growth, and the response of splenic lymphocytes to the mitogen phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in hamsters. In the first experiment, no differences were observed in the PHA responses of lymphocytes removed from intact or hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters. No relationships were observed between circulating PRL levels and either the PHA responses or somatic growth. However, significant positive correlations were observed between the somatic growth of intact or hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters and the PHA responses (r = 0.741; P less than 0.01 for intact hamsters; r = 0.642; P less than 0.01 for hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters). In three subsequent experiments we tested the effects of placing muscle or hypophysial allografts in hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters on somatic growth, the PHA responses, and circulating PRL levels. Neither type of allograft altered the somatic growth of hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters. The hypophysial allografts did elevate serum PRL levels. In all experiments the responses of splenic lymphocytes to PHA showed a significant positive correlation with somatic growth, but not with serum PRL levels. These results minimize a role of PRL in this particular lymphocyte response. The results suggest that a strong correlation exists between mechanisms responsible for somatic growth in hypophysectomized-orchidectomized hamsters and the immune status, as determined by the response to PHA, of the animals. This relationship also may exist in intact hamsters.
We have demonstrated that anterior pituitary corticotropes can be identified cytochemically by their capacity to bind potent biotinylated analogs of CRH. In addition, 50-80% of corticotropes bind biotinylated arginine vasopressin (AVP). The percentage of CRH-bound cells is rapidly reduced after 1-h exposure to glucocorticoids. However, the rapid effects of glucocorticoids on AVP binding by corticotropes have not been tested. The first aim of this study was to examine the binding capacity of small and large corticotropes enriched to 90% by counterflow centrifugation. Biotinylated analogs of CRH or AVP were detected cytochemically on the cells by avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex protocols. At least 80% of the cells bound CRH after 1 day of culture. More large corticotropes bound AVP (93%) than small corticotropes (80%). AVP pretreatment of large corticotropes stimulated an increase in CRH-bound cells to over 90%, but it had no effect on CRH binding by small corticotropes. Corticosterone pretreatment (100 nM) for 10 min caused a 50% reduction in the percentage of cells that bound CRH and in the levels of ACTH released in response to biotinylated CRH. After 30 and 60 min of pretreatment, the percentages of CRH-bound cells were reduced by 75%, and ACTH levels remained low. No reduction in percentages of AVP-bound cells was evident at any time point after corticosterone pretreatment. These studies stimulated further tests based on previous reports that showed that AVP or its activated second messengers enhanced CRH binding. We reasoned that this potentiation might promote a recovery in CRH binding to corticosterone-inhibited cells. However, 1-h stimulation by AVP or activation of calcium channels (by Bay K 8644) or protein kinase-C by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate did not restore CRH binding. AVP evoked a partial recovery in ACTH release. Furthermore, Bay K and 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate pretreatment effectively blocked the fast feedback effects of corticosterone on CRH-mediated ACTH release. Thus, these studies demonstrate that glucocorticoids rapidly inhibit CRH-receptor binding in a domain that is not affected by AVP potentiation of ACTH release. Perhaps they immobilize transport processes needed to bring unoccupied CRH receptors to the surface for binding and cytochemical detection.
We have previously observed 3- to 10-fold increases in pituitary LH beta-subunit mRNA levels in the rat 28 days after castration. These changes correlate with increases in percentages and areas of cells that bear the LH beta mRNA and with the amount of label for mRNA per cell. In contrast, FSH beta mRNA levels increase 2.5- to 4-fold 7-14 days after castration, decline to near-intact levels 28 days postcastration, and rise 4.5-fold by 96 days postcastration. The purpose of this study was to determine morphological correlates of these changes in FSH beta mRNA levels. Dispersed pituitary cells from intact and castrated rats were analyzed for FSH beta and LH beta mRNAs and protein by in situ hybridization techniques and immunocytochemistry, respectively. In intact animals over 79% of pituitary cells labeled for FSH beta mRNA were small (area less than 150 microns 2). However, 7 days after castration, the average area of labeled cells increased 4-fold (80% were over 200 microns 2 in area), without a significant change in percentages of FSH beta mRNA-containing cells. The amount of mRNA per cell (as measured by area of label per cell) increased 6-fold. Fourteen days after castration, the average area of cells containing FSH beta mRNA decreased to 2 times that in intact rats (48% were greater than 200 microns 2). The percentage of labeled cells increased from 11% (intact) to 20%. Furthermore, the dual labeling studies showed that 37% of these FSH cells were monohormonal (detected by FSH beta mRNA, but not LH beta antigen) compared with 23% in intact rats. At this same time, the FSH cells exhibited a decrease in the amount of mRNA per cell. In 21- to 84-day castrates, average areas of FSH beta mRNA remained at 2-2.5 times the areas of cells from intact rats. In addition, 21 days after surgery the percentages of labeled cells and amount of FSH beta mRNA per cell declined to those in intact rats. A greater proportion was multihormonal (only 15% expressed FSH beta mRNA but not LH beta antigens). At 84 days there were 2-fold increases in the percentages of labeled cells and the density of label, which correlate with the recovery in mRNA levels assayed at 96 days. Thus, factors that contribute to the early rise in FSH beta mRNA include increases in the amount of mRNA per cell, which coincides with increased cell area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The binding of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) antigenic sites in the rabbit retina was shown to be sensitive to aldehyde fixation. In chemically unfixed retina, the polyclonal anti-GFAP labeled Mller cells, astrocytes, and unidentified profiles in the outer plexiform layer; the monoclonal anti-GFAP labeled Mller cell endfeet and astrocytes only. The outer plexiform layer label with the polyclonal antibody was lost after fixation for 1 hr in 1% paraformaldehyde; elsewhere, the label was reduced. Fixation also reduced labeling by the monoclonal antibody. Such fixation sensitivity may underlie the different patterns reported for retinal GFAP immunoreactivity in the literature.

Psychotherapy is being increasingly recognised as an important treatment modality for various mental health problems. However, minimal efforts have been made to examine the utility of psychotherapy from the public health perspective, especially for developing countries. This paper outlines the present situation in developing countries with respect to the magnitude of mental health and related problems requiring psychotherapeutic help, the existing health and mental health facilities, the current training in psychiatry and psychotherapy in different training programmes, and the current state of mental health knowledge and skills of primary care personnel. A number of strategies for public health action are delineated to enhance the availability of this form of treatment to the large number of people requiring psychotherapeutic help. The needs for systematic research in this area are highlighted.


The psychoanalytic treatment of psychotic disorders has had a long and complicated history because of the historic preference of psychoanalysis for neurotics. Nevertheless, it has survived the prejudice of psychoanalysts and empirical psychiatrists and now enters an interdisciplinary phase in which psychotic psychopathology is understood as primarily an emotional disorder, but one that must also be considered from the point of view of neurobiology and neuropsychology as well as sociology. In this contribution, I offer the idea that perhaps the most important subtext in the psyche of the psychotic is what has been called the black hole. This massive deficit is ultimately attributable to a precocious abruption of the mother's physical and psychical presence from the infant, a phenomenon that has hereditary, congenital, perinatal, and continuing developmental reinterpretive elaborations. The psychoanalytic treatment of the psychotic consists of reversing the direction of his or her cataclysmic descent into the black hole and, at the same time, empathically loosening the control that the protective psychotic alterego has on the surviving self. Further, the psychoanalytic treatment of schizophrenia, in particular (as well as many of the other primitive mental disorders), now frequently involves both an interdisciplinary orientation and perspective and choices of interdisciplinary modalities extending across the whole biopsychosocial spectrum.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter affecting motor function, and the dopamine system is the focus of abnormality in dyskinetic diseases. An important side effect of many psychotropic drugs possessing dopamine activity is the production of movement disorders; this potential problem needs to be examined carefully with any new central nervous system drug, such as the azapirone anxiolytic drugs. The pharmacology of the azapirones, represented by the prototype, buspirone, involves several different neuroreceptor systems. Current evidence indicates that buspirone's anxiolytic activity is mediated through serotonergic mechanisms. It also displays some binding affinity for dopamine receptors, which necessitates comparisons between buspirone and neuroleptic agents in preclinical tests, clinical studies, and case reports. Although similarities occurred in some biochemical studies, neuroleptics, and not buspirone, caused an increase in dopamine receptors with chronic use. Neuroleptics typically produce this change after long-term use, which is thought to be a key factor leading to tardive dyskinesia. In standard animal behavior studies, buspirone's profile failed to match neuroleptic agents. Most notably, neuroleptics produce catalepsy; however, buspirone failed to induce catalepsy and instead reversed this effect. Isolated case reports have described buspirone as causing movement disorders, but these patients were previously exposed to neuroleptic agents. Furthermore, buspirone has been used successfully to treat anxiety in parkinsonism without exacerbating existing movement problems. In psychotropic drug use, careful patient monitoring, complete drug histories, and a full appreciation for a drug's pharmacology are necessary to decipher any likelihood of a drug relation with an adverse effect.

The mdx mouse is an animal model for X-linked Duchenne muscular dystrophy. A polyclonal antibody against a synthetic peptide IV equivalent to the C-terminal portion (amino acids 3495-3544) of dystrophin crossreacted with a 400 kDa protein in the brain and the spinal cord of mdx mouse, as well as in the control B10 mouse. However, the protein did not crossreact with the polyclonal antibody raised against the N-terminal portion of dystrophin peptide I (amino acids 215-264). Immunofluorescent micrography revealed that the outside of the small arteries and the pia mater of the brain strongly reacted with the anti-peptide IV antibody. These results strongly suggest the presence of a crossreactive protein other than dystrophin, possibly a dystrophin-related autosomal gene product, in the pia mater.
Hippocampal neurons growing in culture initially extend several, short minor processes that have the potential to become either axons or dendrites. The first expression of polarity occurs when one of these minor processes begins to elongate rapidly, becoming the axon. Before axonal outgrowth, the growth-associated protein GAP-43 is distributed equally among the growth cones of the minor processes; it is preferentially concentrated in the axonal growth cone once polarity has been established (Goslin, K., D. Schreyer, J. Skene, and G. Banker. 1990. J. Neurosci. 10:588-602). To determine when the selective segregation of GAP-43 begins, we followed individual cells by video microscopy, fixed them as soon as the axon could be distinguished, and localized GAP-43 by immunofluorescence microscopy. Individual minor processes acquired axonal growth characteristics within a period of 30-60 min, and GAP-43 became selectively concentrated to the growth cones of these processes with an equally rapid time course. We also examined changes in the distribution of GAP-43 after transection of the axon. After an axonal transection that is distant from the soma, neuronal polarity is maintained, and the original axon begins to regrow almost immediately. In such cases, GAP-43 became selectively concentrated in the new axonal growth cone within 12-30 min. In contrast, when the axon is transected close to the soma, polarity is lost; the original axon rarely regrows, and there is a significant delay before a new axon emerges. Under these circumstances, GAP-43 accumulated in the new growth cone much more slowly, suggesting that its ongoing selective routing to the axon had been disrupted by the transection. These results demonstrate that the selective segregation of GAP-43 to the growth cone of a single process is closely correlated with the acquisition of axonal growth characteristics and, hence, with the expression of polarity.
In view of evidence that brain serotonin (5-HT) function is abnormal in depression, the ability to alter 5-HT function has been studied as a mechanism of antidepressant drug action. In preclinical studies, antidepressants had significant effects on 5-HT receptor sensitivity. In the clinical setting, the pharmacologic challenge paradigm has generated interest as a means of studying 5-HT function. Most frequently used in these studies has been intravenous L-tryptophan (L-TRP), which increases serum prolactin (PRL). The authors review the neuroendocrine effects of intravenous L-TRP in depression and other conditions, as well as the effects of thymoleptic drugs on the PRL response to L-TRP. Findings are discussed in light of recent evidence that experimentally reduced plasma TRP can reverse the therapeutic effects of some antidepressants.

We demonstrate that preterminal axons composing the primary afferent projection onto the four somatotopically organized electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) segments in weakly electric gymnotiform teleosts course in fundamentally different directions in the most commonly studied species. Afferents enter the deep fiber layer (dfl) of the ELL and course in variable, but species-specific, directions within a horizontal plane before turning dorsally to terminate within the deep neuropil layer of the ELL (dnl). Among the species considered here, apteronotids exhibit the tightest projection pattern. Afferents enter the rostral ELL from the anterior lateral line nerve ganglion (ALLNG) in a nonsomatotopic fashion. As they course horizontally, these fibers undergo a rostrocaudal somatotopic sorting along the ventrolateral border of the dfl, then turn within a horizontal plane to course medially across the ELL segments. These medially coursing horizontal fibers are sorted: they form sublaminae according to the nerve branch containing their peripheral axon. Horizontal axons then turn dorsally, form fascicles, and terminate within the dnl. Within the dorsal fascicles, axons run directly into the dnl with little deviation, and their terminal fields exhibit no appreciable spread. In sternopygids, dfl horizontal fibers course in directions orthogonal to those in apteronotids. Fibers enter the rostral ELL and course medially across segments before turning caudally within segments. Unlike apteronotids, sternopygid horizontal fibers do not sort tightly by nerve branch. As horizontal axons turn dorsally they also form tight fascicles. But rather than terminating directly and without spreading, as in apteronotids, sternopygid fibers disperse from these fascicles and become sorted horizontally a second time prior to terminating in the dnl.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A case report of a 33-year-old woman with atypical bipolar disorder, autistic disorder, profound mental retardation and a chromosomal anomaly is presented. This patient is behaviourally similar to a patient reported by Akuffo et al. (1986), who apparently did not have a chromosomal investigation. The chromosomal anomaly and similarities between the two patients are discussed.
New pharmacotherapies for intravenous abuse of opioids and stimulants are needed to control the spread of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. To facilitate development of these new medications, it is useful to review the neurobiology of these abused drugs from the perspectives of neurotransmitter receptors and synaptic mechanisms in the brain. For the opioid drugs, the roles of the endogenous opioid system and the cyclic adenosine monophosphate second messenger system are reviewed. For the stimulants, the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems are examined as the basis for reinforcement and withdrawal from chronic stimulant abuse, while the important role of serotonin systems for the stimulant-derived &quot;designer drugs&quot; such as 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine or &quot;ecstasy&quot; is indicated.
Coupling of CNS receptors to phosphoinositide turnover has previously been found to vary with both age and brain region. To determine whether the metabolism of the second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate also displays such variations, activities of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 5'-phosphatase and 3'-kinase were measured in developing rat cerebral cortex and adult rat brain regions. The 5'-phosphatase activity was relatively high at birth (approximately 50% of adult values) and increased to adult levels by 2 weeks postnatal. In contrast, the 3'-kinase activity was low at birth and reached approximately 50% of adult levels by 2 weeks postnatal. In the adult rat, activities of the 3'-kinase were comparable in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum, whereas much lower activities were found in hypothalamus and pons/medulla. The 5'-phosphatase activities were similar in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and pons/medulla, whereas 5- to 10-fold higher activity was present in the cerebellum. The cerebellum is estimated to contain 50-60% of the total inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 5'-phosphatase activity present in whole adult rat brain. The localization of the enriched 5'-phosphatase activity within the cerebellum was examined. Application of a histochemical lead-trapping technique for phosphatase indicated a concentration of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 5'-phosphatase activity in the cerebellar molecular layer. Further support for this conclusion was obtained from studies of Purkinje cell-deficient mutant mice, in which a marked decrement of cerebellar 5'-phosphatase was observed. These results suggest that the metabolic fate of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate depends on both brain region and stage of development.
Cynomolgus monkeys received intracarotid injections of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to produce a chronic unilateral model of parkinsonism. Extensive dopamine (DA) depletion was observed in the caudate nucleus and putamen on the side ipsilateral to the injection and this was associated with contralateral tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia. A dose of 1.25 mg of MPTP caused ipsilateral DA loss of 99.4% in the caudate nucleus, 99.8% in the putamen, and 74.2% in the nucleus accumbens. A dose of 2.5 mg caused ipsilateral DA depletion of 99.3% in the caudate nucleus, 99.5% in putamen, and 90.1% in the nucleus accumbens. The unilateral aspect of the lesion was dose sensitive, with the 2.5-mg dose causing bilateral asymmetric DA depletion. Tissue concentrations of serotonin were not affected by the toxin. These findings confirm that intracarotid injection of MPTP may produce a useful primate model of hemiparkinsonism that can be associated with selective unilateral DA depletion when the appropriate dose of toxin is used.
1. Nerve fibers supplying the utricular macula of the chinchilla were labeled by extracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase into the vestibular nerve. The peripheral terminations of individual fibers were reconstructed and related to the regions of the end organ they innervated and to the sizes of their parent axons. 2. The macula is divided into medial and lateral parts by the striola, a narrow zone that runs for almost the entire length of the sensory epithelium. The striola can be distinguished from the extrastriolar regions to either side of it by the wider spacing of its hair cells. Calyx endings in the striola have especially thick walls, and, unlike similar endings in the extrastriola, many of them innervate more than one hair cell. The striola occupies 10% of the sensory epithelium; the lateral extrastriola, 50%; and the medial extrastriola, 40%. 3. The utricular nerve penetrates the bony labyrinth anterior to the end organ. Axons reaching the anterior part of the sensory epithelium run directly through the connective tissue stroma. Those supplying more posterior regions first enter a fiber layer located at the bottom of the stroma. Approximately one-third of the axons bifurcate below the epithelium, usually within 5-20 microns of the basement membrane. Bifurcations are more common in fibers destined for the extrastriola than for the striola. 4. Both calyx and bouton endings were labeled. Calyces can be simple or complex. Simple calyces innervate individual hair cells, whereas complex calyces supply 2-4 adjacent hair cells. Complex endings are more heavily concentrated in the striola than in the extrastriola. Simple calyces and boutons are found in all parts of the epithelium. Calyces emerge from the parent axon or one of its thick branches. Boutons, whether en passant or terminal, are located on thin collaterals. 5. Fibers can be classified into calyx, bouton, or dimorphic categories. The first type only has calyx endings; the second, only bouton endings; and the third, both kinds of endings. Calyx units make up 6% of the labeled fibers, bouton units less than 2%, and dimorphic units greater than 92%. The three fiber types differ in the macular zones they supply and in the diameters of their parent axons. Calyx units were restricted to the striola. The few bouton units were found in the extrastriola.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Two versions of the Tower of Hanoi task were used to investigate different components of learning and problem solving in schizophrenia. Prior studies have suggested that a three-disk version (Tower 3), which involves primarily problem-solving abilities and planning, is preferentially sensitive to frontal lobe lesions and that the more difficult four-disk version (Tower 4), which involves &quot;learning by doing,&quot; is sensitive to basal ganglia disease. Schizophrenic patients performed significantly worse than normal subjects on Tower 3 and Tower 4. However, they performed at least as well relatively on Tower 4 as on Tower 3, indicating that level of difficulty per se does not account for their poor performance on these tasks. Moreover, they eventually attained perfect or near-perfect performance after four days of repeated administration. Their relatively stronger performance on Tower 4 may have reflected an ability to acquire a procedure and, as such, suggests greater preservation of basal ganglia function than of prefrontal function.
In vitro autoradiography was performed in order to visualize cholecystokinin-A (CCK-A) receptors in sections of Cynomolgus monkey brain. CCK-A receptors were defined as those which displayed high affinity for the selective non-peptide antagonist MK-329 (L-364,718) and were detected in several regions by selective inhibition of 125I-Bolton Hunter CCK using MK-329 or direct labeling with 3H-MK-329. In the caudal medulla, high densities of CCK-A sites were present in the nucleus tractus solitarius, especially the caudal and medial aspects, and also the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. CCK-A sites were localized to a number of hypothalamic nuclei such as the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, the dorsomedial and infundibular nuclei as well as the neurohypophysis. The mammillary bodies and supramammillary nuclei also contained CCK-A receptor sites. High concentrations of CCK-A receptors were present in the substantia nigra zona compacta and also the ventral tegmental area and may be associated with dopamine cell bodies. Binding of 3H-MK-329 was also detected in parts of the caudate nucleus and ventral putamen. The detection, by autoradiographical means, of CCK-A receptors throughout the Cynomolgus monkey brain contrasts with similar studies performed using rodents and suggests differences in the density and, perhaps, the importance of CCK-A receptors in the primate as opposed to the rodent. The data suggest the possibility that CCK-A receptors may be involved in a number of important brain functions as diverse as the processing of sensory information from the gut, the regulation of hormone secretion, and the activity of dopamine cell activity.
ARPP-16 and ARPP-19 are 2 cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins of Mr = 16,000 and 19,000, respectively, which are identical except for the presence of 15 additional amino acids on the NH2-terminus of ARPP-19. The phosphorylation of these 2 proteins is regulated by cAMP and vasoactive intestinal peptide in reaggregate striatal cultures (Girault et al., 1988). Using immunoblots and immunocytochemistry, we have compared the regional, subcellular, phylogenetic, and ontogenetic distributions of these 2 proteins. ARPP-19 was found in all vertebrate species studied and, at various levels, in all tissues of adult rat. ARPP-19 was also present at high levels in malignant cell lines. During development ARPP-19 concentrations were highest in the embryo and decreased during the pre- and postnatal periods. In contrast, ARPP-16 was detected only in some specific neurons of the dopamine-innervated regions of the basal ganglia and the cerebral cortex, which are known to possess D1 dopamine receptors, in particular the striatonigral neurons. ARPP-16 is phylogenetically recent, being found only in birds and mammals, and appears late in ontogenesis, increasing during the postnatal period. These 2 proteins provide a unique model for studying the specificity of signal transduction and gene expression in dopaminoceptive neurons.
Nurses new to the neuroscience specialty often have fears regarding their expertise in this field. This article describes a staff development model successfully implemented in a 560-bed tertiary care center. The historical evolution of the model is discussed and components of the model in relation to professional development are presented. Future plans for development, evaluation and integration of the model into a clinical ladder program are also discussed.
In neuroscience nursing there are many opportunities to present scientific research and scholarly inquiry. Once the effort has been made to share information with colleagues in the settings of conferences, meetings and workshops, the investigator should make the additional effort to prepare the information for publication. The publishable manuscript has many similarities to the oral presentation, however, there are also specific changes that must occur to render the paper appropriate for publication.
Ultrastructural studies have shown that neurons and glia in the mammalian nervous system contain bundles of often hundreds or more individual intermediate filaments. The means by which these bundles are formed and maintained has not been examined. We describe a series of simple experiments indicating that intermediate filament bundles derived from neuronal and glial processes are extremely stable, being resistant to a variety of extreme conditions. Furthermore, a preliminary examination of the mechanism of bundling for both types of filaments rules out several models for the production and control of cross-linking. We conclude that the long processes of both neurons and glia are stabilized by bundled intermediate filaments exhibiting strong interfilament interactions. We present a reconciliation these findings with previous data suggesting that neurofilaments are not actively cross-linked. We also describe a novel detergent-insoluble annular cytoskeletal structure, which appears to constrict bundles of axonal neurofilaments locally.


We demonstrate that poly (A+)RNA isolated from catfish barbels directs the expression of functional amino acid taste receptors in the Xenopus oocyte. The activity of these receptors is monitored in ovo by the two electrode voltage clamp technique. Specific conductance changes recorded in response to amino acid stimulation are analogous to those recorded electrophysiologically from intact catfish barbels. These responses exhibit specificity, reproducibility, rapid onset and termination, and desensitization to repetitive stimulation. A functional assay system that encompasses the full complement of transduction events from the ligand-receptor interaction to subsequent conductance changes is necessary to identify molecular components responsible for these events. Our results demonstrate that the Xenopus oocyte can be used to characterize and identify clones coding for amino acid taste receptors analogous to its use in studying receptor molecules for other neuroactive compounds.
Systemic administration of CCK-8S (1 or 10 micrograms/kg IP) markedly inhibited L-dopa-induced dyskinesias in parkinsonian monkeys, but did not interfere with locomotor stimulation by L-dopa. CCK analogues may be useful antidyskinetic agents for improved control of Parkinson's disease.
We studied reciprocal inhibition by recording the changes in firing probability of single motor units of the tibialis anterior muscle following stimulation of low-threshold afferents in the posterior tibial nerve. In 15 patients with cerebral palsy, the inhibition was as great or greater than normal. We found no evidence that group I afferents produce &quot;reciprocal facilitation&quot; in cerebral palsy.
We have identified the initial synaptic contacts made onto the Mauthner (M) cell, an identified neuron that arises during early development of the zebrafish hindbrain. The contacts are made by a small bundle of pioneering trigeminal sensory axons onto the M cell soma before it forms dendrites. The sensory bundle is then partially enveloped by the M cell. The lateral dendrite appears at about the site of the contact, and eventually the trigeminal inputs are shifted to its trunk. As the dendrite elongates, other sensory contacts are made on its distal regions, sequentially from the acoustico-vestibular nerve and the lateral line nerves. To learn whether the earliest inputs induce the initial outgrowth of the M cell dendrite, we ablated the trigeminal neurons by laser irradiation before they contacted the M cell. Morphogenesis of the M cell, including its dendrite, appeared normal.
We describe electrophysiological properties of the O-2A glial progenitor cell in a new serum-free culture system. O-2A progenitors have many properties characteristic of neurons: they have glutamate-activated ion channels, express the neuronal form of the sodium channel, fire single regenerative potentials, and synthesize the neurotransmitter GABA by an alternative synthetic pathway. Nearly identical properties were observed in acutely isolated O-2A progenitors, indicating that this phenotype is not an artifact of culture. The O-2A did not express a simple subset of channel types found in its descendant cells, the type-2 astrocyte and oligodendrocyte, studied in the same culture system. During development, these electrophysiological properties may contribute to O-2A function in vivo.
Previous studies have reported that large (microM) concentrations of kappa opioids, e.g. dynorphin and 3,4 dichloro-N-methyl-N-(2-[1-pyrrolidinyl]-cyclohexyl)benzene-acetamide (U-50,488H), shorten the duration of the calcium component of the action potential of dorsal root ganglion neurons by decreasing a voltage-sensitive Ca2+ conductance. The present study showed that, in addition to these inhibitory modulatory effects, small (nM) concentrations of dynorphin, as well as U-50,488H, prolonged the action potential in about 75% of the neurons of dorsal root ganglia in ganglion spinal cord explants of mouse (tested in 5 mM Ba2+). Both the excitatory and inhibitory effects of these kappa opioids were prevented by perfusion together with the opioid antagonist, diprenorphine (10 nM). However, when responsivity tests with opioids were carried out in the presence of multiple K+ channel blockers [Ba2+, Cs+ and tetraethylammonium (TEA)], 1 nM dynorphin prolonged the action potential in only 7% of the neurons (n = 28), whereas 1 nM U-50,488H still elicited the prolongation of the action potential in 60% of the cells (n = 39). These data suggest that dynorphin prolongs the action potential of neurons of dorsal root ganglion by activating a kappa subtype of receptor that decreases a voltage-sensitive K+ conductance, whereas U-50,488H produces similar excitatory modulation of the action potential by activating another kappa subtype of receptor that increases a voltage-sensitive Ca2+ conductance. Thus, U-50,488H-induced prolongation of the action potential appears to be mediated by a kappa subtype of receptor that produces the opposite effect on Ca2+ channels to that which occurs during kappa opioid-induced shortening of the action potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Male Fischer-344N rats were pretreated bilaterally with intrahippocampal (D) (-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid [(D)-2-APH] (2.5, 5.0 and 10 micrograms/site), a competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, prior to the administration of bilateral N-MDA (10 micrograms/site). (D)-2-APH completely attenuated NMDA-induced hyperactivity and water maze acquisition deficits. (D)-2-APH also attenuated hippocampal pyramidal and granule cell loss induced by NMDA. These effects were stereospecific since pretreatment of the isomer L-(+)-2-APH (10 micrograms/site) had no effect on hyperactivity and water maze acquisition deficits produced by NMDA. In addition, (L)-2-APH provided no protection from NMDA-induced hippocampal granule and pyramidal cell loss. Together, these results suggest that the intrahippocampal administration of NMDA might serve as a useful in vivo model for evaluating the effects associated with the overactivation of NMDA receptors.
The clinical and radiologic descriptions of three neonates with tentorial hemorrhage after vacuum extraction are reported. All patients were full term, with Apgar scores of 8 or more; one patient experienced fetal distress during delivery. Within 36 hours after birth, the neonates had multiple generalized seizures; computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging outlined distinctive tentorial hemorrhages with extension over the superior surface of the cerebellum or inferior surface of the occipital lobe. One patient had diffuse hypoxic-ischemic injury, and another had bilateral temporal lobe infarcts. Treatment included medical control of seizures and intracranial hypertension; one patient had surgical evacuation of bilateral subdural hematomas. Follow-up from 1 to 5 years showed significant developmental delays in two patients. These cases demonstrate that the forces generated on the fetal cranium by vacuum extraction are similar to those produced by forceps and result in tentorial laceration, venous rupture, and subdural hemorrhage. Because these hemorrhages may be associated with significant ischemic injury, serial radiologic evaluation is recommended for the detection of persistent structural abnormalities.
Because neuroscience research has documented that mental illnesses are biologically-based brain diseases, our country should start training programs to create BBBD specialists. The National Alliance for the Mentally Ill has proposed a 2-track training system for psychiatric professionals--(1) A BBBD track and (2) a &quot;mental health&quot; track.
The effect of ethanol on brain dopamine (DA) metabolism in the caudate nucleus (CN), olfactory tubercle (OT) and medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) was compared in two selectively bred rat lines, one ethanol preferring and the other ethanol nonpreferring. Male rats from the 16th and 17th generations of both lines that never experienced ethanol beforehand were used. No differences in the basal concentrations of DA and its metabolites, DOPAC and HVA, in the above brain regions were found between the two lines. The oral administration of 2 g/kg of ethanol to ethanolnonpreferring rats increased DOPAC and HVA and reduced DA levels in the CN and OT but was ineffective in the MPFC. On the other hand, ethanol administration to ethanol-preferring rats decreased DA content and increased DOPAC and HVA levels, not only in the CN and OT, but also in the MPFC. Moreover, the changes induced by ethanol on DA metabolism in the latter group were significantly greater than in ethanol nonpreferring rats. These results indicate that ethanol preferring rats have a genetic high sensitivity to the ethanol effect on DA metabolism, and suggest that such a trait might play a role in ethanol preference.
The spontaneous motility of 75 Sprague-Dawley rats obtained from an inbred strain was found to vary widely. To test the hypothesis that heterogeneity in motility is accompanied by heterogeneity in neurochemical and vegetative function variables, the median motility score was used to divide the animals into high and low motility groups. Subgroups of high and low motile animals were compared on fecal pellet scores and on dopamine, dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid and homovanillic acid content of the corpus striatum. Significant differences were obtained between the two groups, indicating that even in an inbred strain considerable heterogeneity (possibly representing further subtypes) may exist. The theoretical and experimental implications of these findings are discussed.
Transient neurologic symptoms are common in clinical practice and can take many forms (eg, loss of consciousness, confusion, vertigo, seizures, drop attacks, behavioral abnormalities). They are often subtle and episodic and their source can be the central nervous, cardiovascular, metabolic, or endocrine system, or they can be caused by space-occupying lesions. A detailed knowledge of such symptoms and their possible causes is invaluable to confidently approach the problem in a systematic manner. Evaluation should begin with careful history taking and physical examination for intercurrent illness and a baseline set of tests. Investigation usually includes computed tomography of the brain and often magnetic resonance imaging, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, and/or electroencephalography as well. Further, specific studies are chosen on the basis of the suspected diagnosis and the information being sought.
Incubation of (8R)- and (8S)-[1-14C]hepoxilin A3 [where hepoxilin A3 is 8-hydroxy-11,12-epoxyeicosa-(5Z,9E,14Z)-trienoic acid] and glutathione with homogenates of rat brain hippocampus resulted in a product that was identified as the (8R) and (8S) diastereomers of 11-glutathionyl hepoxilin A3 by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatographic comparison with the authentic standard made by total synthesis. Identity was further confirmed by cleavage of the isolated product with gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase to yield the corresponding cysteinylglycinyl conjugate that was identical by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatographic analysis with the enzymic cleavage product derived from the synthetic glutathionyl conjugate. The glutathionyl and cysteinylglycinyl conjugate are referred to as hepoxilin A3-C and hepoxilin A3-D, respectively, by analogy with the established leukotriene nomenclature. Formation of hepoxilin A3-C was greatly enhanced with a concomitant decrease in formation of the epoxide hydrolase product, trioxilin A3, when the epoxide hydrolase inhibitor trichloropropene oxide was added to the incubation mixture demonstrating the presence of a dual metabolic pathway in this tissue involving hepoxilin epoxide hydrolase and glutathione S-transferase processes. Hepoxilin A3-C was tested using intracellular electrophysiological techniques on hippocampal CA1 neurons and found to be active at concentrations as low as 16 nM in causing membrane hyperpolarization, enhanced amplitude and duration of the post-spike train afterhyperpolarization, a marked increase in the inhibitory postsynaptic potential, and a decrease in the spike threshold. These findings suggest that these products in the hepoxilin pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism formed by the rat brain may function as neuromodulators.
Three potassium currents (IK) were recorded from myometrial cells isolated from the uterus of rats at estrus and diestrus and kept in culture for 1-6 days. IK were differentiated by their modulation with norepinephrine and/or by their onset kinetics. At +50 mV the activation time constants were about 0.7 ms, 6 ms, and 15 ms for the fast, the intermediate, and the slow IK, respectively. Norepinephrine (1 microM) potentiated the fast IK and reduced the intermediate IK. In addition, differences were found with respect to cells from animals at estrus and diestrus. The fast IK was preferentially expressed in cultures from animals at estrus, whereas the intermediate IK was more frequent in cells from rats at diestrus. These results indicate that K+ channels from myometrial cells are multiregulated. Regulation may occur by short-term signals (neurotransmitters) and/or by preferentially expressing distinct types of channels depending on the hormonal status of the animal.
Saposins are small, heat-stable glycoproteins required for the hydrolysis of sphingolipids by specific lysosomal hydrolases. Saposins A, B, C, and D are derived by proteolytic processing from a single precursor protein named prosaposin. Saposin B, previously known as SAP-1 and sulfatide activator, stimulates the hydrolysis of a wide variety of substrates including cerebroside sulfate, GM1 ganglioside, and globotriaosylceramide by arylsulfatase A, acid beta-galactosidase, and alpha-galactosidase, respectively. Human saposin B deficiency, transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, results in tissue accumulation of cerebroside sulfate and a clinical picture resembling metachromatic leukodystrophy (activator-deficient metachromatic leukodystrophy). We have examined transformed lymphoblasts from the initially reported saposin B-deficient patient and found normal amounts of saposins A, C, and D. After preparing first-strand cDNA from lymphoblast total RNA, we used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify the prosaposin cDNA. The patient's mRNA differed from the normal sequence by only one C----T transition in the 23rd codon of saposin B, resulting in a threonine to isoleucine amino acid substitution. An affected male sibling has the same mutation as the proband and their heterozygous mother carries both the normal and mutant sequences, providing additional evidence that this base change is the disease-causing mutation. This base change results in the replacement of a polar amino acid (threonine) with a nonpolar amino acid (isoleucine) and, more importantly, eliminates the glycosylation signal in this activator protein. One explanation for the deficiency of saposin B in this disease is that the mutation may increase the degradation of saposin B by exposing a potential proteolytic cleavage site (arginine) two amino acids to the amino-terminal side of the glycosylation site when the carbohydrate side chain is absent.
Using computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, we prospectively studied 100 patients hospitalized with a lacunar infarct. Our aim was to evaluate the capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection and delineation of lacunes in a project of clinicotopographic correlations. Seventy-nine patients had a classic lacunar syndrome; 35 had pure motor stroke, 26 had ataxic hemiparesis, seven had sensorimotor stroke, and 11 had pure sensory stroke. A miscellaneous group of 21 patients had less typical lacunar syndromes, primarily with brainstem signs and symptoms. Among a total of 153 lacunes, magnetic resonance imaging detected at least one lacune appropriate to the symptoms in 89 patients. In 16 patients at least two lesions correlated with the clinical features, and precise clinicotopographic correlations were possible in 68 patients. Magnetic resonance imaging was more effective when it was performed a few days after the stroke. Lesions causing different types of lacunar syndromes had significantly different volumes, suggesting that the size of the lesion may influence clinical features. Magnetic resonance imaging may be the imaging technique of choice in the study of lacunar syndromes.

Ion channels coupled to NMDA, kainate and AMPA receptors are the target of pharmacological regulation by a variety of drugs and ions. While these channels are all nonselectively permeated by Na+ and K+ ions, the NMDA receptor-channel complex contains a number of pharmacological sites distinct from those found on the others. For example, Mg2+ ions rapidly and reversibly block open NMDA channels in a highly voltage-dependent manner. Its extreme voltage dependence suggests that the Mg2+ binding site lies deep within the ion channel pore. By contrast the voltage-dependent block of activated channels by the dissociative anesthetic 'slow channel blockers' has unusual characteristics. In the fourth article in our series on excitatory amino acids, John MacDonald and Linda Nowak analyse the characteristics of these two types of block and describe the hypotheses that have been put forward to explain the mechanisms involved.
Neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells (NG108-15), differentiated by treatment with 1.5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and 0.5% fetal bovine serum, were used to measure the effect of angiotensin II and III (ANG II and ANG III) on the generation of inositol polyphosphates. ANG II increased the synthesis of inositol monophosphates (IP1), inositol diphosphates (IP2), and inositol trisphosphates (IP3) with maximal responses observed at 300, 120, and 30 sec, respectively. The percent increases above basal values at the maximal responses were 140% +/- 9% (IP1), 142% +/- 4% (IP2), and 132% +/- 4% (IP3). This effect was not attenuated by pretreatment of the cells with pertussis toxin. Furthermore, both ANG II and ANG III increased the production of inositol polyphosphates in a dose-dependent manner with ED50 values of 145 nM and 11 nM, respectively. We conclude that differentiated NG108-15 cells express an ANG III selective receptor that mediates phosphatidylinositol breakdown through a pertussis toxin insensitive G-protein.
The contribution of the GTP-binding protein, Gi, to EGF, phorbol dibutyrate (PdBu)-, and insulin-stimulated DNA synthesis was examined in BALB/c3T3 cells. Pertussis toxin inhibited DNA synthesis by each agonist, particularly at suboptimal agonist concentrations, but the inhibition could be partially overcome with higher agonist concentrations and combinations of these agonists. This suggested that (1) some, but not all, of the mitogenic signals for all three agonists were transduced by Gi (2) Gi may be activated by post-receptor mechanisms involving protein kinase C. Gi alpha-specific antibodies and ADP-ribosylation by pertussis toxin using 32P-NAD each labelled a single protein band, representing one or more species of Gi alpha. Pertussis toxin treatment increased the synthesis of Gi alpha. These results are discussed in relation to possible direct effects of Gi alpha on nuclear control during division.
An attempt was made to contrast the effects of lesions to the medial frontal cortex and septum in two spatial tasks. In the fixed-goal (FG) task, the food was located on the same table throughout testing, and the start table was randomly varied from day to day. In the variable-goal (VG) task, the start table remained constant but the food was randomly distributed on one or the other of the two remaining tables. In both tasks, normal animals performed better than frontal and septal rats whose performance, however, improved over days in the FG, but not in the VG, task. In both tasks, significant improvement within days was found in medial frontal animals, but not in septal animals. Additional analyses revealed that septal animals had a general pattern of disrupted exploration and a tendency to use a response strategy (i.e. to repeat the same response both within and between days) which decreased over days in the FG task. In contrast, medial frontal animals did not demonstrate disrupted exploration nor any response tendency. It is concluded that both septal and medial frontal cortical damage produce a common spatial working memory impairment. However, there is some evidence to suggest that this common memory impairment could result from disruption of distinct mechanisms in septal and frontal animals. It is proposed that medial frontal lesions could affect some specific mechanism related either to attentional processes or to the ability to anticipate future events, whereas septal damage would interfere with the building of comprehensive and flexible spatial memories.
Cats raised under stroboscopic illumination are known to exhibit oculomotor and visuomotor deficits, but little is known about their locomotor abilities. Four strobe-reared cats with intact labyrinths were tested in a locomotor test involving various walking surfaces and various illumination conditions. Apart from their general slowness under all the experimental conditions, these strobe cats showed no special deficit on narrow rails, which indicates that their dynamic balancing abilities were normal. In these subjects, the decrease in the use of kinetic visual cues was roughly compensated for by an increase in the use of position cues. When tested after chronic bilateral labyrinthectomy, the strobe-reared cats' locomotor speeds were identical to those of control labyrinthectomized cats, except on wide platforms involving orientation towards a visual goal. These results show that in the absence of motion-vision, vestibular control of dynamic balance can mature normally, but they suggest that other aspects of locomotion involving the processing of vestibular and kinesthetic inputs may be impaired.
After a study of locomotion in cats deprived of their vestibular receptors early in life, the average speed of locomotion was measured in 3 adult cats, first before and then several months after bilateral labyrinthectomy, in a task involving free locomotion across platforms, rails or ladders and under normal illumination versus stroboscopic illumination or darkness. In the absence of visual cues, cats which received lesions as adults showed, on both wide and narrow supports, the same speed deficits as those of subjects which underwent lesions soon after birth. Visual cues were, however, used by some cats with early lesions to recover near normal performances on wide platforms. Evidence was found that the vestibular deficit comprised at least 3 components: a severe loss of dynamic balance occurred in all subjects with lesions and was mostly not compensated for by vision; a loss of the ability to keep to a straight course in darkness was observed on wide platforms, but vision considerably improved this function, even under stroboscopic illumination; a slight paw adjustment deficit was also observed on irregular supports, due to the fact that vision played a decreased role after the vestibular lesion. These effects point to the specificity of the vestibular control of balance, the availability of several sensorimotor strategies for orientation, and the complementarity of vestibular and visual inputs in guiding the subjects' step. We confirm here that vestibular inputs do not play a critical role during locomotor development, and stress the fact that peripheral visual cues about position or orientation (rather than motion), play a leading role in compensatory strategies.
Excessive synaptic excitation caused by transient cerebral ischemia has been proposed to explain the greater vulnerability of specific neuronal populations to ischemic injury. We tested this hypothesis in rats by cutting, alone or in combination, the afferent fibers that travel in the fimbria/fornix, the perforant, or the Schffer collateral pathways and innervate the right CA1 hippocampus. Seven to twelve days later the animals were subjected to 30 min of reversible forebrain ischemia. Irreversible damage to the CA1 neurons was assessed with the light microscope after 70-120 h of cerebral reperfusion. The left, unlesioned hippocampus served as a control. Simultaneous cutting of the 3 major afferent pathways significantly reduced CA1 neuronal damage compared to the unlesioned side (P less than 0.001) or to sham-lesioned controls (P less than 0.001). Selective lesions of the fimbria/fornix but not the perforant or the Schffer collateral pathways also protected against ischemic CA1 damage. These data indicate that afferent fiber input modulates hippocampal damage caused by ischemia, but they are inconsistent with the hypothesis that excitatory afferent fibers, travelling in either the perforant or the Schffer collateral pathways alone, play a major role. Neurotransmitters, other than those activating excitatory amino acid receptors or yet-to-be-identified synaptic events, may be invoked to explain the spatial and temporal sensitivity of hippocampal CA1 neurons to ischemia.
Intrahippocampal injections of colchicine selectively destroy dentate granule cells. Wet dog shaking elicited by perforant path stimulation is unaffected by bilateral destruction of dorsal dentate granule cells but virtually eliminated by bilateral destruction of ventral dentate granule cells. This implies that ventral dentate granule cells are essential for the generation of perforant path stimulation-induced wet dog shakes.
Rhythmic motor activities were studied in two rat spinal cord preparations; in the first one, the spinal cord was completely isolated and the ventral roots activity was recorded; in the other, spinal cord and hindlimbs were kept in order to record muscle activities. Motor patterns were therefore recorded in ventral roots and/or hindlimb muscles. Two kinds of specific patterns were elicited by neurochemicals. The first which was induced by N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMDA) and serotonin (5-HT) was a slow rhythm (0.5-0.2 Hz) of left and right alternating bursts of spikes. The second one which was induced by NMDA, 5-HT and norepinephrine (NE), was a high frequency rhythm (5-10 Hz). One particularity observed was that these two rhythms could occur simultaneously. The relationship between the two in vitro rhythms is discussed and they are compared with those reported in other rhythmic systems.
Single-unit activity of prefrontal (PF), premotor (PM), primary motor (MI) and posterior parietal (PP) cortical areas was analysed from 3 monkeys trained to perform visually guided arm movements in a between-arms choice reaction time (RT) task. Percentages of preparation-related units, i.e. units whose change in activity during the preparatory period was correlated with RT, were 19% in PF, 31% in MI, 46% in PM and 68% in PP, respectively. These data support the hypothesis that neural pathways connecting PP association areas to MI, via PM, are involved mainly in movement planning.
Projections of the locus coeruleus (LC) to the midbrain and hindbrain were analyzed by anterograde transport of the lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L). Following iontophoretic application of PHA-L into the LC, the distribution of labeled axons was analyzed in sections processed for the immunoperoxidase method and in sections processed for double-immunofluorescence staining using antibodies to PHA-L and to dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. This combined staining approach proved to be necessary for the unequivocal identification of LC axons in the brainstem since all injections labeled many non-noradrenergic axons whose distribution was different from that of LC fibers. The major new finding of the present study was the observation that large territories of the brainstem that receive a dense noradrenergic input are very sparsely innervated by the LC. Numerous labeled LC axons were observed in somatic afferent nuclei, tectum, pontine nuclei, interpenduncular nucleus, and inferior olivary complex. In contrast, very few labeled fibers were observed in autonomic and motor nuclei, and throughout the brainstem reticular formation, including raphe nuclei. Our data show that the distribution of LC axons in the brainstem is far less prominent than the projections of this nucleus to the forebrain and spinal cord. Our findings suggest that the dense NA projections to the core of the brainstem originate principally in non-LC NA neurons. On the basis of the present anatomical findings, a prominent role of the LC in motor and integrative functions of the brainstem appears unlikely.
8-Hydroxy-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) has antidepressant-like effects in rats and selectively reduces presynaptic 5-HT1A function a day after administration. In the present study, the effect of 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg s.c.) pretreatment on presynaptic (raphe nuclei) and postsynaptic (frontal cortex and hippocampus) [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding was studied. Bmax values were markedly reduced in the raphe, but not in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. Kd values were unchanged. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe (300 microA, 1 ms, 20 Hz, 30 min) significantly increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the frontal cortex, but not in the amygdala or the nucleus accumbens and caused smaller increases in the rest of the brain. The increase in the frontal cortex was significantly potentiated one day after giving 8-OH-DPAT. These results confirm the ability of 8-OH-DPAT to desensitise presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors and suggest that this may lead to a loss of feedback control so that, on neuronal stimulation, the increase of 5-HT function is enhanced. This effect may underlie the antidepressant-like action of 8-OH-DPAT pretreatment, i.e. its ability to oppose restraint-induced defects in locomotion on placement in an open field one day later. A requirement of presynaptic 5-HT for this behavioural effect is consistent with its prevention by the 5-HT synthesis inhibitor parachlorophenylalanine.
Wet dog shaking elicited by systemic administration of kainic acid is eliminated by bilateral destruction of ventral dentate granule cells. In contrast, wet dog shaking induced by naltrexone precipitated abstinence in morphine-dependent rats is unaffected by destruction of ventral dentate granule cells. It is concluded that at least two anatomically distinct brain regions modulate wet dog shaking behavior.
Although the synthesis of nerve growth factor (NGF) in brain regions innervated by magnocellular cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain is well documented, the cell type(s) able to produce NGF in the central nervous system (CNS) remain only partially characterized. Moreover, little is known regarding the ability of brain areas not innervated by magnocellular cholinergic neurons to express NGF protein. The hypothalamus, which controls the endocrine system, is one of such regions. Primary culture of mixed populations of cells from the fetal hypothalamus were used to identify the presence of NGF in this brain area. Immunocytochemistry revealed that hypothalamic oligodendrocytes and a subpopulation of neurons expressed the NGF protein. In contrast, astrocytes were either immunonegative or equivocally stained. To define whether synthesis of NGF is restricted to a particular cell type, cultures of purified astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitor (oligoP) cells and neurons were utilized. They were obtained from the neonatal cerebral cortex to ensure an adequate yield of glial cells. Virtually the entire population of cerebral oligoP cells were found to express NGF protein. In contrast, and similar to hypothalamic astrocytes, cerebral type I astrocytes isolated at the same time as oligoP cells exhibited little or no NGF staining. When type I astrocytes were induced to differentiate in the presence of a serumless, chemically defined medium, a subpopulation of the culture became more robustly positive for the NGF protein. Contrasting with these differences in NGF immunoreactivity, Northern analysis of RNA isolated from purified cerebral type I astrocytes, oligoP cells and neurons demonstrated that NGF mRNA was expressed in each of these cell types at approximately the same levels. The results indicate that: (a) when placed in culture, each of the major cell types within the CNS has the capability of transcribing the NGF gene, and (b) despite similar NGF mRNA levels the cellular content of NGF protein is greater in a subpopulation of neurons and in oligodendrocytes than in astrocytes, suggesting differences in NGF post-transcriptional regulation between these cell types. In addition, the presence of NGF in hypothalamic cells suggests that NGF may be involved in the regulation of specific hypothalamic neuronal systems.
The present study shows that systemic capsaicin in adult rats results in a significant loss of axons in the subepidermal nerve plexus of the posterior leg but no loss of axons in the sural nerves of these same animals. These data are interpreted as indicating that the receptive part of the peripheral sensory axon is destroyed but that the cell body and most of the peripheral axon remains intact. Thus we suggest that the receptive part of the peripheral sensory axon is the most vulnerable part of the primary afferent neuron to capsaicin in these animals. These findings may explain the observation that adult rats treated with systemic capsaicin are deficient in their responses to certain painful stimuli but usually do not show obvious signs of primary afferent neuron death. We also suggest that as the dose of capsaicin is increased the whole neuron dies. It remains to be determined if the peripheral damage reported here is related to the striking loss of primary afferent markers in the dorsal horn that is also seen after this treatment.
The time course and relation to dose of regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) and of motor behavior were measured in awake male adult Fischer-344 rats after administration of meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP), a serotonin-1B receptor agonist. rCMRglc was determined, using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]deoxyglucose technique, in 71 brain regions at 5, 15, 30 and 60 min after administration of MCPP 2.5 mg/kg i.p., and at 15 min after MCPP 25 and 40 mg/kg. The time course of performance on a rotating rod was measured periodically for 60 min after MCPP 2.5 mg/kg, a dose which impaired locomotion and reduced rCMRglc maximally at 15-30 min after its administration. At 15 min, rCMRglc declined significantly in 28 (40%) of the areas studied (mean decline 16%). Most regions affected were telencephalic or diencephalic, corresponding to the projection areas of serotonergic fibers arising from the raphe nuclei. After higher doses of MCPP, a behavioral serotonin syndrome was observed with both rCMRglc increases and decreases (25 mg/kg) or only rCMRglc increases (40 mg/kg). Whereas behavioral and metabolic activation induced by high doses of MCPP may result from stimulation at postsynaptic serotonin receptors, rCMRglc reductions and hypomotility produced by MCPP 2.5 mg/kg resemble the effects of serotonin receptor antagonists and suggest that, at this low dose, MCPP acts at modulatory serotonin autoreceptors to reduce endogenous serotonin release.
We have recently reported that endothelin-1 (ET) induces phosphoinositide hydrolysis in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells. Here we found that ET in a dose-dependent manner (1-30 nM) stimulated the release of preloaded [3H]D-aspartate from granule cells. The ET-induced aspartate release was completely blocked in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, but was unaffected by 1 mM Co2+ or 1 microM dihydropyridine derivatives (nisoldipine and nimodipine). At higher concentration (10 microM) of nisoldipine and nimodipine, the release was partially inhibited. Short-term pretreatment of cells with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) potentiated the ET-induced aspartate release, while long-term pretreatment with PDBu attenuated the release. Long-term exposure of cells to pertussis toxin (PTX), on the other hand, potentiated the ET-induced effects. Our results suggest that ET has a neuromodulatory function in the central nervous system.
The first sentence of the caption for the figure on page 525 accompanying Marcia Barinaga's Research News artide &quot;Neuroscience models the brain&quot; (2 Feb., p. 524) should have read, &quot;Computer simulation by Kenneth D. Miller models formation of ocular dominance columns.&quot; The photo credit fbr the figure should have been to Kenneth D. Miller.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of angiotensin on the enzyme activities and gene expression of two catecholamine synthesizing enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), in bovine adrenal medullary (AM) cells. Short term (15 min) incubation of cultured AM cells with 2 nM [Sar1]angiotensin II (s1-AII) did not increase basal secretion of catecholamines; however, longer incubations (3, 24, or 72 h) produced 4-10-fold increases. To determine whether angiotensin affects synthesis of catecholamines, the activities of TH and PNMT were examined. Incubation with s1-AII (15-30 min) decreased the Km of TH for its biopterine cofactor [6R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1-biopterin dihydrochloride (BH4] without affecting the Vmax, suggesting activation of TH. After long term incubation (72 h) the Km value was identical to that of control, while increases in the apparent Vmax were observed. PNMT activity was unaffected during a 30-min treatment with s1-AII; however, 2-fold increases occurred after a 48-72-h incubation. s1-AII (24 h) increased the relative abundance of TH and PNMT mRNAs, suggesting that the long term increase in enzyme activities reflected increased expression of TH and PNMT genes. Maximal increases were observed at 2 nM s1-AII and the changes were antagonized by saralasin. Induction of TH mRNA by s1-AII was additive to the effects of veratridine or forskolin indicating that effects of angiotensin were not due to membrane depolarization or increased cyclic AMP levels. Incubation with Ca2+ ionophore A23187 increased TH and PNMT mRNA levels in AM cells raising the possibility that the increase in cellular [Ca2+] could mediate effects of angiotensin. Angiotensin-induced increases in TH and PNMT mRNA were inhibited by nifedipine indicating involvement of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. In addition, the increases in TH, but not PNMT mRNA, were antagonized by dantrolene, which inhibits mobilization of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Calmodulin involvement was suggested by the inhibition of s1-AII induced changes in mRNA with 1 microM calmidazolium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To elucidate the molecular basis of human N-acetylation polymorphism, cDNA clones encoding human liver N-acetyltransferases (EC 2.3.1.5) were isolated from lambda gt10 cDNA libraries using the 32P-labeled cDNA of rabbit liver N-acetyltransferase recently cloned in this laboratory. Three types of cDNAs (D-14, O-7, and D-24) were isolated and their nucleotide sequences were determined, from which the amino acid sequences of human N-acetyltransferases were deduced. All the cDNAs coded for 290 amino acids. Between D-14 and O-7 cDNAs, there was only a single-base substitution in the coding region, which replaced glutamic acid in D-14 cDNA for glycine in O-7 cDNA. There were considerable differences between O-7/D-14 and D-24 cDNAs, with 80% homology in amino acid sequences. When the cDNAs were inserted into pEF321 expression vector and introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells, N-acetyltransferase activity was expressed in three groups of the transfected cells. The activity in cells transfected with D-14 cDNA was only 9-17% of the activity in O-7 cells. Immunoblot analysis of the transfected cells indicated that the difference in the enzyme activity between O-7 and D-14 cells was possibly due to a difference in the amount of enzyme proteins. The substrate specificity of the expressed enzymes indicated that O-7 and D-14 cDNAs code for polymorphic N-acetyltransferase whereas D-24 cDNA codes for monomorphic enzyme. Southern blot analysis indicated that the polymorphic and monomorphic N-acetyltransferases were encoded in separate genes and that there was restriction fragment length polymorphism with KpnI digestion in the polymorphic N-acetyltransferase gene.
The amyloid forming beta-peptide of Alzheimer's disease is synthesized as part of a larger integral membrane precursor protein (beta APP) of which three alternatively spliced versions of 695, 751, and 770 amino acids have been described. A fourth beta APP form of 563 amino acids does not contain the beta-peptide region. Recent experiments using transient expression in HeLa cells (Weidemann, A., Konig, G., Bunke, D., Fischer, P., Salbaum, J.M., Masters, C.L., and Beyreuther, K. (1989) Cell 57, 115-126) indicate that the beta APP undergoes several posttranslational modifications including the cleavage and secretion of a large portion of its extracellular domain. The nature and fate of the fragment that remains cell-associated following this cleavage has not heretofore been described. The metabolism of this fragment may have particular significance in Alzheimer's disease since it must contain at least part of the beta-peptide. To study the metabolic fate of this fragment, we have established cell lines overexpressing the 695- and 751-amino acid versions of beta APP. Pulse-chase studies show that this system is similar to the HeLa cell system in that both proteins are synthesized first as membrane-bound proteins of approximately 98 and 108 kDa carrying asparagine-linked sugar side chains and are subsequently processed into higher molecular mass forms by the attachment of sulfate, phosphate, and further sugar groups including sialic acid, adding approximately 20 kDa in apparent molecular mass. The mature form of beta APP is cleaved and rapidly secreted, leaving an 11.5-kDa fragment with the transmembrane region and the cytoplasmic domain behind in the cell. This fragment is stable with a half-life of at least 4 h.
The cDNA sequence encoding the bovine fetal protein fetuin is reported. The deduced amino acid sequence is identical with that obtained from amino acid sequencing. The protein is a single chain preceded by a signal sequence. The three N-linked glycosylation sites have been determined. The sequence of fetuin shows over 70% similarity to human alpha 2HS glycoprotein. All of the cysteine residues are conserved in both proteins, suggesting that fetuin has the same arrangement of disulfide loops as alpha 2HS glycoprotein and may also be a member of the cystatin family. Southern blot analysis indicates that a single gene codes for fetuin. No evidence for a separate gene for a bovine alpha 2HS glycoprotein was obtained; thus, fetuin in cattle and alpha 2HS glycoprotein in the human are equivalent proteins.
Adrenergic nerve fibers innervating blood vessels in the epi-perineurium and endoneurium of the tibial and vagus nerves of male Fischer-344 rats of different ages were examined using formaldehyde-induced fluorescence technique and fluorescence microscopy. Between 6 and 24 months of age, no significant difference in the mean density of perivascular innervation in the epi-perineurium of the nerves was found, whereas between 24 months and 30 months the density decreased in both nerve types. The intensity of noradrenaline fluorescence of nerve fibers also was decreased in the oldest age group. In the endoneurium, the density of adrenergic nerve fibers was reduced by 57% at 24 months, and by more than 98% at 30 months as compared with 18 months. Age-related differences were similar in the tibial and vagus nerves. The results suggest that adrenergic neuronal control of the microcirculation in the rat tibial and vagus nerves is lost during aging as it is in other organs of the cardiovascular system.
Immunocytochemistry was used to determine whether (+/-)-fenfluramine causes structural damage to serotonergic (5-HT) neurons. Sections from rat forebrain were examined 4 h, 36 h and 2 weeks after various dose regimens of fenfluramine. At all time points there was a reduction of fine 5-HT axon terminals in the forebrain, while beaded axons were spared. The presence of markedly swollen, fragmented 5-HT axons 36 h after injection is indicative of axonal degeneration, and provides morphologic evidence for a neurotoxic effect of (+/-)-fenfluramine upon 5-HT axon terminals.
Topical application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) onto hippocampal slices produced spontaneous repetitive large hyperpolarizing potentials in CA1 neurons. This effect of 4-AP was blocked by a new GABAB receptor antagonist, 2-hydroxy-saclofen. 2-Hydroxy-saclofen also blocked slow IPSPs evoked by stimulation of stratum radiatum. It is suggested that 4-AP-evoked slow hyperpolarizing potentials are in fact slow IPSPs evoked by activation of a selective subset of interneurons which do not produce fast IPSPs.
Because of synteny between mouse chromosome 16 and human chromosome 21, murine trisomy 16 (Ts16) has been considered an animal model for Down syndrome. Indeed, previous investigations have demonstrated that action potentials of cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from human trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) or mouse Ts16 fetuses show increased depolarization and repolarization rates, and decreased spike duration, compared to control neurons. In order to determine the specificity of these changes, we studied the electrical membrane properties of DRG neurons in culture from trisomy 19 (Ts19) and control fetal mice, using the whole cell patch-pipette recording technique. We found no significant differences in action potential parameters and passive membrane properties between Ts19 and control neurons. These findings support the notion that the alterations previously reported in Ts16 DRG neurons are specific, and not a general consequence of genetic imbalance imposed by autosomal trisomies.
Dibucaine, a potent local anesthetic, is known to suppress myogenesis. The promotion of myogenesis requires transferrin (Tf) which transports Fe to the cells. Therefore, the effects of dibucaine on Fe uptake and Tf internalization were studied using myogenic cell line L6. Dibucaine at 200 microM suppressed 55Fe accumulation which was transported by 55Fe-transferrin to the cells. The anesthetic changed neither the number of Tf receptors nor the affinity of Tf to Tf receptors on the cell membrane. Dibucaine retarded the endocytosis and exocytosis cycle of Tf, and this retardation acted to suppress Fe accumulation.
Previous studies of growth cones in invertebrates have shown that they become larger and more complex when changing direction in response to cell-specific contacts (Bentley and Caudy, '83; Raper et al., '83b; Caudy and Bentley, '86). In pathways of the vertebrate nervous system, analogous regions, termed &quot;decision regions,&quot; have been identified in which axons change direction and their growth cones become more elaborate than when tracking along straight trajectories (Tosney and Landmesser, '85a; Bovolenta and Mason, '87). In order to assess the generality of these principles to the mammalian CNS, we studied the morphology of growth cones and their interactions with the environment in the developing corpus callosum. Given the straight pathway that callosal axons could use to navigate across the callosum, one might predict that later arriving axons would extend on those growing out earlier and that therefore, by analogy with previous studies, many growth cones would have simple tapered morphologies. Surprisingly, however, virtually all growth cones in the callosal white matter, regardless of age or position, were complex with broad lamellipodial veils and/or numerous, often lengthy filopodia. Only growth cones entering the cortical target were consistently smaller. As seen in the EM, the predominant elements in the callosal pathway are other axons and growth cones; we found no evidence for specialized contacts. These results suggest that there is no specific decision region for the fiber population as a whole; rather it is possible that in this mammalian CNS pathway individual growth cones respond independently to molecular cues broadly distributed in the callosum.
During tail regeneration most lizards also regenerate the tail spinal cord. The regenerated spinal cord primarily contains neuroepithelium (i.e., the ependymal tube which forms the central canal) and descending axons. The present experiments identify the source of the axons in the regenerated spinal cord. Application of HRP to normal tail spinal cord resulted in labeled cells in the nucleus paraventricularis, the interstitial nucleus of the fasciculus longitudinalis medialis, the nucleus ruber, the medullary reticular formation (including raphe nuclei), as well as in vestibular nuclei. HRP applied to the regenerated spinal cord labeled only 4% of the cells seen in normal animals, and these were confined to rhombencephalic nuclei. The lack of labeling of more rostral nuclei was not due to the death of descending neurons. Application of HRP immediately rostral to the regenerated spinal cord resulted in the labeling of a normal, and in some cases, greater than normal, number of neurons. To quantify the origin of axons in the regenerated spinal cord, electron microscopic montages of the regenerated spinal cord were made and the number of axons counted, before and after various spinal lesions. Only lesions within one spinal segment of the regenerated spinal cord had a significant effect on the number of axons in the regenerated tail spinal cord. This indicated that most of the regenerated axons were of local spinal origin. A significant increase in the number of labeled local spinal neurons was revealed following application of HRP to a regenerated tail spinal cord. These results suggest that while various portions of the lizard central nervous system can grow axons into the regenerating tail spinal cord, the great majority of axons in the regenerate are of local origin and that some of these arise from neurons that do not normally possess descending projections. Finally, to test whether new neurons were participating in the regeneration process, 3H-thymidine was injected during the regrowth of the tail. No labeled spinal cord cells were conclusively identified as neurons. Thus, the regenerating lizard tail spinal cord exhibits robust axonal sprouting from neurons near the site of a spinal transection in a manner reminiscent of sprouting in the mammalian CNS. This sprouting can develop into descending spinal projections that extend for significant distances into the regenerated tail spinal cord and provides a unique model for exploring the requirements for successful axon growth in an adult vertebrate CNS.
Primary cultures of bovine adrenal medullary cells (AM) in a chemically defined media were used to examine the role of neural and hormonal factors in the expression of proenkephalin A (pEK), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) genes. Acetylcholine or nicotine reduced cellular content of catecholamines by 30% and increased the relative abundance of pEK, TH, and PNMT mRNAs. The increases produced by acetylcholine were +129%, +147%, and +43% for pEK, TH, and PNMT mRNA, respectively. The kinetics of increases produced by nicotine were different for the 3 mRNAs, with pEK and TH showing enhanced levels over 48 h incubation, while PNMT showed increase during the initial 18 h (+90%) followed by decline to control levels at 48 h. 8-Br cAMP and forskolin elicited a similar pattern of changes as nicotine, suggesting that cyclic AMP may be involved in the mediation of the nicotinic effects. To examine the role of depletion of cellular catecholamines in the regulation of mRNA levels, cells were exposed to tetrabenazine or reserpine. Decreases in cellular catecholamine contents were accompanied by increases in TH and pEK mRNA levels, while the expression of PNMT gene exhibited a transient 4-fold increase and then profound inhibition (60-95%) over a 48-h period. The tetrabenazine effect on TH and pEK mRNA was reduced by alpha-amanitin, suggesting transcriptionally-mediated regulation. Inductions of pEK but not TH or PNMT mRNAs were inhibited by cycloheximide. Hormonal regulation of TH, PNMT, and pEK mRNAs was examined by incubation of cells with dexamethasone. Low concentrations of dexamethasone (0.1, 10 nM) were effective to increase PNMT (+35%, +90%) and pEK (+27%, 45%) mRNA levels. TH mRNA was not affected by similar concentrations of dexamethasone, however, there was a 45% increase at 1 microM. Dexamethasone-elicited increases in PNMT mRNA levels were observed at 48 h and persisted up to 7 days, suggesting that hormonal mechanisms may be distinct from those mediating effects of nicotine, cAMP or tetrabenazine. Taken together, these results indicate that (1) the level of TH, PNMT, and pEK mRNAs are regulated by direct neural (acetylcholine) and hormonal (glucocorticoid) inputs to adrenal medullary cells; (2) effects of acetylcholine could be mediated by cyclic AMP and alterations in catecholamine content; and (3) expression of individual genes is regulated differentially. Such differential regulation of TH, PNMT, and pEK mRNAs may contribute to the long-term selective control of hormonal output from adrenomedullary cells.
Trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) results in abnormalities in electrical membrane properties of cultured human fetal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Action potentials have faster rates of depolarization and repolarization, with decreased spike duration, compared to diploid neurons. In order to analyze the faster depolarization rate observed in trisomic neurons, we examined sodium currents of cultured human fetal DRG neurons from trisomy 21 and control subjects, using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. The neurons were replated in culture to reduce dendritic spines. Two components of the sodium current were identified: (1) a fast, tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive current; and (2) a slow, TTX-resistant component. The inactivation curves of both current types in trisomic neurons showed a shift of approximately 10 mV towards more depolarized potentials compared to control neurons. Thus, whereas essentially all of the fast sodium channels were inactivated at normal resting potentials in control neurons, approximately 10% of these channels were available for activation in trisomy 21 cells. Furthermore, the fast current showed accelerated activation kinetics in trisomic neurons. The slow sodium current of trisomic neurons showed slower deactivation kinetics than control cells. No differences were observed between trisomic and control neurons in the maximal conductance or current densities of either fast or slow current components. These data indicate that the greater rate of depolarization in trisomy 21 neurons at resting potentials is primarily due to activation of residual fast sodium channels that also have a faster time course of activation.

During a nationwide twin study on multiple sclerosis (MS) in Finland a dizygotic pair discordant for MS was found. The affected co-twin had dizygotic twin daughters. The affected co-twin of the second generation had systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Both pairs were thoroughly examined. No evidence of CNS involvement in the healthy co-twins was found. In pairwise comparisons, virus-specific IgG antibodies to measles and mumps were significantly increased in the MS patient whereas the same was true for rubella in the SLE patient. Both MS and SLE patient expressed HLA alleles most often found to be associated with these disorders. Reversed CD4/CD8 ratios were observed in both MS and SLE patient. No difference in interleukin-2 receptor expression were found but gamma-interferon secretion in the MS patient showed marked increase whereas that of the SLE patient was of the same magnitude as in the healthy members. A different triggering stimulus rather than the dissimilarity in the immunogenetic predisposition may be decisive as to whether or not they develop MS or SLE.
Retrograde axonal transport may play an important role in the feedback regulation of protein synthesis in neuronal perikarya, and the anterograde axonal transport of protein. The &quot;dying-back&quot; neuropathies associated with thiamine deficiency and chronic alcoholism may arise as a consequence of altered axonal transport. We have reported alterations in fast anterograde axonal transport in rats as a result of ethanol exposure or thiamine deficiency. The present studies were undertaken to determine whether retrograde transport was also affected by these experimental treatments. One group of rats was fed a liquid diet containing 6.7% ethanol for 16 weeks. Another group of rats was made thiamine deficient with a thiamine-free diet for 4 weeks. Retrograde axonal transport was labeled by injecting the left sciatic nerve unilaterally with 3H-N-succinimidyl propionate. This compound covalently labels proteins in the nerve at the site of injection and is accumulated by retrograde axonal transport to sensory nerve cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia and motor nerve cell bodies in the spinal cord. After 7 days, dorsal root ganglia of chronic ethanol-fed rats showed a significant 45% decrease in the amount of accumulated retrograde label compared to controls. No significant differences in accumulation were found in the spinal cords. These results suggest that the peripheral neuropathies caused by chronic alcoholism and thiamine deficiency follow different etiologies, and that motor and sensory fibers are affected differently by ethanol.
Kynurenic acid is a broad-spectrum excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor antagonist which is present in the mammalian central nervous system. We describe a method for the measurement of kynurenic acid using isocratic reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorometric detection enhanced by Zn2+ as a postcolumn reagent. The method requires no prior sample preparation procedures other than extraction with 0.1 M HClO4. The reliability of the primary fluorometric method was verified by comparing measurements of tissue concentrations of kynurenic acid in human cerebral cortex and putamen using three different methods of separation with fluorometric detection, as well as four methods utilizing HPLC with coulometric electrode array system (CEAS) detection. All seven methods produced comparable results. The concentration of kynurenic acid in human cerebral cortex was 2.07 +/- 0.61 pmol/mg protein, and in human putamen, 3.38 +/- 0.81 pmol/mg protein. Kynurenic acid was also found to be present in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at a concentration of 5.09 +/- 1.04 nM. The regional distribution of kynurenic acid in the rat brain was examined. Kynurenic acid concentrations were highest in brainstem (149.6 fmol/mg protein) and olfactory bulb (103.9 fmol/mg protein) and lowest in thalamus (26.0 fmol/mg protein). There were no significant postmortem changes in kynurenic acid concentrations in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum at intervals ranging from 0 to 24 h. Perfusion of the cerebral vasculature with normal saline prior to sacrifice did not significantly alter kynurenic acid content in rat hippocampus, cerebral cortex, or striatum. The analytical methods described are the most sensitive (10-30 fmol injection-1) and specific (utilizing both excitation and emissions properties and electrochemical reaction potentials, respectively) methods for determining kynurenic acid in brain tissue extracts and CSF. These methods should prove useful in examining whether kynurenic acid modulates EAA-mediated neurotransmission under physiologic conditions, as well as in determining the role of kynurenic acid in excitotoxic neuronal death.
The usefulness of the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) as a screening test for identifying cognitive impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) has been questioned because many patients who score above the suggested cutoff score of 24 exhibit severe focal or global cognitive deficits. We reevaluated the usefulness of the MMSE by studying 85 patients with clinically definite MS who also received an extensive battery of neuropsychological tests. Although scores on the MMSE were negatively correlated with the number of neuropsychological tests on which patients with MS displayed impairment, the MMSE was not sufficiently sensitive to identify precisely defined dementia in these patients. The MMSE was nonetheless a useful predictor of focal cognitive impairment, particularly in relapsing-remitting patients with relatively minor physical disabilities. Additional analyses suggested strategies for minor modifications of the MMSE that may improve its sensitivity and specificity for identifying dementia while preserving its major advantages as a screening examination: brevity and ease of administration and scoring.
We review the different measurements that can be derived from recordings of compound sensory action potentials, and describe how less commonly measured aspects may be of use in clinical situations. In addition to the frequently obtained maximum conduction velocity and amplitude, minimum conduction velocity may be measured if near nerve electrodes and response averaging are used. Minimum conduction velocity is a sensitive measure of both axonal and demyelinating peripheral nerve pathology. Activity-dependent conduction is another aspect of sensory conduction that may provide additional information for the clinician. Refractory period of transmission has been used to diagnose subtle demyelinating lesions, as well as some axonal disorders. Supernormal period and the conduction of trains of stimuli may also be useful, although, at present, they remain predominantly research tools.
Patients with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis often perform more poorly on cognitive tasks than do patients with the relapsing-remitting form of this disease. Whether these differences reflect an independent influence of disease type on cognitive performance is uncertain. We used multiple regression techniques to determine how well performance on a number of tasks done poorly by groups of patients with multiple sclerosis could be predicted by disease type and its confounds: age, disease duration, and disability status as well as other demographic variables. Disease types were assigned longitudinally, based on serial neurological examinations at 6-month intervals over a minimum of 2 years. None of the demographic or clinical variables predicted cognitive performance with more than minimal accuracy. These findings fail to provide support for the assertion that disease type is an important independent determinant of cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis.
The literature review revealed increasing sophistication of neuroscience nursing research since 1978. Conclusions of the papers reviewed have contributed to the acceptance as &quot;fact&quot; that nursing actions may increase ICP, but few have systematically studied effects upon cerebral perfusion pressure, the more critical variable. McQuillan's study (11) has examined the conflict between the goals of respiratory care and those of maintaining adequate cerebral perfusion, concluding that an intervention often discouraged for use with this patient group may in fact offer hope for reduction of complications. The methodology and results suggest that repeating the study would be both feasible and ethical.

Natural killer cell activity was compared in the Long-Sleep and Short-Sleep mouse lines. These mice, initially selected for their sensitivities to a hypnotic dose of ethanol, are also differentially sensitive to other agents which act through the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride ionophore complex. Natural killer cell activity was 40-59% lower in Short-Sleep when compared to Long-Sleep mice. Flow cytofluorometric analysis demonstrated that the number of Nk-1+ cells was also lower in the spleens of Short-Sleep than Long-Sleep mice. In addition, the incidence of 3-methylcholanthrene-induced tumors was significantly greater in Short-Sleep (85.7%) than in Long-Sleep (14.3%) mice. These results suggest that the Long-Sleep and Short-Sleep mouse lines may represent a unique model to assess the physiological role of the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride ionophore complex in the neural modulation of immune function.
Unilateral naris occlusion in neonatal rats results in large alterations in the olfactory bulb, including substantial changes in laminar volume and enhanced cell death. These gross changes are undoubtedly the result of a cascade of more basic cellular regulatory events. The present study assesses the possibility of rapid post-deprivation changes in two such processes: glucose metabolism and protein synthesis. On the day after the day of birth rat pups underwent unilateral naris occlusion or sham surgery. In one study, either 1, 12, 24 or 48 h following surgery [3H]2-deoxyglucose [( 3H]2-DG) was administered to gauge patterns of glucose uptake. In a second study, [3H]leucine was injected to assess patterns of protein synthesis. Autoradiographs were then subjected to quantitative analyses. As early as 1 h following occlusion reduced 2-DG uptake was observed in many bulb regions. By 24 h, leucine incorporation was also uniformly diminished. While 2-DG uptake remained suppressed 48 h after deprivation, levels of amino acid incorporation returned to normal patterns in most laminae, with the exception of the mitral cell layer, where increased uptake was encountered. To evaluate whether the effects were developmental by nature a group of P40-P45 animals treated similarly were also examined. While 24 h of deprivation impaired 2-DG uptake in older animals, no alterations in amino acid incorporation were observed. The results indicate that early odor deprivation has rapid and specific effects on cellular functioning within the developing olfactory bulb.
In order to study roles of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the cerebellar granule cell migration, cerebellar microexplants of neonatal to postnatal 11-day-old mice were cultured on 3 kinds of substrata, poly-L-lysine (PL), PL/fibronectin and PL/laminin. A prominent outgrowth of small granule cells, which did not uptake GABA, was observed only on the PL/laminin substratum. The granule cells showed the following sequence of events: (1) Many polygonal undifferentiated cells migrated out from the microexplants. These blast cells differentiated into small bipolar neurons with long fine neurites which extended radially from the explants. (2) These cells then changed their orientation perpendicular to their radial neurites, by protruding a short process from the cell body at right angles. (3) Finally, cell bodies of these granule cells adhered to each other to form cell aggregates. Quantitative labelings by bromodeoxyuridine revealed that there were less mitotic cells in explants from the later postnatal cerebellar compared to the earlier postnatal ones. Anti-MAP2 immunoreactivity was localized in short perpendicular processes of the aggregated granule cells. Thus, this unique cell behavior exhibited on the PL/laminin substratum provides the first defined experimental system for studying the granule cell differentiation in vitro.
Intracellular activity was recorded from neurons in immature rat hippocampal slices. The presence of intrinsic inhibitory synaptic potentials as well as responses to serotonin were assessed in slices of 1, 2 or 3 postnatal weeks of age. Young (1 week) cells had only a marginal hyperpolarizing response to serotonin and no detectable intrinsic inhibitory synaptic potentials. At 2 weeks of age neurons already expressed a fast IPSP (inhibitory postsynaptic potential). The responses to serotonin were different from those of adult cells in that they involved primarily a large decrease in input resistance with only small potential changes. In cells of this age serotonin caused a marked increase in spontaneous IPSP discharges and a blockade of a slow afterhyperpolarization. In 3-week-old rats the fast and slow components of the IPSP were present as in adult and the responses to serotonin included a large hyperpolarization associated with an increase in K conductance, a blockade of slow afterhyperpolarization and a blockade of a slow IPSP, as seen in adult cells. These results indicate that the complex pattern of reactivity to serotonin is differentially regulated in the developing brain.
Within the cerebellum of the adult homozygous weaver mutant mouse there is an approximate 50% reduction in the number of vermal Purkinje cells. It is not known if this deficit is due to a primary action of the weaver gene or if the cell loss is due to a secondary effect of the weaver gene. We examined this question using chimeric mice, produced by fusing C57BL/6 homozygous or heterozygous weaver embryos (high beta-glucuronidase activity, Gusb) with C3HAw wild-type embryos (low beta-glucuronidase activity, Gush). Chimeric cerebella were stained for beta-glucuronidase activity and counts were made of the number of wv/- (Gusb) and +/+ (Gush) Purkinje cells. If the weaver gene acts intrinsically in the Purkinje cells, then the number of genetically wv/- and not +/+ Purkinje cells should be decreased. Alternatively, if the Purkinje cells are extrinsically affected by the weaver gene, then both wv/- and +/+ should be equally reduced. In this study, using comparative measures of chimerism and Purkinje cell numbers, only weaver Purkinje cells were reduced, while the +/+ Purkinje cells were unaffected in the chimera. These results indicate that the decrease in Purkinje cell number seen in the wv/wv and wv/+ cerebellum is a direct effect of the weaver gene. In concordance with previous work, the disorganization of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellum, however, results from an indirect effect of the weaver gene.
Dissociates from the metencephalic basal plate of early chick embryo neural tubes containing the trigeminal (V) motor nucleus were cultured on substrates conditioned with appropriate target-derived muscle conditioned medium (MCM), laminin (LAM), MCM with nerve growth factor (NGF) in the medium, and fibronectin (FN). Comparisons were made of neuronal survival, the number of neurons with processes, and the length of processes elaborated. It was found that both MCM and LAM significantly enhanced survival and neuritic production from this population when compared to controls grown on a collagen-polyornithine substrate, but MCM surpassed LAM in these measures. When the neurons were grown on an MCM-conditioned substrate with an NGF-supplemented medium, no improvements were produced over the MCM or the NGF conditions alone. Therefore, the two do not appear to act in synergy, as NGF and LAM have been shown to do. FN produced no enhancement of any of the measures taken from this population. An ELISA analysis revealed no detectable LAM in the early target MCM. These results indicate that the specific responsiveness of this early neural tube population to its target MCM is not mediated by LAM, but the growth-enhancing component acts in a similar manner, although its influence is more potent.

1. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to localize nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) mRNA in the adult rat basal forebrain. 2. In emulsion-dipped sections 35S-labeled RNA antisense probes produced a high density of silver grains over cells located in the medial septum, vertical and horizontal limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, and nucleus basalis. 3. This distribution of NGFR mRNA overlaps with the distribution of NGFR protein localized using immunocytochemical techniques. 4. No hybridization signal was detected when sections were hybridized with a 35S-labeled RNA sense (control) probe. 5. We suggest that NGFRs are synthesized in these basal forebrain nuclei and transported to terminal areas where NGF is thought to be bound and internalized, an initial step in the many actions of this neurotrophic factor.
1. The studies described herein were designed to test the hypothesis that a neuroleptic, haloperidol, may alter the level of expression of the tyrosine hydroxylase and cholecystokinin genes in discrete brain regions. 2. In situ hybridization was employed to quantitate changes in concentration of mRNA for tyrosine hydroxylase and cholecystokinin in the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, and locus ceruleus after acute or chronic treatment with haloperidol or vehicle. 3. Haloperidol had no effect on the level of tyrosine hydroxylase or cholecystokinin mRNAs, in the ventral tegmentum, substantia nigra, or locus ceruleus, at either 3 or 19 days of drug administration. 4. These data suggest that haloperidol administration does not alter the level of tyrosine hydroxylase or cholecystokinin mRNAs in midbrain dopamine neurons of the rat.
Neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, and computational constraints are used to motivate a set of hypotheses about the functional organization of high-level vision. A set of processing subsystems is posited that underlies the later stages of visual object recognition and identification; these subsystems have been implemented in a running computer simulation model. The model is damaged in a variety of ways, and its performance on a set of tasks is observed. Dysfunctions arise from disruptions of the subsystems, disruptions of their interconnections, compensations by intact subsystems, and diminished activational capacity. The most common dysfunctions of high-level vision following brain damage are then reviewed, and accounts are offered by reference to the stimulation model. According to the theory and model, each type of dysfunction can arise from numerous underlying causes, all of which are potentially distinguishable by empirical methods.
Mutations in the genes ced-3 and ced-4 prevent almost all of the programmed cell deaths that occur during Caenorhabditis elegans development. To determine the sites of action of these two genes, we performed genetic mosaic analyses. We generated C. elegans animals that carried a free chromosomal duplication bearing either ced-3(+) or ced-4(+) in an otherwise homozygous ced-3 or ced-4 genetic background. We used other genes on the duplication as markers to identify genetic mosaic animals in which the duplication was present in some but not all cells. The patterns of cell death survivors in these mosaic animals indicated that the products of both ced-3 and ced-4 function within dying cells to cause cell death.
A lambda gt11 human testicular cDNA library was screened with degenerate oligonucleotide probe mixtures based on amino acid sequence data generated from cyanogen bromide fragments and tryptic fragments of purified human beta-galactosidase. Six positive clones were identified after screening 2 x 10(6) plaques. The sequences of these six clones were determined and found to be derived from two different cDNAs. The sequence of the longest of these cDNAs is nearly identical to that recently determined by Oshima et al. (1988). It codes for a 76-kD protein and all 11 peptides that were generated from the purified enzyme. The second clone is shorter by 393 bp in the central portion of the coding region. Analysis by Northern blotting revealed the presence of a single mRNA species of 2.45 kb in lymphoblasts and testicular tissue. It is deduced from the amino acid sequence data that proteolytic processing of the precursor form of beta-galactosidase must occur by cleavage in the carboxy-terminal portion of the polypeptide perhaps around amino acid 530 at a uniquely hydrophilic sequence. Using a probe generated from the 3' region of the cDNA, we have mapped the locus coding for human beta-galactosidase to chromosome 3p21-3pter.
Recent theoretical analysis supports the possibility that using a linked earlobe reference in EEG studies might appreciatively distort the measured electrical field due to current flow over a low resistance path across the wire joining both ears. Such an effect would invalidate published quantitative EEG norms. Evidence for the balancing effect of this distortion was sought for in the EEG of 4 patients with well localized unilateral lesions, a situation in which this distortion would be most apparent. Statistical tests failed to reveal significant differences between EEGs recorded when ears were linked or unlinked. An analysis of the equivalent circuit reveals that a high skin/electrode impedance effectively makes the linked ear reference behave as an ordinary reference.
Naloxone-resistant binding sites for beta-endorphin have previously been observed on transformed peripheral blood mononuclear cells and on the EL4-thymoma cell line. These sites may be related to the naloxone-insensitive immunomodulatory effects of beta-endorphin. The present study was performed 1) to determine whether these sites are present on normal splenocytes and 2) to characterize them. Ficoll-hypaque-purified murine splenocytes were used in a RRA with [125I]beta-endorphin. Neither fresh intact cells obtained from viral antibody-free mice nor membrane preparations showed evidence of binding. However, splenocytes cultured in 5% fetal bovine serum for 24-96 h showed sites on intact cells or membranes (after 3 h in culture no sites were present). Intact cultured splenocytes demonstrated a saturable binding isotherm, and Scatchard analysis showed a single site (Kd = 4.1 X 10(-9) M). Competition studies showed that N-acetyl-beta-endorphin (N-Ac-beta-endorphin)-(1-31) was equipotent to beta-endorphin-(1-31). beta-Endorphin-(6-31) and beta-endorphin-(28-31) were approximately 10- and 1000-fold less potent, respectively, whereas beta-endorphin-(1-27) and naloxone were completely ineffective. Covalent cross-linking of [125I]beta-endorphin to splenocytes and resolution by gel electrophoresis showed bands at 66K and 57K which were displaced equipotently by increasing amounts of beta-endorphin and N-Ac-beta-endorphin. beta-Endorphin-(18-31) or (28-31) were less potent, and naloxone or other opioid ligands selective for receptor subtypes were ineffective. Thus, high affinity, naloxone-insensitive binding sites for beta-endorphin, which show competition characteristics distinctively different from brain opiate receptors, are inducible on normal mouse splenocytes. N-Ac-beta-endorphin, presumed to be an inactivation product of beta-endorphin because it fails to bind brain opiate receptors, may be functional at this naloxone-insensitive binding site.
The physiological role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in controlling LH secretion and the initiation of puberty was investigated using two specific antagonists, MK-801 and DL-2-amino-5-phosphono valeric acid (AP-5). Single daily sc injections of MK-801 (0.1-0.2 mg/kg BW), a noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, given to prepubertal rats significantly delayed but did not prevent the timing of puberty, as determined by the age at vaginal opening and first ovulation. Infusion of MK-801 (5 micrograms/h) via osmotic minipumps for 4 days inhibited the postovariectomy rise of LH secretion in prepubertal rats. Both MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg BW, sc) and AP-5 (4 x 30 mg, iv), a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, blocked the estradiol-induced LH surge in prepubertal ovariectomized rats. These results demonstrate that blockade of NMDA receptors can prevent the development of enhanced LH secretion in female rats undergoing sexual maturation. Moreover, they support the view that activation of NMDA receptors significantly contributes to the physiological initiation of the pubertal process.
The epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) were discovered as products of a cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase-independent, cytochrome P-450 catalyzed metabolism of arachidonic acid (AA) termed the &quot;epoxygenase&quot; pathway. The rat hypothalamus is able to synthesize EETs from exogenous AA, and 5,6-EET has been found to release the neuropeptide somatostatin (SRIF) from hypothalamic nerve terminals of the median eminence (ME). In the present study, hypothalami from male rats were examined for the presence of endogenous EETs, using chemical, chromatographic, and mass spectral analysis procedures. The samples were initially separated in a C18 Sepralyte column, fractionated on TLC plates, and purified by reverse phase HPLC. Thereafter, they were esterified (pentafluorobenzyl esters) and subjected to negative ion chemical ionization/gas chromatography (GC)/mass spectral (MS) analysis. The GC retention time and the MS fragmentation patterns revealed the presence of a mixture of 8,9-, 11,12- and 14,15-EETs; instability of 5,6-EET during the isolation protocol precluded its identification. Total hypothalamic EET concentration was estimated to be 120 ng/g wet tissue. The 8,9-regiosomer released SRIF from ME nerve terminals with an ED50 of 5 x 10(-12) M; Dopamine (DA) and the D2 receptor agonist PPHT, but not the D1 receptor agonist SKF-38393, induced SRIF release from the ME. This effect was blocked by clotrimazole and ketoconazole, two inhibitors of microsomal cytochrome P-450 function and AA epoxygenase in particular. In contrast, the inhibitors failed to affect the increase in SRIF release induced by 8,9-EET. These results indicate that: 1) in addition to cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase products, epoxygenase metabolites of AA are endogenous compounds of the hypothalamus, and 2) EETs may mediate the increase in SRIF release from hypothalamic neurons induced by the interaction of DA with D2 receptors.
For 22 h daily, polygraphic examination was made of sleep organization in four cats, both before and after amygdaloid (AM) kindling. After the completion of AM kindling and repetitive induction of kindled convulsion, the percentage of time spent in rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) significantly decreased, while the total sleep time (TST) remained unchanged. REMS suppression was most profound during the immediate postictal hours and continued through the 22-h period without a rebound increase. Slow wave sleep (SWS) was also suppressed during the postictal hours; however, this suppression was exceeded by that of REMS and was followed by a rebound increase. These changes in sleep organization were transient. During a rest interval of 2 months without kindled convulsions, they gradually disappeared and there was a complete recovery to the prekindling baseline. However, when the AM-kindled convulsion was reintroduced, there was an abrupt REMS suppression without TST change. We conclude that changes in sleep organization after AM kindling are (a) characterized by suppression of REMS and a compensatory increase in SWS, and (b) a direct but transient correlate of convulsion rather than of an acquired seizure susceptibility.
Amiodarone and its pharmacologically active metabolite desethylamiodarone have a sodium channel blocking action that explains some of their antiarrhythmic efficacy. However, the well-documented depression of the calcium channel-dependent sinus node and atrioventricular node function that occurs with amiodarone therapy suggests that amiodarone also blocks calcium influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels. Recent electrophysiologic data support the notion that amiodarone, but not desethylamiodarone, acts as a calcium channel antagonist. In this study, the effects of amiodarone and desethylamiodarone on calcium antagonist receptors associated with the voltage-dependent calcium channels were characterized. Amiodarone, but not its active metabolite desethylamiodarone, was a potent competitor at dihydropyridine and phenylalkylamine (verapamil-like) calcium antagonist binding sites in rat heart, brain, and skeletal and smooth muscles. Substantial inhibition of calcium antagonist binding was retained even after extensive washing of membranes and 2 days after in vivo treatment of rats with amiodarone. The pattern of inhibition of calcium antagonist binding suggests that amiodarone acts at phenylalkylamine binding sites. It is suggested that the acute effects of amiodarone--sinus and atrioventricular node inhibition, vasodilatation, and negative inotropic actions--may reflect calcium antagonist influences of amiodarone itself. Chronic effects of drug therapy, such as inhibition of ventricular conduction by sodium channel blockade, may selectively involve desethylamiodarone.
An assay has been designed for the identification of NCAM-binding proteins present in an NP-40 detergent extract of brain membranes. This method, which is capable of analyzing both heterophilic and homophilic interactions, uses species-specific antibodies against NCAM in combination with radioiodination, so that after unlabeled chicken and iodinated frog brain membrane proteins were allowed to interact, the chicken NCAM could be specifically isolated by immunoaffinity adsorption. The radiolabeled frog proteins coisolated with chicken NCAM were then characterized by one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in combination with immunoblotting. The only detectable NCAM-binding proteins were identified as the 140- and 180-kD forms of NCAM. The presence and absence of polysialic acid on NCAM did not change the amount or nature of the frog proteins immunopurified under these conditions. As an alternative for detecting heterophilic ligands, a simplified immunoprecipitation method was employed using either iodine or sulfate radiolabels. Again under these conditions only NCAM was detected. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the major binding protein for NCAM is NCAM itself, and suggest that differences in polysialic acid content do not directly alter the properties of NCAM's homophilic binding site.
The folate receptor, also known as the membrane folate-binding protein, is maximally expressed on the surface of folate-depleted tissue culture cells and mediates the high affinity accumulation of 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid in the cytoplasm of these cells. Recent evidence suggests that this receptor recycles during folate internalization and that it is anchored in the membrane by a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol linkage. Using quantitative immunocytochemistry, we now show that (a) this receptor is highly clustered on the cell surface; (b) these clusters are preferentially associated with uncoated membrane invaginations rather than clathrin-coated pits; and (c) the receptor is not present in endosomes or lysosomes. This receptor appears to physically move in and out of the cell using a novel uncoated pit pathway that does not merge with the clathrin-coated pit endocytic machinery.
A mathematical model describing drug uptake into brain tumors, directly from blood and indirectly from neighboring tissue, is presented. The model quantitatively describes uptake into tumor, brain surrounding tumor (BST), and normal brain and uptake following reversible osmotic blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-tumor barrier disruption. It employs published data on the time course for reclosure of the BBB following osmotic treatment and on the brain and tumor uptake of [14C]alpha-aminoisobutyric acid by Walker 256 carcinomas and C6 gliomas implanted into the rat brain. Constant infusion and bolus injection infusion schedules are considered. In untreated brain, the BST acts as a sink, reducing the integrated exposure of the adjacent tumor to the drug, whereas following osmotic treatment, tumor exposure to drug is enhanced, not only by increased delivery from blood but also by diffusion (and bulk flow) from neighboring brain. The model provides a quantitative framework for examining the efficacy of osmotic treatment to enhance chemotherapy of brain tumors.
Regional CMRglc (rCMRglc) values were measured with [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG) and positron emission tomography (PET), using a Scanditronix PC-1024-7B scanner, in 14 healthy, noninstitutionalized subjects with trisomy 21 (Down syndrome; DS) (mean age 30.0 years, range 25-38 years) and in 13 sex-matched, healthy volunteers (mean age 29.5 years, range 22-38 years). In the DS group, mean mental age on the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test was 7.8 years and dementia was not present. Resting rCMRglc was determined with eyes covered and ears occluded in a quiet, darkened room. Global gray CMRglc equaled 8.76 +/- 0.76 mg/100 g/min (mean +/- SD) in the DS group as compared with 8.74 +/- 1.19 mg/100 g/min in the control group (p greater than 0.05). Gray matter regional measurements also did not differ between groups. The ratio of rCMRglc to global CMRglc, calculated to reduce the variance associated with absolute rCMRglc, and right/left ratios did not show any consistent differences. These results show that healthy young DS adults do not have alterations in regional or global brain glucose metabolism, as measured with 18FDG and PET, prior to an age at which the neuropathological changes in Alzheimer disease are reported to occur.
In the present study, we employed a dual-immunofluorescent labeling procedure to determine if the biosynthetic enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) are co-localized within neurons in the dorsal medulla of rat. Within this region TH-labeled neurons are distributed within the nuclei of the solitary tracts and medial aspect of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The absence of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivity within TH-labeled cells in the medial portion of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus suggests that these neurons are dopaminergic. Cholinergic perikarya also are present in the dorsal medulla and are distributed throughout the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and hypoglossal nucleus. Of these ChAT-positive perikarya, a small percentage limited to the medial aspect of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (i.e., corresponding to the location of dopamine neurons) also contain TH. The existence of TH within ChAT-positive neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus provides an anatomical substrate with which to suggest that catecholaminergic and cholinergic fibers contribute to the vagus nerve and may serve to explain some of the cardiac and gastric effects resulting from systemic administration of catecholamine agents.
Single sodium channel events were recorded from cell-attached patches on single canine cardiac Purkinje cells at 10-13 degrees C. Data from four patches containing two to four channels and one patch with one channel were selected for quantitative analysis. The channels showed prominent reopening behavior at voltages near threshold, and the number of reopenings declined steeply with depolarization. Mean channel open time was a biphasic function of voltage with the maximum value (1-1.5 ms) occurring between -50 and -40 mV and lower values at more and at less hyperpolarized levels. Inactivation without opening was also prominent near threshold, and this occurrence also declined with depolarization. The waiting time distributions and the probability of being open showed voltage and time dependence as expected from whole-cell current studies. The results were analyzed in terms of a five-state Markovian kinetic model using both histogram analysis and a maximum likelihood method to estimate kinetic parameters. The kinetic parameters of the model fits were similar to those of GH3 pituitary cells (Horn, R., and C. A. Vandenberg. 1984. Journal of General Physiology. 84:505-534) and N1E115 neuroblastoma cells (Aldrich, R. W., and C. F. Stevens. Journal of Neuroscience. 7:418-431). Both histogram and maximum likelihood analysis implied that much of the voltage dependence of cardiac Na current is in its activation behavior, with inactivation showing modest voltage dependence.
The use of the receptor autoradiography and 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) techniques in neuroscience are reviewed. Receptors and other binding sites can be visualized autoradiographically in microtome tissue sections after labelling with radioligand in vivo or in vitro. Autoradiograms are generated by apposition of the labelled tissue to photographic emulsions. Combined with computerized image analysis, this technique can be used to analyse and quantify the microscopic distribution of receptors and receptor alterations associated with lesions or disease in human and animal tissues. The 2-DG technique permits microscopic analysis of modifications in brain glucose utilization induced by physiological and pharmacological manipulations. Limitations of these techniques and attempts to optimize their resolution are also discussed.
Two predictions arising from previous theoretical and empirical work which demonstrated that spontaneous changes of bimanual coordination patterns result from a loss of pattern stability (i.e., a nonequilibrium phase transition) were tested: (a) that the time it takes to intentionally switch from one pattern to another depends on the differential stability of the patterns themselves; and (b) that an intention, defined as an intended behavioral pattern, can change the dynamical characteristics, e.g., the overall stability of the behavioral patterns. Subjects moved both index fingers rhythmically at one of six movement frequencies while performing either an in-phase or antiphase pattern of finger coordination. On cue from an auditory signal, subjects switched from the ongoing pattern to the other pattern. The relative phase of movement between the two fingers was used to characterize the ongoing coordinative pattern. The time taken to switch between patterns, or switching time, and relative phase fluctuations were used to evaluate the modified pattern dynamics resulting from a subject's intention to change patterns. Switching from the in-phase to the antiphase pattern was significantly slower than switching in the opposite direction for all subjects. Both the mean and distribution of switching times in each direction were found to be in agreement with model predictions. movement frequency had little effect on switching time, a finding that is also consistent with the model. Relative phase fluctuations were significantly larger when moving in the antiphase pattern at the highest movement frequencies studied. The results show that, although intentional influences act to modify a coordinative pattern's intrinsic dynamics, the influence of these dynamics on the resulting behavior is always present and is particularly strong at high movement frequencies.
In the developing amphibian, the formation of extra vestibular contacts on the Mauthner cell (M-cell) enhances dendritic branching, while deprivation reduces it (Goodman and Model, 1988a). The mechanism underlying the interaction between afferent fibers and developing dendritic branches is not known; neural activity may be an essential component of the stimulating effect. We examined the role of afferent impulse activity in the regulation of M-cell dendritic branching in the axolotl (Ambystoma mexicanum) embryo. M-cells occur as a pair of large, uniquely identifiable neurons in the axolotl medulla. Synapses from the ipsilateral vestibular nerve (nVIII) are restricted to a highly branched region of the M-cell lateral dendrite. We varied the amount of nVIII innervation and eliminated neural activity. First, unilateral transplantation of a vestibular primordium deprived some M-cells of nVIII innervation and superinnervated others. Second, surgical fusion of axolotls to TTX-harboring California newt (Taricha torosa) embryos paralyzed the Ambystoma twin: voltage-sensitive Na+ channel blockade by TTX eliminated action potential propagation. Reconstruction of M-cells in 18 mm larvae revealed that dendritic growth was influenced by in-growing axons even in the absence of incoming impulses: impulse blockade had no effect on the stimulation of dendritic growth by the afferent fibers.
Chicken retina neurons from 8-9-day-old embryos developed prominent cholinergic properties after several days in stationary dispersed cell (monolayer) culture. These cells accumulated [3H]choline by a high-affinity, hemicholinium-sensitive transport system, converted [3H]choline to [3H]-acetylcholine [( 3H]ACh), released [3H]ACh in response to depolarization stimuli, and developed choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity to levels comparable to those of the intact retina. The cholinergic state, however, was not permanent. After 7 days in culture, the capacity for [3H]ACh release decreased drastically and continued to diminish with longer culture periods. Loss of this capacity seemed not to be due to loss of cholinergic neurons, because high-affinity choline uptake was unchanged. However, a substantial decrease of ChAT activity was observed as a function of culture age, and probably accounted for the low level of ACh synthesis in long-lasting cultures. The loss of ChAT activity could be prevented in at least two different ways: (a) Maintaining the neurons in rotary (aggregate) rather than stationary culture completely blocked the loss of enzyme activity and gave a developmental profile identical to the known &quot;in situ&quot; pattern of differentiation; and (b) Conditioned medium from aggregate cultures significantly reduced the drop in ChAT activity of neurons maintained in stationary, dispersed cell cultures. Activity that stabilized cholinergic differentiation was nondialyzable, heat-sensitive, and not mimicked by functional nerve growth factor. Production of activity by aggregates was developmentally regulated; medium obtained from aggregates after 3 days in culture had no effect on cholinergic differentiation, whereas medium obtained from aggregates between 6 and 10 days in culture produced a fivefold increase of ChAT in monolayers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serotonin binding protein (SBP) is a vesicular protein found in neurectoderm-derived cells that store 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin), such as central and peripheral serotonergic neurons and paraneurons (parafollicular cells of the thyroid). 5-HT is stored as a complex with SBP in vivo. Two forms of the protein are found. These differ in molecular mass: one is 45 kDa and the other 56 kDa. It has been suggested that the 56-kDa form of SBP may be the precursor of the 45-kDa form. To study the relationship between these two proteins, we have used a covalently bound radiolabeled probe to analyze their binding domains. A photoaffinity reagent, N-(4-azido-2-nitrophenyl)-5-hydroxytryptamine (NAP-5-HT), was synthesized and characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass spectra, and UV-visible absorption spectra. A 1 M excess of NAP-5-HT inhibited the binding of [3H]5-HT to SBP by 50%. NAP[3H]5-HT was also synthesized and attached to both high- and low-affinity binding sites on both forms of SBP. The high-affinity constants for 45-kDa and 56-kDa proteins were 0.8 nM and 0.02 nM, respectively, whereas the low-affinity constants were 0.3 microM and 0.15 microM. When the high-affinity site of partially purified SBP was photoaffinity-labeled with the reagent, two covalently labeled proteins (45 kDa and 56 kDa) were found by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Inhibition of the labeling of both proteins by 50% was observed in the presence of a 15-fold molar excess of 5-HT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
5-Hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors have been identified in the rat brain using the radioligand [3H]Q ICS 205-930. We report here that these sites have been solubilised from membranes prepared from pooled rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus using various detergents. Of the six detergents tested (1% 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulphonate, 0.5% deoxycholate, 1% Lubrol, 0.5% digitonin, 1% Triton X-100, and 1% octyl glucoside), deoxycholate (0.5%) yielded the best solubilisation (54.6 +/- 6% of receptor, 70.5 +/- 4% of protein; n = 3). However, most detergents inhibited binding of [3H]Q ICS 205-930 in solution. Binding was found to be optimal after the receptor had been exchanged by gel filtration through Sephadex G-25 into the detergent Lubrol PX (0.05%). Binding of [3H]Q ICS 205-930 to these soluble sites was saturable and specific (Bmax = 46.1 +/- 6 fmol/mg of protein; KD = 0.33 +/- 0.09 nM; n = 4) and was similar to that observed in membranes. Kinetic studies of [3H]Q ICS 205-930 binding demonstrated it to be rapid, with equilibrium being achieved within 15 min at 4 degrees C. The KD determined from the rates of association and dissociation (0.38 nM) agreed well with that determined by saturation analysis. Various antagonists completed for the soluble receptors with a rank order of potency typical for binding at a 5-HT3 receptor site: zacopride (Ki = 0.26 nM) greater than quipazine (0.37 nM) = Q ICS 205-930 (0.33 nM) greater than ICS 205-930 (0.93 nM) greater than GR 38032F (2.2 nM) greater than BRL 24924 (4.1 nM) greater than MDL 72222 (23.4 nM) greater than ketanserin (6,000 nM). The agonists 5-HT and 2-methyl-5-HT also competed for [3H]Q ICS 205-930 binding with high affinity (39.6 and 55.6 nM, respectively). Therefore, we conclude that the 5-HT3 receptor of rat brain has been successfully solubilised, and this should provide a good starting point for purification of the receptor.

During a recent clinical and neuropathological evaluation of a large autopsy population of brains our attention was drawn to a subset of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) presenting with a major impairment of visuospatial skills referred to as Balint's syndrome. In this subset a shift in the distribution of certain pathological profiles had occurred in that the visual areas of the occipital and posterior parietal regions had an increased number of lesions, whereas the prefrontal cortex had fewer lesions than usually observed in AD. Previous quantitative analyses have shown that generally in AD, primary sensory cortical areas are less damaged than association areas of the frontal and temporal lobes, as demonstrated by the laminar and regional distribution of two neuropathological features of the disease, neurofibrillary tangles and neuritic (senile) plaques. The distribution of pathological lesions in the AD cases with Balint's syndrome revealed that specific visual association pathways were disrupted, which are normally spared in AD. These data suggest that in some cases of AD, the particular psychological and neurological symptomatology may be caused by the selective loss of specific corticocortical systems, as reflected in the differential distribution of the neuropathological markers of the disease.
Intracellular recordings for current and voltage clamping were obtained from 130 neuroendocrine cells of the pars intermedia (PI) in intact pituitaries maintained in vitro. Spontaneous and evoked action potentials were blocked by TTX or by intracellular injection of a local anesthetic, QX-222. After potassium (K+) currents were blocked by tetraethylammonium (TEA), 4-aminopyridine, and intracellular cesium (Cs+), 2 distinct calcium (Ca2+) spikes were observed which were differentiated by characteristic thresholds, durations, and amplitudes. Both Ca2+ spikes were blocked by cobalt (Co2+) but were unaffected by TTX or QX-222. The low-threshold spike (LTS) had a smaller amplitude and inactivated when membrane potential was depolarized past -40 mV or when evoked at a fast rate (greater than 0.5 Hz). The high-threshold spike (HTS) typically had a larger amplitude and longer duration, was not inactivated at potentials which inactivated the LTS, and could be evoked at rates of up to 10 Hz. Single-electrode voltage-clamp analysis revealed that 3 distinct components of the Ca2+ current were present in most cells. From a negative holding potential (-90 mV), 2 separate peak inward currents were observed; a low-threshold transient current, similar to a T-type Ca2+ current, activated at -40 mV, whereas a large-amplitude inactivating current activated above -20 mV. This large inactivating Ca2+ current was significantly inactivated at a holding potential of -40 mV or by brief prepulses to positive potentials, and was similar to an N-type Ca2+ current. A sustained Ca2+ current (L-type) was observed which was not altered by different holding potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term blockade of brain opioid receptors by the opiate antagonist naltrexone increases methionine-enkephalin content in the striatum and nucleus accumbens (Tempel et al., 1984). To determine whether these changes in peptide levels reflect increased peptide synthesis, we examined preproenkephalin mRNA content in discrete brain regions of control (placebo-treated) and chronic naltrexone-treated animals by Northern analysis. Chronic naltrexone treatment (8 d) led to an approximately 12-fold increase in the striatal content of preproenkephalin mRNA relative to that of control animals. In contrast, no statistically significant change was observed in striatal mRNA for cyclophilin (1B15) or actin. Small increases in preproenkephalin mRNA content occurred in the hippocampus (+40%) and hypothalamus (+19%). No significant changes occurred in the frontal cortex. Increases in levels of the mRNA were seen as early as 24 hr after antagonist treatment. In contrast, changes in opioid receptor density required 3-4 d to reach half-maximal up-regulation after chronic antagonist treatment. Recent evidence has suggested that substance P is regulated by opioid peptides. To determine whether substance P synthesis is altered by chronic antagonist treatment, the mRNA corresponding to the precursor for substance P was examined using a probe for exon-7 of the preprotachykinin gene. Preprotachykinin mRNA content in the striatum was increased 6-fold after chronic antagonist treatment relative to that of control animals. Substance P content was increased 3-fold after chronic antagonist treatment. These data suggest that chronic blockade of brain opioid receptors leads to the increased synthesis of both enkephalin and substance P in the striatum and that these changes are relatively specific.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Weaver (gene symbol wv) is an autosomal recessive mutation in the mouse that causes the death of neurons in the cerebellum and of dopamine-containing neurons in the mid-brain. In the accompanying paper and in previous reports, the selective nature of the deficit produced by the gene in the dopamine-containing systems has been described after analysis of the patterns of the residual innervation in the striatum and the patterns of cell death in the midbrain. In the present report, we describe deficits in the terminals of the mesostriatal system occurring prior to a detectable dopamine deficiency in the striatum and prior to the onset of cell death in the mesencephalic dopamine-containing neurons during development. We have also found deficits in the remaining terminals of the adult weaver's striatum after the weaver pattern of innervation has been permanently established. Axonal terminals in the caudoputamen are impaired in weaver mice at postnatal day 7, before the onset of dopamine depletion in the caudoputamen and cell death in the midbrain. The impairment was revealed by a markedly deficient high-affinity uptake for 3H-dopamine by synaptosomes prepared from the caudoputamen. Throughout the remainder of development and in adulthood, the extent of the deficit in 3H-dopamine uptake was always greater than that for dopamine content. No striatal region was completely spared the effects of the gene. In the nucleus accumbens of the weavers, where dopamine content is normal, 3H-dopamine uptake was reduced by 35% in the synaptosomal preparations. In the olfactory tubercle, dopamine levels were reduced by 44% but 3H-dopamine uptake was reduced by 60%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Melanotrophs of the rat pars intermedia are innervated by dopaminergic fibers traveling through the pituitary stalk which inhibit secretion via an action on D-2 receptors. As secretion from the melanotroph has been shown to be calcium (Ca2+) dependent, it is possible that dopamine may have an action to inhibit Ca2+ currents in these cells. This possibility was tested by examining the effects of exogenously applied dopaminergic agonists or synaptically released dopamine upon Ca2+ currents recorded under single electrode voltage clamp in intact rat pars intermedia in vitro. Following blockade of sodium and potassium currents in melanotrophs, Ca2+ spikes were elicited with intracellular injection of depolarizing currents; electrical stimulation of the pituitary stalk caused an inhibition of the Ca2(+)-based action potentials which lasted for several seconds. Using single-electrode voltage-clamp techniques, we recorded inward Ca2+ currents corresponding to the T, N, and L types (see Williams et al., 1990). Stimulation of the pituitary stalk inhibited both the low- and high-threshold peak inward Ca2+ currents elicited from a holding potential of -90 mV. In contrast, when noninactivating Ca2+ currents were elicited from a holding potential of -30 mV, the currents were not altered by stalk stimulation. This pattern of inhibition of the Ca2+ currents was consistent with the preferential inhibition, by stalk stimulation, of the N and T Ca2+ currents, while sparing the L current. We observed that inhibition of Ca2+ currents due to stalk stimulation was completely reversed by bath perfusion of domperidone (1 microM), an antagonist of dopamine at the D-2 receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The autoradiographic analysis of neurotransmitter receptor distribution is a powerful technique that provides extensive information on the localization of neurotransmitter systems. Computer methodologies are described for the analysis of autoradiographic material which include quench correction, 3-dimensional display, and quantification based on anatomical boundaries determined from the tissue sections. These methodologies are applied to the problem of the distribution of glycine receptors measured by 3H-strychnine binding in the mouse CNS. The most distinctive feature of this distribution is its marked caudorostral gradient. The highest densities of binding sites within this gradient were seen in somatic motor and sensory areas; high densities of binding were seen in branchial efferent and special sensory areas. Moderate levels were seen in nuclei related to visceral function. Densities within the reticular formation paralleled the overall gradient with high to moderate levels of binding. The colliculi had low and the diencephalon had very low levels of binding. No binding was seen in the cerebellum or the telencephalon with the exception of the amygdala, which had very low levels of specific binding. This distribution of glycine receptors correlates well with the known functional distribution of glycine synaptic function. These data are illustrated in 3 dimensions and discussed in terms of the significance of the analysis techniques on this type of data as well as the functional significance of the distribution of glycine receptors.
A method for fabricating double-barrel, ion-selective microelectrodes with fine tips (0.5-1.5 microns) and rapid response times is described. When made into K(+)-selective microelectrodes, the electrodes respond to changes in [K+]o with a time constant of 70-95 ms. The electrical response of these electrodes to common-mode voltages can be made to have a time constant of less than 2 ms, which minimizes electrical artifacts from field potentials. The application of these microelectrodes to the measurement of rapid, transient changes in retinal [K+]o is presented.
The ultrastructural substrate for functional interactions between intrinsic cholinergic neurons and catecholaminergic afferents to the caudate-putamen nucleus and nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) was investigated immunocytochemically. Single sections of glutaraldehyde-fixed rat brain were processed 1) for the immunoperoxidase labeling of a rat monoclonal antibody against the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme choline acetyltransferase (CAT) and 2) for the immunoautoradiographic localization of a rabbit polyclonal antiserum against the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The ultrastructural morphology and cellular associations did not significantly differ in the caudate-putamen versus NAS. Immunoperoxidase reaction for CAT versus NAS. Immunoperoxidase reaction for CAT was seen in perikarya, dendrites, and terminals, whereas immunoautoradiography for TH was in terminals. The perikarya and dendrites immunolabeled for CAT were large, sparsely spiny, and postsynaptic mainly to unlabeled axon terminals. Only 2-3% of the CAT-labeled terminals (n = 136) and less than 1% of the TH-labeled terminals (n = 86) were apposed to, or formed synapses with, perikarya or dendrites immunoreactive for CAT. Most unlabeled and all labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses. In the same sample, 18% of the CAT and 16% of the TH-labeled terminals were directly apposed to each other. Unlabeled dendritic shafts received the major (40% for CAT versus 23% for TH) synaptic input from cholinergic terminals, while unlabeled spines received the major (47% for TH versus 23% for CAT) synaptic input from catecholaminergic terminals. Neither the unlabeled dendrites or spines received detectable convergent input from CAT and TH-labeled terminals. Thirteen percent of the CAT-labeled and 14% of TH-labeled terminals were in apposition to unlabeled terminals forming asymmetric, presumably excitatory, synapses with unlabeled dendritic spines. We conclude that in both the caudate-putamen and NAS cholinergic and catecholaminergic terminals 1) form symmetric, most likely inhibitory, synapses primarily with non-cholinergic neurons, 2) differentially synapse on shafts or spines of separate dendrites, and 3) have axonal appositions suggesting the possibility of presynaptic physiological interactions. These results support the hypothesis that the cholinergic-dopaminergic balance in striatal function may be mediated through inhibition of separate sets of spiny projection neurons with opposing excitatory and inhibitory functions.
In the two decades since contemporary psychologists produced strong evidence confirming Darwin's century-old hypothesis of the innateness and universality of certain facial expressions of emotions, research on expressive behavior has become well established in developmental, social, and personality psychology and in psychophysiology. There are also signs of increased interest in emotions in clinical psychology and the neurosciences. Despite the success of the work on emotion expression and the upward trend of interest in emotions in general, the fundamental issue of the relation between emotion expression and emotion experience or feeling state remains controversial. A new developmental model of expression-feeling relations provides a framework for reevaluating previous research and for understanding the conditions under which expressions are effective in activating and regulating feeling states. The model has implications for research, socialization practices, and psychotherapy.
Colostrum, the initial postpartum secretion of the breast, ordinarily has a distinct yellow color due to carotenoids of its fat globules. This pigmentation progressively diminishes as milk production increases during the first week of lactation. Identity of these carotenoids was investigated by means of thin-layer chromatography, high performance liquid chromatography and spectral analysis. Alpha- and beta-carotene, lycopene and beta-cryptoxanthin were revealed as major chromogens. A component corresponding to lutein and/or zeaxanthin was also detected by both chromatographic techniques. Extracts of 23 saponified colostrum samples from 10 donors revealed considerable variation in total carotenoid concentration (0.34-7.57 micrograms/ml of colostrum). Multiparous mothers had greater mean colostrum carotenoid concentrations than did the primiparae, 2.18 +/- 1.94 vs 1.14 +/- 1.32 micrograms/ml, respectively. Seven of the eight primiparous donors' samples had little or no yellow color. These findings imply a difference in carotenoid transport by breasts that have lactated as compared to those that have not. The interrelation of carotenoids, lactation and breast cancer is discussed.
This study looks at the relationship between anatomical concepts held by medical students and their clinical application, and develops a testable model of how students use basic science concepts for clinical problem-solving. According to the model, the essential prerequisites to solve a clinical problem using basic science information include the appropriate basic science knowledge, the ability to collect and interpret clinical information, with the key concept being the link that must then be made between clinical data and basic science. A detailed analysis of the individual components of the model should help to clarify and resolve some of the debate about the nature and balance of basic science and clinical education. A neurological diagnostic problem was used to test the assumptions of the model in a group of medical students who had minimal clinical experiences. There was no demonstrable relationship between anatomical knowledge as assessed by conventional tests and the diagnosis. There was a powerful relationship between measures of organization of knowledge and diagnosis, suggesting that the organization and development of concepts is the key to correct diagnosis. The findings have significant implications for assessment purposes and suggest that standard methods as generally practised may not measure the appropriate conceptual development and are not congruent with curricular objectives. Through the examination of its different learning outcome measures, the model may also be used to provide a profile of individual students or classes, which should help teachers and students deal with difficulties that may be experienced in learning to link clinical and basic science concepts.
Two experiments were performed. In the first, a 20 min conditioned emotional response (CER) paradigm was used to compare the neurochemical, endocrine and immunological responses to stress of 7- and 22-month-old Fischer 344 (F344) male rats. In the second, corticosterone levels 20 min following ether stress, and regional brain type I and II corticosterone receptor densities were examined using 7- and 17.5-month-old F344 male rats. Dopamine (DA) metabolism in old nonstressed rats was significantly reduced in the medial frontal cortex, neostriatum, nucleus accumbens and hypothalamus, but not in the amygdala. The CER procedure, nevertheless, increased medial frontal cortical, nucleus accumbens and amygdaloid DA turnover in both the young and old rats. The young and old nonstressed rats did not evidence differences in norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT) concentrations. However, stress resulted in a decrease in medial frontal cortical 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and hypothalamic 5-HT levels in old but not in young animals. These observations suggest age-related differences in the response of central NE and 5-HT systems to stress. Ether and the CER procedure led to exaggerated corticosterone responses in the old rats (17.5 and 22 month, respectively). Hippocampal type I but not type II corticosterone receptors were decreased by 47% in the 17.5-month-old rats. Thus, age-related changes in hippocampal corticosterone receptor types do not occur in unison, and the exacerbated corticosterone response to stress precedes the reported down-regulation of hippocampal type II corticosterone receptors in aged rats. Age-related changes were not observed in the concentrations of corticosterone receptors in other brain regions, or in the prolactin response to stress. The old rats, however, evidenced a reduction in the availability of the renin substrate, angiotensinogen, and in stress-induced renin secretion. Immune function was impaired in the old nonstressed rats, and further compromised by exposure to the CER procedure. In comparison to the young control rats, the old nonstressed rats showed an increased percentage of splenic large granular lymphocytes, reduced splenic natural killer cytotoxicity, and impaired Con-A-stimulated splenic T lymphocyte proliferation. Reductions in T splenic cell proliferation and natural killer cytotoxicity were observed in the young rats subjected to the CER paradigm, but not to the same extent as in the old rats. These observations indicate that aging male F344 rats evidence major alterations in basal central monoamine, endocrine and immune functions, and an increased sensitivity of these systems to stress.

In order to study age-related differences in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production in humans, we measured the rate of CSF production in 7 young (age 21 to 36 years) and 7 elderly (age 67 to 84 years) healthy volunteers, using a modified Masserman method. In addition, we evaluated CSF protein gradients by collecting CSF in serial fractions up to the 30th ml and assaying for total protein concentration. The mean rate of CSF production was significantly less in the elderly than in the young subjects. Mean CSF total protein concentrations were higher in the elderly than in the young, and significant rostrocaudal protein gradients with similar slopes were present in both groups. However, there was no correlation between CSF production and CSF total protein concentrations or protein gradient slopes. Age-related reductions in CSF production, together with the ventricular dilatation that occurs with aging, should presumably result in reduced CSF turnover and therefore influence measured concentrations of lumbar CSF constituents.
We evaluated 14 consecutive patients with leptomeningeal metastasis prospectively, using both T1-weighted (T1W) gadolinium-DTPA-enhanced MR (Gd-MR) and contrast-enhanced CT (CE-CT). Thirteen had positive CSF cytology; the remaining patient had an atypical CSF lymphocytosis and primary CNS lymphoma. The patients (8M/6F) ranged in age from 8 to 70 years (median, 42 years). Tumor histology included 3 systemic and 2 primary CNS lymphomas, 3 breast carcinomas, 2 leukemias, 1 malignant schwannoma, 1 small cell lung cancer, 1 prostate cancer, and 1 melanoma. Both imaging methods demonstrated parenchymal volume loss equally well in all patients. Gd-MR revealed abnormal enhancement of meninges or parenchyma in 10 patients, including all 5 patients with positive CE-CT. Neither technique revealed any foci of abnormal enhancement in 4 patients. Gd-MR was superior to CE-CT in demonstrating and quantifying enhancing subarachnoid and parenchymal nodules in 6 patients and in demonstrating sulcal, dural, cisternal, tentorial, and ependymal enhancement. Our findings indicate that T1W Gd-MR is the preferred imaging modality in leptomeningeal metastasis and suggest that CE-CT is unnecessary.

We have found that interleukin 3 (IL-3), a growth factor for hematopoietic cells, is a novel trophic factor for mouse and rat central cholinergic neurons. It enhanced neurite outgrowth and elevated choline acetyltransferase activity. The effect seems to be specific for cholinergic neurons, since somatostatin release and glutamic acid decarboxylase and 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase activities were not significantly influenced by IL-3. In vivo, IL-3 was infused into the lateral ventricles of rats after unilateral axotomy of the septohippocampal pathways. Two weeks later, the IL-3-treated animals showed significant numbers of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons remaining in the septal region.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) from the electric organ of T. californica is highly phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in vivo. In contrast, tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR in rat myotube cultures is barely detectable. To determine whether this low level of tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR in muscle cell cultures is due to a lack of neuronal innervation, we examined tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR in rat diaphragm in vivo. Immunofluorescent double labeling of cryostat sections of rat diaphragm using antibodies specific for phosphotyrosine or the AChR showed a direct colocalization of phosphotyrosine with the AChR at the neuromuscular junction. Using anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies, immunoblots of AChR partially purified from rat diaphragm demonstrated that the rat AChR contains high levels of phosphotyrosine. Denervation of rat diaphragm induced a time-dependent decrease in tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR, as measured by immunocytochemical and immunoblot techniques. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR occurred late in the development of the neuromuscular junction, between postnatal days 7 and 14. These studies suggest that muscle innervation regulates tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR and that tyrosine phosphorylation may play an important role in the developmental regulation of the AChR.
The distribution of somatostatin and growth hormone releasing factor (GRF) fibres in the hypothalamus suggests that they may be involved in physiological functions in addition to growth hormone control. GRF or somatostatin were stereotaxically injected into anterior or basal hypothalamic regions of unanesthetized male rats and effects on plasma prolactin measured. Somatostatin caused a small, significant, dose-responsive stimulation of prolactin secretion when injected in both hypothalamic regions, while GRF was without effect. Somatostatin may therefore have a minor intrahypothalamic role in regulating prolactin.
PCP and related compounds inhibit 3H-mazindol binding to the cocaine receptor on dopamine transporters. The relative potencies of these compounds are such that some of the behavioral effects of PCP could be related to its action at the cocaine receptor; however, the affinity of PCP at the cocaine site (Ki = 1.59 microM) is less than its affinity at its own receptor (Ki about 0.12 microM). More data will be needed to conclusively implicate the cocaine receptor in the action of PCP.
Born in Wetter, Germany, in 1500, Johannes Eichmann (Dryander) studied medicine and anatomy at the University of Paris from 1528 to 1534. In 1535, he was appointed professor of medicine at the University of Marburg. During the next year he held two public dissections, and in 1536 he was the author of the first text illustrating a Galenic dissection of the human brain. An expanded edition of this early book, the Anatomiae pars prior, was published in 1537. These texts represented an important transition from the dogma of medieval scholasticism to the precise observations of Vesalius. The books depicted the brain in eight figures, with four additional plates describing the skull, skull base, and cranial sutures. Detailed illustrations of the dura mater, cerebral cortex, and posterior fossa structures with clear, but inaccurate, relationship to the cranial nerves demonstrated Dryander's reliance on his own dissections. In 1542, he published a translated edition of Mundinus' anatomy. As was common at that time, the text plagiarized a portion of Vesalius' Tabulae sex, which resulted in the famous anatomist's anger. Despite this, Dryander continued to write on medical subjects as well as mathematics and astrology until his death in 1560. Because he was a progenitor of rational scientific thought, his earlier books represented an important advance in the progression to modern anatomic description and illustration.
The development of a rational approach and prognostication of epilepsy is based on a special profile of seizure events or the suggested diagnosis of a specific disorder. Although classifications based on neurobiological knowledge would be highly desirable, the present state of inadequate information makes such task difficult. Current classification schemes are, therefore, based on clinical signs and symptoms which are readily identifiable. The significant progress of epileptology has brought us to the stage where one can delineate a number of epileptic syndromes, provide a precise definition, and orient individual syndromes. With further accumulation of both clinical experience and new knowledge in neurosciences, the proposed classification will develop to more appropriate schemes.
Phe-Leu-Phe-Gln-Pro-Gln-Arg-Phe-NH2 (F-8-F-NH2), isolated from bovine brain, is an FMRF-NH2-like peptide with morphine-modulating activity. In the rat, F-8-F-NH2 immunoreactivity (IR) is highly localized in the neurohypophysis. In this study, F-8-F-NH2-IR was studied in the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system of an Arg8-vasopressin (AVP)-deficient animal, the Brattleboro (DI) rat, and the normal control Long-Evans (LE) strain. F-8-F-NH2-IR in the DI pituitary is below the level of detection in contrast to that in the LE (0.50 +/- 0.04 pmol/gland). Neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels are increased two-fold in the DI pituitary while AVP levels are below detection. The content of F-8-F-NH2-IR in the hypothalami and spinal cords of DI and LE rats is not statistically different, suggesting that the absence of F-8-F-NH2-IR in the Brattleboro pituitary is not due to a genetic defect in F-8-F-NH2 biosynthesis. The results of this study raise the question whether AVP could be involved in the regulation of F-8-F-NH2 immunoreactivity in the neurohypophysis.
Interactions between neuropeptides contained in autonomic vasodilator neurons supplying the guinea pig uterine artery were investigated in isolated segments of the artery precontracted with prostaglandin F2 alpha. Neither somatostatin-14 (10(-6) mol.l-1) nor dynorphin A(1-17) (10(-6) mol.l-1) had direct effects on vascular tone, and did not affect relaxations produced by guinea pig vasoactive intestinal peptide (gpVIP). Both the porcine and the guinea pig forms of neuropeptide Y (NPY; 10(-7)-10(-5) mol.l-1) caused transient contraction of the precontracted arteries. NPY also inhibited relaxations of the artery produced by gpVIP, an action which was not directly related to the NPY contractions. NPY caused both a concentration-dependent rightward shift in the gpVIP concentration-response curve, and a reduction in size of the maximum relaxation to gpVIP. NPY (10(-6) mol.l-1) also produced a rightward shift in the concentration-response curves for the vasodilators forskolin and glyceryl trinitrate, but did not reduce the maximum relaxations to these compounds. Thus NPY, which is colocalized with VIP in vasodilator neurons supplying the uterine artery, can greatly reduce the vasodilator potency of VIP.
The effect of verapamil, flunarizine, nimodipine, nicardipine, and nifedipine, calcium channel inhibitors, and of indomethacin and aspirin, inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis, on penile erection and yawning induced by oxytocin was studied in male rats. All calcium channel inhibitors given intraperitoneally (IP) 60 min before the intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of oxytocin (30 ng) prevented in a dose-dependent manner oxytocin effect. Nimodipine and nicardipine were the most effective being active at doses between 5 and 20 mg/kg, while the others were active at doses higher than 15 mg/kg. Prevention of oxytocin effect was also seen after ICV injection of the above compounds. Unlike calcium channel inhibitors, indomethacin given either IP (10 and 50 mg/kg) or ICV (50 micrograms), or aspirin (100 mg/kg IP) were ineffective. Microinjection of calcium, but not of prostaglandin E2 and prostaglandin F2 alpha in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the brain area most sensitive for the induction of the above behavioral responses by oxytocin, induced a symptomatology similar to that induced by oxytocin. The present results suggest that calcium might be the second messenger which mediates the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by oxytocin.
The expression of nonphosphorylated neurofilaments (nPNFs) and phosphorylated neurofilaments (PNFs) was examined in cerebella during development of C57/Bl/6J mice prenatally exposed to ethanol. The length of nPNF immunoreactive portions of primary and secondary dendrites of Purkinje neurons was reduced during early postnatal developmental stages. This difference disappeared by 2 months of age. These results indicate a delay in the maturation of nPNFs in Purkinje neurons of ethanol-exposed mice. There also appeared to be some underdevelopment of basket cell axons in terms of PNF expression, during early postnatal stages, as compared to normal control litters. These findings may reflect a general delay in neuronal maturation after ethanol exposure. Prenatal exposure to ethanol may, therefore, have profound effects on developmental events occurring during early postnatal life. We could not, however, exclude the possibility that the disturbances in neurofilament expression were due to malnutrition in the alcohol-treated animals.
We have explored the cellular loci of endothelin (ET) actions and formation in the brain, using cerebellar mutant mice as well as primary and continuous cell cultures. A glial role is favored by several observations: (i) mutant mice lacking neuronal Purkinje cells display normal ET receptor binding and enhanced stimulation by ET of inositolphospholipid turnover; (ii) in weaver mice lacking neuronal granule cells, ET stimulation of inositolphospholipid turnover is not significantly diminished; (iii) C6 glioma cells and primary cultures of cerebellar astroglia exhibit substantial ET receptor binding and ET-induced stimulation of inositolphospholipid turnover; (iv) ET promotes mitogenesis of C6 glioma cells and primary cerebellar astroglia; and (v) primary cultures of cerebellar astroglia contain ET mRNA. ET also appears to have a neuronal role, since it stimulates inositolphospholipid turnover in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells, and ET binding declines in granule cell-deficient mice. Thus, ET can be produced by glia and act upon both glia and neurons in a paracrine fashion.
When incorporated into lipid vesicles, the purified inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) receptor protein mediates 45Ca2+ flux. We observe a potent, selective allosteric regulation by ATP of IP3 actions on Ca2+ flux. The action of ATP is selective for adenine nucleotides with ADP and AMP less potent and GTP inactive. At 1-10 microM, ATP increases maximal IP3-induced flux by 50% with no change in IP3 potency. The enhancing effect of ATP diminishes between 0.1 and 1 mM. Concentration-response curves are steep for both the increasing and the decreasing effects of ATP on IP3 actions, suggesting a physiological regulatory role of ATP in IP3-induced Ca2+ release. Diminishing local ATP concentrations coincident with filling of Ca2+ stores by the Ca2(+)-ATPase may enhance IP3 release of Ca2+, an effect that would decline as ATP returns to physiological levels. ATP regulation of Ca2+ release may also play a role in oscillations of intracellular Ca2+ concentration.
Exposing primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons to 100 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) for 24 hr decreases the Ca2+/phosphatidylserine/diolein-dependent protein kinase C (PKC; ATP:protein phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.37) by approximately 90% in the 100,000 x g supernatant and pellet fractions of neuronal culture homogenates. Immunoblot analysis of the homogenates with polyclonal antibodies raised against either the beta-type PKC peptide or total rat brain PKC reveals a virtual loss of 78-kDa PKC immunoreactivity in the supernatant and a marked decrease of PKC immunoreactivity in the pellet. Exposure of the cultures to 50 microM glutamate for 15 min (no Mg2+) induces the translocation of supernatant PKC immunoreactivity to the pellet. Such translocation persists after glutamate withdrawal and is followed by a progressive increase in neuronal death, which begins 2 hr later. Neuronal death approaches completion in about 24 hr. PMA-induced down-regulation of PKC decreases glutamate-elicited neurotoxicity. Yet, the culture exposure to 100 nM PMA fails to decrease the high-affinity binding of [3H]glutamate to neuronal membranes and does not reduce glutamate-induced activation of ionotropic or metabolotropic receptors (assayed as total membrane current measured in whole-cell voltage-clamped neurons, 45Ca2+ uptake in intact monolayers, inositolphospholipid hydrolysis, and transcriptional activation and translation of c-fos mRNA). Moreover, the immediate cell-body swelling and activation of spectrin proteolysis elicited by glutamate remain unchanged. On the other hand, PMA-induced PKC down-regulation reduces any increase in 45Ca2+ uptake or Ca2(+)-dependent proteolysis (measured as spectrin degradation) after glutamate withdrawal. These results support the view that PKC translocation is operative in glutamate-induced destabilization of cytosolic ionized Ca2+ homeostasis and neuronal death.
Short latency evoked potentials were recorded during a cross-modal selective attention task to evaluate recent proposals that sensory transmission in the peripheral auditory and visual pathways can be modified selectively by centrifugal mechanisms in humans. Twenty young adult subjects attended in turn to either left-ear tones or right-field flashes presented in a randomized sequence, in order to detect infrequent, lower-intensity targets. Attention-related enhancement of longer-latency components, including the visual P105 and the auditory N1/Nd waves and T-complex, showed that subjects were able to adopt a selective sensory set toward either modality. Neither the auditory evoked brainstem potentials nor the early visual components (electroretinogram, occipito-temporal N40, P50, N70 waves) were significantly affected by attention. Measures of retinal B-waves were significantly reduced in amplitude when attention was directed to the flashes, but concurrent recordings of eyelid electromyographic activity and the electro-oculogram indicated that this effect may have resulted from contamination of the retinal recordings by blink microreflex activity. A trend toward greater positivity in the 15-50 ms latency range for auditory evoked potentials to attended tones was observed. These results provide further evidence that the earliest levels of sensory transmission are unaffected by cross-modal selective attention, but that longer latency exogenous and endogenous potentials are enhanced to stimuli in the attended modality.
Adequate documentation of spinal cord injury (SCI) nursing care is necessary for evaluation of patient progress and compliance with standards of care. The objective criteria used to evaluate nursing care include the nursing data base, the care plan, and the nurses' notes. The nursing care plan reflects the needs of the SCI client and is the basis from which documentation about these needs arises. Standards for acute care SCI nursing were recently developed for the 10 designated SCI centers in Florida. To improve the documentation of these standards, neuroscience nurses at Shands Hospital developed standardized care plans that can be individualized for each SCI client. The implementation of these care plans improved documentation of the standards for acute care SCI nursing. Additional benefits included an increased awareness of the nursing diagnoses among staff nurses and improved equality of care for the SCI client.



Centrally acting drugs interfere with the function of central neurotransmitter systems. This often requires intact neuronal connections and is therefore best studied in vivo. Here, Gaetano Di Chiara describes the technique of brain dialysis, which permits direct in-vivo sampling of neurotransmitters and their metabolites in the brain extracellular fluid. This technique is now providing insight correlating the interaction of drugs with neurotransmission in specific brain areas with their effects on behaviour.
An antiserum directed against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of dopamine, was used to study the pigeon retina. Labeled cells were observed in both the inner nuclear layer (INL) and ganglion cell layer (GCL). Two populations of TH-immunoreactive neurons were observed in the INL. Some of these cells were 7-10 microns in diameter and gave rise to processes that arborized in three layers of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). These cells appeared similar to the dopaminergic amacrine cells described previously (Marc, 1988). Other labeled cells in the INL were 12-20 microns in diameter and were recognizable as a previously described subpopulation of TH-immunoreactive displaced ganglion cells (Britto et al., 1988). A population of labeled cells was observed in the GCL. Counts of these cells in two retinae revealed 5000 and 7000 cells, respectively. They ranged in size from 8-15 microns in diameter in the central retina and from 8-20 microns in diameter in the peripheral retina. The density of labeled cells was highest in the central retina and red field and lowest in the retinal periphery. The difference in cell size and cell density as a function of eccentricity is characteristic of the total population of ganglion cells in the avian retina (Ehrlich, 1981; Hayes, 1982). Some of the TH-positive cells in the GCL could be classified as ganglion cells for two reasons: (1) The axons of many of the TH-positive cells in the GCL were TH-immunoreactive as well and could be followed to the optic nerve head. (2) The injection of rhodamine-labeled microspheres into the nucleus geniculatus lateralis, pars ventralis (GLv), resulted in the retrograde labeling of many of the TH-positive cells in the contralateral retina.


S1 nuclease analysis was used to determine the levels and patterns of three beta amyloid protein precursor (BPP) mRNAs in mouse developmental brain and in primary neuronal and glial cultures. BPP695 mRNA lacking the Kunitz proteinase inhibitor (KPI) domain was detected exclusively in neuronal cultures and increased considerably in late embryonic and early postnatal periods. On the other hand, BPP751 and 770 mRNAs with KPI domain were detected predominantly in astrocyte- and microglia-enriched cultures and increased slightly only in embryonic stages. These results suggest that the product of each BPP mRNA may play a different role in the brain.
Golgi and combined Golgi-electron microscopic (EM) studies were carried out on cats in the terminal stages of GM2 ganglioside storage disease and the resulting data were compared with those from similar studies of other neuronal storage diseases in cats, including GM1 gangliosidosis. The results support the view that only limited types of neurons affected by the lysosomal hydrolase deficiency and subsequent intracellular storage have the capacity to sprout new dendritic-like growth processes from their axon hillocks, and that these neurons are essentially the same in all of these diseases studied to date. Golgi studies of CNS tissues from GM2 gangliosidosis cats revealed ectopic neurite growth on pyramidal neurons of cerebral cortex and multipolar cells of amygdala and claustrum, whereas other types of neurons responded to the metabolic defect with aspiny meganeurite formation or somatic enlargement, or appeared normal in terms of soma-dendritic morphology. Combined Golgi-EM studies of cortical pyramidal neurons revealed that ectopic, axon hillock neurites commonly possessed asymmetrical synapses which were similar to those observed in other storage disorders.
Kainate-lesioned hippocampal slices provide an excellent system for examining the electrophysiological properties of non-cultured glial cells without interfering signals from surrounding neurons. Intracellular recordings in the intensely gliotic CA3 region indicated that the resting membrane potential and input resistance of these reactive glial cells were similar to those reported for non-reactive astrocytes. Dye-coupling typical of astrocytes was also demonstrated amongst these cells, and was considerably reduced by cytoplasmic acidification. Occasionally these cells demonstrated spontaneous, rhythmic oscillations of membrane potential associated with large changes in whole cell input resistance. The action potentials reported in cultured astrocytes were not observed in reactive glial cells, even under conditions that maximize the observation of Ca2(+)-dependent responses. This suggests that reactive glial cells in this preparation have either no voltage-activated Ca2+ channels or a very low density of such channels. These cells also lack a bicarbonate conductance, but they do appear to have an apamin-sensitive conductance, possibly a Ca2(+)-activated gK.
In frog sciatic nerve crushed and allowed to regenerate, an in situ perfusion technique was used to measure the permeability coefficient-surface area product (PS) of endoneurial capillaries to [14C]sucrose and endoneurial vascular space (V) at intervals of 3 days to 12 weeks post-crush. Additionally, the amplitude and latency of the compound action potential (CAP) of the regenerating nerve were also monitored. There was a delayed increase of both PS and V which peaked at 2-3 weeks after the crush and then declined. This is strikingly similar to the pattern seen in transected nerves. Whereas both PS and V reached near normal levels 6 weeks after transection, in regenerating nerves V continued toward normal levels but PS increased again to peak around 9 weeks post-crush. This second peak of PS coincided with a rapid increase of the CAP amplitude and a sharp decline of its latency. As is the case for transected nerves, the initial increase of PS is probably induced by breakdown products of axons or chemical signals from attendant Schwann cells and related to the clearance of debris from the endoneurium. The later increase of PS may be an endoneurial homeostatic mechanism to increase blood-nerve exchange during rapid axonal growth and remyelination.
Using postmortem immunohistochemical analysis, we have identified degeneration of several different neuronal cell groups in the brainstem of patients dying with idiopathic Parkinson's disease. We report the first chemically identified loss of presumed serotonin neurons in the median raphe nucleus of the pons and of substance P-containing preganglionic neurons in the dorsal motor vagal nucleus. This evidence is concordant with other evidence that the primary neuropathological process is not confined either to a single pathway or to neurons containing a particular transmitter. Rather it appears that Parkinson's disease affects several classes of neurons in localized areas of the brainstem.
The mechanism underlying the bradykinin (BK)-induced increase of acetylcholine (ACh) release was studied in neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid NG108-15 cells and their synapses formed onto mouse muscle cells. External application of BK or iontophoretic injection of extrinsic inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) into the cytoplasm of NG108-15 cells produced membrane hyperpolarization in the hybrid cells and an increase in the frequency of miniature end-plate potentials (MEPPs) in paired myotubes. Ba2+ blocked the hyperpolarization in response to BK, but facilitation of MEPPs was still observed. InsP3-dependent facilitation of MEPPs was also observed in cells where the InsP3 injections produced no detectable hyperpolarization or even depolarization. Real-time quantitative monitoring of intracellular free Ca2+ concentration [( Ca2+]i) with fura-2 in single NG108-15 cells showed that BK application or InsP3 injection induced an elevation of [Ca2+]i which coincided in time with membrane hyperpolarization recorded from the same cell. The [Ca2+]i rise produced by InsP3 injection started from the single site of injection and that produced by BK began from a deep compartment of the cytoplasm of the NG108-15 cells. The BK- and InsP3-evoked facilitation of MEPPs and the [Ca2+]i rise were relatively independent of extracellular Ca2+. These findings suggest that the BK-induced ACh release results not from membrane potential changes but from a transient InsP3-dependent elevation of [Ca2+]i.
We report the cDNA sequence of the squid kinesin heavy chain and compared the predicted amino acid sequence with that of the Drosophila heavy chain as reported by Yang, J.T., Laymon, R.A., and Goldstein, L.S. B. (1989) Cell 56, 879-889). We compared the two kinesin sequences with regard to the predicted physicochemical parameters of hydrophobicity, charge, and propensities of the secondary conformations. A comparison of the sequences from the two species reveals the head, stalk, and tail domains because a reduced degree of conservation demarcates the stalk. The charge profile indicates that the head region is nearly neutral, the stalk region acidic, and the tail is basic. The Fourier transform analysis of the hydrophobic profile of the stalk shows predominant peaks at 1/3.5 and 1/2.3, which are indexed as the second and third orders of the period 7 residue. As in the Drosophila sequence, the rod domain is divided into an amino and a carboxyl subdomain by a predicted hinge region. We show that the disposition of hydrophobic residues is distinct in these two subdomains. In particular, the heptad repeat is more regular in the amino-terminal rod domain than in the carboxyl-terminal rod domain. The tail region is positively charged, a feature that is consistent with the known electrostatic interaction between the heavy chain and negatively charged surfaces such as glass coverslips and latex beads. Three monoclonal antibodies to the kinesin heavy chain have been mapped to a region within the carboxyl terminus of the stalk.

Anterograde transport, retrograde transport, and immunohistochemical techniques were used to characterize the organization of neural inputs to the paraventricular (PVH) and supraoptic (SO) nuclei from the C1, C2, and C3 adrenergic cell groups in the rostral medulla. The results are as follows: 1) Phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive (PNMT-IR) fibers and terminals were distributed to all parts of the parvicellular division of the PVH; the dorsal and dorsal medial subdivisions received the most prominent inputs, the lateral and ventral medial parts the least. Sparse terminal fields were found consistently in the magnocellular division of the PVH and in the SO. 2) A combined retrograde transport-immunohistochemical method was used to estimate the number and proportion of cells in the regions of the C1, C2, and C3 cell groups that contribute to the PNMT-IR innervation of the PVH. On average, 232 +/- 37 retrogradely labeled cells in the C1 cell group, 73 +/- 32 in the C2 cell group, and 96 +/- 26 in the C3 group stained positively for PNMT-IR. These values comprised 70%, 84%, and 89%, respectively, of all retrogradely labeled neurons in these regions. 3) Fibers and terminals arising from the regions of each of the three adrenergic cell groups were labeled by local injections of the anterogradely transported plant lectin PHA-L. Each component projection was found to distribute in a very similar fashion and to mimic the overall distribution of PNMT-IR; differential projection patterns within the PVH or SO were not seen consistently following deposits in any of the individual adrenergic cell groups or at different rostrocaudal levels of any individual cell group. 4) A dual anterograde tracing (PHA-L)-immunohistochemical (PNMT) labeling method revealed an appreciable number of varicosities arising from the regions of C1, C2, and C3 cell groups to contain PNMT-IR. These results suggest that adrenergic inputs to the PVH and SO, while arising from distinct medullary cell groups and presumably relaying different types of sensory information, are in a position to influence similar groups of parvicellular neurosecretory and/or autonomic-related projection neurons.
Fc receptor-dependent myelin phagocytosis has been proposed as a mechanism of demyelination in multiple sclerosis (MS). The object of this study was to determine whether MS patients' sera are more opsonic for myelin than normal controls' sera. Opsonization was tested by culturing thioglycollate elicited murine peritoneal macrophages with 125I-labelled, serum-sensitized bovine central myelin. The two groups of sera were found to opsonize myelin equally well after 30 and 120 min incubations. We conclude that MS patients' sera are not more opsonic for myelin than sera from normal controls.
In the present study, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; EC 1.14.16.2) cDNA was transfected into cultured fibroblasts and the production of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) was determined. Type 2 TH cDNA was transfected into fibroblasts (NRK-49F) derived from the normal rat kidney, and the expression of the TH minigene was screened by immunocytochemical staining and immunoblotting analysis with TH antiserum. Several clones of the NRK transfectants that produce TH molecules were obtained. The expressed TH molecules showed high enzyme activity in a complete assay system in vitro. However, L-DOPA was not detected in the cultured cells due to the possible absence of de novo synthesis of (6R)-L-erythro-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) in these cells. When BH4 was added to the medium, a large amount of L-DOPA was detected not only in the cells but also in the medium. These findings may aid in regulating the amount of L-DOPA secretion from cells after they are transplanted into the brain.
Although pairs of basic amino acids are common endoproteolytic sites in prohormones, the enzymes responsible for these cleavages have not yet been characterized. To investigate the specificity of these endoproteases, cDNAs encoding pro-neuropeptide Y (pro-NPY) containing all four pairs of basic amino acids were expressed in AtT-20 cells. Pro-NPY was selected as a model substrate because it undergoes a single cleavage at the sequence -Lys-Arg- during posttranslational processing. AtT-20 cells, a mouse anterior pituitary corticotrope line, were selected because they synthesize pro-adrenocorticotropic hormone (pro-ACTH)/endorphin and cleave a well characterized subset of the eight pairs of basic amino acids in the precursor. Altered cDNAs encoding pro-NPY with -Arg-Arg-, -Arg-Lys-, or Lys-Lys- at the cleavage site were used to generate stable cell lines. The production of NPY and the carboxyl-terminal peptide was studied using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, gel filtration, reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography, ion-exchange high performance liquid chromatography, tryptic peptide mapping, and microsequencing. Direct amino acid labeling confirmed the identity of the pair of basic amino acids at the cleavage site. Even when the four pairs of basic amino acids were presented in the same structural context, the rate, extent, and type of cleavage was substrate-specific. Pro-NPY(-Arg-Arg-) was cleaved at a rate similar to that observed for the wild-type pro-NPY(-Lys-Arg-). In contrast, pro-NPY(-Arg-Lys-) was cleaved at a much lower rate, and pro-NPY (-Lys-Lys-) was cleaved very poorly. Following endoproteolytic cleavage, the pair of basic amino acids present did not alter the production of mature NPY with a COOH-terminal Tyr-NH2. While two of the three mutant pro-NPY molecules were processed to wild-type carboxyl-terminal peptide, the carboxyl-terminal peptide derived from pro-NPY(-Arg-Lys-) contained an amino-terminal lysine residue, indicating that biosynthetic endoproteolysis occurred in the middle or at the amino terminus of the pair of basic amino acid residues at the cleavage site. Expression of wild-type or mutant pro-NPY inhibited cleavages within the endogenous pro-ACTH/endorphin; poorly cleaved pro-NPY mutants (Lys in the second position of the cleavage site) were the most potent inhibitors of pro-ACTH/endorphin cleavage.
A variety of evidence indicates that calcium-dependent protein phosphorylation modulates the release of neurotransmitter from nerve terminals. For instance, the injection of rat calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II) into the preterminal digit of the squid giant synapse leads to an increase in the release of a so-far unidentified neurotransmitter induced by presynaptic depolarization. But until now, it has not been demonstrated that Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II can also regulate neurotransmitter release in the vertebrate nervous system. Here we report that the introduction of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II, autoactivated by thiophosphorylation, into rat brain synaptosomes (isolated nerve terminals) increases the initial rate of induced release of two neurotransmitters, glutamate and noradrenaline. We also show that introduction of a selective peptidergic inhibitor of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II inhibits the initial rate of induced glutamate release. These results support the hypothesis that activation of Ca2+/CaM-dependent PK II in the nerve terminal removes a constraint on neurotransmitter release.
The effects of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, azaprophen (0.3-10.0 mg/kg), scopolamine (0.01-3.0 mg/kg) and trihexyphenidyl (0.3-10.0 mg/kg) were examined in rats using a VI 18 s schedule of food reinforcement, before and after chronic physostigmine administration. All three compounds produced dose-dependent decreases [corrected] in the rate of responding. Scopolamine was more potent than trihexyphenidyl which was equipotent to azaprophen. All three compounds antagonized the response rate-decreasing effects of physostigmine in a dose-dependent fashion. Following 43 consecutive daily administrations of physostigmine (0.4 mg/kg), partial tolerance developed to its response rate-decreasing effects. When the three antagonists were again examined (alone and in combination with physostigmine), their effects were generally unchanged. These results further characterize the behavioral effects of azaprophen, scopolamine and trihexyphenidyl. These results also suggest that tolerance to physostigmine's effects can be mediated through behavioral rather than pharmacological mechanisms.
Tonic-clonic convulsions of mutant quaking mice were antagonized by the intracerebroventricular injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. The competitive antagonists, CPP (3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) and CGS 19755 (cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)-2-piperidine carboxylic acid), exerted a partial anticonvulsant action, with ED50S of 0.115 and 0.076 nmol, respectively. The non-competitive antagonists, TCP (1-(1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl)piperidine) and MK-801 [+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine), provided full protection, with ED50s of 4.49 and 2.67 nmol, respectively. The competitive antagonists elicited a marked ataxia whereas the non-competitive antagonists did not have side-effects. These results might reflect the involvement of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the convulsions of the quaking mutants.
Secondary pathophysiological insults occurring after injury have been prospectively assessed in 50 head-injured patients who required intrahospital transfer. 35 patients were transported from the intensive care unit (ICU) and 15 from the accident and emergency department. Physiological variables were recorded every minute in the four hours before transfer (ICU group only), during the move, and for four hours afterwards. Pretransfer insults were predictive of further insults during and after transport. There was significant correlation between increased frequency of insults post-transfer (compared with pre-transfer) and high injury severity score. A greater proportion of the patients transported from the emergency department had secondary injuries post-transfer. Adequate resuscitation before moving the patient, especially in patients with multiple injury, is important.

Foot-shock produced a more than 2-fold increase in noradrenaline (NA) release from the frontal cortex of freely moving rats. The effect of acute stress was almost completely prevented by the administration of diazepam (5 mg/kg i.p.). Diazepam alone inhibited cortical NA release, the maximal inhibition (-57%) being observed 90 min after the injection. Cortical NA release therefore appears to be a reliable index of central noradrenergic activity in response to stressful conditions.
The broad spectrum excitatory amino acid antagonist, kynurenic acid was evaluated in a transient forebrain ischaemia model in gerbils. When administered i.p., 15 min prior to a 5 min period of ischaemia, a dose-related neuroprotective effect was seen with 800 mg/kg of kynurenic acid showing very good protection. A combination of kynurenic acid (200 or 400 mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) gave a synergistic neuroprotective effect. Neither kynurenic acid (200 or 400 mg/kg) nor MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg) was neuroprotective when administered by itself 30 min post-ischaemically, but when co-administered significant protection of the CA1 pyramidal neurones of the hippocampus was seen. In addition, we examined the effect of maintaining core body temperature on the neuroprotective action of MK-801 and kynurenic acid following the suggestion that it was a hypothermic effect of MK-801 which resulted in neuroprotection in gerbils. When the body temperature of the gerbils was maintained at 37 degrees C for a period of 24 h it did not affect the neuroprotective action of MK-801 (0.1 or 10 mg/kg) or kynurenic acid (200 mg/kg).
Following fimbria/fornix transection, cells in the medial septum appear to undergo retrograde degeneration as shown by Nissl and acetylcholine esterase (AChE) staining. Recent studies using immunocytochemical techniques have also demonstrated loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFr) labeling of neurons in this region. Whether the apparent loss of ChAT- and NGFr-positive neurons is the result of the actual death of these neurons, or is instead a loss of ChAT enzyme or NGFr expression below levels detectable by immunocytochemical methods, remains an unresolved issue. In order to address this question, rhodamine-labeled fluorescent latex microspheres were injected into the hippocampus where they retrogradely transported to the cell bodies of the medial septum. Five days later these animals received either unilateral or bilateral fimbria/fornix lesions and were allowed to survive an additional 4 weeks. Compared to unlesioned control animals, unilaterally lesioned animals showed a 91% loss of fluorescently labeled cells and bilaterally lesioned animals showed a 93% loss. The inability to detect the fluorescent microspheres in the medial septum suggests that the majority of medial septal cells die after fimbria/fornix transection. ChAT and NGFr immunohistochemical staining were also performed. Cells stained for ChAT were reduced in number by 92% in animals with unilateral lesions and by 75% in animals with bilateral lesions, while NGFr-stained cells were reduced in number by 75% in animals with unilateral lesions and by 68% in animals with bilateral lesions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In mixed primary embryonic CNS cultures flat astroglia grow exclusively underneath the initially formed neuronal network. This invasive under-growth results in neuronal detachment and degeneration. The present study sought to find out whether or not morphological differentiation of astroglia, from flat to process-bearing cells, could alter astroglial-neuronal growth relationships in rat cerebellar cultures. Morphological differentiation of astroglia was induced by treatment with dibutyryl cyclic AMP. The results demonstrate that in contrast to flat astroglia, large stellate astroglia can grow over the neurite bundles, and that in these dibutyryl cyclic AMP-treated cultures neurons can persist. Immunocytochemical studies show that the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin is present in these cultures and appears to be associated with flat astroglia rather than with stellate astroglia. The study indicates that in the presence of dibutyryl cyclic AMP transformed stellate astroglia interact differently with neurons and with the growth substratum as compared with flat astroglia.
We have examined the effects of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) on endogenous dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) efflux from superfused striatal slices prepared from adult male rats. Superfusion with L-DOPA (10 microM) caused a modest elevation in the tissue levels of DA and greatly increased the basal efflux and stimulation-evoked overflow of DA. Stimulation of slices under Ca2(+)-free conditions abolished DA overflow occurring in the absence of L-DOPA, but reduced DA overflow in the presence of L-DOPA by only 56%. Ca2(+)-independent DA release was not reduced by nomifensine. Destruction of DA terminals by pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine did not alter the capacity of L-DOPA to elevate tissue DA content. However, it attenuated the impact of L-DOPA on DA efflux, although this effect was somewhat smaller than was the apparent loss of DA terminals. These results suggest the following conclusions: (1) L-DOPA increases both the spontaneous and depolarization-induced release of DA; (2) some of the DA formed from L-DOPA can be released in response to depolarization by a process that does not involve either Ca2(+)-dependent exocytosis or reverse transport; and (3) most but not all of the DA efflux occurring in the presence of L-DOPA represents DA released from DA terminals. Furthermore, the observations suggest that the loss of DA terminals due to the progression of Parkinson's disease may be importantly involved in the gradual loss of clinical efficacy of the drug during chronic treatment.
Activity of lysosomal glucosylceramidase is stimulated by two small glycoproteins, saposin A and C, which are, together with two other similar glycoproteins, derived from a single precursor protein. This enzyme is also stimulated by naturally occurring acidic lipids, such as phosphatidylserine and gangliosides. Using highly purified glucosylceramidase, saposins, and acidic lipids, the mechanism of enzyme stimulation was studied by investigating complex formation between the three components and by examining effects on activity caused by changing amounts of saposins and acidic lipids, individually or in combination. The results indicated that acidic lipids form a water-soluble complex with glucosylceramidase but not with saposins and that saposins and acidic lipids each bind to the enzyme at two different sites for the activation. Based on these observations, the previously proposed three-binding sites model of glucosylceramidase, activator, and substrate was modified to one composed of four binding sites: one for carbohydrate of the substrate, one for aglycon, one for acidic lipids, and one for saposins.
Spinothalamic tract (STT) cells were identified by intracellular injection or retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in the primate spinal cord. Using immunohistochemical techniques, a population of primary afferents containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is demonstrated in synaptic contact with these neurons. Large glomerular type CGRP terminals with morphology considered typical of primary afferent fibers are occasionally observed in contact with STT profiles in laminae I and IIo; however, this morphological type targets STT profiles chiefly in the deeper dorsal horn (laminae III, IV and V). In contrast, the majority of CGRP terminals contacting STT profiles in the superficial dorsal horn (laminae I and IIo), are small, round or oblong shaped terminals. Thus, evidenced by these data, the absence of large, glomerular type terminals does not rule out primary afferent input.
We evaluated the neuroprotective effects of systemically administered magnesium against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated brain injury in perinatal rats. Postnatal day (PND) 7 rats received unilateral intrastriatal injections of 25 nmol NMDA followed 15 min later by single or multiple doses of magnesium intraperitoneally (i.p.). Animals were sacrificed five days later and the severity of brain injury was assessed by comparison of the weights of the injected and contralateral cerebral hemispheres. NMDA injection reduced the weight of the injected cerebral hemisphere by 31 +/- 3%. Single doses of magnesium reduced the severity of NMDA-induced brain injury in a dose-dependent fashion (2 mmol/kg, 29 +/- 11% protection; 3 mmol/kg, 52 +/- 12% protection; 4 mmol/kg, 62 +/- 7% protection). Multiple doses of magnesium reduced brain injury by 65 +/- 4%. These data demonstrate that systemically administered magnesium antagonizes the neurotoxic effects of NMDA in vivo in perinatal rats.
Progress in the search for the cause of Alzheimer's disease is considerably hampered by the lack of animal or in vitro model. We have shown that in Alzheimer's disease two pathological variants of Tau proteins, called Tau 64 and Tau 69, are regularly present in neural tissue undergoing neurofibrillary degeneration. Beside their diagnostic value, Tau 64 and Tau 69 might enable such a model to be devised at long last. It now seems possible to investigate for biochemical disorders capable of inducing the emergence of these two Tau proteins in neuron cultures or among transgenic animals. The innumerable pathogenetic tracks of Alzheimer's disease (aluminium, zinc, superoxide dismutase and free radicals, proteases and antiproteases, beta protein A4 precursor, etc.) should then be opened to exploration.
Opioid and tachykinin neuropeptides, which were derived from two biological sources (intact, and released from their corresponding precursors by the action of human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) neuropeptidases), were characterized in human CSF by using a combination of post-high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) detection techniques. Peptides were separated using gradient and isocratic reversed-phase HPLC. Radioimmunoassay measured immunoreactivity corresponding to several different individual neuropeptides including methionine enkephalin, leucine enkephalin, substance P and beta-endorphin. Commercial enzymes (trypsin, carboxypeptidase B) were used to release methionine- and leucine-enkephalin from precursors. Human CSF also served as a source of endogenous neuropeptidases. Mass spectrometry produced fragment ions that corroborated the amino acid sequence of methionine enkephalin and of substance P derived from both sources (intact, from precursors). These results demonstrated the presence of endogenous intact neuropeptides, several different neuropeptide-containing precursors and appropriate precursor-processing enzymes in human CSF for precursors of methionine enkephalin, leucine enkephalin, beta-endorphin1-31 and substance P.

Embryonic development of the Chinese hamster (Cricetulus griseus) was studied from the onset of implantation to the formation of the parietal yolk sac placenta. Implantation began on day 6 of pregnancy, when the embryo became fixed to the uterine luminal epithelium. At this time there was no zona pellucida, and microvilli of the trophoblast and uterine epithelium were closely apposed. Stromal cells immediately adjacent to the implantation chamber began to enlarge and accumulate glycogen. By day 7 the mural trophoblast penetrated the luminal epithelium in discrete area. The trophoblast appeared to phagocytize uterine epithelial cells, although epithelium adjoining the points of penetration was normal. In other areas nascent apical protrusions from the uterine epithelium indented the surface of the trophoblast. The epiblast had enlarged and both visceral and parietal endoderm cells were present. The well-developed decidual cells were epithelioid and completely surrounded the implantation chamber. On day 8 the uterine epithelium had disappeared along the mural surface of the embryo. The embryonic cell mass was elongated and filled the yolk sac cavity. Reichert's membrane was well developed. The uterine epithelial basal lamina was largely disrupted, and the trophoblast was in direct contact with decidual cells. Primary and secondary giant trophoblast cells were present and in contact with extravasated maternal blood. The mural trophoblast formed channels in which blood cells were found in close proximity to Reichert's membrane. Decidual cells were in contact with capillary epithelium and in some cases formed part of the vessel wall. Structural changes occurring in the embryo and endometrium during implantation in the Chinese hamster are described for the first time in this report and are compared to those described for some other myomorph rodents.
Cerebrospinal fluid formation stems primarily from the transport of Na and Cl in choroid plexus (CP). To characterize properties and modulation of choroidal transporters, we tested diuretics and other agents for ability to alter ion transport in vitro. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats were the source of CPs preincubated with drug for 20 min and then transferred to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) medium containing 22Na or 36Cl with [3H]mannitol (extracellular correction). Complete base-line curves were established for cellular uptake of Na and Cl at 37 degrees C. The half-maximal uptake occurred at 12 s, so it was used to assess drug effects on rate of transport (nmol Na or Cl/mg CP). Bumetanide (10(-5) and 10(-4) M) decreased uptake of Na and Cl with maximal inhibition (up to 45%) at 10(-5) M. Another cotransport inhibitor, furosemide (10(-4) M), reduced transport of Na by 25% and Cl by 33%. However, acetazolamide (10(-4) M) and atriopeptin III (10(-7) M) significantly lowered uptake of Na (but not Cl), suggesting effect(s) other than on cotransport. The disulfonic stilbene 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS; 10(-4) M), known to inhibit Cl-HCO3 exchange, substantially reduced the transport of 36Cl. Bumetanide plus DIDS (both 10(-4) M) caused additive inhibition of 90% of Cl uptake, which provides strong evidence for the existence of both cotransport and antiport Cl carriers. Overall, this in vitro analysis, uncomplicated by variables of blood flow and neural tone, indicates the presence in rat CP of the cotransport of Na and Cl in addition to the established Na-H and Cl-HCO3 exchangers.
Cardiac gap junction channels play the important roles of synchronizing pacemaker cells and allowing impulse propagation along the conduction system and throughout the ventricular myocardium. These channels, which support current flow in both longitudinal and tranverse directions, are permeable to anions and cations with radii less than approximately 0.5 nm and in rat heart have unitary conductances on the order of 50 pS. This unitary conductance is consistent with channel geometry described by a right cylindrical pore with diameter large enough for the brilliantly fluorescent dye molecule lucifer yellow to pass between cells. These channels, like others in biological systems, are opened and closed by various treatments, a process termed gating. Cytoplasmic acidification reduces junctional conductance (gj), an effect that is apparently potentiated by elevated myoplasmic Ca ions. Reduced gj also occurs in response to a variety of lipophilic molecules, including halothane, heptanol, and unsaturated fatty acids; the mechanism of action may involve disruption of the protein-lipid microenvironment of the gap junction channel. Arachidonic acid uncouples, and this effect is partially, but incompletely, blocked by an inhibitor of the lipoxygenase metabolic pathways. Cyclooxygenase inhibitors have no protective effects. Certain cyclic nucleotides can rapidly increase gj [adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP)] or slightly decrease it [guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP)], and agents that use these cyclic nucleotides as second messengers (isoproterenol and perhaps carbachol, respectively) produce consistent effects. Agents expected to cause protein kinase C activation (tumor-promoting phorbol esters and diacylglycerol) increase gj rapidly. The gap junction protein from rat heart has been cloned and sequenced. From the primary sequence for the protein, plausible sites of action within the putative cytoplasmic domains are proposed for each of these treatments. In response to gating stimuli that close the channel (halothane, CO2, heptanol), unitary channel conductance is unchanged, suggesting that these agents act by reducing open time probability. Together, these properties constitute the beginnings of our endeavor to define pharmacological agents that are potentially useful in therapeutic manipulation of synchronous discharge, conduction velocity, and isochronous wavefront propagation in cardiac tissue.
Rat brain hexokinase (ATP:D-hexose 6-phosphotransferase, EC 2.7.1.1) has been studied by differential scanning calorimetry. In &quot;high-ionic-strength&quot; buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 10 mM monothioglycerol, pH 8.5), and assuming two-state behavior with calorimetric enthalpy equal to van't Hoff enthalpy, the endotherm could be deconvoluted into two transitions with Tm values of about 48 and 51 degrees C and enthalpies of about 109 and 112 kcal/mol, respectively. A similar endotherm was seen when glucose or glucose 6-phosphate was present, except that Tm values for both transitions were increased. The glucose analog, N-acetylglucosamine, had no observable effect on the endotherm, which is in agreement with previous studies indicating that this ligand, unlike glucose and glucose 6-phosphate, does not induce conformational changes that lead to increased stability of the enzyme. In &quot;low-ionic-strength&quot; buffer (5 mM Tris-Cl, 0.5 mM EDTA, 10 mM monothioglycerol, pH 8.5), the transitions were partially resolved even in the absence of ligands, with Tm values of about 49 and 55 degrees C. Due to difficulties with erratic baseline behavior under the low-ionic-strength conditions, enthalpies were not routinely determined, but these appeared to be similar to those seen in high-ionic-strength buffer. Also similar was the increase in stability, as reflected by the increase in Tm for both transitions, when glucose or glucose 6-phosphate was present. Correlation of these transitions with specific regions of the molecule was established by analysis of enzyme in which the domain corresponding to the first transition was selectively denatured by a partial scan in the calorimeter. Subsequent rescanning of these samples showed only the second transition, confirming the selective denaturation of the domain corresponding to the first transition and retention of the folded structure of the second domain. Discrimination between denatured (first transition) and undenatured (second transition) domains was based on the markedly increased susceptibility of the denatured region to tryptic digestion; regions of the molecule that retained their folded structure and resistance to proteolysis were identified by immunoblotting techniques using monoclonal antibodies recognizing epitopes having defined locations within the overall sequence. Based on this analysis, the first transition corresponds to unfolding of the C-terminal half of the molecule, with the second transition resulting from unfolding of the more stable N-terminal half. The order of unfolding could be reversed in the presence of ATP-Mg2+ and N-acetylglucosamine, conditions which have been shown to result in selective stabilization of the C-terminal domain.
Separate and combined effects of prenatal and postnatal exposure to ethanol on activity, emotionality, learning, and hippocampal neuroanatomy were examined in infant rats. Neonatal rats from mothers that were fed either a liquid ethanol (E) or control (C) diet on Gestational Days (G) 1-21 were artificially reared during Postnatal Days (P) 4-12 on either 3% ethanol (E) or isocaloric maltose/dextrin (C) in a milk formula. Pups in these treatment groups (EE, EC, CE, and CC) were tested for activity and emotionally in an open field on P19, for acquisition and extinction of an appetitive, straight runaway task on P20-P21, and for the effects of ethanol treatments on alterations in hippocampal neuroanatomy on P21. Differences in activity and emotionally were slight. Ethanol affected both the partial reinforcement acquisition effect and the partial reinforcement extinction effect. Hippocampal cell density (compared with Group CC) showed a 12% reduction in CA1 pyramidal cells and an 11% reduction in mature granule cells in Groups EC and EE; the CA4 area (compared with Group CC) was significantly larger after postnatal exposure (Groups CE and EE). Significant positive correlations were found between rate of extinction after partial reinforcement (PRF) training and CA1 pyramidal cell density in Groups CC and CE. A significant negative correlation was found between extinction rate after PRF training and CA4 area in Group EE.
1. In order to determine whether the strychnine-insensitive glycine modulatory site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor/ion channel complex is fully activated in vivo, the ability of the selective glycine receptor agonist, D-serine, to modulate seizure susceptibility in the mouse has been examined. 2. D-Serine (10-200 micrograms per mouse, i.c.v.) dose-dependently increased the potency of NMDLA in inducing seizures in Swiss Webster mice by approximately 3 fold. L-Serine was without significant effect. 3. The potency of pentylenetetrazol in inducing seizures was also enhanced by D-, but not L-serine, although the magnitude of the shift (1.6 fold) was considerably less than for NMDLA. 4. Similar doses of D-serine were also able to block the anticonvulsant effect of the non-selective glycine receptor antagonist, kynurenic acid, against seizures induced by NMDLA, but were without effect on the anticonvulsant effect of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, 3-((+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). 5. D-Serine completely antagonized the protective effect of the selective glycine receptor antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid, against sound-induced seizures in DBA/2 mice, but was less effective in this model against the less selective antagonist, kynurenic acid. 6 The results indicate that in vivo, NMDA receptors are not maximally potentiated by endogenous glycine and suggest an important involvement of the glycine modulatory site on the NMDA receptor/ion channel complex in the pathophysiology of epilepsy.
Injections of two fluorescent retrograde tracers were used to investigate the existence of collateral branching of input to the hypothalamic magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons. Injection of one tracer (either Fluoro-Gold or rhodamine-labeled microspheres) into the supraoptic nucleus and the other tracer into the ipsilateral paraventricular nucleus produced labeled neurons within the subfornical organ and the anteroventral third ventricle area. Some labeled cells were found to contain both fluorescent tracers (double-labeled cells), suggesting that they project to both the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei via branching axons. Most double-labeled cells were found within the subfornical organ. Fewer of these cells were located within the nucleus medianus preopticus, and still fewer were distributed in the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the medial and the lateral preoptic areas. These data present the first direct evidence that single cells may provide input to more than one magnocellular neuroendocrine nucleus. Hypothetically, hormonal release would require coordinated firing of many magnocellular cells. Thus, the branched input to these neurons may assist in the organization and the timely activation of this system in response to physiological stimuli.
Previous work showed that adhesive contacts made by growth cone filopodia involve extracellular filaments that can be labeled with an antiserum to adherons (adhesion-promoting complexes in conditioned medium). Here, adheron antigens were found to be differentially expressed by particular cell types and synaptic layers during chick retina development, and this differential expression at the cellular level was retained in culture. When applied to living cells, adheron antibodies characteristically patched at filopodial junctions. Monospecific antibodies to purpurin and a heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG), two components of adherons, labeled a subpopulation of junctions. Most interestingly, anti-purpurin and anti-HSPG bound only to one end of adhesive filaments. Such localization to discrete microdomains provides support for a heterotypic adhesive mechanism in junction formation.
The incidence of cortical pyramidal neurons displaying meganeurites or enlarged axon hillocks with ectopic spines and neurites was evaluated developmentally using feline models of GM1 and GM2 gangliosidosis. Results of these studies demonstrated that the onset of ectopic neurite growth occurred after the elaboration of dendrites on cortical pyramidal neurons, and that the time of onset of this renewed dendritogenesis was similar in the two diseases. Initiation and growth of ectopic neurites also correlated in a general way with onset and progression of clinical deterioration in both diseases. In GM1 gangliosidosis there was a greater tendency toward formation of meganeurites, whereas in cats with GM2 gangliosidosis the growth of ectopic axon hillock neurites without meganeurites predominated. At end-stage disease in GM2 gangliosidosis, nearly 90% of pyramidal cells displayed some degree of axon hillock neurite growth as opposed to less than half this number for GM1 gangliosidosis cats at the same age. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that there are two separate driving forces behind these somadendritic abnormalities of pyramidal neurons in the gangliosidoses. Excessive intraneuronal accumulation of storage vacuoles accounts for the formation of meganeurites, whereas some type of intrinsic metabolic defect results in axon hillock neurite growth which in turn offers new surface area for synaptic input. Currently available data indicate that GM2 or GM3 ganglioside, or a closely related metabolic product other than GM1 ganglioside, may be primarily associated with the growth of ectopic dendritic processes on morphologically mature neurons in storage diseases.
Complementary DNA clones containing the entire coding region of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were isolated from the spinal cords of rat and mouse. The cDNAs of rat and mouse coded for 640 and 641 amino acids, respectively, and showed 95% mutual homology and 80% homology with the cDNA of porcine ChAT. Northern blot analysis revealed a single band of 4.4 kb in the spinal cord and brain in each species. Introduction of the cDNAs into Chinese hamster ovary cells and neuron-derived cell lines, N1E115 and NG108-15, expressed a high ChAT activity, which was inhibited by a specific ChAT inhibitor. In situ hybridization using the rat cRNA probe revealed specific labeling of the motoneurons in the spinal cord and neurons in various forebrain nuclei of the rat where the existence of cholinergic neurons has been demonstrated immunohistochemically.
During the investigation of intractable epilepsy, neuronal migration anomalies [NMA] were discovered in three patients. The first patient had abnormally positioned gray matter within the walls of both lateral ventricles. The second patient had a post operative cystic area in the right parietal-occipital lobes and an area of NMA within the right temporal lobe. The third patient had abnormally thickened gray matter in the right operculum. Long term CCTV-EEG monitoring of these three patients revealed ictal discharges originating from the area of abnormal gray matter in patients 2 and 3. PET scanning showed the areas of NMA in all three patients to have similar metabolic activity to normal gray matter. These cases illustrate the value of various imaging modalities and suggest some interesting physiology of a spectrum of neuronal migration anomalies.
The increase in numbers of extra-adrenal chromaffin cells of abdominal paraganglia in senescent F344 rats was investigated by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine immunocytochemistry. A monoclonal antibody raised against 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine was used to react with tissue-sections of paraganglia taken from 28-month-old animals given weekly injections of the thymidine analog over a 14-week period. No immunoreactivity was detected in the extra-adrenal chromaffin cells, whereas control sections of intestinal epithelium showed abundant immunoreactivity. Also, the profile for immunoreactivity of the glucocorticoid receptor in relation to age was compared between extra-adrenal and adrenal chromaffin cells, which share cytological characteristics, but not the increase associated with senescence. In the extra-adrenal chromaffin cells, the intensity of receptor immunostaining was unchanged, while in the adrenal chromaffin cells it decreased with age. These results indicate that hypertrophy of the paraganglia in aged F344 rats is not due to the proliferation of extra-adrenal chromaffin cells. Instead, they suggest that the chromaffin cell phenotype may be induced in pre-existing cells and that the expression of the glucocorticoid receptor has an intrinsic role in this change.
This study demonstrates that endocytosis in the oocyte of Drosophila melanogaster is reversibly blocked at the stage of pit formation by the temperature-sensitive, single-gene mutant, shibirts1. Uptake of horeradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat-germ agglutinin was observed to be normal in mutant oocytes at 19 degrees C, but was blocked at 29 degrees C. After 10 min at 29 degrees C, there was a build-up of coated pits along invaginations of the plasma membrane. Also, the endosomal compartment consisting of tubules, bulbs, and small yolk spheres, disappeared. Lowering the temperature to 19 degrees C after 10 min at 29 degrees C released a synchronized wave of endocytosis into a cytoplasm cleared of uptake-related organelles. By observing this synchronized wave after exposure to 19 degrees C for varying durations, we determined that endocytosis proceeds as follows: coated pits/vesicles----tubules----small yolk spheres----mature yolk spheres. The observations suggest that these organelles transform one into another within this sequence.
Transplantation of normal retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) to the subretinal space has been reported to rescue photoreceptors in the RCS rat. Moreover, the rescue effect was surprisingly large considering the relatively small number of RPE cells transplanted. The reason for this widespread rescue of photoreceptors is not known, nor is the mechanism for outer segment phagocytosis in photoreceptors not apposed to the transplanted RPE cells. This suggests that the rescue effect may not be solely mediated by the transplanted cells. We therefore wished to test whether the transplantation surgery itself might contribute to the rescue of RCS photoreceptors. For these control experiments, we performed the surgery on juvenile RCS rats as described by others for the transplantation of RPE but instead of injecting RPE, we injected saline. We sacrificed the RCS control operates two months following surgery. In the area of the surgery (superior retinal quadrant) the outer nuclear layer (ONL) was up to 8-10 photoreceptor cells thick, while at the extreme inferior margin of the retina the ONL was almost eliminated. To investigate the role of temporary retinal detachment in photoreceptor rescue we repeated the above experiment using our trans-corneal approach to the subretinal space. This procedure results in a large temporary retinal detachment and little or no damage to the choroid and sclera.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thirty-six patients who had had shunts for hydrocephalus between 14 and 36 years ago, and their parents and siblings were interviewed about the effects of chronic illness on their lives. Despite reports of severe financial, physical and emotional stress, most judged the quality of their family relationships and lives to be good. General outcome was poorest for those with unfavourable medical outcomes and/or questionable prospects for future independence. Almost all respondents were satisfied with the level and duration of treatment they had received.
We investigated whether chronic administration of LHRH to normal adult rats could increase the percentages of anterior pituitary gland (APG) cells that contain immunoreactive LH and/or FSH and gonadotropin secretion. Vehicle or 1 microgram LHRH was injected sc twice daily for 6 days, and rats were decapitated 16 h after the last injection. Treatment with LHRH caused nearly a doubling in the numerical density of LH and FSH cells and in the percentage of APG cells that contained LH or FSH. It also caused a shift in the gonadotroph population from LH and LH/FSH cells to LH/FSH cells. It did not change the mean size of gonadotrophs or APG weight. These changes at the light microscopic level were not accompanied by any apparent changes in LH cells at the ultrastructural level. However, they were accompanied by an approximate doubling of the basal serum LH and FSH concentrations, an increase in the APG FSH concentration, and an increase in the basal FSH release rate (measured in vitro). The results indicate that exogenous LHRH can be administered to increase numbers of gonadotrophs in the APG, synthesis of FSH in gonadotrophs, and basal serum LH and FSH concentrations.
The mouse corticotrope tumor cell line AtT-20/D16v was used to investigate the effects of chronic treatment with various secretagogues on individual components of the secretory pathway. Secretagogues acting in part through receptors linked to guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins [CRF and somatostatin (SS)] and agents by-passing membrane receptors (phorbol myristate acetate and dexamethasone) were examined. Effects on the secretory product were evaluated by measuring levels of pro-ACTH/endorphin mRNA and hormone secretion. Effects on posttranslational processing enzymes were evaluated by measuring levels of the mRNAs encoding carboxypeptidase-E and peptidyl-glycine-alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM); cellular levels of PAM activity were also measured. The mRNAs encoding the G-proteins in AtT-20 cells were identified, and secretagogue effects on the G-protein signal transduction system were evaluated by measuring levels of the mRNAs encoding (alpha s, alpha)i2, and beta 2. No single parameter adequately characterizes the regulatory state of the complex secretory apparatus. Although levels of pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE) mRNA accurately reflected hormone secretion after chronic CRF or dexamethasone treatment, chronic SS treatment elevated PAE mRNA levels in the face of reduced hormone secretion. Levels of PAM mRNA generally changed in parallel with levels of PAE mRNA; in contrast, levels of carboxypeptidase-E mRNA were unaffected by any of the secretagogues tested. Secretagogues acting through distinct G-proteins (CRF and SS) as well as dexamethasone brought about a coordinate increase in the level of the mRNAs encoding the three G-protein subunits examined. Treatment with phorbol myristate acetate caused a slight decrease in the levels of the G-protein subunit mRNAs.
Levels of immunoreactive angiotensin II (ANG II) were measured in specific microdissected nuclei from the brains of newborn (NB; less than 1 week of age), 4-, 8-, and 12-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and their age-matched normotensive controls, Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats, using a sensitive radioimmunoassay. The structures investigated included the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH), the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN of X), the locus coeruleus (LC), and the A1 region of the medulla. A section of cerebellar cortex was used as a control. Although ANG II was detected in each of the nuclei examined, there were no differences in the ANG II contents of any of these structures between young (NB and 4 week old) SH and WKY rats. However, by 8 weeks of age, the SHR had significantly higher ANG II levels in the PVH, NTS, and DMN of X than its normotensive control, and at 12 weeks of age, significantly higher ANG II levels were observed in the PVH, NTS, DMN of X, and LC of the SHR compared to those in the WKY. During the developmental period under investigation, both strains revealed increases in the ANG II content of all nuclei except for the LC, where the ANG II levels decreased with age. No detectable ANG II was found in the cerebellar cortex of either strain at any age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Averaged brainstem auditory responses (BAER) were recorded using left and right ear stimulation with clicks of 90 dBs in two groups of primary school children (control and learning disabled). A linear multiple regression model was used in an attempt to demonstrate the effects of sex, high risk factors related to brain damage and learning disability on the evoked responses. Sex showed a strong influence in the latencies of the first five peaks, with girls having shorter latencies. Risk factors had an effect on the latency of peak V, the I-V interval and the V/I amplitude ration, but only when the left ear was stimulated. Learning disability had no significant influence according to this analysis. Multivariate test of complete homogeneity showed highly significant differences between LD and control boys when the left ear was stimulated and between control and LD girls when the right ear was stimulated. Principal component analyses revealed differences between the two groups: the BAER components of the control subjects showed a minor source of variance when the right ear was stimulated. A contrary effect was observed in LD children. Such differences might be related to ear preference and hemispheric dominance.
This paper describes the location and number of motor neurons in the median nerve pool of wobbler mice and normal littermates as determined by retrograde labelling of the cut median nerve with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in animals from 3 weeks to 1-year-old. The median nerve motor nucleus is located in spinal segments C5-T1, and in normal animals contains 199 (6) (mean (SEM] motor neurons. Three-week-old wobbler mice have the same number of labelled neurons as control animals, and this number falls to 75% of normal values by 4 weeks of age, and to approximately 60% by 6 weeks of age and older. Numerous swollen, pale and frequently vacuolated perikarya are present in the same 3-6-week-old mice. In the 3-week-old mutants these comprise on average 17% of the total large (greater than 20 microns) neuronal cell bodies counted in segments C5-T1. By 6 weeks this figure has fallen to 10%, and to less than 4% in adult wobblers. We conclude that the most active period in the expression of the wobbler phenotype is from 3 to 6 weeks of age.
DARPP-32, a dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, has been studied by light and electron microscopical immunocytochemistry in the rat caudatoputamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra. In the caudatoputamen, DARPP-32 was present in neurons of the medium-sized spiny type. Immunoreactivity for DARPP-32 was present in dendritic spines, dendrites, perikaryal cytoplasm, most but not all nuclei, axons and a small number of axon terminals. Immunoreactive axon terminals in the caudatoputamen formed symmetrical synapses with immunolabeled dendritic shafts or somata. Neurons having indented nuclei were never immunoreactive. In the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars reticulata, DARPP-32 was present in myelinated and unmyelinated axons and in axon terminals. The labelled axon terminals in these regions formed symmetrical synaptic contacts on unlabelled dendritic shafts or on unlabelled somata. These data suggest that DARPP-32 is present in striatal neurons of the medium-sized spiny type and that these DARPP-32-immunoreactive neurons form symmetrical synapses on target neurons in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. The presence of DARPP-32 in these striatal neurons and in their axon terminals suggests that DARPP-32 mediates part of the response of medium-size spiny neurons in the striatum to dopamine D-1 receptor activation.
Abstract A single injection of estradiol benzoate (10 mug), while highly effective in ovariectomized female guinea-pigs, does not prime castrated males to display progesterone-facilitated lordosis. In contrast, adult males and females exhibit the same, high degree of progesterone-facilitated lordosis when primed with two, 2.0 mug injections of free estradiol-17ss (pulse regimen). We compared neural progestin receptor induction after these different estradiol treatments by in vitro radioligand binding assays and immunocyto-chemistry. Binding assays confirmed previous observations of lower concentrations of cytosol progestin receptors in the mediobasal hypothalamus-preoptic area in estradiol benzoate-treated males than in females. No such sex difference was observed in animals that had been exposed to the behaviorally effective estradiol pulse regimen; rather, hypothalamic-preoptic area progestin receptor concentrations in these animals did not differ from the low levels observed in males treated with the behaviorally ineffective estradiol benzoate regimen. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in fewer cells in the medial preoptic nucleus-anterior hypothalamic nucleus, periventricular preoptic area and arcuate nucleus of estradiol pulse- as compared to estradiol benzoate-treated males and females. Estradiol benzoate treatment induced progestin receptor-immunoreactivity in more cells in the medial preoptic area and ventrolateral hypothalamus than estradiol pulses in males, but not in females. Surprisingly, in these regions estradiol benzoate-treated males had significantly more progestin receptor-immunoreactive cells than females. These experiments yield two major findings: First, as has been shown in rats, the display of progesterone-facilitated lordosis is not inflexibly differentiated according to sex in guinea-pigs. Furthermore, reduced concentrations of estradiol-induced progestin receptors in the hypothalamus and preoptic area cannot account for the lack of progesterone-facilitated lordosis that is observed following priming with estradiol benzoate in males. Secondly, in the medial preoptic area and ventrolateral hypothalamus of female guinea-pigs, estradiol pulses are as effective as estradiol benzoate in inducing progestin receptors. These observations, taken together with the finding of equal behavioral efficacy of the two estradiol treatments, are consistent with the hypothesis that estradiol-induced progestin receptors in these regions of the brain are involved in progesterone-facilitated lordosis in female guinea-pigs.
Abstract The purpose of this study was to characterize and compare the properties of glucocorticoid Type II receptors in neuronal and astrocyte glial cultures prepared from rat brain. Type II receptors in cytosol prepared from cultured cells were labeled with [(3) H]dexamethasone (DEX) at 0 degrees C. The binding was saturable and specific, with a complete displacement by unlabeled DEX or RU 28362 (a pure glucocorticoid). Scatchard analysis of [(3) H]DEX binding suggested a single class of receptors with a slightly lower dissociation constant (K(d)) in neuronal (1.13 nM) versus astrocyte glial (1.64 nM) cytosol. The number of binding sites (B(max)) in astrocyte glial cultures was four times that in neuronal cultures on a per milligram protein basis (120.3 versus 29.3 fmol/mg protein). The presence of Type II receptors in cultured neurons and astrocyte glia was further confirmed by immunofluorescent staining with a monoclonal antibody against this receptor (BuGR-2). The steroid specificity of Type II receptors was studied by examining the displacement of [(3) H]DEX binding to cytosol with unlabeled steroids. For both types of cultures, the potency series for competition was RU 28362&gt; DEX&gt; corticosterone&gt; &gt; aldosterone. Switching cultured cells from serum-supplemented to serum-free medium reduced [(3) H]DEX binding at low concentrations (0.5 to 5 nM) of the ligand in both types of culture, thus resulting in a decrease in the apparent affinity. This treatment did not, however, have any significant effect on the total number of binding sites. In summary, these results demonstrate that both neuronal and astrocyte glial cells in culture contain specific glucocorticoid Type II receptors, which resemble those seen in the brain and peripheral tissues.

In order to obtain markers selective for motor neurons, an in vitro immunization was carried out using a crude homogenate of embryonic rat ventral spinal cord. We have generated a monoclonal antibody, MO-1, that binds selectively to the cell bodies of somatic motor neurons in the brain stem and spinal cord of the adult rat nervous system. In a survey of both peripheral and central nervous systems, intense labeling by MO-1 appears exclusive to this class of cholinergic neuron. Immunoreactivity is predominantly intracellular and is detectable within the somata as well as the proximal regions of processes but is absent along fiber tracts and at neuromuscular junctions. This staining pattern indicates that MO-1 does not recognize other molecules known to be present in motor neurons, such as choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase, agrin, or the calcitonin-gene-related-peptide. In the spinal cord, antibody binding begins to be detectable in motor neurons late in development, during the second postnatal week. Thus, MO-1 appears to recognize a novel cellular component that accumulates in somatic motor neurons during terminal stages of differentiation.
To investigate cytoskeletal changes associated with axonal regrowth from damaged nerve cells in the mammalian CNS, we examined the slow transport of axonal proteins during the regeneration of adult rat retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. Although normally such RGC axons do not regrow after injury in the CNS, they can extend several centimeters when their nonneuronal environment is changed by replacing the optic nerve (ON) with a grafted segment of peripheral nerve (PN). Proteins transported in axons of RGCs from intact control and PN-grafted animals were labeled by an intraocular injection of 35S-methionine and examined 4-60 days later by SDS PAGE. During RGC regeneration into PN grafts, the transport rate of tubulin and neurofilament increased twofold, whereas that of actin decreased to nearly one third of its normal rate. Thus, in these regenerating RGC axons, all three major cytoskeletal proteins were largely transported within a single rate component rather than in the two separate components (SCa and SCb) normally observed in the intact ON. Furthermore, the 200 kDa neurofilament protein (NF-H) was persistently detected in Western blots during periods of active regeneration, a finding that contrasts with the late appearance of the NF-H during the developmental growth of retinal axons. The changes in slow transport observed during RGC regeneration in adult rats may reflect growth-associated responses of mature CNS neurons during periods of active axonal extension.
This discussion has presented an introduction to a philosophic debate about definitions of death. It is not intended to provide concrete answers to dilemmas confronting neuroscience nurses, but perhaps will spark further thoughts about the arguments described.
Carotid endarterectomy, was first performed in 1951 and has since become one of the most commonly recommended operations. However, it has recently come under scrutiny for being performed too frequently for the wrong indications and at too high a risk for the patient. This article will cover pertinent anatomy and physiology of cerebral blood flow, symptoms of carotid circulation ischemia, indications for surgery along with the expected risks and benefits, and the role neuroscience nurses play in the care of these patients. In order to assist neuroscience nurses in ethical decision making regarding patient advocacy, several controversies surrounding carotid endarterectomy will be addressed.
During the years 1985-1987, 45 children were hospitalized at our institution for gunshot wounds (GSWs). Twelve suffered GSWs to the brain and five of these survived to be followed by the multidisciplinary team. The purpose of this article is to discuss the neuropsychological outcome of three children who sustained GSWs to the brain during this time period. At our institution, children return for regular follow-up appointments with the neurosurgeon, neuroscience clinical nurse specialist and neuropsychologist. The neurosurgeon conducts the neurological examination, and the nurse performs a developmental assessment and evaluates teaching and follow-up needs. During each appointment, the neuropsychologist administers a battery of tests to determine the effects of GSW on intelligence, language, spatial motor skills, academic achievement and adaptive behavior. Case reports are provided to illustrate the results, with nursing implications and future research in the area of outcome of GSW in children discussed.
We investigated the effect of phencyclidine (PCP) on the voltage-dependent K+ current in whole cell recordings from murine thymocytes. PCP caused a dramatic, reversible and dose-dependent decrease of the current. An analysis of the dose-response relationship suggests a single site of action for PCP with an IC50 of 4.7 microM. Dextrorphan and naloxone also inhibited the current, although their effects were of a lower magnitude than those of PCP. Neither 10 microM dextrorphan nor 100 microM naloxone antagonized the inhibitory action of 10 microM PCP. The analysis of the dose-response curve for PCP in presence of 100 microM naloxone suggested that the two drugs act at the same site. We also investigated the effect of morphine on the K+ current. Morphine, in concentrations up to 100 microM, inhibited the K+ current less than dextrorphan or PCP. The kinetics and voltage dependence of the currents in the presence of morphine suggest that it interacts with a different site or different conformation of the channel than the other three compounds. Our findings show that certain opioids can act on thymocytes through a system completely different from the typical opioid receptors.
The addition of both full and partial muscarinic agonists to human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells resulted in a sustained phosphoinositide (PPI) hydrolysis for up to 2 hr, as monitored either by the accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphates (IP) in the presence of Li+, or alternatively, by an increased labeling of phosphatidate and phosphatidylinositol (PI) from 32Pi. This enhanced PPI hydrolysis was maintained even though 40-50% of cell-surface muscarinic cholinergic receptors (mAChRs) became sequestered. Desensitization of carbachol-stimulated PPI hydrolysis was only detected after a 2-4 hr prior exposure of the cells to the agonist and was accompanied by a comparable reduction in total mAChR number. Prolonged incubation of SK-N-SH cells with the partial agonist bethanechol also resulted in a desensitization of stimulated PPI turnover but at a slower rate than that observed for carbachol and with a loss of fewer mAChR sites. Desensitization of mAChR-stimulated [3H]IP formation appeared to occur more rapidly in mouse NIE-115 neuroblastoma. However, Li+ could not fully prevent the degradation of accumulated [3H]IP in these cells. When an increase in [32P]phosphatidylinositol labeling was used to assess PPI turnover in NIE-115 cells, no desensitization was evident for up to 2 hr. We conclude that 1) in SK-N-SH cells, desensitization more closely parallels the down-regulation than the sequestration of mAChRs, 2) in both neuroblastomas, stimulated PPI hydrolysis desensitizes relatively slowly and 3) the appearance of desensitization can vary as a function of the assay method employed.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from neurosecretory terminals (endings of Herring bodies), axons and pars intermedia cells in the isolated neuro-intermediate lobe of the rat. Responses to current injection and stimulation of the neural stalk (NS) were examined at 34 degrees C. Cellular identity was verified following injection of Lucifer Yellow. 2. Neurosecretory terminals were identified by a constant-latency action potential response to NS stimulation and an appropriate collision test. This response was not blocked by Ca2(+)-free solutions. Hyperpolarization of the terminals could block the generation of a local spike. Injection of Lucifer Yellow into eleven units confirmed that such responses were recorded from neurosecretory terminals. 3. Neurohypophysial nerve terminals had a resting potential of -60.4 +/- 1.1 mV and displayed a spike amplitude of 72.4 +/- 1.9 mV. The local spike threshold was -41.6 +/- 1.9 mV. Voltage-current relations were linear near resting potential, but displayed strong outward rectification positive to -55 mV. While terminals could fire at high frequencies during NS stimulation, repetitive activity could not be evoked by prolonged depolarizing current pulses. 4. During the initial 1-3 s of a train of brief depolarizing pulses or NS stimuli, nerve terminals showed a progressive broadening of their action potentials. At steady state, the duration of these impulses increased logarithmically with firing rate, showing a maximum near 25 Hz. Spike broadening in nerve terminals was reversibly abolished by superfusion of the neural lobe with Ca2(+)-free, Mn2(+)-containing solutions. In the absence of external Ca2+, action potentials were smaller, and lacked a prominent shoulder on their repolarizing phase. 5. Sustained (greater than 5 s) repetitive stimulation at 10-20 Hz led to a gradual increase in the latency for invasion and eventual failure of the spike-generating mechanism within the terminal. This effect required several seconds to recover. In contrast, action potentials recorded within the axon followed continuous repetitive stimulation and did not show any frequency-dependent changes in duration (0.7 +/- 0.1 ms). 6. Cells of the pars intermedia (PI) displayed an input resistance of 215.7 +/- 47.4 M omega and fired a single action potential in response to current injection. The amplitude of this current-evoked spike decreased during repetitive stimulation, but its duration was not affected. In 87% of the PI cells tested, stimulation of the NS evoked a Ca2(+)-sensitive synaptic response which reversed near -40 mV, but no cell was directly activated by the stimulus.
1. The effects of a segment of peripheral nerve on the innervation of a skeletal muscle were investigated in the cutaneous pectoris muscle of the frog Rana esculenta. An explant of the sciatic nerve was placed in an aneural region of the muscle at a distance of 1-3 mm from the zone of neuromuscular junctions. The muscles were examined morphologically and electrophysiologically at different post-operative times. 2. After the first month nerve sprouts were seen arising from both nerve terminals and intramuscular nodes of Ranvier. Both the number of sites of sprouting and the relative distance to the explant tip increased with time (up to 5 months), suggesting spread of a nerve sprouting-promoting stimulus. 3. Most neurites resulting from sprouting were seen growing towards the nerve explant, in the vicinity of which active neurite proliferation occurred. Some of them entered the explant as observed in semi-thin and thin sections which revealed the presence of both myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibres. 4. Electrical stimulation of the nerve explant in preparations autografted for more than 2 months resulted in the contraction of bundles of muscle fibres. Endplate potentials of similar amplitudes were recorded intracellularly in some muscle fibres of such preparations when stimulating either the nerve explant or the cutaneous pectoris nerve. When two stimuli were paired by gradually reducing the interval of time between them, the second response was gradually facilitated. This confirmed that nerve fibres stimulated through the explant corresponded to new neuritic processes resulting from motor nerve sprouting. 5. Pieces of perineural tissue and segments of peripheral nerve killed by alcohol treatment or by repeated freezing and thawing were used as controls. They did not induce any nerve sprouting. 6. The results indicate that cells surviving in a segment of peripheral nerve trunk actively induce intact axons to sprout both from their terminals and intramuscular nodes of Ranvier; moreover these cells promote attraction and proliferation of growing neurites. The possibility of release of a diffusible factor by glial cells is discussed.
Synthetic peptides related to triakontatetraneuropeptide (TTN) [17TQPTDEEMLFIYSHFKQATVGDVNTDRPGLLDLK50; diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) 17-50], a natural brain processing product of rat DBI, were analyzed for their physicochemical and ligand-receptor interaction characteristics. The ability of TTN and TTN-related fragments to displace [3H]flumazenil (ethyl-8-fluoro-5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazol[1,5a] [1,4]-benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate) or [3H]Ro 5-4864 [7-chloro-1,3-dihydro-1-methyl-5-(p-chlorophenyl)-2H-1, 4-benzodiazepine-2-one] from their respective benzodiazepine (BZ) binding site subtypes was tested in intact cerebellar culture neurons or in homogenates of cultured astrocytes. These studies indicate that the C-terminal region of TTN, which is also present in DBI 22-50, eicosapentaneuropeptide (DBI 26-50), and octadecaneuropeptide (ODN) (DBI 33-50), but not in DBI 19-41, is essential for interaction with the BZ recognition sites. When the C-terminal lysine of ODN is blocked with an NH2 group, the ability of ODN to interact with the binding of [3H]flumazenil is lost. A comparison analysis of the binding data with the secondary structure characteristics of the peptides demonstrated that TTN (DBI 17-50) and DBI 22-50, which have hydrophobic portions and marked tendencies to produce alpha-helicity, specifically displace (apparent Ki, 5-6 microM) [3H] Ro 5-4864 from astroglial cell binding sites. Peptides (ODN, eicosapentaneuropeptide, OND-NH2) with very low tendencies to form alpha-helices and with virtually no hydrophobic structure were not able to displace Ro 5-4864 at concentrations of up to 100 microM. In contrast, ODN was a good displacer of [3H]flumazenil from intact neurons, with an apparent IC50 of 5 microM. These data suggest that the alpha-helical portion of TTN may be important for BZ receptor recognition and BZ receptor subtype discrimination.
Diazepam Binding Inhibitor (DBI) is an endogenous 11-kDa peptide originally isolated from rat brain. In rat brain DBI coexists with at least three different processing products and the members of this peptide family have been shown to displace benzodiazepines and beta carbolines from recognition sites located on the allosteric modulatory centers of GABAA receptors. Immunocytochemical methods were used to study the location of DBI and two of the processing products, octadecaneuropeptide (ODN) DBI 33-50 and triakontatetraneuropeptide (TTN) DBI 17-50, in rat brain. DBI-LI was found in selected neuronal perikarya and in many glia and glial-like cells. All circumventricular organs displayed a strong DBI like immunoreactivity (LI). The distribution and cellular location of the ODN-LI and TTN-LI differed from that of DBI because they were preferentially associated with DBI in neurons, but not in glia or glial-like cells. The presence of DBI, but not of its processing products, in glial cells, circumventricular organs, and cells of peripheral tissues suggests that the function of this peptide may extend to other yet unknown function in addition to an action on the allosteric modulatory center of GABAA receptors located in neurons.
Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors were identified initially as binding sites in peripheral tissues with markedly different drug specificity than the central type receptors. The density of peripheral receptors varies greatly among tissues with selective localization within organs. Steroid producing areas of glands, such as the adrenal, testes and ovary, are highly enriched in these receptors. Intracellular localizations provide further insight into function with peripheral receptors largely if not exclusively associated with outer membranes of mitochondria. Purification of the peripheral receptor protein from rat kidney mitochondria reveals two apparent subunits with molecular weights of about 30 and 18 kD respectively. This complex is functionally intact as determined by its ability to reversibly bind PK-11195, Ro5-4864, and PK-14105 with high affinity and specificity.


Morphometric Golgi methods were used to study dendritic development of neurons in the cervical ventral and dorsal horns and the hypoglossal nucleus of 8 victims of sudden infant death syndrome and 20 age-matched control infants. The dendrites and spines of these neurons proliferated rapidly until 28 weeks gestation, then increased slowly until shortly after birth. Dendritic spine density of motor neurons in the cervical anterior horn and hypoglossal nucleus of victims of sudden infant death syndrome was similar to that of the controls. Thus, the delayed maturation of dendritic spines seen in the reticular formation and vagal nuclei is not present in motor neurons of the cervical anterior horn and hypoglossal nucleus.
Choroid plexus tumours are rare, and mucous-secreting choroid plexus adenomas are even rarer. The authors report the first case of mucous-secreting choroid plexus adenoma in childhood and review the relevant literature.
The ability of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK8) to modulate dopamine (DA)-induced inhibition of the firing of neurons in the ventral tegmental area of the rat was examined. Extracellular recordings were obtained from putative DA-containing neurons, identified on the basis of their electrophysiological characteristics and response to DA, in an in vitro slice preparation from the ventral tegmental area of the brain. Application of DA produced a concentration-dependent reduction in firing rate. This DA-induced inhibition was mimicked by the D2 selective agonist, LY 171555 (trans-(-)-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-2H- pyrazolo[3,4-g]quinoline), but not by the D1 selective agonist, SKF 38393 (R-(+)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine). The DA-induced inhibition was antagonized selectively by the D2 antagonist, l-sulpiride, but not by the D1 antagonist, SCH 23390 (R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine-7- ol). However, CCK8 elicited a transient increase in firing rate in some neurons and, in addition, potentiated the inhibitory response evoked by DA or LY 171555. Again SKF 38393 was without effect following the administration of CCK8. Taken together, these results suggest that DA-induced inhibition of DA-containing neurons in the ventral tegmental area of the brain of the rat is mediated by activation of D2-receptors and that CCK8 potentiates this D2-mediated inhibition.
To analyze changes in the excitability of both the spinal cord and brainstem in thalamic cats stepping on a moving treadmill, we examined the cutaneous propriospinal (PSR) and spino-bulbo-spinal (SBS) reflex responses in 20 adult cats. Tracheal cannulation, spinal transection at the T10 segment, and decerebration at the stereotaxic A12 level were performed under ether anesthesia. Immediately after decerebration, the ether was withdrawn. The head was fixed in a stereotaxic device, the T2 spinal process clamped to a metal frame, and the lumbar region suspended by a hammock, with bilateral forelimb contact on the floor of a treadmill. Electrical stimulation was applied to the superficial radial nerve with a cuff electrode, and two reflex responses (PSR and SBS) were recorded from the biceps brachii muscle in the same forelimb. Shortly before the appearance of forelimb stepping, both PSR and SBS reflex responses were elevated in amplitude. During forelimb stepping, the amplitudes of PSR and SBS reflex responses fluctuated depending on the phase of the step cycle. The PSR response was enhanced in the early phase of the swing, whereas the SBS response was elevated during a wider period from the beginning of the stance to the middle of the swing. The SBS response was completely absent in the late phase of the swing. This period corresponded to the transfer from flexion to extension and the appearance of the EMG of the triceps brachii muscle of the same forelimb. The fluctuation of the SBS response during stepping may be produced at the brainstem level, and not the spinal cord level, because the PSR response was enhanced only during narrow periods. The generation of locomotion thus seems to result in an enhancement of excitability of reflex pathways in the spinal cord and particularly in the brainstem.
The uptake of hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) into human cerebral glioma was measured using a porphyrin extraction technique. Patients with cerebral glioma were injected with HpD at a dose of 5 mg/kg body weight 24 hours before surgery and photoradiation therapy (PRT). Biopsies of tumor, and where possible, adjacent brain and normal brain were taken for analysis of HpD uptake. HpD was selectively localized into all grades of glioma, and there was a direct correlation between the grade of glioma and HpD level in the tumor. The levels were highest in glioblastoma multiforme (mean uptake of 5.9 micrograms of HpD/g of tumor wet weight) and lower in the intermediate-grade anaplastic astrocytoma (mean uptake of 2.4 micrograms/g of tumor) and the low-grade astrocytoma (1.6 micrograms/g of tumor). Uptake into normal brain tissue taken from HpD-sensitized patients was 0.2 microgram/g. HpD was also localized into the &quot;brain adjacent to tumor&quot; region. The selective uptake into the low-grade glioma suggests that PRT may be of use as an adjuvant therapy in these tumors and the detection of HpD in this region indicates that PRT may control the spread of tumor infiltrating into the adjacent normal brain.

Male rats that had displayed limbic seizures following a single pair of systemic injections of lithium and pilocarpine were trained 2 months later on an operant schedule that required differential low rates of responding (DRL). The seizured rats never acquired schedules that required either 6-sec. or 12-sec. inhibition of responses following a reward; these rats displayed more perseverative responding and shorter interresponse times than controls. Histomorphology indicated severe brain damage primarily within the entorhinal cortices (and adjacent amygdala) and dorsal thalamus.
The gene family encoding gap junction proteins (connexins) consists of several known members, and multiple connexins are frequently coexpressed by coupled cells. To characterize the channel properties of the major rat liver gap junction protein (connexin 32) in isolation from other gap junction proteins, we have introduced the cDNA encoding it into a human hepatoma cell line (SKHep1) in which we have identified a gap junction deficiency. In this cell line, dye coupling was absent and junctional conductance was near zero. Connexins and connexin 32 mRNA were not detectable by immunocytochemistry and Northern blot analysis. After transfection and selection, cells were strongly coupled with regard to dye and electrical current, and connexin 32 mRNA and punctate connexin 32-immunoreactive membrane contacts were abundant. Functional gap junction channels were still expressed after 19 passages of the cells, indicating stable transfection. When junctional conductance was rendered reversibly low by exposing the cells to agents that uncouple other cell types, currents through single gap junction channels could be observed. The unitary conductance of these expressed channels was about 120-150 pS, a value that is distinctly larger than in heart cells, which express a different gap junction protein.
A regeneration chamber was created in vivo by suturing a synthetic tube sealed at its distal end onto the proximal stump of a severed rat sciatic nerve. Nerves regenerated into tubes coated with laminin at a rate of 0.33 mm/day after a lag of about 2 days. At 25 days, regenerating nerves had extended 23% farther into laminin-coated tubes as compared with uncoated ones. Monoclonal antibody 3A3, which functionally interferes with a dual laminin/collagen receptor, inhibited nerve regeneration into laminin-coated tubes by 32%. In contrast, monoclonal antibody JG22, which inhibits chicken matrix receptors, had no significant effect on regeneration. Immunohistochemical studies of teased adult rat sciatic nerves indicate that 3A3 bound to Schwann cells and possibly to axons. In other studies, the heterodimeric, laminin/collagen receptor recognized by 3A3 has been shown to be a member of the integrin superfamily of adhesive receptors. These data provide evidence that an integrin receptor functions in nerve regeneration in vivo.
The life span of neonatal rat cerebellar granule cells, grown in basal minimal Eagle's medium containing 10% (vol/vol) fetal calf serum, was extended to 21-30 days by weekly supplementation with glucose. Addition of 1% fetal calf serum to the culture at 14 days killed 85% of the cells within 1 hr. This lethal effect could be prevented by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists dibenzocyclohepteneimine (MK-801) and 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate (CPP). These findings suggested that the glutamate in the serum caused the dramatic neuronal death through action on the NMDA receptor. Indeed, a 5-min incubation in a Locke physiological salt solution containing 20 microM glutamate and 5 microM glycine killed 55-90% of the cells. This acute toxicity could be prevented by a lyso-GM1 ganglioside with N-acetylated sphingosine. The relatively low glutamate content of the sera analyzed suggests that factors in addition to glycine potentiate serum neurotoxicity. The above noted antagonists of the NMDA receptor also greatly reduced the lethal effect of depolarization by 90 mM KCl or 10 microM veratridine. Therefore, it is likely that the toxicity of the depolarizing agents is mediated by glutamate released from the cells. It is concluded that survival of cerebellar neurons in primary culture may be strongly affected by unsuspected neurotoxic phenomena elicited by brief action of a rather low glutamate concentration.
One of our monoclonal antibodies against the heavy chain of bovine kinesin (H2) also recognized the heavy chain of squid kinesin. The immunofluorescence pattern of H2 in axoplasm was similar to that seen in mammalian cells with antibodies specific for kinesin light and heavy chains, indicating that squid kinesin is also concentrated on membrane-bounded organelles. Although kinesin is assumed to be a motor for translocation of membrane-bounded organelles in fast axonal transport, direct evidence has been lacking. Perfusion of axoplasm with purified H2 at 0.1-0.4 mg/ml resulted in a profound inhibition of both the rates and number of organelles moving in anterograde and retrograde directions in the interior of the axoplasm, and comparable inhibition was noted in bidirectional movement along individual microtubules at the periphery. Maximal inhibition developed over 30-60 min. Perfusion with higher concentrations of H2 (greater than 1 mg of IgG per ml) were less effective, whereas perfusion with 0.04 mg of H2 per ml resulted in minimal inhibition. Movement of membrane-bounded organelles after perfusion with comparable levels of irrelevant mouse IgG (0.04 to greater than 1 mg/ml) were not distinguishable from perfusion with buffer controls. Inhibition of fast axonal transport by an antibody specific for kinesin provides direct evidence that kinesin is involved in the translocation of membrane-bounded organelles in axons. Moreover, the inhibition of bidirectional axonal transport by H2 raises the possibility that kinesin may play some role in both anterograde and retrograde axonal transport.

We review the eight prospective and seven retrospective studies from which it is possible to derive the complication rate of conventional cerebral angiography for patients with mild ischemic cerebrovascular disease who are potential candidates for carotid endarterectomy. Three studies of intravenous and one of intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography are also examined. An overview of the results suggests that the risk of a neurological complication (TIA or stroke) is about 4% and that a permanent neurological deficit (disabling stroke) occurs in about 1%. The mortality rate is very low (less than 0.1%). Systemic complications are not infrequent, particularly with intravenous digital subtraction angiography. The complication rate of cerebral angiography must be considered when evaluating the risks of carotid endarterectomy in patients with ischemic cerebrovascular disease.

Activation of opioid receptors has generally been considered to produce inhibitory effects on neuronal activity. However, recent studies indicate that specific mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor agonists can elicit excitatory, as well as inhibitory, modulation of the action potentials of sensory neurons isolated in culture. Stanley Crain and Ke-Fei Shen review the evidence for mediation of these direct excitatory effects by naloxone-reversible opioid receptors. They propose that this dual modulatory mechanism may help to account for previously unexplained enhancement by opioids of transmitter release, paradoxical hyperalgesic and aversive effects of opioids, and some aspects of opioid tolerance and addiction.
We sought to establish whether the C1 area of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata mediates: (1) the elevations in arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) elicited by electrical stimulation of the rostral cerebellar fastigial nucleus (FN), the fastigial pressor response (FPR); (2) the reductions in AP and HR elicited by chemical stimulation of intrinsic neurons of FN with excitatory amino acids, the fastigial depressor response (FDR). Studies were conducted on rats anesthetized (chloralose), paralyzed and artificially ventilated. The FN was stimulated electrically through microelectrodes and chemically by microinjection of D.L-homocysteic acid (100 nmol in 100 nl). rCBF was measured in homogenates of 11 brain regions by the 14C-iodoantipyrine technique. Bilateral electrolytic lesions restricted to the RVL abolished the elevations in AP, HR and rCBF elicited by electrical stimulation as well as the fall of AP and HR elicited by chemical stimulation of the FN. The disappearance of the responses was anatomically selective and could not be attributed to changes in resting AP, HR or rCBF, loss of reactivity of preganglionic sympathetic neurons, or variations in blood gases. Since the FN neither projects to nor receives afferents from the RVL the pathway to RVL is indirect. We conclude that: (1) the FPR results from excitation and the FDR inhibition of reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory axons of RVL; (2) the FPR is a consequence of excitation of axons arising from neurons in an as yet unidentified area of lower brainstem projecting to or through the FN and with collateral branches innervating RVL mono- or polysynaptically; (3) the FDR, in contrast, represents excitation of intrinsic FN neurons with a polysynaptic projection to RVL through unidentified regions of lower brainstem; (4) the RVL is a relay mediating the increase in rCBF associated with the FPR; and (5) the RVL plays a critical role in integrating actions on the systemic and cerebral circulation represented in cerebellum.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is a brain region rich in dopamine-containing neurons. Since most agents which act as substrates for self-administration increase dopaminergic outflow in the mesolimbic or mesocortical areas, the VTA slice preparation may be useful for identifying drugs with potential for abuse. While ethanol (EtOH) is a drug of abuse which has been widely studied, the properties of ethanol which contribute to its abuse potential are not known. We have developed a brain slice preparation of the VTA in order to study the action of EtOH on putative dopamine neurons. Concentrations of EtOH from 20 to 320 mM produce a dose-dependent excitation of the dopamine-type neurons of the VTA. About 89% of neurons which have electrophysiological characteristics established for presumed dopamine-containing neurons were excited by ethanol in the pharmacologically relevant concentration range. This excitation persists in low-calcium, high-magnesium medium, which suggests a direct excitatory action of EtOH on dopamine-type cells in the VTA slice.
The hypothesis that the ventral pallidum is an important site mediating psychomotor stimulant and opiate reinforcement was tested in rats trained to self-administer i.v. cocaine or heroin. Ibotenic acid lesions of the ventral pallidum produced significant decreases in cocaine and heroin self-administration behavior maintained on a fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement, suggesting an attenuation of the reinforcing value of cocaine and heroin. On a progressive-ratio schedule, ventral pallidal lesions produced significant decreases in the highest ratio obtained in rats self-administering cocaine. Similar results were observed with heroin in a progressive-ratio procedure modified to produce higher levels of responding; lesions of the ventral pallidum produced a significant decrease in the highest ratio obtained. Further, the i.v. co-administration of naloxone and heroin produced a decrease in progressive-ratio responding relative to heroin alone using the modified progressive-ratio schedule. These results suggest that the ventral pallidum is an important site mediating the reinforcing effects of cocaine and heroin and that the nucleus accumbens-ventral pallidum circuit may be a common pathway for both stimulant and opiate reinforcement.
The effects of the selective CCK-A antagonist L-365,031 and the selective CCK-B antagonist L-365,260 on morphine analgesia and opiate tolerance and dependence in rats were examined. L-365,031 and L-365,260 had no effect on baseline pain thresholds in the radiant heat tail flick test but enhanced analgesia induced by a submaximal dose of morphine (4 mg/kg). Similarly, L-365,260 did not effect pain thresholds in the paw pressure test but enhanced morphine analgesia in this model. Rats injected twice daily for 6 days with incremental doses of morphine became tolerant to the analgesic effects of the drug. Twice daily injections of either 8 mg/kg L-365,031 or 0.2 mg/kg L-365,260 prevented the development of tolerance to morphine analgesia. In contrast, L-365,260 had no influence on the development of opiate dependence in these animals, as assessed by naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. The results of the present study, when considered together with previous data, indicate that the rank order of potency of non-peptide CCK antagonists for enhancing morphine analgesia is L-365,260 greater than MK-329 greater than L-365,031. This rank order correlates well with the potency of the antagonists in blocking CCK-B receptors in rodents and suggests that CCK/opiate interactions in this species are mediated by CCK-B receptors.
In the caudate-putamen the glutamatergic cortical input and the dopaminergic nigrostriatal input have opposite effects on the firing rate of striatal neurons. Although little is known of the biochemical mechanisms underlying this antagonism, one action of dopamine is to stimulate the cyclic AMP-dependent phosphorylation of DARPP-32 (dopamine and cAMP-regulated phospho-protein, of relative molecular mass 32,000 (32K]. This phosphorylation converts DARPP-32 from an inactive molecule into a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. Here we show that activation of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) subclass of glutamate receptors reverses the cAMP-stimulated phosphorylation of DARPP-32 in striatal slices through NMDA-induced dephosphorylation of DARPP-32. Thus, the antagonistic effects of dopamine and glutamate on the excitability of striatal neurons are reflected in antagonistic effects of these neurotransmitters on the state of phosphorylation of DARPP-32. Our results indicate that stimulation of NMDA receptors leads to the activation of a neuronal protein phosphatase, presumably the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin, and show, in an intact cell preparation, that signal transduction in the nervous system can be mediated by protein dephosphorylation.
Extensive washing of a membrane preparation from rat brain resulted in a progressive enhancement of strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding, which was due to an increase in the number of binding sites with no changes in the apparent affinity of this radioligand, precluding an explanation based solely on the elimination of endogenous glycine. Moreover, after extensive washing a population of [3H]glycine binding sites with very high affinity for L-serine was observed in addition to the sites with low affinity for L-serine present in less extensively washed tissue. The observed changes in [3H]glycine binding were attributable to the elimination of a low molecular weight, heat-stable compound which was readily detected in the wash supernatant. Extensive washing also altered [3H](+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]cyclohept-5,10-i min e maleate ([3H]MK-801) binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-associated channels, decreasing basal binding at equilibrium and producing slower association rates in the presence of either glycine or L-glutamate. Moreover, in well-washed membranes both glycine and glutamate enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding acting at high- and low-affinity sites. These findings suggest that the NMDA receptor complex can assume interconverting conformational states regulated by an endogenous substance(s).
The rat spinal cord receives noradrenergic (NA) projections from the locus coeruleus (LC) and the A5 and A7 groups. In contradiction to previous statements about the distribution of descending NA axons, we have recently proposed that in the rat LC neurons project primarily to the dorsal horn and intermediate zone, whereas A5 and A7 neurons project to somatic motoneurons and the intermediolateral cell column. The aim of the present study was to determine the funicular course and terminal distribution of descending NA axons from the LC and from the A5 and A7 groups. The organization of the coeruleospinal projection was analyzed by using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin in combination with dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. The trajectory of A5 and A7 axons was studied in spinal cord sections of rats following ablation of the coeruleospinal projection with the neurotoxin DSP-4. To assess the relative contribution of the LC and the A5 and A7 groups to the NA innervation of the spinal cord, unilateral injections of the retrograde tracer True Blue were made at cervical, thoracic, and lumbar levels, and retrogradely labeled NA neurons were identified by dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunofluorescence. The results of the anterograde tracing experiments confirm our previous findings that LC neurons project most heavily to the dorsal horn and intermediate zone. Analysis of horizontal sections revealed that LC axons descend the length of the spinal cord within layers I and II. In contrast to the intragriseal course of LC fibers, A5 and A7 axons travel in the ventral and dorsolateral funiculi and terminate in the ventral horn and the intermediolateral cell column. Retrograde transport studies indicate that the contribution of the A5 and A7 groups to the NA projection to the spinal cord is greater than that of the LC. We conclude that descending axons of the LC and A5 and A7 groups differ in their course and distribution within the spinal cord. The documentation of a definite topographic order in the bulbospinal NA projections suggests that the LC and the A5 and A7 groups have different functional capacities. The LC is in a position to influence the processing of sensory inputs, in particular nociceptive inputs, whereas A5 and A7 neurons are likely to influence motoneurons.

Studies on humans and rats have suggested that neuropeptide Y (NPY) is involved in major depression and anxiety. Therefore, we conducted the present study in order to elucidate the effect of repeated (13 or 14 days) treatment of rats with electroconvulsive shocks (ECS) on the concentration of NPY-like immunoreactivity (-LI) in various brain regions, adrenals and plasma. In addition, the effect of ECS on 125I-NPY binding was studied in 3 brain regions. The effects of ECS were compared to effects of 3 control treatments: one group not being handled at all during the time period, one group handled like the ECS-group but not receiving shocks, and one group receiving shocks below the threshold for induction of convulsions. The latter group developed behavioral signs reminiscent of the inescapable shock-induced 'learned helplessness' syndrome (a proposed animal model of depression). We found that the concentration of NPY-LI in the frontal and parietal cortex and in the hippocampus were approximately doubled in the ECS-group as compared to the 3 control groups. No changes in NPY-LI were detected in the striatum, hypothalamus, pons, olfactory bulbs or cerebellum, nor in plasma or adrenals. In spite of the marked changes in NPY-LI concentration, the binding characteristics of 125I-NPY in the frontal and parietal cortex and in the hippocampus were similar in all 4 groups of rats. Finally, we confirmed the previous observation that ECS increase [3H]prazosin binding in cortex. In conclusion, ECS treatment increases neocortical and hippocampal NPY-LI concentrations, while leaving 125I-NPY binding unaffected. Subconvulsive shocks were without effect.
The midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) is now recognized as a critical structure for the initiation and regulation of aggressive behavior in the cat. The PAG is also known to be rich in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors. In the present study, we sought to examine the possible role of this putative neurotransmitter in the modulation of affective defense and quiet biting attack behavior elicited by electrical stimulation of the PAG. Cannula-electrodes were employed for electrical stimulation as well as for microinjections of a GABA agonist (muscimol: 3, 12 and 22 pmol/0.25 microliters) and GABA antagonist (bicuculline: 22 and 68 pmol/0.25 microliters). After establishing predrug response threshold values for affective defense and quiet biting attack, these drugs were microinjected into the PAG sites from which these responses were elicited. Microinjections of muscimol (12 and 22 pmol) significantly suppressed the affective defense response in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Pretreatment with bicuculline (68 pmol) blocked the suppressive effects of muscimol (12 pmol) upon affective defense behavior. In contrast, this dose of muscimol failed to alter the response threshold for quiet biting attack behavior. Microinjections of vehicle alone (0.25 microliter of saline, pH = 7.4) did not modify the thresholds for either of these responses. These results indicate that, at the level of the PAG, GABA-ergic mechanisms are selectively involved in the regulation of affective defense behavior in the cat.
Adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), an opiomelanocortin peptide, is secreted from anterior pituitary corticotrophs upon stimulation with corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), arginine vasopressin (AVP) and several other neuropeptides. CRH, the most potent secretagogue of ACTH, stimulates ACTH secretion and biosynthesis by increasing the production of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) within corticotrophs. AVP, which is a weak secretagogue of ACTH but strongly potentiates CRH-stimulated ACTH secretion, operates through the phosphatidylinositol (PI) transduction pathway. Both CRH and AVP increase cytosolic free [Ca2+] within normal corticotrophs indicating a role for Ca2+ in ACTH secretion. Glucocorticoids inhibit ACTH synthesis by suppressing transcription of the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene and attenuate ACTH release by decreasing cAMP accumulation stimulated by CRH. This review focuses on the roles of these intracellular messengers in ACTH secretion from normal anterior pituitary cells in vitro, and discusses the possible interactions between the cAMP, calcium and PI transduction pathways. Future areas of research are suggested such as identification of protein substrates of cAMP-dependent and Ca2(+)-dependent kinases within normal corticotrophs and evaluation of their role in ACTH biosynthesis and secretion.
Male Fischer-344 rats were injected i.p. with diethyldithiocarbamate or dithizone 15 min after kainic acid (KA), s.c. Diethyldithiocarbamate and dithizone reduced both the number of wet dog shakes and the latency to onset of seizures induced by KA. Moreover, they increased the severity of seizures. These compounds may be useful tools for investigating the role of zinc in central nervous system excitatory transmission and/or convulsive phenomena.

Assemblies of electrodes and a cannula were stereotaxically implanted in the ventromedial (VMH), lateral (LHA) and paraventricular (PVH) hypothalamic areas in male albino rats. Electrical activity of these regions was recorded electrographically before and following intracranial injection (ICI) of GABA, muscimol and picrotoxin. In another set of animals, food intake and water intake were also measured. The activity of the ventromedial hypothalamus changed from slow to fast after ICI of GABA and picrotoxin and fast to slow after muscimol. The activity of the lateral hypothalamus changed from slow to fast with ICI of muscimol and picrotoxin and from fast to slow with GABA, while that of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus changed from slow to fast with ICI GABA and fast to slow with muscimol and picrotoxin. ICI of GABA into VMH and LHA and muscimol in VMH, LHA and PVH caused a decrease in food intake. Water intake was also decreased after ICI of GABA in PVH and muscimol in LHA and PVH. On the opposite picrotoxin increased food intake in VMA and LHA and water intake in PVH. The possible interaction of GABAergic drugs with the areas of the brain controlling feeding and drinking is being discussed.
The capacity of injured nerve cells to regrow and form terminal connections in the CNS of adult mammals was investigated in axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of rodents whose optic nerves were substituted by an autologous segment of peripheral nerve. While many RGCs died after axotomy approximately 20% of the surviving RGCs regenerated axons several cm in length. Some of the regenerated RGC axons entered the superior colliculus where they arborized and formed well differentiated synapses that transynaptically excited or inhibited tectal neurons.
The use of neurotrophic agents as therapy for neurodegenerative disorders was originally proposed several years ago (1). Since then, several lines of evidence have converged to support the consideration of neurotrophic factor therapy for clinical disorders. In particular, the cholinergic neuronal atrophy that occurs in Alzheimer's disease has been identified as a strong potential candidate for the first clinical trials of nerve growth factor (NGF) in a human neurodegenerative disorder. In the current communication, we review issues related to potential trials of NGF in Alzheimer's disease.
Glutamate, an excitatory amino acid (EAA), plays an important role in neuron to neuron signaling by binding to specific receptors. When, during neuronal firing, quanta of glutamate are released from the nerve terminal, they interact with the receptors for a few milliseconds and, thereafter, glutamate is promptly cleared by appropriate mechanisms. The neurotoxic action of glutamate arises from its capacity to trigger a pathophysiological chain of events when it acts continuously and abusively on its receptors (e.g., during cerebral edema associated with trauma, ischemia, stroke). In primary cultures of cerabellar granule neurons the abusive stimulation of EAA receptors by glutamate amplifies pathologicaly two early intracellular signals: free cytosolic Ca++ and the translocation of protein kinase C (PKC) from cytosol to neuronal membrane. Both of these signals persist unabated even after removal of glutamate from the incubation medium. Natural gangliosides and their semisynthetic derivatives protect neurons from glutamate toxicity by blocking the consequences of receptor abuse but they leave physiological responses to glutamate unaffected; hence they represent a prototype of a &quot;receptor abuse dependent antagonist&quot; (RADA).
To evaluate the potency of putative secondary mediators of brain edema and their possible contribution to edema related brain dysfunction an infusion model of brain edema was developed in rats. 100 ul of fluid (saline, 20% nonautologous protein) was infused over one hour into the left forebrain white matter through a stereotaxically placed (+1.2 mm ant to bregma, 3 mm lateral and 2.9 mm depth) 25 G needle. Brain tissue hydraulic resistance (Rt), regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), cortical somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and intracranial pressure (ICP) (intraventricular needle) were monitored during the infusion and rCBF CO2 reactivity (hydrogen clearance), local brain water content (microgravimetry), BBB integrity (Evans Blue 2%) and brain histology (H &amp; E. Solochrome-cyanin) were evaluated after the infusion. Saline infusates caused no physiological dysfunction despite ipsilateral expansion and vacuolation of the subcortical white matter, separation of axonal bundles and a significant decrease (p = 3.8 x 10(-5] in local subcortical tissue specific gravity. Cortical histology and specific gravity adjacent to the infusion locus were normal. Rt significantly decreased (p = 6.5 x 10(-4] during the infusion but there were only minor increases in ICP. Findings with 20% protein infusates were similar despite a focal 65% decrement in the rCBF CO2 reactivity adjacent to the infusion site. This study has shown that a simple and inexpensive model of infusion brain edema can be created in the rat and that it provides a useful model for assessing the physiological effects of mediator compounds in the infusate. Potential applications and methodological improvements for this model are discussed.
A simple technique of stereotactic craniotomy and intraoperative lesion localisation that uses the Brown-Robert-Wells (BRW) stereotactic frame is presented. The method optimises craniotomy placement and facilitates localisation of small intracerebral lesions. Using the system, 16 patients have had resection of intracranial neoplasms from deep and/or eloquent areas of the brain with no neurological morbidity.
Intradural extramedullary glial tumours of the spinal cord are rare. We report for such tumours arising from the dorsal cord. Myelography and operative findings were almost similar to that of an intradural neurofibroma. Surgical removal had resulted in rewarding neurological recovery. One of them had a recurrence after six years and was re-explored. Anterolateral attachment near the root entry zone suggests its origin probably from the spinal cord with an exophytic growth.
Secondary mediator compounds are postulated to have a role in vasogenic oedematogenesis. They may also cause focal brain dysfunction due to their neuronal, axonal and glial modulating properties. Using the feline model of infusion brain oedema the effects of right frontal intracerebral infusion (200 microliters/hr for 3 hrs) of saline, bradykinin (10(-4) to 10(-6) M), arachidonic acid (10(-2) to 10(-3) M), 20% protein and four human glioma cyst fluids were evaluated. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP), motor evoked potentials (MEPs), rCBF and rCBF CO2 reactivity (Hydrogen clearance). ICP, craniospinal compliance, local brain tissue water content (microgravimety), brain histology and BBB function (Evans Blue 2%) were measured. Brain water content increased locally from 69% to 79%, ICP increased (by mean 14 mmHg) and compliance decreased (mean 70%) and there were the histological features of brain oedema with all infusates. BBB opening occurred with Bradykinin (+), arachidonic acid (++), 20% protein ( ) and glioma cyst fluid (4+). Polymorphic and macrophage infiltrates were seen with all infusions but rCBF and MEPs remained normal. SSEPs changed with high dose bradykinin and some glioma cyst infusates whilst CBF CO2 reactivity was locally impaired by all infusates except saline and arachidonic acid. This study suggests that certain compounds in brain oedema fluid could mediate local brain dysfunction.
We have developed an automated method [Short Pulse Response (SPR)] of measuring craniospinal compliance using an electronic square wave pressure generator to produce a small (0.05 ml) and reproducible transient volume increase in the CSF space (pulse duration 100 msec). In experimental models of intracranial hypertension, arterial hypertension, arterial hypotension and arterial hypercarbia in cats, the new method accurately followed physiological changes in compliance when compared to the manual volume-pressure injection method. The VPR overestimated compliance compared to the new SPR method (by 20% to 162%, mean = 77%). The SPR method was less variable between sequential measurements with a coefficient of variation (CV) ranging from 0.6% to 9.6% (mean CV = 2.6%), compared with a CV ranging from 5.6% to 48% (mean CV = 17%) for the VPR method. Repeated compliance measurements by the new method over a 12 hour period, produced no neuropathological evidence of either blood brain barrier breakdown or tissue damage resulting from the repeated volume injections.
The dynamic behaviour of the distribution of Evans blue (EB), sodium fluorescein (SF), Lucifer yellow (LY) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was studied using standard light- and fluorescence microscopy following ultraviolet radiation induced brain oedema in the rat model. The cerebral cortex was irradiated after craniotomy (2 x 2 mm) under anaesthesia. The tracers were injected (iv) 30 min prior to radiation. Animals were perfused with glutaraldehyde through the heart at different survival periods ranging from 30 min to 24 h post irradiation. The results showed a remarkable difference in distribution and spread of these tracers in the oedematous brain following radiation. The extravasation of EB was evident in ipsilateral cortex 6 h after radiation which extended to the contralateral side at the end of the 24 h survival period. The HRP reaction product was seen in the necrotic area 3 h after radiation which further extended to the underlying white matter at 24 h survival. The LY stained the ipsilateral micronecrotic area 6 h after radiation, whereas a non-specific diffuse fluorescence of SF was noted at this time period. These results point out a specific selectivity of tracer distribution in oedematous brain following ultraviolet radiation.
In a study of 182 patients with a traumatic, 'spontaneous', or aneurysmal intracerebral haematoma (ICH) a significant correlation was found between the amount of focal brain oedema seen on computed tomogram (CT) and both the aetiology and the size of the haematoma. Traumatic haematomas were associated with twice the oedema per unit volume of haematoma, and a doubling of median oedema volume on second CT (performed in 18 patients), compared to spontaneous or aneurysmal haematomas.
The distribution of axonal spheroids was examined in the central nervous system of gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mutant mice. Only few spheroids are observed in the gracile nucleus of the medulla in normal mice throughout the period examined, while they are first noted in GAD mice as early as 40 days after birth. The incidence of spheroids shifts from the gracile nucleus to the gracile fasciculus of the spinal cord with the progress of disease, suggesting that the degenerating axonal terminals of the dorsal ganglion cells back from the distal presynaptic parts in the gracile nucleus, along the tract of the gracile fasciculus, toward the cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglion. This phenomenon indicates that the distribution of spheroids is age dependent and reflects a dying-back process in degenerating axons. In addition to the gracile nucleus and the gracile fasciculus, which is one of the main ascending tracts of primary sensory neurons, it was noted that the other primary sensory neurons joined with some of the second-order neurons at the dorsal horn and neurons at all levels of the dorsal nucleus (Clarke's column) are also severely affected in this mutant. The incidence of the dystrophic axons are further extended to the spinocerebellar tract and to particular parts of the white matter of the cerebellum, such as the inferior cerebellar peduncle and the lobules of I-III and VIII in the vermis. These results indicate that this mutant mouse is a potential animal model for human degenerative disease of the nervous system, such as neuroaxonal dystrophy and the spinocerebellar ataxia.
Seven muscle biopsies from patients with the clinical characteristics of Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome (MSS) revealed myopathic changes of two types; muscle fiber necrosis followed by regeneration and focal myofibrillar degeneration inducing autophagocytosis with rimmed vacuole formation. In two young patients, massive muscle fiber necrosis with phagocytic invasion was the predominant feature and autophagic phenomenon was minimal, resembling the findings in progressive muscular dystrophy. Myofibrillar degeneration with autophagic phenomenon was prominent in five adult patients. The coexistence of these two degenerative processes and the secondarily induced reactive changes of muscle fiber hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis, occasional ragged-red fibers and type 1 fiber predominance, are responsible for the wide spectrum of muscle pathology in MSS. The dense double-membrane structure surrounding myonuclei, previously reported as being specific to MSS, was present in only one biopsy.
Adrenergic innervation of blood vessels in rat tibial nerve during Wallerian degeneration was examined, using the formaldehyde-induced histo-fluorescence method. The left sciatic nerve was transected at the level of the sciatic notch, whereas the right sciatic nerve was left intact and used as control. At 1, 3, 7, 14, 42, 56 or 84 days after transection, the tibial nerves of the transected and contralateral sides were exposed. Pieces of each nerve were used for light microscopy or for examination of adrenergic innervation with the fluorescence microscope. One day after transection, no adrenergic nerve fiber was observed in the endoneurium of the transected nerve. After 3 days, adrenergic innervation of small- and medium-sized arterioles in the epi-perineurium was absent, and after 7 days no fibers were visible around large arterioles. Fluorescent fibers were not detected even at 84 days post-surgery. It is concluded that adrenergic innervation of blood vessels in the rat tibial nerve is irreversibly lost after permanent axotomy, and that adrenergic regulation of nerve blood flow may also be lost.
A 62-year-old man presented with memory impairment progressing over 6 years to dementia with near mutism and was diagnosed as having Alzheimer's disease. At autopsy his brain showed lobar atrophy suggestive of Pick's disease and there were spherical intracytoplasmic neuronal inclusions in the fascia dentata, hippocampal pyramidal cell layer, and temporal cortex. Unlike Pick bodies, however, the inclusions were eosinophilic with H&amp;E stains, non-argyrophilic, and failed to react immunohistochemically with antibodies to paired helical filaments or Alz-50. They did label with antibodies to ubiquitin, however, and electron microscopy disclosed dense-cored granular structures with thin filamentous coronas which resembled brain stem-type Lewy bodies. The substantia nigra and locus coeruleus were not affected.
We have recently reported that the immunoblot detection of two abnormally phosphorylated tau proteins, named Tau 64 and 69, in homogenates of cortical areas from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) was systematically associated with the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and senile plaques (SP) in these areas. A blind study was performed to confirm that these proteins had a reliable diagnostic value and to study more precisely the correlation between Tau 64 and 69 and the presence of the characteristic lesions of AD. The density of NFT and of SP was evaluated on histological sections of gyrus supramarginalis from 17 patients with graded intellectual status. Immunodetection of Tau 64 and 69 was semiquantitatively evaluated by densitometry (reflectance mode) on immunoblots of homogenates of the same area on the contralateral hemisphere. The statistical analysis of results showed that Tau 64 and 69 were more strongly correlated with NFT than with SP. Moreover, semiquantitative evaluation of Tau 64 and 69 was correlated with the intellectual status (BTS score). Therefore, these pathological forms of tau proteins are reliable markers of the presence of NFT and SP in the neocortex and may be used as a diagnostic tool.
Hair cells with rotated stereociliary bundles have been observed in the cochleae of control and kanamycin-treated guinea pigs. The affected outer hair cell bundles have a variable degree of rotation, with some being completely reversed. The inner hair cells are more rarely affected, and only small areas of an individual inner hair cell bundle are abnormal. In counts from ten cochleae, the number of outer hair cells with rotated bundles was most commonly between 10% and 20%, with almost 27% of all outer hair cells affected in the most extreme case. The rotated outer hair cell bundles often have distorted outlines but in other respects closely resemble normal bundles. In particular, they have the usual gradation in stereociliary height, intracellular cross-links and intercellular links to adjacent normally-orientated bundles. There are also corresponding imprints in the tectorial membrane which match the pattern of the stereocilia. In kanamycin-treated guinea pigs, imprints of both normal and rotated hair bundles are present, even when the corresponding bundle is absent, and there are frequently remnants of stereocilia inserted in the imprints. These observations suggest that, apart from their abnormal orientation, the rotated bundles are similar to normal bundles in both their organization and association with the tectorial membrane. The implications of this with respect to transduction and cochlear mechanics are discussed.



The history of PET research clearly demonstrates that it is advances in chemistry coupled with a detailed examination of the biochemistry of new radiotracers that have allowed the PET method to be applied to new areas of biology and medicine. Radiotracers whose regional distribution reflects glucose metabolism, neurotransmitter activity and enzyme activity have all required the development of rapid synthetic methods for the radiotracers themselves and the characterization of their biochemical behavior. This article traces some of the advances in the production of labeled precursors and in radiotracer synthesis and evaluation which have shaped the rapidly expanding application of PET to problems in the neurosciences, in cardiology and in oncology.








We have shown that a psychological stressor can elicit increases in plasma AVP levels in normal human subjects. Since AVP can enhance the release of ACTH, and the pituitary gland is outside the blood-brain barrier, AVP present in the general circulation might extend the time course of stress-induced, CRF-mediated release of ACTH from the anterior lobe. Since PRA is involved in the synthesis of angiotensin I, the precursor of AII, and AII is known to enhance CRF-mediated release of ACTH from pituitary cells and to stimulate release of AVP, it is possible that the increase in PRA also contributed to the release of AVP and ACTH in this study. Reports differ as to whether circulating catecholamines can release ACTH in vivo by direct action on the pituitary. Finally, it has been reported that beta-EP enhances the release of PRL, and inhibits release of AVP. Since the increase in beta-EP in the present study was quite robust, it might have extended the PRL release, and truncated the AVP response.
In summary, we have presented evidence that neuropeptides can function as either positive or negative growth regulatory factors during development. The ACTH family of peptides appear to act predominantly as a positive growth regulatory factor-enhancing neurite outgrowth, cell survival, biochemical maturation and behavioral expression. These effects of ACTH are most pronounced prior to the time the afferent cell has reached its target. Thus, ACTH may act as a low level general neurotrophic growth regulatory factor. The opioids have the opposite effect. These neuropeptides inhibit neurite extension, cell survival, and biochemical maturation. The effects of these negative growth regulatory factors are observed even when the afferents have reached their targets. The action of the opioids is thought to occur through specific receptors and known second messenger systems. Thus, CNS neuropeptide levels can have important actions in regulating the development of a variety of CNS systems, and permanently influencing the structure and function of the brain.

Evidence from electropharmacological experimentation favors the hypothesis that the PCP site is intimately associated with the channel domain of the NMDA receptor. But it is too early to state that this site lies deep within the NMDA channel pore. Determining the molecular details of the PCP site will require a complete and detailed kinetic analysis of NMDA single channel behavior. Furthermore, it is likely that hydrophobic receptor site(s) are responsible for some aspects of the blockade by at least some members of the dissociative anaesthetic family.


The spike (S) protein of murine coronavirus JHM strain (JHMV) has been expressed in insect cells using a recombinant baculovirus vector. The expressed S protein was shown to be glycosylated and expressed on the cell surface, and to be similar in size and antigenic properties to the S protein produced in mouse cells infected by JHMV. However, no proteolytic cleavage was detected in insect cells. The sera from rats immunised with S protein derived from insect cells reacted in immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence with the S protein produced in JHMV-infected mouse cells. However, the antisera failed to neutralize the infectivity of JHMV. The studies on two proteins expressed by recombinant baculoviruses, corresponding to the cleavage products S1 and S2, and a panel of monoclonal antibodies suggest that the majority of epitopes which elicit the neutralizing antibodies are present in the N terminal half of the S protein.



A two-dimensional model of vasogenic brain edema was constructed using the FEM. The model incorporates the following physical parameters: cerebrovascular hydraulic conductivity, metabolic water production, tissue hydraulic conductivity and compliance, tissue and plasma osmotic and hydrostatic pressures, CSF hydrostatic pressure and absorption, intracerebral stress, and shift of brain tissue. These parameters, related by partial differential equations, were approximated numerically in time and space by the FEM. The results of computer simulation of brain edema by the FEM were compared with experimental data of cold injury brain edema in cats. Computer simulation predicted the observed changes in interstitial pressure, extension of edema, intracerebral stress distribution, and displacement.
The cause of neurodegenerative disease is considered. For Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and motoneuron disease, accumulating evidence over the last 3 years indicates that (a) the usual etiological mechanisms involve a subclinical lesion which kills some neurons and reduces the life expectation of their surviving neighbors, and (b) there may be more than one cause for each of the idiopathic syndromes now termed AD, PD, and MND.


The effect of Ro 19-4603, a novel potent partial inverse agonist of benzodiazepine (BZ) receptors, on voluntary ethanol intake was examined in a rat line selectively bred for ethanol preference (Sardinian ethanol preferring, sP, rats). Ro 19-4603, 1 mg/kg i.p., three times daily, reduced voluntary ethanol consumption by about 40% during 7 days of treatment, but failed to reduce water intake. The results suggest that the GABA/BZ receptor complex may play a role in the reinforcing property of ethanol.
The general aim of our research is to understand the brain mechanisms that underlie language and cognition. In this paper, we present a new line of investigation which attempts to forge links between a specific neurodevelopmental disorder, a specific neuropsychological profile, and abnormal brain organization. We report on a dissociation between language and cognitive functions in Williams syndrome adolescents, in contrast to age- and IQ-matched Down syndrome adolescents. The Williams syndrome individuals exhibit an unusual fractionation of higher cortical functioning, with marked cognitive deficits, but selective sparing of syntax. Differences in spatial cognitive abilities in the 2 groups are investigated, showing peaks and valleys of abilities specific to Williams syndrome individuals. These neurobehavioral profiles are explored in light of new evidence regarding neurologic and neuroanatomical differences between the 2 matched groups of adolescents. Results from these combined studies should help clarify the neural systems that mediate language and cognitive functions.

Chronic prophylactic administration of lithium, a well-known anti-manic drug, has been reported to have a wide number of potential side effects involving metabolic, reproductive and endocrine systems. Since most of the existing literature reports on biochemical changes, the present investigations were undertaken to examine whether chronic lithium treatment could lead to morphological alterations in various endocrine organs. Sexually adult male Fischer rats, acclimatized to standardized laboratory conditions of light (LD 14:10) and temperature (21-23 degrees C) for 2 weeks, were treated with lithium by feeding a specially prepared chow containing 0.4% lithium chloride. The diet was administered for 15 d to one group and for 30 d to the other after which the animals were decapitated and the thyroid, adrenal, pancreas, testis and seminal vesicles were quickly dissected out and fixed in 10% neutral formalin. After routine histological procedures, 5 microns thick paraffin sections were stained by hematoxylin-eosin or Gomori's trichrome stain and examined under light microscope. Definitive morphological alterations were noted in the thyroid gland in that chronic lithium led to significant reduction in the epithelial height of the follicular cells and in an increase in colloidal content, suggesting a hypothyroid condition. Chronic lithium also resulted in decreased epithelial height in the seminal vesicle; the mucosal pseudostratified columnar epithelium regressed to an almost squamous epithelium. No discernible morphological changes were evident in the other endocrine glands studied. These results provide important morphological correlates and support some of the biochemical studies reported earlier on the potential adverse effects of lithium.
The cyto- and fibre-architecture of the cochlear nuclear complex of the guinea-pig has been studied in serial sections using Nissl, Golgi and combined cell-myelin staining of normal material, and a silver degeneration method after cochlear ablation. The nuclear subdivisions and major cell types can be recognised on the basis of those found in the cat, but there are some differences between the two species in the precise distribution and morphology of the neurons. The rostrodorsal part of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) contains predominantly spherical bushy cells, but these cannot be readily divided into large and small types as in the cat. Globular bushy cells are seen in the caudal region of the AVCN, but the majority occur in the posteroventral cochlear nucleus (PVCN), in an area extending from the nerve root right up to the boundary of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). The octopus cells constitute a distinct region in the most dorsomedial part of the PVCN underneath the DCN. Giant cells are seen scattered around the nerve root region. Multipolar and small cells are seen throughout the non-granular regions of the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) except for the octopus cell area, but occur mainly in the more rostral regions of the PVCN. Small cells occur in greatest abundance in the thin cap area at the dorsal edge of the VCN below a superficial granule cell layer. The latter covers the dorsolateral surface of the VCN, and a lamina of granule cells partially separates the PVCN from the DCN. The DCN can be divided into four layers. The outermost molecular layer (layer 1) is separated from the deeper regions by a prominent layer of granule cells (layer 2) which also contains the pyramidal cells. Molecular layer stellate cells are seen in layer 1 and a staggered row of cartwheel neurons is found at the boundary between layers 1 and 2. Layer 3 contains the basal dendrites of the pyramidal cells and some small (vertical) cells, and is innervated by the descending branches of the cochlear nerve. The deepest layer 4, which contains multipolar cells and giant cells, does not appear to receive this direct cochlear input.

The advent of what is called the chemotherapy of mental diseases goes back to the early fifties, when a series of clinical observations led medical research to reconsider this field, that at the time was not particularly developed. The use of chlorpromazine and of reserpine in the therapy of some psychotic syndromes dates back to that time. A few years later meprobamate was introduced and proved active against anxiety. The success obtained with these drugs was followed by a flourishing of research carried out in a joint effect by pharmacologists and clinicians. This cooperation gave birth to a new discipline, the neuropsychopharmacology. In the course of time, through a progressive refining of the techniques it has been possible to acquire methods particularly suitable for the identification of the effects of the various drugs acting on the CNS. If the sixties were the decade of the synapse, during the seventies the main interest of research was focused on receptors, and the eighties can be considered the decade of post-receptor intraneuronal mechanisms. As far as the future of research is concerned, priority must be given to scientific approaches that: a) explore in a new and original chemistry; b) use advanced pharmacological techniques; c) start from scientific hypotheses based on recent discoveries and if possible suggested by scientists. Recently, special attention has been devoted to the study of inhibitors of proteolitic enzymes responsible for the degradation of enkephalins which allegedly should reinforce the endogenous mechanisms for the control of pain. Encouraging data are already available but these preliminary results should be confirmed before going into more extended investigations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Knowledge on the diverse processes involved in memory has been gained from multiple approaches, all necessary for the development of molecules aimed at enhancing memory. However, the neurobiological aspects of apprenticeship and memory remain to be fully elucidated. Long-term storage of information in the nervous system is under the control of glycoprotein synthesis. The chemistry of storage has been extensively studied in mollusks because of their simple neuroarchitecture. In mammals, the phenomenon of hippocampic long-term potentialization (HLTP), to a large extent linked to modification of glutamatergic transmissions, has been demonstrated. Stimulation of N-methyl-DL-aspartase (NMDA) receptors induces an influx of calcium, which is needed for HLTP maintenance, as are the activation of protein kinase C (PKC) and the synthesis of new proteins, for example calmodulin. At the molecular level, a cascade of biochemical events leads to modifications of neuronal connections, thus constituting the basis of memory. Memory-improving substances can be classified according to their theoretical mechanism of action: molecular pharmacology (agents inducing phenomena that mimic HLTP), neurotransmission (molecules acting on the cholinergic, noradrenergic, serotoninergic, GABAergic or dopaminergic systems), pathophysiology (substances antagonizing or correcting anomalies responsible for the memory deficiency, i.e., the cognitive enhancers). The development of memory-enhancing drugs has encountered many obstacles, notably the difficulty in evaluating the effectiveness of a medication in improving memory. It is imperative that guidelines be established for the clinical and experimental development of such substances as well as the standardization of tests in animals and man.


The reversible phosphorylation of intracellular proteins has been established as a key regulatory mechanism in numerous cellular functions. In this process the enzyme protein kinase transfers the gamma-phosphate of ATP to form a covalent bond with specific proteins. Another line of investigation has demonstrated that extracellular ATP is a potent physiological regulator in various cellular systems. Although many of the physiological effects of extracellular ATP were shown to be mediated by the action of purinergic receptors, it is possible that extracellular protein phosphorylation systems are also implicated in the mechanisms underlying the responsiveness of cells to extracellular ATP. The identification of ectoprotein kinase at the surface of various cells has provided evidence for the existence of such mechanisms, and revealed how the regulatory powers of protein phosphorylation systems can extend to the extracellular environment. The versatile roles that extracellular protein phosphorylation activity may play in the regulation of cellular functions is underscored by the presence of multiple protein substrates for this activity at the cell surface. Each such surface phosphoprotein may have a unique function. FIGURE 5 depicts the hypothetical relationships between the extracellular ATP secreted by exocytosis and the specific physiological function of these secreting neurons. Based on findings described in this article, we propose that extracellular ATP can be utilized by two types of extracellular protein kinase: a membrane-bound ectoprotein kinase, and a soluble exoprotein kinase. The exoprotein kinase can originate by detachment of an ectokinase from the cell surface, or be an intravesicular protein that is coreleased with ATP by exocytosis from stimulated cells. Phosphorylation of specific proteins at the surface of a secreting cell may have an important feedback control over its own presynaptic activity. The ectoprotein kinase could exert this feedback regulation by phosphorylating ion channels involved in secretion, and/or by phosphorylating transporters that carry out the reuptake of released transmitter molecules. Phosphorylation of receptors can regulate intercellular communication, and phosphorylation of integrins could regulate the interaction of the cell surface with components of the extracellular matrix. Although most of the relationships suggested in FIGURE 5 are still hypothetical, it should be possible to test them experimentally in a direct manner by raising antibodies against the phosphorylated sites of specific surface phosphoproteins. The ability of such antibodies to inhibit protein phosphorylation without penetrating the cells provides an experimental paradigm for the direct testing of potential physiological function of ecto- and exoprotein kinase activities in a variety of cells.

The 5-HT1B receptors have been identified by radioligand binding techniques predominantly in the basal ganglia of the rat and mouse brain. A number of 5-HT receptor agonists have been shown to display high affinity but limited selectivity for the 5-HT1B recognition site. These include 5-CT, 5-HT, RU 24969, TFMPP, MCPP, and CGS 12066B. Antagonists at the 5-HT1B site include the drugs metitepin, metergoline, cyanopindolol, isamoltane, and propranolol but none of these drugs are selective for this receptor. Functional correlates of 5-HT1B receptor activation have been most closely defined in vitro. These include inhibition of transmitter release, inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase and actions on the mouse urinary bladder strip and the rat vena cava. Many functional correlates of 5-HT1B receptor activation in vivo have been proposed, but convincing evidence from antagonist studies is generally lacking. The development of selective 5-HT1B receptor agonists and antagonists will be a key step in defining the physiological role of this receptor site in the brain and periphery of the mouse and rat although it must be realized that these compounds, if they are developed, are unlikely to have functional effects in man since the 5-HT1B recognition site is absent in the human CNS. Nevertheless many of these studies on the 5-HT1B receptor may aid the development of drugs acting at the 5-HT1D site since this receptor has been identified as being the equivalent of the 5-HT1B site in species other than the rat and mouse.
Heterogeneity among NPY (and PYY) receptors was first proposed on the basis of studies on sympathetic neuroeffector junctions, where NPY (and PYY) can exert three types of action: 1) a direct (e.g., vasoconstrictor) response; 2) a postjunctional potentiating effect on NE-evoked vasoconstriction; and 3) a prejunctional suppression of stimulated NE release; the two latter phenomena are probably reciprocal, since NE affect NPY mechanisms similarly. It was found that amidated C-terminal NPY (or PYY) fragments, e.g., NPY 13-36, could stimulate selectively prejunctional NPY/PYY receptors, which were termed Y2-receptors. Consequently, the postjunctional receptors which were activated poorly by NPY/PYY fragments, were termed Y1-receptors. Later work has indicated that the Y2-receptor may occur postjunctionally in selected sympathetic effector systems. The central nervous system appears to contain a mixture of Y1- and Y2-receptors as indicated by functional as well as binding studies. For instance, NPY and NPY 13-36 produced diametrically opposite effects on behavioral activity, indicating the action of the parent peptide on two distinct receptors. Cell lines, most importantly neuroblastomas, with exclusive populations of Y1- or Y2-receptors, have been characterized by binding and second messenger studies. In this work, selective agonists for the two receptor subtypes were used. Work of many investigators has formed the basis for subclassifying NPY/PYY effects being mediated by either Y1- or Y2-receptors. A preliminary subclassification based on effects of NPY, PYY, fragments and/or analogs is provided in Table 6. It is, however, to be expected that further receptor heterogeneity will be revealed in the future. It is argued that mast cells possess atypical NPY/PYY receptors. The histamine release associated with stimulation of the latter receptors may, at least in part, underlie the capacity of NPY as well as of short C-terminal fragments to reduce blood pressure. Fragments, such as NPY 22-36, appear to be relatively selective vasodepressor agents because of their weak vasopressor properties.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
NPY-neurons in the striatum and cortex have many morphological and chemical features in common. They are intrinsic, medium sized, aspiny and exhibit ultrastructural characteristics typical of neurons undergoing active synthesis and release of peptides. Most of the NPY-neurons in the two regions coexist with somatostatin, exhibit high levels of NADPH-diaphorase and are resistant to degeneration associated with Huntington's disease. Ultrastructural analysis suggests that the ensheathment by glia and sparsity of asymmetric (putatively excitatory) inputs may render NPY neurons resistant to excitotoxicity. Although NPY-neurons receive few inputs, they make numerous contacts with dendrites within a small region of the neuropil. Among their targets are GABAergic neurons. These NPY-receptive GABA neurons differ from other GABAergic neurons in the vicinity in that they receive few other inputs along their somata and proximal dendrites. This suggests that NPY may exert more influence on a specific class of GABAergic neurons. Many more of the NPY-terminals are found at sites that would be strategic for the simultaneous modulation of the release of transmitters and postsynaptic responses. The differences among NPY-neurons in the striatum versus cerebral cortex are mainly chemical. Most notably, the NPY-neurons are GABAergic in the cortex and not GABAergic in the striatum. In addition, some of the NPY-axons in the ventral portions of striatum and cerebral cortex may be catecholaminergic, and thus originate in brainstem areas recognized to contain NPY and epinephrine or norepinephrine. NPY- and catecholaminergic fibers converge onto same dendrites. Thus, the two transmitters may interact through intercellular biochemical pathways postsynaptically. Finally, the sites where the two fibers directly contact each other may be where NPY stimulates the turnover of dopamine.
This chapter began with a query about whether there was any content to an enterprise called &quot;developmental cognitive science,&quot; and if so, whether the findings could inform work in adult cognition and neuropsychology. Both questions can now be answered in the affirmative. Evidence has been marshaled from infant studies concerning five topics of enduring interest in the cognitive and neuro-sciences: cross-modal integration, imitation, the coordination of perception and action, memory, and representation. The data show that young human infants can detect equivalences between information picked up by different sensory modalities. This was demonstrated both in tactual-visual perception of objects and auditory-visual perception of speech. Results also show that perception and production are intertwined literally from the earliest phases of infancy, with 4-month-olds demonstrating vocal imitation and newborns reproducing elementary gestures they saw an adult perform. There seems to be a transparency between the perceptual and motor systems, and it is conceivable that they may draw on the same internal code. Infants' proclivity to imitate was used to investigate early memory. It was found that young infants were not constrained to immediate mimicry, but could imitate after significant delays. The findings support the inference that infants, perhaps as early as birth, have a functioning memory system that cannot be reduced to &quot;habit formation&quot; or an exclusively &quot;procedural memory.&quot; It was proposed instead that there is a kernel of some higher level memory system right from the earliest phases of human infancy. This does not imply that there is no development in the representational world of infants. Data were reviewed suggesting that there is a watershed transformation in childhood cognition at about 18 months of age. However, this is not a change from a stage in which there was a purely sensorimotor or habit-based system. Rather the development was characterized as a shift from using empirical or experience-based representations to using hypothetical representations, which concern possible realities. This developmental shift allows children to project into the future &quot;what must be&quot; and deduce from the past &quot;what must have been,&quot; in advance of, and sometimes in the absence of, strictly perceptual evidence. This capacity provides the underpinnings for the conduct of science itself. Its origins are to be found in infancy.

The cytotoxic effects of amphetamine derivatives were studied by immunocytochemistry to identify the cellular compartments affected by these drugs, to obtain morphologic evidence of neuronal degeneration, and to assess the potential for regeneration. The substituted amphetamines, MDA, MDMA, PCA, and fenfluramine, all release serotonin and cause acute depletion of 5-HT from most axon terminals in forebrain. (1) Unequivocal signs of axon degeneration were seen at 36-48 hour survivals: 5-HT axons exhibited increased caliber, huge, swollen varicosities, fragmentation, and dilated proximal axon stumps. (2) Fine 5-HT axon terminals were persistently lost after drug administration, while beaded axons and raphe cell bodies were spared. These two types of 5-HT axons, which arise from separate raphe nuclei and form distinct ascending projections, are differentially vulnerable to psychotropic drugs. (3) From 2-8 months after treatment, there was progressive serotonergic re-innervation of neocortex along a fronto-occipital gradient. Longitudinal 5-HT axons grew into layers I and VI from rostral to caudal, before sprouting into middle cortical layers; this bilaminar pattern of growth simulates perinatal development of 5-HT innervation. This study demonstrates differential vulnerability of 5-HT projections, evidence for axonal degeneration, and sprouting of 5-HT axons leading to re-innervation of forebrain. While the sprouting axons are anatomically similar to the type that was damaged, it is not known whether a normal pattern of innervation is re-established.




Three children with hypophosphatasia also had muscle pains, stiffness, and symptoms of proximal lower limb muscle weakness that occurred early in the disorder and were the presenting features in two. A non-progressive myopathy may be an important sign of hypophosphatasia.
1. Activation of the pontine reticular formation (pRF) and the related medullary inhibitory reticulospinal (RS) system decreases the postural activity. This effect can be achieved either by local injection into the dorsal pontine tegmentum of cholinergic agonists which excite cholinoceptive pRF neurons, or by injection of noradrenergic agents which block the inhibitory influence exerted by the locus coeruleus (LC) neurons on the pRF. The main aim on the present study was to analyze the effects of tonic activation of these pRF neurons on the postural adjustments accompanying limb movements induced by motor cortex stimulation. In particular, electrodes were implanted chronically in the motor cortex of cats and stainless steel guide tubes of small size, later used for drug injection, were set bilaterally into sites just above the responsive regions. 2. Limb flexion elicited by stimulation of the motor cortex was accompanied by a diagonal pattern of postural adjustment, characterized by a decreased force exerted by the limb diagonally opposite to the moving one and an increased force exerted by the other two. 3. Microinjection into the pRF of both sides of 0.25 microliter of the muscarinic agonist bethanechol at the concentration of 8 or 16 micrograms/microliters in buffered artificial cerebrospinal fluid produced a short-lasting episode of postural atonia followed by a period of reduced postural activity, during which the cats were still able to stand on the measurement platform. Under this condition no changes in threshold, latency and amplitude of the flexion response were observed in the performing limb; however, the postural responses were considerably affected. In particular, when the performing limb was a forelimb, the other anterior limb showed a dissociation of the postural response in two distinct components. The first anticipatory component, which had a short latency (12-15 msec) and was considered to be centrally triggered, decreased in amplitude after injection of bethanechol and sometimes disappeared; on the other hand the second component, which had a long latency (50-60 msec) and was thus considered to be of reflex origin, increased in amplitude, due to the instability resulting from the depression of the early postural response. Similar results also affected to a lesser extent the hindlimbs. Moreover, body oscillations were observed and monitored from the force platforms following the late component of the postural responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Three women with well-documented migraine associated with intracerebral hemorrhage are described. In each case, migraine headaches began during adulthood. Unusually severe and protracted headache heralded the onset of fixed neurological deficits associated with lobar intracerebral hemorrhage. Striking carotid artery tenderness was characteristic. Except for a history of migraine, no cause for intracerebral hemorrhage could be established. In each case arteriography showed extensive spasm of the appropriate extracranial or intracranial artery. Surgical pathology following evacuation of two hematomata demonstrated signs of vessel wall necrosis associated with subacute inflammatory changes. Vasospasm associated with severe migraine attacks may result in ischemia of intracranial vessel walls, leading to necrosis and subsequent vessel rupture when perfusion pressure is restored.
The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), a brief test of cognitive function, has been widely used to screen for dementia. We administered the MMSE to 74 community-dwelling patients meeting criteria for probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 74 age- and education-matched controls. Twenty-four patients with AD performed in the nondemented range by scoring above the recommended cutoff point of 23 of a possible 30 on the MMSE. We compared the scores for items of the MMSE in controls and subjects with AD and used logistic regression to model a shorter MMSE that retained the accuracy of the complete test. A score summing tests of recall and orientation for place had similar sensitivity to the full MMSE. Adding a verbal fluency test to the MMSE reduced the error rate by improving the accuracy of diagnosis of patients with AD scoring in the nondemented range.
A continuous noise was generated by running a sequence of random numbers through a digital-analog converter and connecting the output through an amplifier and filter to an earphone. Two channels were programmed to generate identical noise stimuli with one channel delayed relative to the other. When these stimuli were presented through earphones, the subject lateralized the noise to the side receiving the leading stimulus. Changes in the relative timing of the two stimuli caused the noise to shift its lateralization. Since these shifts occurred without any detectable change in the ongoing monaural noise, any potentials they evoked were specifically related to binaural interaction. The response recorded from the vertex contained a positive-negative-positive complex with peak latencies of 75, 136 and 220 ms. This response was similar to that evoked by the onset of a monaural stimulus although it was slightly smaller and significantly later. Despite several attempts, we were unable to record any definite earlier evoked potentials.
A malfunctioning orbital flight attitude thruster during the flight of Gemini VIII led to acceleration forces on astronauts Neil Armstrong (commander) and David Scott (pilot) that created the potential for derogation of oculo-vestibular and eye-hand coordination effects. The spacecraft attained an axial tumbling rotation of 50 rpm and would have exceeded this had not the commander accurately diagnosed the problem and taken immediate corrective action. By the time counter-measure controls were applied, both astronauts were experiencing vertigo and the physiological effects of the tumbling acceleration. Data from the recorders reveal that one astronaut experienced -Gy of 0.92 G-units, and the other +Gy of 0.92 for approximately 46 s. Both received a -Gz of 0.89 G-units from the waist up with a +Gz of 0.05 from the waist down. A substantial increase of time and/or an increase in rpm would ultimately have produced incapacitation of both astronauts. NASA corrected the Gemini thruster problem by changing the ignition system wiring. Future space-craft undertaking long-term missions could be equipped with unambiguous thruster fault displays and could have computer-controlled automatic cutoffs to control excessive thruster burns.
The aim of this experiment was to examine reactions to novelty of hamsters with large bilateral collicular lesions in an open field containing large conspicuous objects. A video-actographic system was used to quantify the contacts with the objects, the speed of the displacements and the angular head movements. Due to different evolutions of the scores in each group, most of the differences were found at the end of the experiment. Collicular animals, unlike controls, make contacts with the objects but do not habituate, which suggests that these contacts are not investigatory but fortuitous. This possibility is supported by the fact that collicular animals display hyperactive locomotion with stereotyped patterns by the end of the experiment. It is proposed that the depth of lesions and the salience of the stimulus are two modulating factors of the reaction to novelty in collicular animals.
Although proverb tests are commonly used in the mental status examination surprisingly little is known about either normal comprehension or the interpretation of proverbial expressions. Current proverbs tests have conceptual and linguistic shortcomings, and few studies have been done to investigate the specific effects of neurological and psychiatric disorders on the interpretation of proverbs. Although frontal lobes have traditionally been impugned in patients who are &quot;concrete&quot;, recent studies targeting deficient comprehension of non literal language (e.g. proverbs, idioms, speech formulas, and indirect requests) point to an important role of the right hemisphere (RH). Research describing responses of psychiatrically and neurologically classified groups to tests of proverb and idiom usage is needed to clarify details of aberrant processing of nonliteral meanings. Meanwhile, the proverb test, drawing on diverse cognitive skills, is a nonspecific but sensitive probe of mental status.
Measurements of cyclo(His-Pro) levels in human urine were carried out by specific radioimmunoassay. Cyclo(His-Pro)-like immunoreactivity in Human urine was found to be immunologically, pharmacologically, and physico-chemically identical to that of synthetic cyclo(His-Pro). The concentration of urinary cyclo(His-Pro) in 24-h collection was 1133.8 +/- 122.5 nmol/L, with a range of 606 to 1865 nmol/L. The daily excretion rate of cyclo(His-Pro) was 1812 +/- 248 nmol cyclo(His-Pro)/g creatinine, or 1814 +/- 199 nmol cyclo(His-Pro/day.
Chronic administration of clorgyline or ritanserin to adult rats for 28 days followed by a 3 day drug-free period results in a significant decrease in 5HT2 receptor number (Bmax) in rat frontal cortex from 315.23 +/- 10.72 fmol/mg protein to 249.63 +/- 13.99 fmol/mg protein and 222.55 +/- 17.17 fmol/mg protein, respectively. On rat blood platelets, ritanserin significantly increases recept number from 26.18 +/- 3.83 fmol/mg protein to 50.94 +/- 7.96 fmol bound/mg protein, whereas clorgyline has no significant effect (21.32 +/- 4.78 fmol/mg protein). Following both drug regimens, the affinity (Kd) of the respective ligands for the receptor is not significantly different from controls: the mean Kd value of the three groups for [3H]ketanserin is 1.57 +/- 0.05 nM in cortex and 0.83 +/- 0.25 nM for [125I]iodolysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) on platelets. Clorgyline increases serotonin (5HT) and noradrenaline (NA) levels in cerebellum, and decreases 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA): ritanserin does not change the levels of the amines or their metabolites. The data shows that platelet and brain changes are not comparable after ritanserin administration. The receptor binding data demonstrates that curve fitting to two data points provides information which is comparable to and as statistically robust as that obtained from eight point saturation curves. Thus, if pilot studies show that the data follows a rectangular hyperbola, two point assays (optimal at 0.1 Kd and 3 Kd) can be used to obtain estimates of Bmax and Kd.
Recent medicinal chemistry studies have led to the idea that muscarinic ligands of differing efficacy employ distinctly different pharmacophores when interacting with their specific receptor. Although the primary recognition element, the cationic head group, remains constant for all ligands, two H-bonding interactions are used selectively to stabilize agonist binding. In contrast, antagonists rely predominantly upon hydrophobic binding in the vicinity of the acetylmethyl group present in the endogenous transmitter. These ideas have been evaluated in the context of a three-dimensional model of the muscarinic receptor derived originally from bacteriorhodopsin. Together these studies have allowed speculations to be made regarding the sequence of events which lead to coupling to G-protein. Although an Asp residue on helix III of the seven-helical model is known to be involved as the primary recognition site for all ligands, a second, more deeply buried Asp on helix II is suggested to represent the ultimate agonist-binding site from which receptor activation is triggered. Similar arguments are also applied to homologous receptor systems, in particular the beta-adrenergic receptor.

Simultaneously recorded spike trains were obtained using microwire bundles from unrestrained, drug-free cats during different sleep-waking states in forebrain areas associated with cardiac and respiratory activity. Cardiac and respiratory activity was simultaneously recorded with the spike trains. We applied the recurring discharge patterns detection procedure described in a companion paper (Frostig et al. 1990) to the spike and cardiorespiratory trains. The pattern detection procedure was applied to detect only precise (in time and structure) recurring patterns. Recurring discharge patterns were detected in all simultaneously recorded groups. Recurring discharge patterns were composed of up to ten spikes per pattern and involved up to four simultaneously recorded spike trains. Fourty-two percent of the recurring patterns contained cardiac and/or respiratory events in addition to neuronal spikes. When patterns were compared over different sleep-waking states it was found the the same units produced different patterns in different states, that patterns were significantly more compact in time during quiet sleep, and that changes in the discharge rates accompanying changes in sleep-waking states were not correlated with changes in pattern rate.
We present a procedure to detect recurring discharge patterns in multiple spike trains. Such recurring patterns can include many spikes and involve from three to many spike trains. The pattern detection procedure is based on calculating the exact probability of randomly obtaining each individually recurring pattern. The statistical evaluation is based on the use of 2 x 2 contingency tables and the application of Fisher's exact test. Several simulations are applied to evaluate the method. Findings based on applying the procedure to simultaneously recorded spike and event trains are described in a companion paper (Frostig et al. 1990).
We analysed evoked responses recorded from 97 cells in the visual cortex of 4 adult cats and 8 kittens, stimulated by a drifting sinusoidal grating. A Fourier analysis of the responses allowed us to select 30 cells showing a clear modulating response (relative modulation index greater than 1). The 162 records from these selected cells were scanned to detect precise temporal correlations in the form of replicating triplets and associated &quot;ghost&quot; doublets. Temporal correlations of this nature were observed in these cells. They are about 10 times more abundant in adult cats than in kittens, and mostly observed in infragranular cortical layer cells. The possible role of these precise temporal patterns in information processing in the brain is examined, as well as the relation between this type of temporal correlation with coherent oscillations and principal components waveforms.
The cerebral free amino acids in neonatal rats, from dams given 0.04% caffeine in the drinking fluid ad libitum before and/or during pregnancy throughout the lactational period, were examined on days 1, 5 and 10. Significantly reduced cerebral weight was observed on day 1 with a mean caffeine level of 7 micrograms/g wet weight. The tyrosine concentration in the cerebrum, but not that in the liver, was increased on days 1 and 5 with approximate mean caffeine levels of above 1.5-2.0 micrograms/g wet weight. The tyrosine level showed a positive correlation with the caffeine level in neonatal cerebrum only on day 1 in the group with caffeine ingestion after pregnancy. There was no significant increase in the fetal cerebral concentration of MOPEG-SO4 on day 5 with maternal caffeine. These results suggest that maternal caffeine disturbs the neonatal cerebrum through tyrosine and tyrosine hydroxylase, and then produces behavioral abnormalities in developing rats.
In the 14-year period from 1974-1987 during which CT scanning was available in Edinburgh, 36 patients with benign, non-tumour related aqueduct stenosis were identified from a group of 342 patients with hydrocephalus. In terms of age at presentation, the patients separate into two groups, 9 cases diagnosed during the first year of life and 27 patients aged from 7 to 72 years. The presentation in the early cases was fairly acute, the diagnosis was secure and the operative treatment by ventricular peritoneal shunt was relatively free of complications. In the older patients, the first presentation was more chronic, and further investigation required a change of diagnosis in 5 of the 27 patients. More than half of the patients had recurrent symptoms which were much more acute and operative treatment was attended by a significant number of complications including death from intraventricular haemorrhage in one case.
The management of acute traumatic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulae is still a matter of debate and hinges about what is perceived to be the risk of subsequent intracranial infection. We have therefore carried out a retrospective analysis of 160 cases of traumatic CSF leaks to assess the incidence, cumulative risk and prognosis of intracranial infection. The overall incidence of meningitis in this group before surgical dural repair was 30.6% (49/160), the cumulative risk exceeded 85% at 10 years follow-up and the meningitis was fatal in 4.1% (2/49). The recurrence of CSF leakage after initial spontaneous cessation was 7% and meningitis was recurrent in 30.6% (15/49). Prophylactic antibiotics had reduced the risk of meningitis from 61 to 34%. The commonest pathogen was pneumococcus and the CSF leakage had stopped within 7 days in 60% of those who developed meningitis and in 50% of those who did not develop meningitis. Meningitis is still a serious complication of post-traumatic CSF fistulae and is potentially fatal despite modern therapeutic agents.
The management of acute post-traumatic CSF fistulae is still a matter of controversy. A long-term analysis of 160 patients with acute post-traumatic non-iatrogenic dural fistulae was undertaken to establish the value of surgical dural repair. One hundred and forty-nine patients underwent dural repairs following traumatic CSF rhinorrhoea. The risk of meningitis following surgical dural repair was 4%. The operative mortality was 1.3% (2/151), as was the negative exploration rate. The first dural repair was successful in 90% and a second dural repair was required in 10%. These results are in favour of surgical dural repair which can be undertaken with a low morbidity and mortality and is highly successful in preventing meningitis following traumatic CSF rhinorrhoea.

1. The involvement of the haloperidol-sensitive, sigma recognition site and the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor in the mediation of the discriminative stimulus properties of (+)-N-allylnormetazocine [+)-NANM, (+)-SKF 10,047), has been investigated in the rat by use of a two-lever, operant drug discrimination paradigm. 2. Six compounds with nanamolar affinity for the sigma recognition site [+/-)-pentazocine, (+)-3-(hydroxyphenyl)-N-propylpiperidine [+)-3-PPP), ditolylguanidine (DTG), haloperidol, (-)-butaclamol and BMY 14802) were investigated for their ability to generalise or antagonise the (+)-NANM discriminative stimulus. Each drug was tested at doses found in an ex vivo radioligand binding assay to displace [3H]-DTG from the central sigma recognition site by more than 40%. 3. While (+/-)-pentazocine (in the presence of naloxone) generalised and (+)-3-PPP partially antagonised the (+)-NANM cue, the other putative sigma ligands were ineffective either as agonists or antagonists at doses clearly occupying the sigma site in vivo. 4. Dose-dependent generalisation to the (+)-NANM cue was seen with the selective non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, a compound devoid of significant affinity for the sigma recognition site. 5. (+/-)-Pentazocine was found to antagonise seizures induced in the mouse by NMDLA, a model reflecting antagonism of central NMDA receptors, and a strong correlation was found between the rank order of potency of compounds to generalise to the (+)-NANM discriminative stimulus and their potencies as anticonvulsants. 6. In conclusion, no evidence was found to substantiate the contention that the discriminative stimulus properties of (+)-NANM are mediated by the haloperidol-sensitive sigma recognition site. On the other hand, the results are consistent with the interoceptive stimulus being mechanistically based in the NMDA receptor complex.
1. The effects of calcium antagonists on behaviour mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) have been studied in rats and mice together with an investigation of the effects of these drugs on 5-HT synthesis in rat brain and endogenous 5-HT release from brain slices. 2. Administration of felodipine (35 mg kg-1 i.p.) to rats pretreated with tranylcypromine (20 mg kg-1, i.p.) resulted in the animals displaying the complete 5-HT-mediated behavioural syndrome (including head weaving, reciprocal forepaw treading and hind limb abduction) 75 min later. No evidence was obtained for the rate of 5-HT synthesis in brain regions differing between control and felodipine-treated rats. 3. Pretreatment with felodipine (10 or 35 mg kg-1) enhanced the 5-HT-mediated behavioural syndrome induced by injection of tranylcypromine and L-tryptophan. The rate of 5-HT accumulation in the brain was similar in both groups. Administration of Bay K 8644 (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not prevent the enhanced behaviour induced by felodipine (10 mg kg-1). 4. The 5-HT behavioural syndrome induced by injection of the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) was unaltered by either acute injection of felodipine (35 mg kg-1) or administration of felodipine twice daily for 3 days. 5. Felodipine (10 microM), verapamil (10 microM) and Bay K 8644 (10 microM) did not alter either basal release of endogenous 5-HT from slices prepared from frontal cortex or hind brain, or release following addition of K+ at a concentration of 20 mM, or 35 mM. 6. Verapamil (25mgkg-', i.p.), nicardipine (25mgkg-1, i.p.) and nifedipine (20mgkg-1, i.p.) all markedly inhibited the 5-HT2 receptor-mediated head twitch response in mice produced by injection of 5- methoxy-N,N-dimethyl-tryptamine (5-MeODMT). Felodipine had the same effect with an ED50 of 2.6mgkg-'. Bay K 8644 did not reverse this effect. Both verapamil (IC50:2.5 microM) and nicardipine (IC50:8 microM) were 5-HT2 antagonists as indicated by inhibition of [3H]-ketanserin binding in mouse frontal cortex. However felodipine and nifedipine antagonized 5-HT2 receptor binding only in the millimolar range.7. Hydralazine (5mg kg 1, i.p.) induced the 5-HT behavioural syndrome in tranylcypromine pretreated rats, enhanced the tranylcypromine/L-tryptophan behavioural syndrome, inhibited 5-MeODMT-induced head twitch behaviour in mice and was not a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist. 8. These data indicate that at a high dose, Ca2+ antagonists produce complex changes in 5-HT function in rodents which are similar to those produced by lithium administration. The data with hydralazine suggest that the effects seen are not related to an action at Ca2 + channels.
Clusters of phenomena were obtained by two clustering techniques, using the form and content of obsessions and compulsions. Significant clusters which emerged involved washing, checking, thoughts of past, and embarrassing behaviour. Depression occurred as a discrete cluster. Eighty-nine per cent of subjects could be fitted into at least one cluster; over half could be fitted into only one cluster. Washers and checkers made up more than half of the sample studied.

Giant fibers are large reticular interneurons that mediate excitatory input from the Mauthner cells to pectoral-fin motoneurons. The present study revealed extensive giant-fiber projections to central targets other than the pectoral-fin motoneurons. Physiologically identified giant fibers were filled intracellularly with Lucifer Yellow. The presence of numerous dendrites suggests that there may be significant integration of non-Mauthner inputs in the giant-fiber cell body. The axon decussates and then bifurcates to form a descending process, that innervates pectoral-fin motoneurons, and an ascending process with collaterals that terminate in the rostral trigeminal, rostral facial and, in some cases, oculomotor and trochlear motor nuclei. The projections are consistent with a role for the giant fibers as mediators of all the cranial components of the Mauthner-initiated startle response. There are also extensive projections to cells near the Mauthner cell and to the medial reticular formation. The latter projections may participate in longer-latency components of the Mauthner-initiated startle response, or they may constitute part of a general arousal pathway. The morphology of giant fibers suggests that they are homologous to cranial relay neurons in the goldfish and T reticular interneurons in zebrafish larvae. Non-Mauthner inputs to giant fibers may participate in non-Mauthner startle responses and contribute to the variability of Mauthner-mediated startle responses.
In a companion paper, the nuclear organization of the diencephalon of the channel catfish, Ictalurus punctatus, was described and compared to that of other teleosts. The present paper describes the connections of the diencephalon with the retina, optic tectum, corpus of the cerebellum and telencephalon. The principal tracer employed is the indocarbocyanine dye DiI which diffuses along neuronal membranes in fixed tissues. Almost all of the nuclei that were recognized as distinct in the companion study are found to also exhibit distinct sets of connections. Most of these connections have not been described previously in catfishes or other teleosts. When combined with connectional data from the existing literature, the results of the present study allow one to recognize a great number of distinct pathways through the diencephalon of channel catfish, including several visual, auditory, gustatory, electrosensory and mechanosensory pathways to the telencephalon. Almost all of the species differences in diencephalic organization noted in the companion study can be accounted for by changes in one of the major sensory pathways. In contrast, the multimodal and integrative areas of the diencephalon appear to be relatively conservative. A comparison between the diencephalon of teleosts and that of other vertebrates suggests that the dorsal thalamus, the ventral thalamus and the posterior tuberculum are homologous, at least in part, to the dorsal thalamus, the zona incerta and the subthalamic nucleus of mammals, respectively. All three areas project to the telencephalon in both mammals and teleosts. In most vertebrates, however, the dorsal thalamus provides the dominant input to the telencephalon, whereas in teleosts the main telencephalic input derives instead from the posterior tuberculum.
A detailed cytoarchitectonic description of the diencephalon in the channel catfish reveals more than 40 distinct cell groups. Of these, 4 are located in the preoptic area, 8 in the hypothalamus, 7 in the thalamus, 2 in the epithalamus, 15 in the posterior tuberculum and 7 in the synencephalon. A comparison of the diencephalon of Ictalurus punctatus to that of goldfish, which has previously been described, indicates major differences in the diencephalon between these two species. Channel catfish lack the superficial pretectum and the nucleus 'glomerulosus' of goldfish, whereas the anterior tuberal nucleus of the hypothalamus, the paracommissural nucleus of the synencephalon and the nucleus lobobulbaris of the posterior tuberculum are all better developed in channel catfish than in goldfish. The nucleus electrosensorius in the synencephalon of channel catfish is probably homologous to the nucleus of the same name in gymnotoid teleosts, but it appears to have no homologue in the diencephalon of goldfish. An analysis of interspecific variation in the diencephalon among catfishes, goldfish and several other teleosts reveals that some areas of the diencephalon are more variable across species than others. Specifically, the migrated portions of both the posterior tuberculum and the synencephalon appear to be most variable, whereas the epithalamus and the preoptic area are the most conservative. It is hypothesized that the relatively conservative areas of the brain may have a greater number of afferent connections, and probably also a greater number of distinct behavioral functions, than the more variable areas.
The developmental changes in superoxide dismutase (SOD)-1 were studied in brains ranging in age from human fetuses to adults by immunohistochemistry. SOD-positive neurons and glial cells appeared with maturation in each region, and increased progressively with gestational and postnatal age. This phenomenon implies a relationship between SOD-1 gene expression and the anti-oxidant defence mechanism in developing neurons and glia.
Decreased cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity was found in various neuromuscular diseases, including infantile spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and Fukuyama type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), that was thought to result from a secondarily induced mitochondrial defect. To determine whether or not the enzyme activities in the mitochondrial electron transport system can be secondarily changed, we measured the enzyme activities in denervated rat muscles. The CCO activity decreased progressively to 38-47% of the control value in 3 weeks after denervation, the NADH-cytochrome c reductase and succinate-cytochrome c reductase activities remaining unchanged, suggesting that the CCO activity may be easily reduced secondarily in various disease conditions.
As a possible preventive measure for brain dysfunction in Menkes disease, prenatal treatment by maternal administration of zinc, vitamin E and copper was examined in brindled mutant mice. During pregnancy and lactation, female heterozygous mice received 20 ppm zinc or 0.004% alpha-tocopherol acetate (vitamin E) throughout and 6 ppm copper from gestational day 13 in the drinking fluid, ad libitum. The maternal administration of zinc and vitamin E, as antioxidants, or copper resulted in decreased fetal and neonatal death of offspring, especially those of hemizygous males, as compared with the administration of water only. When offspring did not grow, maternal abnormal movements, which comprised rotatory movements of high speed with tremor and ataxia, were frequently observed. In the heterozygotes with abnormal movements, the level of lipid peroxidation in cerebrum and the concentration of copper in kidney were much higher than those in the heterozygotes with normal movement. Morphologically, in cerebellum of the heterozygotes with abnormal movements, the loss of Purkinje cells, abundance of lipofuscin granules and abnormal mitochondria or degenerative bodies of high electron density were frequently observed, as compared with heterozygotes with normal movement. These findings suggest that the development of hemizygous male mice may be influenced by both copper and oxygen radical metabolism.
A servo system including a microwave generator was applied to raise a rat's body temperature at a pre-set rate. Using this system the effects of age and the temperature elevation rate upon febrile seizures in rats were studied. The relationship between the brain GABA content and hyperthermia was also studied. From the results of the present study, the seizure occurrence rate was found to be highest at the age of 20 days, brain damage was speculated to be severe after hyperthermia-induced seizures with a slow temperature rise, and the regional GABA concentration in subcortical structures was found to increase during hyperthermia. These data indicate that a servo system with a microwave generator is useful for experimental febrile convulsions, and that GABA neurotransmission in subcortical structures might contribute to feed-back regulation against seizures during hyperthermia.
Immunohistochemical staining with polyclonal antibodies to synthetic amyloid (residues 1-28 of A4) was performed on normal and Down syndrome brains from fetuses to adults. Positive staining appeared in the cytoplasmic processes of astrocytes in the subpial layer and white matter of developing brains, and reappeared in astrocytic fibers of the subpial layer as well as in cerebrovascular and plaque core amyloid in elderly brains. The reappearance of positively stained astrocytes and amyloid occurred earlier in adult Down syndrome patients. The results indicate that the A4 protein is a developmental protein, and its reappearance in Alzheimer and adult Down syndrome brains may be related to the regeneration process.
Cerebral blood oxyhemoglobin (HbO2), deoxyhemoglobin (HbR) and total hemoglobin (Hb) were examined in N2 and CO2 induced hypoxemia by near-infrared spectroscopy and compared with CBF examined by the H2 clearance method. HbO2 and HbR changed more sensitively than total Hb, reflecting the blood volume. Low CO2-loading showed marked increase in CBF with little change of blood volume, and higher CO2-induced hypoxemia was less increased and followed by a crossed after-reaction, probably because of persistent arterial dilatation due to the marked hypercarbia and acidosis. Neck venous compression showed a specific pattern of increased total Hb and HbR with little change in CBF. Thus, for near-infrared spectroscopy the intracranial blood volume may be affected mainly by arterial dilatation with an increase in CBF and venous dilatation with congestion. And Hb fractions of HbO2 and HbR may be influenced by cerebral blood oxygenation as well as the arteriovenous blood volume.
We examined whether plasma epinephrine contributes to the increase in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) evoked by electrical stimulation of the dorsal medullary reticular formation (DMRF). Rats were anesthetized (alpha-chloralose, 30 mg/kg, s.c.), paralyzed and artificially ventilated. The DMRF was electrically stimulated through microelectrodes stereotaxically implanted. During stimulation, blood gases and arterial pressure were monitored and maintained within normal range. rCBF was determined in 11 dissected brain regions using the [14C]iodoantipyrine technique. Plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine were measured radioenzymatically in rats with intact adrenals or adrenalectomy, and with or without infusion of epinephrine. DMRF stimulation induced widespread increases in rCBF associated with a 50-fold increase in plasma epinephrine and a 20-fold increase in norepinephrine without changes in the electroencephalogram. In contrast, stimulation of the adjacent medial longitudinal fasciculus had no effect upon rCBF or plasma catecholamines. Acute bilateral adrenalectomy produced regionally selective reductions in the stimulation-coupled increases in rCBF throughout brain (P less than 0.05). Infusion of epinephrine in adrenalectomized rats to levels comparable to those observed in intact animals during DMRF stimulation did not by itself modify rCBF. However, when infused in conjunction with stimulation of the DMRF, but not medial longitudinal fasciculus, epinephrine fully restored the stimulus-related increases in rCBF in all brain regions to levels comparable to those observed in intact rats. We conclude that stimulation of the DMRF elevates rCBF through two mechanisms; by a neurally-mediated increase in local metabolism and thereby flow (adrenal independent secondary vasodilation) and by releasing epinephrine from adrenal medulla which secondarily acts to increase rCBF by an action on brain.
Thirteen patients with clinically and radiographically defined right middle cerebral artery infarction were studied using EEG, quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) spectra, and multi-channel evoked potentials. The purpose of this effort was to develop QEEG rules that related to the patient's neurologic status. Three QEEG relative delta spectral patterns were identified in the right hemisphere which related to neurologic residua. These include limited perisylvian involvement, mixed involvement of perisylvian and extrasylvian regions, and extrasylvian involvement only. While there were parallels between QEEG spectral patterns and auditory, visual and somatosensory evoked potentials, there were modality specific features consistent with functional differences.
5'-nucleotidase cytochemistry was performed in the cerebellum of adult rats exposed previously to a single postnatal X-irradiation which maintains until adulthood the normally transient multiple innervation of cerebellar Purkinje cells by climbing fibers. 5'-nucleotidase activity persists in climbing fiber synapses and other asymmetrical synapses while it is transient during normal development. Therefore, in the X-irradiated rat, an immature stage of the excitatory synapses persists which, for the climbing fibers, concides with or precedes their involution during normal development.
Presented here is a neuromimetic model for the learning of associations between activity patterns originating from recoding layers. These layers are described as networks of cellular clusters made up of competitive formal neurons. A rule of synaptic plasticity with improved neurobiological realism is proposed; it allows for fast learning of large sets of associations.

Unidirectional blood-brain barrier transfer of the lipophilic anticancer agents vincristine and vinblastine was studied in anesthetized rats, using an isolated, in situ brain perfusion technique. Drug binding to plasma constituents was also measured. Despite the high lipophilicity of these agents (the log octanol/physiological saline partition coefficient equalled 2.14 and 1.68, respectively), the cerebrovascular permeability-surface area product, PA, of vincristine in plasma was only 0.49 x 10(-4) ml s-1 g-1 for parietal cerebral cortex, whereas that of vinblastine was too low for determination. These values are similar to those of water-soluble, poorly diffusible nonelectrolytes. The PAs were significantly higher in the absence of plasma protein, being 1.24 x 10(-4) and 5.36 x 10(-4) ml s-1 g-1, respectively. Even these values, determined by brain perfusion of protein-free buffer, were lower than would be expected from the lipophilicity of the agents. The results suggest that additional factors, such as steric hindrance and molecular charge distribution, related to the chemical and geometric structure and the large size of vincristine and vinblastine (molecular weight, 825 and 814 daltons, respectively) restrict their passage across the blood-brain barrier. As a consequence of their paradoxically low permeability at the blood-brain barrier and restrictive binding to plasma and blood constituents, doses of both agents that cause significant inhibition of extracerebral Walker 256 carcinosarcoma tumor implants in rat have no effect on tumor located in the brain.
Equimolar doses of chlorambucil (10 mg/kg) and the lipophilic chlorambucil derivative, chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester (13 mg/kg), were given i.v. to rats. Plasma and brain concentrations of chlorambucil and its active metabolites, 3,4-dehydrochlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard, as well as of chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester were then determined by HPLC between 2 and 240 min after drug administration. Chlorambucil demonstrated a monophasic disappearance from plasma following its administration, with a half-life of 28 min. Significant amounts of phenylacetic mustard were detected after 15 min, and this agent maintained high levels of active compounds in plasma throughout the study. Only low concentrations of chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard were detected in brain between 2 and 120 min. Following equimolar chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester administration, it rapidly disappeared from plasma, with a half-life of approximately 2 min, and maintained low plateau concentrations between 15 and 120 min after treatment. It was not detected thereafter, although significant amounts of chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard were detected throughout the study. Significant amounts of chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester entered and remained within the brain, achieving a peak concentration at 15 min and disappearing thereafter with a half-life of 37 min. Low levels of chlorambucil and phenylacetic mustard were also detected. Calculated from the areas under the concentration vs time curves of total active compounds derived from chlorambucil and chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester in brain and plasma, the brain:plasma concentration integral ratios were 0.018 and 0.68, respectively. Following equimolar doses of chlorambucil and chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester, a 7-fold greater concentration integral was achieved by chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester in brain at a 5-fold lower plasma concentration integral. Chlorambucil-tertiary butyl ester may be of value in the treatment of brain-sequestered tumors.
This report describes the physicochemical and pharmacokinetic parameters of seven chlorambucil esters, which were compared with those of chlorambucil. These esters were designed as chlorambucil prodrugs to increase the brain penetration and concentration vs time profile of chlorambucil within the CNS for potential treatment of brain tumors. They include four aliphatic esters from one to eight carbon chains in length (chlorambucil-methyl, -propyl, -hexyl, and -octyl esters) and three aromatic esters, including the phenylmethyl, phenylethyl and prednisolone ester of chlorambucil, prednimustine. The esters were lipophilic and possessed log octanol:water partition coefficients (log P values) that ranged from 4.05 to greater than 8.0. All retained alkylating activity, which was reduced compared with that of chlorambucil. In addition, all were metabolized in vivo in the rat to yield chlorambucil alone. Measurement of the in vitro rate of ester hydrolysis of the compounds to yield chlorambucil in rat plasma demonstrated that short-chain aliphatic and aromatic chlorambucil esters were rapidly broken down to their parent compound. The plasma half-lives of the compounds increased with the increasing length and complexity of their ester chain. This may have been related to an increase in the binding of the long-chain esters to plasma proteins, protecting the ester from nonspecific plasma esterases, and to a reduced affinity of plasma esterases to these esters. Pharmacokinetic analysis of chlorambucil-hexyl, -octyl, and -prednisolone esters by HPLC demonstrated that following their intravenous administration in the rat (in doses equivalent to equimolar chlorambucil, 10 mg/kg), they yielded only low concentrations of active compounds in plasma and brain. The brain:plasma ratio of these was low and similar to that of chlorambucil, and no ester demonstrated anticancer activity superior to that obtained after the administration of equimolar chlorambucil (5 mg/kg i.v., days 1-5) against brain-sequestered Walker 256 carcinosarcoma in the rat.
By a sensitive and quantitative fluorometric assay, brain and plasma time-dependent concentration profiles were generated for phosphoramide mustard (PM) and active alkylating metabolites derived from cyclophosphamide (CPA) administration to rats. Whereas PM rapidly disappeared from plasma, with a monophasic half-life of 15.1 min, equimolar administration of CPA generated active metabolites in plasma that disappeared monoexponentially, with a composite half-life of 63 min. As a consequence, the time-dependent concentration integral of active alkylating metabolites derived from CPA administration, calculated between 5 min and infinity, was 3-fold that of PM. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated for each compound. The brain/plasma concentration-integral ratios of PM and active alkylating metabolites derived from CPA were 0.18 and 0.20, respectively. The cerebrovascular permeability-surface area product of PM was 7.5 x 10(-5) s-1, which is similar to that of other water-soluble anticancer agents that are restricted from entering the brain. The activities of a range of daily doses of PM and CPA were assessed against subcutaneous and intracerebral implants of Walker 256 carcinosarcoma tumor in rats. Inhibition of subcutaneous tumor growth by 50% was caused by CPA and PM doses of 6.6 and 12.0 mg/kg (daily for 5 consecutive days, starting 36 h after tumor implantation), respectively. However, administration of daily doses of up to 40 mg/kg did not significantly increase the survival of animals with intracerebral tumor implants. These studies indicate that active metabolites of CPA are restricted from entering the brain and that only subtherapeutic concentrations are achieved in brain tissue after systemic administration of CPA or PM.

The kinetics of HIV-1 infection were compared among human B (DK), promonocyte (U937), T-B hybrid (CEMX174), and T (H9) cell lines. Just like H9 cells, CEMX174 cells exhibited strong syncytia induction capacity against highly HIV-1-sensitive CD4+ T cells (SupT1) and had high reverse transcriptase (RT) release in the supernatant. DK and U937 cells showed syncytia induction capacity by 72 hr, but RT activity in the culture supernatant (extracellular RT) increased much later. RT activity in cell lysates (intracellular RT) became detectable at 12-15 days. The inverted extracellular/intracellular RT ratio and syncytia induction capacity were also observed in chronically infected DK (DK-IIIB) and U937 (U937-IIIB) cell lines and subclones from U937-IIIB. Further, the coculture of H9 with DK-IIIB (which indicates no detectable extracellular RT release) showed remarkable amplification of extracellular RT with significant increase of T-B double marker hybrids (H9-DK-IIIB). Our results suggest that B cells and/or monocytes/macrophages may acquire fusing capacity against CD4+ T cells in early stages of the infection and that these cell-to-cell interactions may also lead to a reduction in the number of CD4+ T cells. Further, these T-B and T monocyte hybrids may serve as temporal sites for viral replication. These in vitro studies may provide clues to the possible immunopathological roles of HIV-1-infected B cells and monocytes/macrophages and may help in understanding the mechanisms of viral burden on an infected host.
Five beta-tubulin isotypes are expressed differentially during chicken brain development. One of these isotypes is encoded by the gene c beta 4 and has been assigned to an isotypic family designated as Class III (beta III). In the nervous system of higher vertebrates, beta III is synthesized exclusively by neurons. A beta III-specific monoclonal antibody was used to determine when during chick embryogenesis c beta 4 is expressed, the cellular localization of beta III, and the number of charge variants (isoforms) into which beta III can be resolved by isoelectric focusing. On Western blots, beta III is first detectable at stages 12-13. Thereafter, the relative abundance of beta III in brain increases steadily, apparently in conjunction with the rate of neural differentiation. The isotype was not detectable in non-neural tissue extracts from older embryos (days 10-14) and hatchlings. Western blots of protein separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) reveal that the number of beta III isoforms increases from one to three during neural development. This evidence indicates that beta III is a substrate for developmentally regulated, multiple-site posttranslational modification. Immunocytochemical studies reveal that while c beta 4 expression is restricted predominantly to the nervous system, it is transiently expressed in some embryonic structures. More importantly, in the nervous system, immunoreactive cells were located primarily in the non-proliferative marginal zone of the neural epithelia. Regions containing primarily mitotic neuroblasts were virtually unstained. This localization pattern indicates that c beta 4 expression occurs either during or immediately following terminal mitosis, and suggests that beta III may have a unique role during early neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth.

Video microscopy of isolated axoplasm from the squid giant axon permits correlated quantitative analyses of membrane-bounded organelle transport both in the intact axoplasm and along individual microtubules. As a result, the effects of experimental manipulations on both anterograde and retrograde movements of membrane-bounded organelles can be evaluated under nearly physiological conditions. Since anterograde and retrograde fast axonal transport are similar but distinct cellular processes, a systematic biochemical analysis is important for a further understanding of the molecular mechanisms for each. In this series of experiments, we employed isolated axoplasm of the squid to define the nucleoside triphosphate specificity for bidirectional organelle motility in the axon. Perfusion of axoplasm with 2-20 mM ATP preserved optimal vesicle velocities in both the anterograde and retrograde directions. Organelle velocities decreased to less than 50% of optimal values when the axoplasm was perfused with 10-20 mM UTP, GTP, ITP, or CTP with simultaneous depletion of endogenous ATP with hexokinase. Under the same conditions, TTP and ATP-gamma-S were unable to support significant levels of transport. None of the NTPs tested had a differential effect on anterograde vs. retrograde movement of vesicles. Surprisingly, several inconsistencies were revealed when a comparison was made between these results and nucleoside triphosphate specificities that have been reported for putative organelle motors by using in vitro assays. These data may be used in conjunction with data from well-defined in vitro assays to develop models for the molecular mechanisms of axonal transport.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a protein necessary for the differentiation and maintenance of peripheral sympathetic neurons, certain sensory neurons, and cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. NGF is synthesized in target areas of NGF-responsive neurons. This protein binds to specific cell surface receptors on the nerve terminals and is retrogradely transported to the cell bodies of the neurons, during which various physiological functions are expressed. In spite of its physiological importance, the regulatory mechanisms of NGF synthesis are unknown. We approached this problem from an in vitro cellular aspect and in turn applied the knowledge obtained to in vivo studies on the regulation of NGF synthesis. Nonneuronal cells, such as astroglial cells, fibroblast cells, and Schwann cells, synthesize and secrete NGF in cultures. NGF synthesis by these cells is growth dependent, suggesting that the expression of some genes relevant to cell growth is associated with upregulation of NGF synthesis. To elucidate neuronal influences, we tested various neurotransmitters and found that catecholamines and their analogues have stimulatory effects on NGF synthesis of nonneuronal cells. From the results of a structure-activity relationship, alkylcatechol compounds with an alkyl group at position 4 of the catechol ring show a potent stimulatory activity in vitro. Evidence that NGF has a potent protective activity on neuronal degeneration both in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) is accumulating. NGF is a macromolecule that cannot pass through the blood-brain barrier, suggesting a limited availability of this protein for therapeutic use in diseases with neuronal degeneration in the CNS. We considered that compounds with a low molecular weight that elicit stimulatory activity on NGF synthesis are much more useful and practical for therapeutic purposes. Therefore, we investigated alkylcatechol compounds and their diacetyl derivatives, and found them to be able to induce NGF synthesis in the rat PNS in vivo. This is the first step in developing an agent capable of inducing NGF synthesis for therapeutic use in the future. The physiological and/or therapeutic significance of NGF induction is discussed.

The biochemical linking event between the activation of muscarinic receptors and the inhibition of adenylate cyclase was studied with rat heart ventrical membranes. The muscarinic M2 selective antagonists were more potent than the M1 selective antagonists in the displacement of non-selective labeled 3H-QNB binding to the membranes. This was also true for the M2 selective agonists, with respect to the M1 selective agonists, in the reaction medium without Gpp(NH)p. With the same preparation, the muscarinic M2 selective agents were also more potent than the M1 selective agents in the inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. The order of potencies of these agents in the displacement of 3H-QNB binding correlated well with their order of potencies in inhibiting adenylate cyclase activity. Gpp(NH)p reduced the binding affinities of M2 selective agonists (i.e. carbachol and oxotremorine), while it did not affect the binding affinities of non-selective agonist pilocarpine, M1 selective agonist McN-A-343 and antagonists (i.e. pirenzepine, trihexyphenidyl, AF-DX-116 and methoctramine). These results suggest that in the rat heart, the inhibition of adenylate cyclase by muscarinic agonists is through activation of the M2 subtype receptor and G-protein is likely to be involved in the coupling.

Interest in identifying brain areas mediating the behavioural effects of nicotine led to autoradiographic studies on the distribution of cerebral metabolic responses to nicotine. The 2-deoxy-D-[1-14C] glucose method was used to map and quantitate nicotine's effects in the rat brain. The method allows simultaneous measurement of the regional cerebral metabolic rate(s) for glucose (rCMRglc), an index of functional activity, throughout the central nervous system. It provides information about sites of initial drug interactions, and of secondary effects propagated via afferents to remote areas. In rats given acute systemic (-)nicotine, stimulation occurs in brain areas which contain specific binding sites for [3H] nicotine, indicating that the sites are true receptors, linked to functional activity. Doses of nicotine that are discriminated by rats and that produce behavioural and physiological effects stimulate rCMRglc. The stimulation is transient and is antagonized by mecamylamine. Affected areas include limbic structures, components of the visual system, brainstem nuclei important in cardiovascular reflexes, and areas involved in motor function. The distribution of nicotine's in vivo effects on rCMRglc implicates various brain regions in the behavioural and physiological effects of nicotine. Future studies employing positron emission tomography will assess relations between nicotine's effects on mood and rCMRglc in man.
Recent studies indicate subtle cognitive deficits in many non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Long-latency event-related potentials (LL-ERPs) index the nature and timing of a cognitive response to a stimulus and have been used to assess cognitive function in PD. Studies to date have only assessed patients receiving long-term anti-PD therapy, which may itself affect information processing. In this study we recorded the P300 using a standard auditory oddball paradigm with a button-press response in a group of de novo patients. A P300 was absent in 2 patients and prolonged in 2 patients but there was no difference in the latency or amplitude of the P300 in the Parkinsonian group compared with the age-matched control group. The averaged P300 of the young PD group was dispersed compared with that of the young controls. Our findings suggest that the amplitude and latency of P300 elicited using the paradigm of this study are not sensitive indices for differentiating PD patients from controls. A paradigm which places a greater load on the specific cognitive deficits of PD will be investigated. The dispersion of the P300 component in the young PD group may be support for the suggestion of distinct subgroups in PD. Our findings suggest that the latency and amplitude of LL-ERP components elicited by our paradigm were not sensitive indices for distinguishing PD patients from controls. The significance of the prolonged P3-RT measure is not clear.
The recent emergence of magnetoencephalography is a development that is already yielding results. Its intrinsic sensitivity to the actual source activity, rather than to volume currents, means that its particular value lies in source localization. As well as having proven value in research relating to early evoked response and epilepsy, biomagnetic measurements have been applied to later components. For example, results for the auditory P300 potential indicate the source to lie either in the temporal cortex or the hippocampus. More definite conclusions await further development of the instrumentation. Also, there is much scope for more sophisticated analysis of the magnetic fields, of the electric potentials, or ideally of both together. This is likely to elucidate the largely unknown functional circuitry corresponding to the late components of the response.
Increased knowledge in neurosciences and development of morphological and biochemical methods will continue to demand a greater sophistication of neurophysiological methods in relation to both recording and analysis. Today there are a number of EMG methods and parameters that have been proven useful in the laboratories where they have been developed. Wider use of these methods will improve the general quality of EMG studies, promote further understanding of pathological conditions and therefore be of value for the specialty of electromyography. Furthermore, even rather small computers are extremely helpful in improving analysis methods. The consistency, accuracy and possibilities of extracting new information offered by computer-aided analysis of neurophysiological signals will hopefully increase our understanding of muscle-nerve physiology and pathophysiology and improve the diagnostic yield of the methods used in the neurophysiology laboratory. Often the neurophysiological evaluation is inexpensive and can be carried out quickly and adds new facts to the picture. In summary, clinical neurophysiology continue to develop a number of sophisticated methods for better understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms. EMG describes the functional status of the central and peripheral nervous systems and is complementary to other techniques for evaluation of the patient with neurological disorders.
A case of mesencephalic haematoma is reported. Emergency surgical evacuation of haematoma was done. The patient improved and has done well for five years. Subtemporal and infratentorial supracerebellar approaches have been used earlier to remove mesencephalic haematoma. It is possible to remove caudal midbrain haematoma via a IVth ventricular approach causing minimal damage.
9 subjects with myasthenia gravis, chronically treated with prednisone, underwent an open clinical trial with cyclosporine, an immunosuppressive and immunomodulator drug. Preliminary results after one year of treatment show that cyclosporine induces a further improvement of myasthenic symptoms, and that prednisone may be reduced or discontinued without relapse of clinical symptoms. Side effects of cyclosporine are very frequent and largely influence the treatment.
L-Sulpiride is a dopamine (DA)-receptor blocker that acts as an antidepressant at low doses. We have reviewed evidence suggesting that the antidepressant effect of L-sulpiride may depend on the activation of DA transmission secondary to the blockade of DA autoreceptors.

The effects of intracerebroventricular injection of gamma-Aminobutyric acid, muscimol, or picrotoxin have been studied on butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activities in the serum and several hypothalamic nuclei using biochemical, histochemical, and cytophotometric techniques, respectively. The blood samples were withdrawn from indwelling catheters in jugular vein 1, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min after injection of the drugs. Biochemical estimations demonstrated a significant inhibition of BuChE after GABA and muscimol injections, whereas a pronounced stimulation of BuChE was observed after injection of picrotoxin. The peak changes were observed within 30 min of drug injection. Cytophotometric studies have appeared to dovetail the biochemical findings. Only a marginal decrease was observed after injection of GABA in all nuclei, while muscimol induced a very conspicuous decrease of BuChE. On the contrary, intracerebroventricularly administered picrotoxin markedly increased the levels of BuChE activity. Thus it could be concluded that probably GABA and muscimol along with picrotoxin appear to alter BuChE.
Nerve conduction studies provide the most sensitive and accurate account of peripheral neuropathophysiology. Though nerve conduction studies should never be performed in lieu of a clinical examination, the electrodiagnostic evaluation provides an optimal adjuvant to the clinical examination. Indications for nerve conduction studies are many, including evaluation of the nature of the pathophysiology, quantification of the severity of involvement, detection of the level of a neurologic deficit, and determining prognosis. Among other indications, limitations of the study should also be acknowledged, such as its confined evaluation of large myelinated peripheral nerve fibers. It should be understood that nerve conduction studies are conventionally performed with EMG studies, typically performed consecutively in order to provide a comprehensive evaluation of suspected neuromuscular impairment. It is imperative to emphasize that utilization of nerve conduction findings is limited and potentially misdirected without a thorough knowledge of peripheral neuropathophysiology and related conditions. Parameters by which the studies are evaluated are outlined in detail within this article and discussed in terms of clinical and neurophysiological significance. Reference tables are provided on the normal values of individual peripheral nerves, as established by various investigators. Nerve conduction findings and their clinical significance relative to various pathophysiological conditions are reviewed. Radiculopathies, lesions of the lumbosacral plexus, polyneuropathies, as well as mononeuropathy multiplex and simplex, are also discussed relative to their various etiologies, and respective forms of pathogenesis. Finally, nerve conduction studies may be effectively used to select the most beneficial therapy. Appropriate consultative referral is addressed with regard to primary pathologic conditions requiring neurosurgical, neurologic, rheumatologic, and immunologic care, among other disciplines relative to the underlying pathologic process. Local therapy may invariably be gauged in terms of various modes of medical, orthopedic, and surgical intervention, depending on the degree, nature, and distribution of involvement of the neuropathy, as ultimately determined by the nerve conduction studies. In conclusion, nerve conduction studies provide a reliable index of measurement in the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of the patient.








In contrast to the majority of sympathetic neurons which are noradrenergic, the sympathetic neurons which innervate sweat glands are cholinergic. Previous studies have demonstrated that during development the sweat gland innervation initially contains catecholamines which are lost as cholinergic function appears. The neurotransmitter phenotype of sweat gland neurons further differs from the majority in that they contain vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) rather than neuropeptide Y (NPY). In the experiments described here, we addressed the question of whether sympathetic targets influence the neurotransmitter-related properties of the neurons which innervate them; in particular, do sweat glands play a role in reducing the expression of noradrenergic properties and inducing the expression of cholinergic properties and VIP in sympathetic neurons? This was accomplished by cotransplanting to the anterior chamber of the eye of host rats the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) which contains neurons that normally innervate targets other than the sweat glands and differentiate noradrenergically and footpad tissue from neonatal rats. Sweat glands developed in the transplanted footpad tissue and became innervated by the cotransplanted SCG neurons. The transplanted neurons and sweat gland innervation initially exhibited catecholamine histofluorescence which declined with further development in the anterior chamber. After 4 weeks, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and VIP immunoreactivities were evident. These observations suggest that as in the neurons which innervate the glands in situ, noradrenergic properties were suppressed and cholinergic function was induced in the neurons which innervated the glands in oculo. To distinguish a specific influence of the sweat glands on transmitter choice, SCG were also cotransplanted with the pineal gland, a normal target of the ganglion. Neurons cotransplanted with the pineal gland continued to exhibit catecholamine histofluorescence and contained NPY immunoreactivity. At least some neurons in SCG/pineal cotransplants, however, developed ChAT immunoreactivity. The target-appropriate expression of catecholamines and peptides in these experiments is consistent with the hypothesis that some transmitter properties are influenced by target tissues. The indiscriminant expression of ChAT, however, suggests that at least in oculo, additional factors can influence transmitter choice.
Pain is subjective and can be quantitated in others only through cognitive cooperation between the sufferer and the observer. The newborn infant can neither describe pain nor remember it later in life. Thus, strictly speaking, we will never know if a pain experience can occur in the newborn period. However, many observations suggest that a nociceptive function exists at birth: (1) the neuronal pathways and transmitter systems required for pain conduction in adults seem to be present already during fetal life: (2) noxious stimulation of the newborn leads to behavioural responses and stress-related biochemical changes, and (3) the use of anaesthetic and analgesic drugs may improve the clinical outcome following surgery. The main features of the pharmacokinetics in the newborn period of both peripherally and centrally acting analgesics are now relatively well known and at least the short-term side effects are predictable and generally avoidable. Even if long-term adverse drug effects due to impaired imprinting have been suggested it appears that nociceptive stimuli in the newborn should be considered being disadvantageous to the patient. If they cannot be avoided, they should be treated.
The cells in the embryonic CNS of the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, that synthesize a cardioacceleratory peptide 2 (CAP2)-like antigen were identified using immunohistochemical techniques. Two distinct neurosecretory cell types were present in the abdominal ventral nerve cord (VNC) that contain CAP2-like immunoreactivity during late embryogenesis: a pair of large (diameter range 15-20 microns) cells lying along the posterior, dorsal midline of abdominal ganglia A4-A8, and a bilateral set of four smaller (diameter range 6-11 microns) neurons which lie at the base of each ventral root in abdominal ganglia A2-A8. CAP2-like accumulation appeared to follow independent patterns in the two cell types. CAP2-like immunoreactivity began at 60% of embryo development (DT) in the medial cells, accumulated steadily throughout embryogenesis, and dropped markedly during hatching. Lateral cells synthesized the CAP2-like antigen later in development (70% DT) and showed a sharp drop in antigen levels between 75% and 80% of embryonic development. Extracts from developing M. sexta embryos were found to contain a cardioactive factor capable of accelerating the contraction frequency of the pharate adult moth heart in a fashion similar to CAP2. Immunoprecipitation with a monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes the two endogenous Manduca cardioacceleratory peptides and purification using high pressure liquid chromatography identified this factor as cardioacceleratory peptide 2 (CAP2). Using an in vitro heart bioassay, the levels of this cardioactive neuropeptide were traced during the development of the M. sexta embryo. As with the immunohistochemical results, two periods during embryogenesis were identified in which the level of CAP2 dropped markedly: between 75% and 80% development, and at hatching. Embryo bioassays of CAP2 activity were used to identify possible target tissues for physiological activity during these two putative release times. CAP2 was found to accelerate contraction frequency in the embryonic heart and hindgut of Manduca in a dose-dependent fashion. Of these two possible targets, the hindgut proved to be more sensitive to CAP2, having a lower response threshold and a longer duration of response to a given concentration of the exogenously applied peptide. Based on these immunocytochemical, pharmacological and biochemical results, and on a previously published detailed analysis of Manduca embryogenesis, we conclude that CAP2 is probably released from a specific set of identified neurosecretory cells in the abdominal VNC to modulate embryonic gut activity at 75-80% of embryo development during ingestion of the extra-embryonic yolk.
p-125I-amphetamine (I-Amp) is retained significantly in liver and lung during brain tomoscintigraphy. To attempt to explain this clinical observation, we have investigated the interaction of I-Amp with rat liver and lung microsomal proteins. Studies using spectral shift technique indicate that low concentration of I-Amp gives a type I complex and high concentration appears very stable type II complex with cytochrome P-450 Fe III. In the presence of NADPH, I-Amp gives rise to a 455 nm absorbing complex with similar properties to the Fe-RNO complexes. This complex formation was greatly enhanced with phenobarbital treated liver microsomes. The in vitro binding study shows that I-Amp and/or its metabolites was covalently bound to macromolecules in the presence of the molecular oxygen and NADPH-generating system. Incubation in the presence of glutathione, cystein and radical scavengers decreases binding. Mixed function oxydase (MFO) inhibitors diminish the amount of covalent binding and alter the extent of metabolite formation. The total covalent binding level increased with liver microsomes from PB pretreated rats as it was observed with the 455nm complex formation. The radioactivity distribution on microsomal proteins was examinated with SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography. This experiment proves that the radiolabelled compounds are bound on the cytochrome P-450. The radioactivity bound increased when the PB induced rat liver microsomes were used. All these results indicate that I-Amp was activated by an oxydative process dependent on the MFO system which suggests a N-oxydation of I-Amp and the formation of reactive entities which covalently bind to proteins.

Neuropharmacological studies with the compound 2-methyl, 3-phenyl, 3-methyltransxydroxasino-propiophenon hydrochloride with cipher PS1, were carried out on rats as well as follow-up of development of drug dependence after continuous usage of the substance. The obtained showed that the compound S1 had stimulating influence on the central nervous system of amphetamine-like type. After prolonged administration of amphetamine and the compound PS1 it was established in rats that amphetamine induced development of tolerance and occurrence of hypersensitivity during withdrawal. The compound PS1 did not cause similar changes in rats after its chronic administration.
The brain-stem auditory evoked potential (BAEP), a sensitive test of the functional status of the neonatal brain, has not been studied in utero since no practical technique for human fetal recording is available. We have developed a simple recording technique which allows continuous monitoring of the fetal AEP during labor. Waves I, III and V of the fetal brain-stem AEP have been consistently identified. Wave form morphology, interpeak latencies, and latency-intensity relations are similar to postnatal recordings. Middle latency potentials have also been recorded, with wave forms that correspond to the neonatal middle latency AEP.


Electromyography of masticatory muscles has proved useful for the functional study of occlusal dysfunctions. We employed this technique to study the activity of masseter and temporal muscles of 6 subjects with Class II division 2 malocclusion and 7 subjects with Class III malocclusion. Significant differences of masticatory muscles activity during mastication and swallowing were observed between the two groups. We hypothesize that the change of the activity of masticatory muscles might influence the clinical presentation of malocclusion.
Snake bite is often associated with localised soft tissue necrosis. Less frequently victims may suffer extensive muscle damage leading to rhabdomyolysis and the loss of muscle-specific protein. This review describes the organisation and structure of mammalian skeletal muscle, and its response to myotoxic venoms and to isolated pure myotoxic venom fractions. The clinical reports of muscle damage in man following snake bite are discussed, and the various classes of myotoxic toxins are introduced. Muscle damage caused by the toxins is next described, particular emphasis being placed on the correlation between muscle pathology seen at the light level and the morphological changes seen at the level of the electron microscope. Where known, those subcellular components of the muscle fibre that are especially sensitive to assault, and those components that appear to be spared, are identified. The relevance of the selective sparing of some components to the regenerative capacity of the skeletal muscle is considered.
This work evaluated a perifusion system for studying LH secretion from the anterior pituitary (AP) of female mice. Pituitary fragments were challenged with LHRH, and the effluents assayed for LH. In general, the tissue exhibited augmented release to repeated stimulation. In the dose-response study, the amount of LHRH required to produce maximum and half maximum responses dropped almost 10 fold by the 3rd stimulus. In response to various pulse frequencies LH release increased with the frequency of the 100 nM LHRH dose, but the tissue became refractive to constant nonpulsatile stimulation. Other preparations, subjected to high-frequency 10 nM LHRH pulses, released LH in two distinct episodes. All but the first hour of the response was blocked by cycloheximide, confirming the role of protein synthesis in the sustained release of LH. By varying both the pulse frequency and amplitude, a LHRH protocol was found that produced a proestrous-like surge. Lastly, rat and mouse tissues responded similarly to pulsatile LHRH, verifying their similar LH function during the preovulatory period. These studies demonstrate that the perifusion technique can be used for studying LH secretion in the mouse. Its application to other mouse-oriented studies is planned.
The ovary is innervated by noradrenergic and peptidergic fibers. Treatment of neonatal rats with antibodies to nerve growth factor (NGF Ab) resulted in failure of the sympathetic (noradrenergic and neuropeptide-Y) nerves to develop. Partial loss of sensory innervation, represented by calcitonin gene-related peptide fibers, was also observed. Follicular growth was stunted, and production of androgens and estradiol was reduced. The timing of first ovulation was delayed, estrous cyclicity was disrupted, and fertility was compromised. Plasma LH levels were elevated, and LH pulsatility was enhanced, suggesting primary ovarian failure. A normal appearance of tyrosine hydroxylase-, LHRH-, and neuropeptide-Y-immunoreactive neurons in the hypothalamus, as determined by immunocytochemistry, suggested that neonatal immunosympathectomy did not directly affect hypothalamic reproductive function. In vitro release of LHRH from median eminence nerve terminals in response to prostaglandin E2 was, however, reduced in NGF Ab-treated rats. Normalization of the response by prior in vivo exposure of the animals to physiological estradiol levels, suggested that the diminished LHRH output was due at least in part to estrogen deficiency. Although ovarian dysfunction induced by immunosympathectomy may be related to alterations in vascular tone, the striking loss of perifollicular noradrenergic innervation caused by NGF Ab suggests that the absence of the nonvascular norepinephrine stimulus to follicular steroidogenesis is a primary factor responsible for the alterations observed. The results indicate that development of the sympathetic innervation of the ovary is NGF dependent and that NGF, by supporting the differentiation and survival of the innervating neurons, contributes to the acquisition of mature ovarian function.
The rat ovary is innervated by sympathetic nerve fibers. Since the development and survival of peripheral sympathetic neurons innervating nonreproductive organs have been shown to depend on the production of nerve growth factor (NGF) by the innervated tissues, the present experiments were undertaken to determine if the immature rat ovary has the capability of synthesizing NGF. Blot hybridization of ovarian polyadenylated RNA (A+-RNA) to a NGF cRNA probe revealed the presence of a 1.3- to 1.4-kilobase (kb) mRNA species similar to mature NGF mRNA detected in mouse submaxillary gland, a source rich in NGF. Quantitation of NGF protein by a sensitive and specific two-site enzyme immunoassay demonstrated the presence of NGF in juvenile ovaries at levels comparable to those found in other sympathetically innervated tissues. Neither denervation of the ovary nor treatment with gonadotropins (hCG and FSH) or somatomammotropins (PRL and GH) affected the levels of NGF mRNA. However, denervation significantly increased NGF levels, suggesting that, as in other target tissues, denervation prevents the retrograde transport of NGF by the sympathetic terminals and leads to accumulation of the protein at its site of production. It is concluded that 1) the developing ovary is able to both transcribe the NGF gene and translate its mRNA into NGF protein; and 2) the NGF content in the ovary is regulated by its innervation. The results provide the biochemical basis for the concept, elaborated in the companion paper, that NGF through its trophic actions on ovarian sympathetic neurons contributes to the regulation of ovarian development and, hence, to the acquisition of female reproductive capacity.

The subsurface cisternal systems of outer hair cells (OHCs) from different cochlear regions have been compared with the subsurface cisternal system of inner hair cells. Three main observations have been made: (1) the number of cisternal layers, when there is more than one present, is reduced along the length of an individual outer hair cell; (2) basal outer hair cells may have only one fenestrated cisternal layer; and (3) the inner hair cells possess a lateral cistern and associated pillar and filament complexes which are very similar to those of some basal OHCs. These observations are discussed in relation to hypotheses regarding the role of these structures in hair cell motility.
Familial rates of psychiatric disorders were studied in southern Sardinia and showed an increase in relatives of probands with the following research diagnostic criteria (RDC) diagnoses: normal, unipolar depression, schizoaffective depressive, schizoaffective bipolar, bipolar with mania and bipolar with hypomania. A significantly higher risk for bipolar schizoaffective disorder was observed in relatives of bipolar schizoaffectives compared with relatives of normal probands.
Eight elite male bodybuilders (MB), five elite female bodybuilders (FB), eight male control (MC), and eight female control recreational weight-trainers (FC) performed maximal elbow flexions on an isokinetic dynamometer at velocities between 1.02 and 5.24 rad.s-1, from which peak torque (PT) was measured. Elbow flexor cross-sectional area (CSA) was measured by computed tomographic scanning. Flexor CSA.lean body mass-1 ratios were greater in MB than in other subject groups. Correlations of PT were positively related to CSA but negatively to CSA.lean body mass-1 and to PT.CSA-1. PT.CSA-1 at low-velocity contractions were greater in MC and FC than in MB and FB groups, suggesting a training effect. The velocity-associated declines in torque between velocities of 1.02 and 5.24 rad.s-1 averaged 28.4 +/- 0.9% and were statistically identical in men and women among the subject groups, suggesting that neither gender nor training had affected this variable.
Neuroendocrine and sympathoadrenal responses to exhaustive graded treadmill exercise were examined in 17 male subjects of varying degrees of fitness. The mean duration of exercise to exhaustion was 15.2 +/- 0.7 (+/- SE) min. Exercise duration was inversely correlated with baseline heart rate (P less than 0.05). Compared to standing baseline values, mean plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine levels increased 339% and 301%, respectively, in an integrated 2-min blood sample collected immediately after completion of exercise. Mean adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), beta-endorphin (beta-EP), beta-lipotropin (beta-LPH), and prolactin levels increased 282%, 720%, 372%, and 211%, respectively, in an integrated 4-min blood sample beginning 2 min after completion of exercise. Cortisol levels increased 183% in the sample collected 17-21 min after exercise. The magnitude of these neuroendocrine responses to exercise was similar among individuals at the same relative intensity of exhaustive exercise, regardless of the duration of exercise. The exercise-induced increases of the pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived peptides, ACTH, beta-EP, and beta-LPH, were highly correlated with each other (P values less than 0.001), and were correlated with prolactin increases, (P values less than 0.05). During a 20-min recovery period after exercise, changes in heart rate, ACTH, and beta-LPH levels were correlated with duration of exercise, (P less than 0.01, P less than 0.03, and P less than 0.03, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We have voltammetrically monitored dopamine release in the rat striatum evoked either by stimulation of the median forebrain bundle or by iontophoresis. Neuronal spike activity was recorded with the same microelectrode alternately with voltammetric scans. Low levels of stimulation-evoked dopamine (&lt; 1 microM) excited all striatal units tested. However, this effect could be converted into an inhibition at higher levels of release. In contrast to the results with neuronally released dopamine, excitation was never seen when dopamine was applied by iontophoresis. Inhibition was, however, observed at high concentrations (&gt; 1 - 5 microM) of exogenous dopamine. These data show that endogenous dopamine at low levels may be predominantly an excitatory transmitter in the striatum, but exogenous (iontophoretic) dopamine does not have the same effect on striatal unit activity as the endogenous material.
7-Chlorokynurenate (7-Cl KYNA) and 3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (HA-966), two selective antagonists of the glycine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, have been used to assess the involvement of this site in the neurodegeneration resulting from injection of excitotoxins in the rat brain. In the rat striatum, reductions in the enzymes choline acetyltransferase (CAT) and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), occurring 7 days after a unilateral, intrastriatal injection of quinolinate (200 nmol), were prevented in a dose-dependent manner by intrastriatal administration of 7-Cl KYNA (10 - 50 nmol) and HA-966 (200 - 500 nmol) 1 h after the excitotoxin. In the rat hippocampus, degeneration of pyramidal and granule neurons caused by direct injection of quinolinate (60 nmol) was completely prevented by 7-Cl KYNA (50 nmol) and partially by HA-966 (500 nmol) injected intrahippocampally 1 h after the excitotoxin. In the rat striatum, 7-Cl KYNA (50 nmol) and HA-966 (500 nmol) also reduced neurotoxicity caused by intrastriatal injection of NMDA (200 nmol), but not that caused by the 'non-NMDA' receptor agonists DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) or kainate. The time course of protective effects of 7-Cl KYNA and HA-966 in the striatum was similar to that previously observed with the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801, indicating that activation of the glycine site contributes to the delayed degeneration of neurons which occurs over the first 5 h following quinolinate injection. The neuroprotective effects of both 7-Cl KYNA and HA-966 in the rat striatum appear to be mediated via the glycine site on the NMDA receptor as they were completely reversed by D-serine, but not L-serine. These results indicate that activation of the glycine site is essential for the expression of the delayed degeneration of neurons resulting from intracerebral injection of an NMDA receptor agonist, a process which bears similarities to the delayed neurodegeneration which results from a period of cerebral ischaemia.
A series of overlapping clones coding for L-glutamic acid decarboxylase was purified from a mouse brain cDNA library, the longest of which contains a 1869 bp open reading frame and 913 bp of non-coding sequence. By comparison with the corresponding sequences from the mouse genome, it was determined that the first methionine in the longest cDNA represents the initiation codon. Expression of this cDNA in eukaryotic cells produces a 62 kd protein that is recognized by antiserum against rat GAD and which displays GAD activity commensurate with the amount of protein produced. Antibodies raised against the purified product of this cDNA recognize a 62 kd protein from mouse brain on immunoblots, specifically stain GABA-ergic neurons in brain sections, and are capable of immunoprecipitating most GAD activity from mouse brain extracts. These results provide the first definitive identification of a cDNA coding for the larger of two forms of GAD in mouse brain, and suggest that the two forms are closely related.
This study examined the functional relationships established by nigral, cortical, and thalamic striatal afferent pathways with neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing neurons in the rat rostral striatum by coupling selective deafferentation procedures and NPY immunohistochemistry. Previous experiments have shown that after unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, the mean number of NPY-immunoreactive (Ir) neurons per frontal section was increased in the striatum ipsilateral to the lesion side and unaltered in the contralateral striatum. The present topographical analysis of the 6-OHDA lesion effects led us to state that the increase in NPY-Ir neuron density occurs in restricted ventral and medial zones of the ipsilateral striatum. Unilateral ablation of the frontoparietal cerebral cortex by thermocoagulation was moreover shown to elicit, 20 - 30 days later, a significant bilateral increase in the number of striatal NPY-Ir cells. The increase was more marked in the striatum ipsilateral to the hemidecortication where it was similar in amplitude to that induced by the 6-OHDA lesion. The topographical analysis of the cortical lesion effects also revealed an uneven striatal response, but, in contrast to that observed for the 6-OHDA lesion, changes were restricted to dorsolateral areas of the striatum in both brain sides, revealing an apparent complementarity of nigral dopaminergic and cortical influences over striatal NPY neuronal system. Combined unilateral nigral and cortical lesions surprisingly counteracted in a survival time dependent manner the effects of each lesion considered separately. In that condition topographical changes related to the 6-OHDA lesion totally disappeared and those related to the cortical lesion were attenuated but still present. These results suggest that expression of striatal dopamine - NPY interaction is dependent on corticostriatal transmission. Interestingly lesion of thalamic areas projecting to the striatum did not significantly modify the mean number of NPY-Ir neurons determined per section from the whole striatal surface, but selectively increased the NPY neuron density in the mediodorsal region of the striatum, suggesting that the striatal NPY-containing neuronal system is also influenced by thalamostriatal projections.
The olfactory neuroepithelium exhibits neurogenesis throughout adult life, and in response to lesions, a phenomenon that distinguishes this neural tissue from the rest of the mammalian brain. The newly formed primary olfactory neurons elaborate axons into the olfactory bulb. Thus, denervation and subsequent re-innervation of olfactory bulb neurons may occur throughout life. In this study the authors demonstrate the distribution of the growth-associated phosphoprotein B-50/GAP43 and its mRNA in the olfactory neuroepithelium and olfactory bulb during development and aging. In neonatal rats B-50/GAP43 mRNA was expressed in primary olfactory neurons throughout the olfactory epithelium and in their target neurons in the olfactory bulb, the mitral, juxtaglomerular and tufted cells. In contrast, in adult (7.5 weeks) and aging animals (6 - 18 months of age) B-50/GAP43 mRNA expression was progressively restricted to neurons in the basal region of the neuroepithelium and to some of their target mitral and juxtaglomerular cells in the olfactory bulb. The continuing expression of B-50/GAP43 mRNA in mitral- and juxtaglomerular cells in mature animals is thought to be related to their capacity to respond to continuously changing input from the primary olfactory neurons present in the olfactory neuroepithelium.
The hypothesis that B-50/GAP43, a membrane-associated phosphoprotein, is involved in process outgrowth has been tested by studying the developmental pattern of expression of B-50/GAP43 mRNA and protein during mouse neuroembryogenesis. B-50/GAP43 mRNA is first detectable at embryonic day 8.5 (E8.5) in the presumptive acoustico-facialis ganglion. Subsequently, both B-50/GAP43 mRNA and protein were co-expressed in a series of neural structures: in the ventral neural tube (from E9.5) and dorsal root ganglia (from E10.5), in the marginal layer of the neuroepithelium surrounding the brain vesicles and in the cranial ganglia (from E9.5), in the autonomic nervous system (from E10.5), in the olfactory neuroepithelium and in the mesenteric nervous system (from E11.5), in a continuum of brain regions (from E12.5) and in the retina (from E13.5). Immunoreactive fibers were always seen arising from these regions when they expressed B-50/GAP43 mRNA. The spatial and temporal pattern of B-50/GAP43 expression demonstrates that this protein is absent from neuroblasts and consistently appears in neurons committed to fiber outgrowth. The expression of the protein in immature neurons is independent of their embryological origin. Our detailed study of B-50/GAP43 expression during mouse neuroembryogenesis supports the view that this protein is involved in a process common to all neurons elaborating fibers.
To compare the merits of 123I-isopropyl-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) and 99mTc-HMPAO in showing abnormal brain uptake distribution during cerebral ischemia, we studied ten patients during the subacute phase of their stroke, a period where metabolism and blood flow are frequently uncoupled. SPECT imaging was performed using both radiopharmaceuticals in the 10 patients from 48 h to 4 weeks after onset of symptoms. Two patients out of the 10 had similar defects with 123I-IMP and 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT, the location of the defects corresponding to the area of infarction observed on CT. Six patients had normal 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT and abnormal 123I-IMP SPECT with defects in the area of infarction shown by CT. The remaining 2 patients had hyperactive abnormalities on 99mTc-HMPAO in areas corresponding to defects on the 123I-IMP images. Two of the patients with SPECT mismatches were studied again more than 1 month after onset. On reexamination, 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT which was previously normal or hyperactive became hypoactive with a focal area of decreased activity corresponding to the defect on 123I-IMP. Crossed cerebellar diaschisis was found in 7 patients with 99mTc-HMPAO and was absent for both 123I-IMP and 99mTc-HMPAO in 3. We suggest that SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO could show transient hyperemia not demonstrated by 123I-IMP whereas in some cases cerebral infarction would be more difficult to demonstrate with 99mTc-HMPAO than with 123I-IMP. SPECT with both tracers is recommended to follow the evolution of strokes in terms of regional cerebral blood flow and tissue metabolism.
Two patients, ages 51 and 76 years, suddenly developed transcortical motor aphasia combined with pyramidal signs and ataxia of the right extremities that affected the leg more severely than the arm. Computed tomography revealed nonenhancing lucencies in the distribution territory of the left anterior cerebral artery involving the genu of the corpus callosum, white matter ventral to the left frontal horn, medial primary motor area, supplementary motor area, and superior part of the premotor area. It is postulated that aphasia, ataxia, and weakness resulted from involvement of the supplementary motor area and deep white matter, premotor, and primary motor areas, respectively. Anterior cerebral artery infarctions of the dominant hemisphere may result in transcortical motor aphasia associated with contralateral ataxic hemiparesis.
In recent years, there has been substantial progress in studying the dopamine transporter, a unique component of the functioning dopaminergic nerve terminal. The transporter has been studied by direct binding techniques using a variety of ligands which function as inhibitors of transport. Analogues of these ligands have been used as photoaffinity labels to solubilize and further characterize the transporter. While a variety of drugs bind to the transporter, it is clear that the transporter may serve as an important drug receptor, particularly for the reinforcing properties of some psychostimulants such as cocaine. An extension of the in vitro ligand-binding studies reveals that it is possible to preferentially label the transporter in vivo. The success of in vivo labeling has lead to successful positron emission tomographic scanning studies of the transporter. These studies in turn have revealed the usefulness of imaging the transporter, a measure of the presence of dopaminergic nerve terminals, as a potential diagnostic tool in Parkinson's disease.
Direction-selective or direction-biased striate cortical neurones were assessed for absence or incidence of suppression of firing, maximal at 90 degrees or 180 degrees (&quot;null&quot; suppression) to the optimal direction, in 327 neurones recorded from the striate cortex of cats anaesthetized with N2O/O2/halothane. Stimuli were light or dark bars moving over uniform or stationary textured backgrounds; or square-wave gratings of optimal spatial frequency and velocity. Five identified directionality groups were correlated with neuronal class and a range of other receptive field properties. Suppression maximal at 90 degrees to optimum was common amongst direction-biased neurones, rare amongst direction-selective neurones. In the latter group, null suppression (maximal at 180 degrees to optimum) was more prevalent than at 90 degrees. Standard complex cells constituted the majority of complex neurones. They were more commonly direction-biased and less commonly showed suppression than special complex cells. The latter comprised the majority of direction-selective neurones with 180 degrees suppression. Endstopping was seen more frequently in special complex cells, but for each functional class was similarly distributed between the different directionality groups. Based on the mean and mode of partially overlapping distributions, for all neuronal classes direction-selective neurones were more broadly tuned than direction-biased neurones. Special complex neurones were appreciably more broadly tuned than standard complex neurones; those with suppression at 180 degrees were the most broadly tuned neurones in the cortex. Direction-biased neurones with suppression at 90 degrees to optimum were more sharply tuned than those lacking such suppression. Direction-selective neurones had larger receptive fields than direction-biased neurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The modulatory influence of a synchronously moving visual noise background on responsiveness to an optimally-oriented moving bar stimulus was investigated in visual cortical area 18 of the lightly-anaesthetized cat. The bar and noise background were swept along the axis orthogonal to bar orientation, with the same phase, velocity and amplitude of motion. Cells which were insensitive to motion of visual noise per se or weakly responsive to individual 'grains' in the noise sample showed suppression of bar-evoked responses by simultaneous motion of the noise background. Percent suppression declined with increase in bar length, over a range which could exceed the maximum estimate of receptive field length. The decline in percent suppression was non-linear, becoming progressively flatter in slope as bar length was increased until an asymptotic value was reached; observations on end-stopped cells and on end-free cells with restricted length summation verified that percent suppression was related specifically to the length of the comparison bar and not to the strength of response it evoked. Percent suppression and the extent over which it declined with increase in bar length were comparable for preferred and opposite directions of bar motion even in cells with radically different length-response functions in the two directions, including end-stopped cells with direction-selective end-zones. In contrast to end-inhibition, which was maximal at or near the preferred velocity for a bar of optimal length, percent suppression by motion of the noise background was essentially velocity-invariant; in velocity tuned and velocity high-pass cells, background motion reduced the slope(s) of the velocity-response function, implying that the suppressive action of moving noise backgrounds is divisive rather than subtractive. It is argued that the suppression derives predominantly from an axo-somatic noise-sensitive inhibitory input from superficial- and deep-layer, large basket cells in orientation 'columns' at some distance from those of their target cells.
Directional tuning for visual noise, bar and single spot stimuli was compared over a wide range of velocities in cells from areas 17 and 18 of the visual cortex in lightly-anaesthetized cats. In each area, S-cells were predominantly insensitive to motion of a field of visual noise. C-cells were more sensitive to noise motion than B-cells, but showed heterogeneity in noise sensitivity, which was associated with other response properties: strongly noise-sensitive C-cells had relatively high spontaneous activity and broad directional tuning, and were predominantly direction-selective and binocularly-driven. Frequently, directional tuning for noise was unimodal at low velocity, but became progressively more bimodal as velocity was increased: a trough of depressed response corresponding to the peak in tuning for the bar separated two progressively more widely disparate preferred directions. In area 18, cells with velocity tuned (VT) functions for bar motion developed bimodal tuning for noise well below the optimum velocity for bar or for noise motion, while velocity high-pass (VHP) cells became progressively more bimodally tuned for noise over a wide range of velocities, in parallel with a steep increase in response to bar and noise motion. A high proportion of VT and VHP cells was bimodally tuned for noise at all velocities, one VHP cell showing two discrete lobes of tuning for noise below the threshold velocity for bar motion. Among cells which remained unimodally tuned for noise, VT and VHP cells in area 18 had radically dissimilar preferred directions for noise and bar motion at all velocities. With the exception of VHP cells, velocity bandpass was higher for noise than for bar motion. These results, together with other novel observations on the modality of tuning for noise in preferred and opposite directions of motion, demonstrate that bimodality of tuning for noise cannot simply be an effect of upper cut-off velocity for bar motion (Movshon et al. 1980; Orban 1984). It is argued that the trough between the lobes of tuning arises through laterally-directed inhibitory convergence from superficial- and deep-layer, large basket cells. In 40% of noise-sensitive cells, tuning for bar motion was broader on the flank closest to the preferred direction for noise and for a moving sport, while some 25% of cells showed variations in tuning for bar motion with velocity, which were associated with velocity-dependent changes in tuning for noise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In single neurones recorded from the striate cortex of cats anaesthetized with N2O/O2/halothane, receptive field dimensions, length specificity and areal extent of drive were assessed for different classes of visual stimuli. Receptive fields were mapped as rectangular minimum response fields (MRFs). Spatial summation along the axis of preferred orientation was assessed: for moving bars whose length was varied (length summation); and for height variation of a square-wave grating patch against a uniform grey background, or a patch of moving texture against a stationary background of similar texture. In complementary tests a moving square-wave grating background was progressively occluded by a uniform grey foreground mask of variable height; or a mask of stationary texture of variable height progressively occluded a background of moving texture. In parallel measurements, the width of grating or textured patches or masks was varied whilst maintaining height constant. Broadly speaking, the areal influence of each class of stimulus was comparable, and distinct from extra-receptive field phenomena in evoking responses from within the receptive field, but not from surrounding areas. The masking paradigm provided the most sensitive measure of receptive field height and width. However, in some neurones length summation, the degree of end-stopping, and the directional bias depended critically on the stimulus configuration used. Length summation tended to be more dramatic for short bars than for gratings. Length summation for texture was significantly more pronounced than for an oriented bar in special and in intermediate complex neurones. By contrast, endstopping was typically less intense for gratings than for bars, and least pronounced for texture. Because of stimulus specificity, complex neurones assigned to particular functional subgroups on the basis of their response to oriented bars may exhibit quite different patterns of behaviour for other classes of stimuli.
Although it has been known for a long time that in awake cats, natural stimulation of the skin induces short latency responses in rubrospinal cells, the pathway possibly involved has been identified only recently (Padel et al. 1988). This tract, which was described in acute, chloralose anaesthetized cats, ascends in the ventromedial spinal cord and is activated via collaterals of primary afferent fibres running in the dorsal columns of the spinal cord. The present study demonstrates that this newly described spino-rubral tract is able to send detailed somaesthetic information to the red nucleus. After lesions leaving intact only the spino-rubral pathway, excitatory and inhibitory responses to natural peripheral stimulations were recorded in identified rubral efferent cells. The most effective stimuli were touching the skin, passive joint rotation and hair displacement. Each cell was found to possess a particular receptive field. These fields which could be ipsi-, contra-, or bi-lateral were generally located on a single limb, although they could include two or more limbs, or even exceptionally the whole body with or without preferential zones. The topographic organization of receptive fields was arranged somatotopically in the red nucleus and overlapped the motor representation. The somaesthetic inputs transmitted through the spino-rubral pathway to the red nucleus are very similar to those previously observed in the intact cat, which supports the idea that this pathway may play a functional role in motor control. The spino-rubro-spinal loop may provide a fast adaptation of the descending motor command, thus producing a fine and harmonious tuning between the changing surroundings and the animal's movements.
Changes in excitability of the spinal motoneuron pool during the foreperiod, which was fixed at 0.8 s, in simple and choice reaction time experiments using ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion were studied in fourteen healthy normal subjects by combining the visually guided tracking and H-reflex testing methods. Almost all cases showed a significant facilitation in the soleus H-reflex within the time interval between 100 and 300 ms after a warning signal (Phase I), irrespective of movement direction and task modality. The pretibial H-reflex was also facilitated. On the other hand, variable effects were noted in the later half of the foreperiod, particularly within the 200 ms prior to the response signal (Phase II). Using a simple reaction task with dorsiflexion, six cases showed no changes in the soleus H-reflex, while four others showed statistically significant inhibitory changes and the remaining four showed facilitation. The inhibition and facilitation were often accompanied with very weak and unintended EMG activities in the pretibial and So1 muscles respectively. A similar finding was obtained in the simple plantar flexion task and the choice reaction task with dorsiflexion or plantar flexion. We suggest that the facilitation at Phase I represents a perceptual orienting response to a warning signal and the effects seen in Phase II represent the difference in the waiting attitude of each subject anticipating initiation of the coming task, or the preparatory &quot;set&quot; which primed the spinal motor structure in a biased position.
Serotonin modulating effects on hippocampal electrical activity were studied using serotonin releasing drugs (e.g. d-fenfluramine, FFA, and p-chloroamphetamine, PCA). FFA and PCA enhanced the reactivity of the dentate gyrus to stimulation of the perforant path (PP) in the anesthetized rat. The population spike (PS) but not the population EPSP (EPSP) was enhanced by FFA indicating that the drug effect is not exerted at the PP synapse, but at some postsynaptic site between the synapse and the spike generation mechanism. A depth profile of the response to PP stimulation indicated that the largest effect of FFA was present just below the granular cell layer. There were no systematic effects of FFA on the EPSP at any depth tested. The effect of FFA was much reduced in rats depleted of serotonin by p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) and restored when serotonin stores were repleted by the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophane (5-HTP). d-FFA was at least twice as effective as 1-FFA in enhancing responses in the dentate gyrus (DG). In noradrenaline (NA) depleted rats the increase in PS size was as in control rats. The effects of FFA were blocked by the 5-HT1a antagonist spiperone but not by the 5-HT2 antagonist mianserin. These results suggest that the effect of FFA is primarily due to release of serotonin from its terminals. At the gross electrographic level, FFA suppressed spontaneous sharp wave activity and reduced the magnitude of hippocampal EEG. Spontaneous extracellular single unit activity, recorded in the DG, was also inhibited by FFA concomitantly with the increase in the PS size.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Single biceps motor units were recorded in two awake monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) during the preparation for and execution of a forearm flexion movement. The motor sequence was organized as follows: after a control period lasting 500 ms, the animal was informed that a preparatory period (PP) was beginning by a preparatory signal (PS) consisting of diffuse sound and light. One to 1.5 s later, the animal was instructed by a bright light response signal (RS) to perform a rapid forearm flexion movement. Two hundred motor sequences were run during each daily session. The single motor units (MU) were recorded and their discharges analysed. In both monkeys, two extreme groups were found to exist on the basis of their pattern of activity during the preparatory and movement execution phases. 56% of the MUs were silent during the PP and showed a brief burst of discharge after the RS, which was strictly correlated to the movement execution. Their high recruitment threshold and their firing frequency during resting and movement periods suggested that these MUs associated with the movement execution could be called presumed fast or phasic MUs. Among the remaining MUs (44%), 15% were active as early as the beginning of the PP (about 300 ms after the PS) and showed a progressively increasing discharge, which stopped just after the beginning of the movement execution. These MUs associated with the preparatory phase had low recruitment thresholds and firing frequencies, which is compatible with the possibility that they might be slow or tonic MUs. Two functional hypotheses can be proposed on the basis of these results.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The positions of receptive field borders of striate cortical neurons were measured repeatedly in awake monkeys during attentive fixation of a small target. The border position, as marked by the onset of evoked activity in response to a moving stimulus, did not show the variability expected from previous measures of eye position variability during fixation. Measured variability was smaller than expected. Trial-by-trial comparisons suggest that receptive field borders are not shifted by the small eye movements occurring during attentive fixation. It is our hypothesis that attentive fixation engages a mechanism that gates incoming information to achieve a stabilization of the receptive field relative to the external world. Such a dynamic positional compensation may underlie preliminary evidence showing that the response of stereo-sensitive neurons in striate cortex is consistent with stimulus disparity measures and, within limits, does not reflect the retinal disparities produced by the changes in binocular alignment during fixation.
The density of neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunostained neurons examined in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAcc) was shown to be constant across the anteroposterior extent of the nucleus and did not present any right-left hemispheric difference. Selective unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the nigral dopaminergic neurons induced, 15 to 21 days later, a bilateral decrease in the NPY neuron density which was, interestingly, more marked in the contralateral than in the ipsilateral NAcc. Dopamine depletion induced by alpha-methylparatyrosine treatment elicited a decrease in NPY neuronal density similar in amplitude to that induced by the 6-OHDA lesion in the ipsilateral NAcc suggesting that similar mechanisms underly both NPY responses. In both experimental conditions, changes in NPY immunostaining were quite homogeneous in the two antero-posterior NAcc portions arbitrarily considered. Apomorphine treatment in animals with 6-OHDA injury completely reversed the ipsilateral lesion effect in the anterior part of the NAcc but only partially the contralateral one. In contrast, no significant effect of apomorphine was observed in either side of the NAcc posterior portion. This data suggests the involvement of at least 2 components in the NPY neuron responses to the lesion. The component reversed by apomorphine treatment was presumed to be directly linked to the DA depletion, while the second component not antagonized by apomorphine was considered independent on DA transmission. These data therefore provide morphological evidence for the occurrence of complex functional interactions between dopaminergic afferents and NPY-containing neurons within the NAcc.
The relationship between epileptiform events in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) and the dentate gyrus was investigated using a slice preparation from rat brain. Simultaneous intracellular recordings were made from neurones in layer II of the MEC and neurones in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus (DGC). Epileptiform activity was induced by perfusion with Mg+(+)-free medium or GABAA-receptor blockers. Epileptiform discharges in MEC cells were reflected on a one-to-one basis and at a latency of 1-3 ms by depolarizing events in DGC. The latter rarely gave rise to action potentials. Bath perfusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker, 2-aminophosphonovalerate (2-AP5) abolished the Mg+(+)-free induced events in MEC cells and the corresponding depolarizations in the DGC but local application of 2-AP5 to the dentate gyrus only reduced the depolarizations. The non-NMDA-receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), whether bath applied or applied locally to the DG, had little effect on the cortical events but strongly reduced the depolarizations of the DGC. The discharges induced in MEC cells by GABA-blockers were reduced by bath applied 2-AP5 but abolished by CNQX. These effects were mirrored in the dentate gyrus by a reduction in the depolarizing events by 2-AP5 and their abolition by CNQX. Local application of either antagonist to the dentate gyrus reduced but did not abolish the depolarizations. Thus, Mg+(+)-free induced events in MEC depend mainly on enhanced NMDA-receptor activity, while events induced by bicuculline are primarily dependant on non-NMDA receptors. The depolarizing events in the DGC which reflect the activity in the EC are mediated by both types of receptor, although non-NMDA receptors play a much greater role.
The distribution and morphology of neurons containing the dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, DARPP-32, were investigated in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). DARPP-32 immunoreactive neurons are numerous in both regions, but are restricted to the lateral dorsal and the lateral juxtacapsular subdivisions of the BST, and the central lateral and lateral capsular subdivisions of the CeA. Immunoreactive neurons in the lateral dorsal BST, and the central lateral and lateral capsular CeA are similar morphologically, while those in the juxtacapsular BST appear to be a subpopulation of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons. The distribution of DARPP-32 immunoreactive neurons in the BST and CeA overlaps considerably with axonal plexuses containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). These studies provide further evidence of the close relationship between the CeA and BST, and also provide anatomical evidence for possible interactions between neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and phosphoproteins.
In anaesthetised cats, antibody microprobes were used to measure the release of immunoreactive substance P (irSP) in the lumbar dorsal horn during noxious cutaneous stimulation or high-intensity electrical stimulation of a hind limb nerve. The major region of irSP release detected was centered on the substantia gelatinosa, with lesser release at the dorsal cord surface. Release at these sites was unchanged by systemic administration of morphine, or of morphine followed by naloxone. During superfusion of the dorsal cord surface with high concentrations of morphine, irSP release in the substantia gelatinosa region was slightly reduced and surface release was not observed, effects not reversed by systemic naloxone administration. The results suggest that the analgesic action of morphine does not involve reduced release of SP in the spinal cord.
Although there is evidence of alterations in brain protein phosphorylation patterns with age, it is not known if the protein kinases that phosphorylate only at tyrosine residues are involved in these changes. For this reason, we examined the age-related expression of pp60c-src, a tyrosine protein kinase enriched in neural tissues, in whole brain of adult Fischer-344 rats. The pp60c-src kinase activity was immunoprecipitated using a monoclonal antibody and the incorporation of [32P] from radiolabeled ATP into an exogenous substrate (casein) measured. The results showed that there was a substantial amount of pp60c-src kinase activity in brain of the adult animals ranging in age from 4 to 23 months and that it was not significantly different among these groups. Also, immunoprecipitates obtained under conditions of monoclonal antibody excess and utilized for immunoblot analysis indicated that the relative levels of the pp60c-src protein were unchanged in the same animals. These results suggest that, at the whole brain level, the pp60c-src kinase has a stable turnover and that a high amount of activity is biologically important in brain of adult rats through early senescence.
Ventral aortic blood pressure (Pva) and heart rate (HR) responses to rapidly (within 1 min) induced hypoxia (PWO2=4-5.3 kPa) were investigated in vivo in three species of marine teleosts (shorthorn sculpin, Myoxo-cephalus scorpius; eel-pout, Zoarces viviparus; and five-bearded rockling, Ciliata mustela). Fish were exposed to hypoxia for 4 min (M.scorpius) or 5 min (Z.viviparus and C.mustela).Pva was unaffected in M.scorpius, decreased in Z.viviparus and increased in C.mustela in response to hypoxia.Untreated M.scorpius and Z. viviparus responded with a characteristic bradycardia during hypoxia, whereas C.mustela developed no bradycardia. Injection of atropine followed by the -adrenoceptor antagonist sotalol in M.scorpius and Z. viviparus, revealed that both the inhibitory (cholinergic) and the excitatory (adrenergic) influence on the heart increase during hypoxia. The inhibitory influence dominates, resulting in the observed bradycardia.


Evidence has been produced that the neoplastic event is the result of a multistep multifactorial process involving virtually every functional system within the organism. Traditional concepts such as cellular autonomy, uncontrolled growth and monoclonality of cancer are revised in the light of current data. Microenvironmental stimuli appear to affect relevant cancer cell functions, including locomotion, differentiation and gene expression. The complex interconnection between biological functions and messages, relevant among which are nervous inputs, requires the identification of new physiological models if the neoplastic process is to be understood.
1. [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate ([3H]QNB) binding in rat cerebral and cerebellar synaptosomes had different Bmax values, but similar Kd values. 2. These bindings could be displaced by classic muscarinic agents: pilocarpine (partial agonist), and atropine (antagonist), which both had similar binding affinities in rat cerebral and cerebellar synaptosomes. 3. The new muscarinic M1 selective agents: McN-A-343 (agonist), pirenzepine and trihexyphenidyl (antagonists) and higher affinities for receptor sites in the cerebrum than in the cerebellum. 4. The muscarinic M2 selective agents: carbachol, oxotremorine (agonists), and AF-DX-116 (antagonist) had higher affinities for receptor sites in the cerebellum than in the cerebrum. 5. GPP(NH)p (40 microM) decreased the binding affinities of carbachol and oxotremorine in the cerebellum, but not in the cerebrum. However, it did not decrease the binding affinities of all the antagonists studied in both brain regions. 6. These results reveal that more muscarinic M1 sites are present in the cerebrum than in the cerebellum, while the opposite is true for M2 sites. Furthermore, the regulatory role of G-protein on these muscarinic receptor subtypes in the brain is different.
Release of taurine in response to cell swelling induced by hyposmolarity was observed in cultured astrocytes. Efflux of 3H-taurine increased by 30% and 70% upon reductions in osmolarity of only 5% and 10%. Reductions in osmolarity of 20%, 30%, and 50% stimulated basal taurine release by 300%, 500%, and 1,500%, respectively. The properties of this volume-sensitive release of taurine were examined to investigate: 1) its association with K+ and Cl- fluxes, currently activated during volume regulation: 2) its relationship with Ca2(+)-dependent reactions; and 3) the mechanism of the taurine efflux process. Taurine release was unaffected by removal of Na+, Ca2+, or Cl-, by pimozide and trifluoperazine, or by agents disrupting the cytoskeleton. The K+ channel inhibitors barium, quinidine, tetraethylammonium, and gadolinium had no effect. Taurine release was reduced by furosemide, a blocker of K+/Cl- cotransport, but not by the more specific inhibitor, bumetanide. It was markedly reduced by the inhibitors of Cl- channels DIDS, SITS, and anthracene-9-carboxylate. Taurine efflux was pH-dependent, being reduced at low pH values. It was decreased at 4 degrees C but not at 14 degrees C or 20 degrees C. These results suggest that the volume-sensitive release of taurine is independent of K+ fluxes but may be associated with Cl- conductances. It also seems unrelated to Ca2(+)-dependent transduction mechanisms. The Na(+)-dependent taurine carrier apparently is not involved in the swelling-induced release process.
Previous studies have shown that developing neurons of the basal forebrain and hippocampus are sensitive to thyroid hormone (Gould and Butcher: J. Neurosci., 9:3347-3358, 1989; Rami et al: Neuroscience, 19:1217-1226, 1986). In order to determine whether or not thyroid hormone influences the development of astrocytes in brain regions where neurons are affected, we performed vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunocytochemical and single-section Golgi-impregnation analyses on the basal forebrain and hippocampus of control and neonatally thyroid hormone treated rats. For purposes of comparison, glial cells of the pontomesencephalotegmental (PMT) region, a region where developing neurons are not morphologically affected by thyroid hormone imbalances (Gould and Butcher, op. cit.), were also examined. Neonatal thyroid hormone treatment resulted in a premature disappearance of vimentin-immunoreactive radial glia in the basal forebrain and hippocampus. In addition, a premature appearance of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes with mature morphological characteristics was observed in the basal forebrain and hippocampus of thyroid hormone treated animals. Quantitative analyses revealed significant increases in the density of GFAP-immunostained astrocytes and in the cross-sectional cell body area and the number of primary processes in Golgi-impregnated astrocytes of the basal forebrain and hippocampus of animals treated neonatally with thyroid hormone. In contrast, no changes in any of these parameters were observed in glial cells of the PMT region with neonatal thyroid hormone treatment.
Chlorpromazine, given intravenously, is a useful agent in the treatment of acute migraine headaches. Patients with more serious conditions, however, may also respond to this medication. In this paper we report two patients who were initially diagnosed as having migraine headaches and treated with chlorpromazine. Both experienced temporary pain relief and it was only after repeated presentations to the emergency department that their conditions--a subarachnoid hemorrhage and a subdural hematoma--were accurately diagnosed. Because of this, caution must be exercised before re-treating within a short period of time, a patient with recurrent headache. Strong consideration must be given to an alternate diagnosis and such a diagnosis should be actively sought should there be any suspicion of a non-migrainous cause for headache. It is only by doing so that we may avoid missing more serious and life-threatening conditions such as those with which our patients presented.
We examined the expression of dystrophin by immunohistochemical and immunoblot analyses in the skeletal and cardiac muscles of Xmdx/X+ heterozygous mice, which were obtained by mating male mdx mice (Xmdx/Y) with female wild type mice (X+/X+). Dystrophin was expressed on the surface membrane in both muscles, but the mode of expression was different between the two muscles. In cardiac muscle, dystrophin positive and negative cells were present in roughly equal numbers intermingled in a mosaic pattern; this was considered to reflect the random inactivation of X-chromosomes in early development. In skeletal muscle, most of the surface membrane was dystrophin positive. There were little signs of fiber necrosis or regeneration, and serum creatine kinase levels were normal. We are at present of opinion that the predominance of dystrophin-positive area in skeletal muscle is due to intracellular diffusion of dystrophin.
The Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene product, dystrophin, is expressed on the cell membrane of skeletal and cardiac muscles. We examined the developmental time course of dystrophin expression in the rat ventricular myocardium. Dystrophin was immunohistochemically undetectable on the 15th embryonic day, but a small amount was expressed on the cell membrane on the 17th embryonic day. The amount increased during the perinatal period reaching adult level at 2 weeks after birth. These findings were supported by immunoblot analysis. Chemical sympathectomy in newborn rats by 6-hydroxydopamine (prevention of innervation) had no detectable influence on myocardial dystrophin expression at 2 weeks after birth. Our results show that dystrophin lining on the rat myocardial cell membrane increases during the perinatal period, and that this process is little influenced by the development of sympathetic innervation.
alpha-Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) immunoreactivity (IR) was measured in the blood of 22 healthy women with normal ovulatory process in the early and late follicular (near to ovulation) phases and in the early luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. Plasma alpha-MSH IR ranged from undetectable values to 81.3 pg/ml, the highest levels being found in the late follicular phase (15.52 +/- 4.16 pg/ml). In contrast, plasma ACTH IR was always detectable (range: 18.5-63.2 pg/ml), but its concentration did not differ significantly between the 3 phases of the menstrual cycle. High-pressure liquid chromatography fractionation of Sep pak C18-purified alpha-MSH IR revealed in all 3 phases the presence of 3 major peaks of alpha-MSH IR, coeluting with desacetyl-alpha-MSH, alpha-MSH and diacetyl-alpha-MSH, respectively. The most abundant peak always coeluted with authentic desacetyl-alpha-MSH, and the ratio between this deacetylated and the other 2 acetylated forms was similar in the 2 follicular phases (1:1.25 and 1:1.16 in the early and late phase, respectively), but significantly different in the luteal phase (1:0.48). The fluctuations in plasma concentration of the above MSH-related peptides suggest that different rates of alpha-MSH acetylation and release take place in the pituitary gland depending on the phase of the menstrual cycle.
This paper describes the scaling limitations of multichannel recording probes fabricated for use in neurophysiology using silicon integrated circuit technologies. Scaled silicon probe substrates 8 microns thick and 16 microns wide can be fabricated using boron etch-stop techniques. Theoretical expressions for calculating the thickness and width of silicon substrates have been derived and agree closely with experimental results. The effects of scaling probe dimensions on its strength and stiffness are described. The probe shank dimensions can be designed to vary the strength and stiffness for different applications. The scaled silicon substrates have a fracture stress of about 2 x 10(10) dyn/cm2, which is about six times that of bulk silicon, and are strong and very flexible. Scaling the feature sizes of recording electrode arrays down to 1 micron is possible with less than 1 percent electrical crosstalk between channels.
A quantitative method has been developed to characterize the isometric force vectors of electrically stimulated paralyzed muscles of the thumb. The vectorial force output as a function of the stimulus level was measured for individual electrode/muscle combinations in a number of intramuscular and epimysial electrodes implanted in paralyzed thenar muscles of cervical level spinal cord injury subejcts. Vectors are used to determine the output characteristics of each electrode/muscle combination. The characteristics studied include: the strength of the contraction, the stimulus level at which fibers from other muscles are stimulated, the recruitment gain of force, dependency of the output on the skeletal position, and the direction of force produced. These characteristics can then be used to select stimulus parameters to produce coordinated hand motion and force generation by functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS). The range of muscle force and direction for each electrode/muscle combination showed considerable variation between subjects and between electrodes in the same subject. This variation is primarily due to differences in electrode placement within the muscle. Comparison between intramuscular and epimysial electrodes demonstrated similar characteristics in the force vector output. Preliminary results show the potential for using the force vector output to predict the cocontracted output of two muscles.
Smooth pursuit eye movements (SPEM) has been reported to be abnormal in schizophrenic patients. 30 schizophrenic patients and 15 normal subjects were examined for the quality of their smooth pursuit performance. 73.33% of the schizophrenics and 40% of the normal subjects had 'impaired' pursuit performance. The significance of the findings has been discussed.
We investigated in mice strain differences in induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis by proteolipid apoprotein and studied encephalitogenic determinants. SJL/J, C3H/He, CBA/J and A/J mice were high responders, BALB/c and AKR/J mice were moderately susceptible, and DBA/2, B6 and congenic strains of B10 background were low responders. Synthetic peptide 136-150 was encephalitogenic for SJL/J mice, and 215-232 was encephalitogenic for C3H/He mice. These encephalitogenic derterminants are present in the extracellular portion of proteolipid apoprotein in myelin.
1. The possible involvement of guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins in the receptor mediated polyphosphoinositide (PPI) turnover event was investigated in rat cortical synaptosomes. 2. It was studied under the effects of guanine nucleotides on 32Pi incorporation into synaptosomal phospholipids in the absence or presence of carbachol. 3. The basal 32Pi incorporation into these phospholipids was altered by the presence of 1 mM carbachol: i.e. a decrease in 32Pi incorporation into phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate and an increase in the incorporation of 32Pi into phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidic acid. 4. In the presence of guanine nucleotides: GTP, Gpp(NH)p and GDP at suitable concentrations, there was a general decreasing effect on 32Pi incorporation into all 4 phospholipids, which are all involved in PPI turnover cycle, either in the basal or carbachol-stimulated levels. 5. There was no selective effect among the guanine nucleotides studied on this PPI turnover event. It is, therefore, likely that these nucleotides have a direct inhibitory effect on PPI turnover, and this action may not act through a GTP-binding protein.
1. A high-molecular-mass multicatalytic proteinase, ingensin, has been purified from rat liver and biochemically characterized. Trypsinization in the presence of ATP prevented the degradation of ingensin subunits. 2. Glutaraldehyde, which copolymerizes proteins, increased the apparent molecular mass of the subunits on SDS-PAGE, indicating the occurrence of covalent crosslinking of subunits. ATP, in this case, lowered the extent of covalent crosslinking. These results suggest that ATP altered the conformation of ingensin subunits. 3. Urea-induced autodigestion experiments demonstrated that some low-molecular-weight subunits selectively disappeared without changes in the contents of other subunits. The chymotryptic activity of the proteinase was more resistant to autodigestion than its tryptic activity. Therefore, we conclude that separate subunits of the enzyme are responsible for the different peptide-hydrolyzing activities.
Although brain aging is accompanied by measurable deficits in cognitive and motor function, and frequently by selective loss of neurons, neurotransmitters and their receptors, resting brain energy metabolism, purported to reflect neural function, undergoes little or no quantitative change during aging in experimental animals or in man. A method is described for assessing the functional capacity of aging neurotransmitter systems in rats by measuring changes in regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose in response to drug administration. Preliminary studies identified the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic factors that determine cerebral metabolic responses to drugs, and established a relation between those responses and altered brain function. In awake, aged Fischer-344 rats, cerebral metabolic responses to the dopaminergic agents haloperidol and bromocriptine and to the serotonergic agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine were reduced when compared to responses in young adult rats, despite similar or greater concentrations of drug in the brains of older animals. The metabolic response to arecoline, a muscarinic cholinergic agonist, was age-invariant. It was concluded that the cerebral metabolic response to drug administration is a useful measure of the functional capacity of neurotransmitter systems. Pharmacological brain metabolism studies demonstrated selective functional impairments in certain transmitter systems of the aged rat brain that were not detected by metabolic measurements in the resting state, nor predicted by changes in transmitter receptors. Specific criteria are proposed for pharmacological brain metabolism studies in man, using in vivo imaging, to identify functionally impaired neurotransmitter systems in aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

Regeneration of soleus motor nerve terminals after focal destruction by black widow spider venom (BWSV) or its active factor alpha-latrotoxin (LTx) was compared in young and old CBF-1 mice. The object was to determine whether previously reported delayed regeneration after nerve injury in old rodents was due to altered removal of debris, or delay or aberrancy in structural or functional restoration of the neuromuscular junction. In addition, the use of a new fluorescent technique permitted for the first time quantitation of the accuracy of early nerve terminal regeneration in mammalian muscle. Immunohistochemical and electron micrographic studies showed no age difference in destruction of terminals and removal of debris 2 days after toxin application. The indirect twitch and structural reinnervation (measured with flourescent techniques) returned to an equal extent in young and old mice beginning at 3 days after LTx treatment. BWSV (as opposed to LTx) delayed regeneration 1 day in young but not in old mice. On the first day of reinnervation, there was perisynaptic outgrowth in both young and old mice, although in the latter, there was a higher incidence of aberrant outgrowth. The relation between return of twitch strength and recovery of nerve terminal area (measured in teased zinc iodide-stained preparations) showed no age dependency. We conclude that factors cited to explain altered reactive sprouting in the aging CNS do not apply to regeneration of peripheral motor nerve terminals. However, it is possible that the aberrant regrowth observed at the neuromuscular junction in old mice will pertain to the aging CNS. Altered axonal rather than nerve terminal regeneration is the likely source of delayed peripheral nerve regeneration in old animals.
Stress induced changes in neurochemical indices of neurotransmission are more pronounced in the septohippocampal cholinergic system of Wistar Kyoto rats, which are behaviorally more reactive to stressors and have a shorter life span, than in Brown Norway rats. Moreover, pronounced degeneration of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons occurs earlier in life in Wistar Kyoto rats. In the present study the high affinity synaptosomal uptakes of choline and glutamate were used as indices for cholinergic and glutamatergic systems respectively. Following 2 hr of mild restrain stress increases in both uptake systems were observed in all regions examined (hippocampus, septum and frontal cortex). The stress-induced increases were generally similar in young (3 months) and aged (20 months) rats of both strains. The noted exception was that choline uptake levels, which were reduced in the hippocampus of unhandled aged WKY rats, remained unchanged after stress. The results confirm the involvement of the septohippocampal cholinergic system in the response to acute stress and extend the findings to include the hippocamposeptal glutamatergic system activation as well. It is suggested that in spite of neuronal degeneration during aging, these responses to stress can be maintained by compensatory efforts of neurons that remain intact.
We tested glutamate for its ability to modulate neurite outgrowth from isolated neurons of the adult snail, Helisoma trivolvis. Although glutamate did not induce neurite outgrowth from neurons maintained in defined medium, nevertheless it showed a dose-dependent ability to enhance the activity of conditioned medium. We concluded that glutamate can enhance the release and/or activity of CNS derived sprouting factor(s) present in conditioned medium. The general conclusion to be drawn from this study is that the ability of a neurotrophic factor(s) to promote neurite outgrowth can be regulated by a neurotransmitter. This mechanism may be important in the regulation of trophic factors in the adult nervous system.

The distribution of an adhesion receptor from the integrin family was mapped in cultured mammalian retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE), and in primate RPE cells in vivo, using antibodies to the human fibronectin receptor (FnR) in conjunction with indirect immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy. Protein homogenates from human RPE or MG-63 cells were separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) under nonreducing conditions. On Western blots of proteins from both cell types, anti-FnR and a monoclonal antibody to the beta 1 subunit of human FnR each recognized a single band with a molecular mass of approximately 115 kDa. After 1-6 weeks in culture human, monkey and feline RPE cells gradually acquired a morphology and cytoskeletal arrangement typical of a mature cuboidal epithelium. The distribution of anti-FnR labeling changed dramatically in accordance with the cells' phenotype. In preconfluent cells, labeling consisted of streaks and flecks of fluorescence at the termini of stress fibers and at putative sites of cell substratum attachment. As the cells became confluent and acquired an epithelioid morphology, the bulk of anti-FnR labeling shifted to the peripheral cytoplasm and appeared as a cross-hatched meshwork. In fully differentiated RPE cells anti-FnR labeling consisted of a dense punctate pattern on or close to the apical cell surface that coincided with the distribution of f-actin as shown by phalloidin staining, and to the distribution of apical microvilli as identified by scanning electron microscopy. In addition, a compacted rim of fluorescence appeared at the cells' lateral margins that was also virtually identical to the phalloidin staining pattern. No basal surface labeling was apparent at this stage. At the ultrastructural level, FnR was localized to the apical surface of nonpermeabilized RPE cells and, in particular, to the plasma membrane of apical microvilli in vitro and in vivo using an indirect, pre-embedding method. The results strongly suggest that: (1) a membrane receptor/s containing the integrin beta 1 subunit is normally present on the plasma membrane of apical microvilli and on the lateral cell surfaces of cultured mammalian RPE cells; and (2) this receptor also is present on the plasmalemma of RPE apical microvilli in vivo.
Serotonin produces several actions in rat hippocampal neurons recorded in an in vitro slice preparation. These include activation of a voltage-independent potassium current which results in the hyperpolarization of the recorded cells, the blockage of a calcium-dependent slow potassium current underlying the slow after-hyperpolarization (AHP) which follows a burst firing and generation of a slow late depolarization associated with the blockage of a persistent potassium current. An additional effect that we detected recently involves a blockage of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSP), primarily the slow IPSP, likely to be mediated by activation of potassium currents through a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-B receptor. The reduction in the IPSPs is produced by a lower concentration of serotonin than that required to produce the hyperpolarization. The lack of reduced sensitivity to GABA indicates that the effect of serotonin on the IPSPs might be presynaptic. Indeed, serotonin has a much larger effect on putative interneurons than on pyramidal neurons. It is suggested that serotonin can enhance reactivity of the hippocampus to afferent stimulation by reducing slow inhibitory synaptic potentials while at the same time reducing the spontaneous activity of the recorded neurons. These effects of serotonin develop relatively late (2-3 weeks postnatally), along with the late appearance of the slow inhibitory potentials.

With demographic change, Western populations are becoming older. The prolonged decline in incidence of stroke, already a very costly illness, may soon reverse. This paper briefly reviews medical treatments of acute stroke that have been popular in the past and finds that they have been generally of little value. The place of naftidrofuryl, a drug with a complex pharmacological profile that includes selective S2-receptor blockade, is discussed in greater detail. Two clinical studies have indicated that, although it may not alter death rate in acute stroke, naftidrofuryl therapy enhances recovery from the disabling effects of cerebral infarction. One important consequence of this is a potentially major reduction in time spent in hospital by stroke patients. Hospital bed occupancy has been identified as a principal component in the cost of stroke to health services. Drug treatments that reduce death rate without improving recovery in survivors have an opposite effect, as has been seen in an important trial of glycerol.

Cerebral metabolic and behavioral effects of acutely administered nicotine were measured in rats in relation to dose. Nicotine 0.1, 1, or 10 mg/kg or vehicle was administered intraperitoneally to 3-month-old male Fischer-344 rats that had been pretreated with hexamethonium bromide 5 mg/kg i.p. to reduce peripheral autonomic effects. Regional CMRglc (rCMRglc) values were measured, using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]-2-deoxy-D-glucose method, in 71 brain regions, beginning 3 min after nicotine or vehicle administration. Intensity of body tremor, scored by a blinded rater, was dose related and peaked at 3 min after nicotine injection. rCMRglc rose in a dose-related manner: Nicotine 0.1 mg/kg had no significant effect in any region, whereas 1 mg/kg elevated rCMRglc significantly in 21 regions (mean rise 20%) and 10 mg/kg produced generalized (56 regions) and greater (mean rise 50%) increases in rCMRglc. Nicotine 1 mg/kg activated thalamic nuclei, cerebellum, geniculate nuclei, superior colliculus, median raphe, reticular formation, and the habenulointerpeduncular pathway, but was without effect in the telencephalon. Effects of nicotine in the hindbrain were related anatomically to reported distributions of [3H]nicotine and [3H]acetylcholine but not [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites, implying that the former ligands label functional nicotine receptors. The pattern of change in rCMRglc after nicotine administration suggests that its cognitive effects in humans are due to augmented arousal/attention and visual processing rather than to direct neocortical or hippocampal activation.
Defects of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain are important causes of neurological disease. We report studies that demonstrate a severe deficiency of complex I activity with less severe abnormalities of complexes III and IV (less than 5, 63, and 30% of control values, respectively) in a skeletal muscle mitochondrial fraction from a 22-yr-old female with weakness, lactic acidemia, and the deposition of intramuscular neutral lipid. The observation that lipid accumulates in this and other patients with complex I deficiency suggests impaired mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. To investigate this mechanism we have shown impaired flux through beta-oxidation [( U-14C]hexadecanoate oxidation was 66% of control rate) and accumulation of specific acyl-CoA ester intermediates. The changes in fatty acid metabolism in complex I deficiency are secondary to the reduced state within the mitochondrial matrix with low NAD+/NADH ratios.
Recent advances in the neurosciences have provided important new approaches to understanding mental illness. Historically, the application of these approaches has followed patterns that parallel the scientific process of repeated testing and reexamination. In the investigation of schizophrenia, this process has focused particular attention on the frontal lobes. Special considerations should be weighed in assimilating and integrating these new approaches into our field.
An idea that human cognitive resources are virtually without limit turns up at all levels of mind/brain science. This tacit unbounded-resource assumption has paradoxical consequences in neuroscience, particularly involving the quantitative incoherence of some key anatomical studies of cortical connectivity resources: cortical sheet area, synaptic density there, and giant axonic arborizations in visual cortex. This inattention to quantitative consistency checking in neuroanatomy appears to stem from, as a notable instance, something of the nonspatial character of the Cartesian concept of mind being extended to the brain as physical structure.
The developmental stage at which a neuron becomes committed to a neurotransmitter phenotype is an important time in its ontogenetic history. The present study examines when choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) is first detected within each of four different subsets of cholinergic neurons previously identified in the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord: namely, motor neurons, partition cells, central canal cluster cells, and dorsal horn neurons. By examining the temporal sequence of embryonic development of these cholinergic neurons, we can infer the relationships between ChAT expression and other important developmental events. ChAT was first detected reliably on embryonic day 13 (E13) by both biochemical and immunocytochemical methods, and it was localized predominantly within motor neurons. A second group of primitive-appearing ChAT-positive cells was detected adjacent to the ventricular zone on E14. These neurons seemed to disperse laterally into the intermediate zone by E15, and, on the basis of their location, were tentatively identified as partition cells. A third group of primitive ChAT-immunoreactive cells was detected on E16, both within and around the ventral half of the ventricular zone. By E17, some members of this &quot;U&quot;-shaped group appeared to have dispersed dorsally and laterally, probably giving rise to dorsal horn neurons as well as dorsal central canal cluster cells. Other members of this group remained near the ventral ventricular zone, most likely differentiating into ventral central canal cluster cells. Combined findings from the present study and a previous investigation of neurogenesis (Phelps et al.: J. Comp. Neurol. 273:459-472, '88), suggest that premitotic precursor cells have not yet acquired the cholinergic phenotype because ChAT is not detectable until after the onset of neuronal generation for each of the respective subsets of cholinergic neurons. However, ChAT is expressed in primitive bipolar neurons located within or adjacent to the germinal epithelium. Transitional stages of embryonic development suggest that these primitive ChAT-positive cells migrate to different locations within the intermediate zone to differentiate into the various subsets of mature cholinergic neurons. Therefore, it seems likely that spinal cholinergic neurons are committed to the cholinergic phenotype at pre- or early migratory stages of their development. Our results also hint that the subsets of cholinergic cells may follow different migration routes. For example, presumptive partition cells may use radial glial processes for guidance, whereas dorsal horn neurons may migrate along nerve fibers of the commissural pathway. Cell-cell interactions along such diverse migratory pathways could play a role in determining the different morphological, and presumably functional, phenotypes expressed by spinal cholinergic neurons.
Teleost fish eyes grow throughout life without compromising visual performance of the animal. This is made possible by a set of novel adaptations in the growth and development of the eye. Increased retinal area is achieved both by stretching the existing retina and by generation of new tissue at the retinal germinal zone at the margin of the eye. Rods are added in a fundamentally different fashion than are all other retinal cell types: they appear last as new retina is produced at the margin and they are inserted throughout the functional retina as it stretches. In this way, the animal maintains a constant rod density to preserve vision in low light level. Because the larger eye produces a larger image, visual acuity improves slightly as the animal grows. Adaptations responsible for regulation of retinal growth are analyzed and discussed.

The cholinergic structures in the cranial nerve motor nuclei and lamina IX of the cervical spinal cord of the rat were examined immunohistochemically with a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The brainstem motor nuclei were classified into 3 groups according to the way of distribution of ChAT-positive structures in the neuropil of the nucleus. 1. The oculomotor, trochlear and abducent nuclei contained moderately ChAT-positive perikarya and dendrites. A small number of ChAT-positive bouton-like structures were found in the neuropil, but they were not in contact with ChAT-positive perikarya and dendrites. 2. Motoneurons in the facial, hypoglossal and trigeminal motor nuclei were moderately to strongly ChAT-positive. There were in the neuropil numerous ChAT-positive bouton-like structures and many of them were in contact with ChAT-positive perikarya and dendrites. The same pattern of organization of ChAT-positive structures was observed in lamina IX of the cervical spinal cord. In the nucleus ambiguus, the perikarya and proximal dendrites of about half population of motoneurons contacted with ChAT-positive bouton-like structures while the rest of motoneurons did not. ChAT-positive bouton-like structures in contact with motoneurons are interpreted as the cholinergic synaptic terminals, and this suggests that motoneurons in this group are cholinoceptive as well as cholinergic. 3. Neuronal perikarya and dendrites in the dorsal nucleus of the vagus showed weak to moderate positivity of ChAT. The neuropil of this nucleus was free from any distinctly ChAT-positive structures.
A radioautographic study of the European eel (Anguilla anguilla) was carried out in ten female specimens at the catadromic migratory silver stage. Terminal arborizations of contralaterally projecting visual fibres were identified in ten hypothalamic structures (area optica preoptica ventralis and the nuclei suprachiasmaticus, opticus hypothalamicus ventromedialis, preopticus magnocellularis lateralis, posterioris lateralis, posterioris dorsalis periventricularis posterioris dorsalis lateralis, posterioris dorsalis medialis, posterioris ventralis lateralis, and posterioris ventralis periventricularis), ten thalamo-pretectal structures (Areas C1 and C2, area optica tractus opticus ventrolateralis and the nuclei dorsolateralis thalami, ventrolateralis thalami pars ventralis, opticus ventralis thalami, geniculatus lateralis, opticus pretectalis partes dorsalis et ventralis, and opticus commissurae posterioris), and in the tectal strata opticum partes externa et interna, fibrosum et griseum superficiale, griseum centrale and album centrale. An accessory optic system was identified, and a contralateral retinal projection to the anterior region of the anterior semicircular torus (n. opticus dorsolateralis mesencephali) was identified. Ipsilateral projections to hypothalamic and thalamopretectal structures were also observed. Apart from the retinal projection to the preoptic area, which is exceptionally important in the silver eel, the general plan of organization of the primary visual centres of this form is comparable to that described in other species of teleost. However, the architecture of some primary visual centres shows characteristics similar to those described in more primitive Actinopterygians.
DARPP-32, a substrate for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, is highly enriched in the caudate nucleus. In the present study, the cDNA for rat DARPP-32 was isolated and characterized. When compared to the coding region of bovine DARPP-32 cDNA, there was 86% identity at the nucleotide level, and 84% identity at the amino acid level. The homology in the region previously noted to be similar to phosphatase inhibitor-1 remained intact. There were also 3'-untranslated regions that were highly conserved. The DARPP-32 mRNA, which appeared as a doublet, was widely distributed in the central nervous system and was highly enriched in the striatum. Southern blot analysis revealed a simple hybridization pattern, consistent with the presence of a single gene coding for rat DARPP-32. Unilateral destruction of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway by injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the substantia nigra did not alter the striatal steady state levels of DARPP-32 mRNA.
Serotonin (5-HT) caused a dose-dependent accumulation of inositol monophosphate (IP-1) in rat hippocampal slices (maximal effect + 172%, EC50 = 630 nM) in the presence of LiCl. The 5-HT response was blocked potently by a non-selective 5-HT receptor antagonist metergoline and a 5-HT1C/5-HT2 receptor antagonist ritanserin. The 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin and spiperone were, however, less potent at inhibiting the 5-HT response. m-Chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), a 5-HT1C receptor agonist but a 5-HT2 antagonist stimulated directly PI turnover, yet mCPP inhibited 5-HT-stimulated PI response. These findings indicate that both 5-HT1C and 5-HT2 receptors are involved with a complicated interaction of each receptor in 5-HT-stimulated PI hydrolysis in rat hippocampus. 10-Day treatment with para-chlorophenyl-alanine (PCPA), a 5-HT synthesis inhibitor, resulted in a significant increase (maximal effect + 225%, EC50 = 580 nM) in 5-HT-stimulated IP-1 accumulation with no substantial change in EC50 value, which suggest that subchronic treatment with PCPA enhances the 5-HT-mediated PI hydrolysis in rat hippocampus.
35 Parkinson's disease patients with motor response fluctuations (RF) participated in controlled clinical trials comparing Sinemet CR to Standard Sinemet (STD) at our institutions. 13 of 25 eligible patients continued to two years (the longest possible follow-up from the second study), and 5 of 11 have continued taking CR up to 4 years. At the end of both two and four years, patients were taking significantly fewer medication doses, with a significantly longer interdose interval, and up to two years, experienced fewer &quot;off&quot; periods than when on Standard Sinemet (STD) alone. Most patients required STD at at least one dose each day to hasten to onset of antiparkinson effect. Sinemet CR is a useful adjunct in the long-term management of motor response fluctuations in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease is associated with degeneration of the nigrostriatal bundle. However, the neurological symptoms that accompany this disease do not emerge until the degenerative process is almost complete. Early studies with animals models suggested that the extensive preclinical phase of Parkinsonism was due in part to the development of a compensatory hyperactivity within remaining dopamine-containing neurons. Other studies suggested that systemic administration of L-DOPA could reduce the neurological symptoms once they emerged by further increasing the availability of dopamine in striatum. Subsequent work has supported both hypothesis.


Opioid receptors have been characterized in Drosophila neural tissue. [3H]Etorphine (universal opioid ligand) bound stereospecifically, saturably, and with high affinity (KD = 8.8 +/- 1.7 nM; Bmax = 2.3 +/- 0.2 pmol/mg of protein) to Drosophila head membranes. Binding analyses with more specific ligands showed the presence of two distinct opioid sites in this tissue. One site was labeled by [3H]dihydromorphine ([3H]DHM), a mu-selective ligand: KD = 150 +/- 34 nM; Bmax = 3.0 +/- 0.6 pmol/mg of protein. Trypsin or heat treatment (100 degrees C for 15 min) of the Drosophila extract reduced specific [3H]DHM binding by greater than 80%. The rank order of potency of drugs at this site was levorphanol greater than DHM greater than normorphine greater than naloxone much greater than dextrorphan; the mu-specific peptide [D-Ala2,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin and delta-, kappa-, and sigma-ligands were inactive at this site. The other site was labeled by (-)-[3H]ethylketocyclazocine ((-)-[3H]EKC), a kappa-opioid, which bound stereospecifically, saturably, and with relatively high affinity to an apparent single class of receptors (KD = 212 +/- 25 nM; Bmax = 1.9 +/- 0.2 pmol/mg of protein). (-)-[3H]EKC binding could be displaced by kappa-opioids but not by mu-, delta-, or sigma-opioids or by the kappa-peptide dynorphin. Specific binding constituted approximately 70% of total binding at 1 nM and approximately 50% at 800 nM for all three radioligands ([3H]etorphine, [3H]EKC, and [3H]DHM). Specific binding of the delta-ligands [3H][D-Ala2,D-Leu5]-enkephalin and [3H][D-Pen2,D-Pen5]-enkephalin was undetectable in this preparation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report the morphological, biochemical, immunological, and genetic findings in a patient with the clinical characteristics of Leigh's disease due to multisystemic cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency. Muscle biopsy at 2 years and 5 months of age showed markedly decreased CCO and cytochrome a + a3, moderately decreased NADH-cytochrome c reductase to 46.3%, and generalized loss of immunologically detectable CCO subunits, but other respiratory chain enzyme proteins were normal. All the tissues examined at autopsy showed decreased activity of all respiratory chain enzymes except complex II. The decrease in cytochromes b and a + a3 were in harmony with decreased enzyme activities in complex III and IV (CCO), respectively. All immunologically detectable subunits of CCO in immunoprecipitation were uniformly decreased in the cardiac and skeletal muscles, but subunits 1 and 4 were selectively decreased in other organs except liver. No large deletion could be detected in the cardiac muscle mtDNA after digestion with restriction enzymes. These results suggest that the respiratory chain enzymes are variable in their activity and the amount of enzyme proteins decreases as the disease progresses.
1. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of drugs blocking glycinergic and GABAergic transmission on the postsynaptic inhibition of hindlimb motoneurons produced by activation of last-order laminae V-VI interneurons, which are coexcited by muscle and cutaneous afferents and have axonal branches projecting to the Clarke's column. 2. In anesthetized cats with right spinal cord hemisected and both dorsal columns cut between L4 and L5 segments, stimulation of the Clarke's column (CC) at L3-L4 level produced a short-latency, presumably monosynaptic, inhibitory potential that could be recorded either from L7 or S1 ventral rootlets by means of the sucrose-gap technique (iVRP) or intracellularly from hindlimb motoneurons (IPSP). These potentials have been attributed to antidromic activation of a population of last-order interneurons mediating nonreciprocal inhibition of motoneurons. 3. The early iVRP and IPSP produced by CC stimulation was practically abolished 10-20 s after the intravenous injection of strychnine (0.1 mg/kg) and replaced by an excitatory synaptic potential followed by delayed, slow, strychnine-resistant inhibitory potential. 4. Monosynaptic reflexes (MSR) elicited by stimulation of group I gastrocnemius (GS) afferents were inhibited during the occurrence of the CC-iVRP. This inhibition was significantly reduced after intravenous strychnine. On the other hand, the inhibition of the GS-MSR, produced by conditioning stimulation of the posterior biceps and semitendinosus (PBSt) nerve with trains of pulses applied 25-35 ms before the test stimulus, was practically unchanged after the intravenous injection of strychnine. 5. The CC-iVRP and the associated inhibition of GS-MSRs were not significantly affected after the intravenous injection of 0.1 mg/kg of picrotoxin, which clearly reduced the dorsal root potentials (DRP), the late component of the iVRP, and the inhibition of MSRs produced by PBSt volleys. 6. The effect of strychnine and picrotoxin was tested on the monosynaptic iVRP elicited by single intermediate nucleus interneurons that were antidromically activated from the CC and responded both to low-threshold cutaneous fibers and to group I or group II afferents. In three experiments where the interneuronal activity could be kept after the drug injection, it was possible to show that strychnine abolished the interneuronally elicited iVRP, which was replaced by an excitatory synaptic potential with onset preceding the interneuronal activity. In another experiment, it was possible to show that the interneuronally elicited iVRP was not affected by an intra-aortic injection of picrotoxin (0.5 mg/kg) that reduced to one-half the DRP and the iVRP produced by group I PBSt volleys.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We have examined the effects of L-glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on the presynaptic membrane of spiny lobster by the use of intra-axonal recording near the nerve terminals. 2. Application of glutamate to the synaptic region produced hyperpolarization in the presynaptic membrane but depolarization in the postsynaptic membrane. The presynaptic glutamate potential (PGP) is generated by an activation of K+ channels, as evidenced by its dependence on external K+ concentration. 3. The PGP was not affected by a spider toxin (JSTX), which blocks the postsynaptic glutamate receptor. By contrast, pertussis toxin (IAP) effectively blocked the PGP without affecting the resting conductance channels or action potentials in the presynaptic membrane. 4. Guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP gamma S), a hydrolysis-resistant analogue of GTP, blocked the PGP, suggesting the involvement of a G protein in the generation of K+ current. 5. Application of GABA induced depolarization or hyperpolarization in the presynaptic axon depending on the resting membrane potential. By reducing external Cl-, GABA-induced hyperpolarizations were converted to depolarizations, indicating that they are mainly mediated by Cl-. 6. In contrast to GABA, baclofen consistently induced hyperpolarization in low Cl- solution as well as in normal solution. Baclofen-induced hyperpolarization was blocked by IAP, indicating the mediation of G protein. 7. These results suggest that the presynaptic membrane of lobster neuromuscular synapse has entirely different types of amino-acid receptors from those in the postsynaptic membrane. Both the excitatory and the inhibitory axonal membrane have glutamate (&quot;glutamateB&quot;) and GABAB receptors, which activate K+ channels via G protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Several laboratories have reported a significant reduction of ischemia-induced injury to hippocampal neurons in rodents treated with competitive and noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-channel antagonists. This study examined the effects of the noncompetitive antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) in Mongolian gerbils subjected to 5 min of bilateral carotid artery occlusion. In adult female gerbils, single doses of MK-801 injected 1 hr prior to ischemia significantly (p less than 0.01) reduced damage to CA1 hippocampal neurons. However, the drug rendered the postischemic animals comatose and hypothermic for several hours compared with the saline-treated animals. In subsequent experiments, animals pretreated with MK-801 and maintained normothermic during and after forebrain ischemia demonstrated no amelioration of hippocampal damage. Gerbils not treated with MK-801, but kept hypothermic in the postischemic period to approximately the same degree (34.5 degrees C) and duration (8 hr) as was induced by MK-801 therapy showed significant (p less than 0.01) protection of CA1 neurons against ischemia. The neuroprotective activity of MK-801 against transient global ischemia appears to be largely a consequence of postischemic hypothermia rather than a direct action on NMDA receptor-channels.
Accurate pathfinding is a crucial step in formation of a functional nervous system. Individually identified zebrafish primary motoneurons undergo a stereotyped temporal sequence of axonal outgrowth and pathway selection during which their growth cones follow a common pathway to a &quot;choice point&quot; and then select divergent cell-specific pathways that lead to separate muscle territories. The characteristic sequence of cell-specific pathway selection raises the possibility that the sequence of growth cone arrival at the choice point might determine pathway selection. To test this idea, we ablated identified primary motoneurons by laser irradiation, labeled the remaining primary motoneuron in the same hemisegment with a fluorescent dye, and followed its development through the end of embryogenesis. We found that the growth cone of each primary motoneuron has an independent ability to pioneer the common pathway and select its appropriate cell-specific pathway, even in the absence of all other primary motoneurons in the same hemisegment.
Every trunk hemisegment of the zebrafish is innervated by 3 identified primary motoneurons whose development can be observed directly in living embryos. In this paper, we describe another identified neuron that is part of this system. Unlike the other primary motoneurons which are present in all trunk hemisegments, this cell is present in slightly less than half of the trunk hemisegments. Additionally, this cell has at least 2 different fates: it may become a primary motoneuron and arborize in an exclusive muscle territory, or it may die during embryonic development. We have named this cell VaP, for variable primary. We show that the presence of VaP does not affect the early development of the other primary motoneurons in the same hemisegment. Moreover, we show that ablation of both VaP and caudal primary does not alter pathfinding by another identified primary motoneuron.
