Accumulating evidence indicates that dopamine (DA) D(3) receptor antagonists appear highly promising in attenuating cocaine reward and relapse in preclinical models of addiction. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the novel D(3)-selective antagonist NGB 2904 (N-(4-[4-{2,3-dichlorophenyl}-1-piperazinyl]butyl)-3-fluorenylcarboxamide) on cocaine self-administration, cocaine-enhanced brain stimulation reward (BSR), and cocaine-triggered reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in male Long-Evans rats. We found that: (1) acute intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of NGB 2904 (0.1-10 mg/kg) failed to alter cocaine self-administration (0.5 mg/kg/infusion) under fixed-ratio 2 (FR2) reinforcement, but 1 or 5 mg/kg NGB 2904 significantly lowered the break-point for cocaine self-administration under progressive-ratio (PR) reinforcement; (2) cocaine (1, 2, and 10 mg/kg) significantly enhanced electrical BSR (decreased brain reward thresholds), while NGB 2904 significantly inhibited the enhancement of BSR elicited by 2 mg/kg, but not 10 mg/kg of cocaine; (3) NGB 2904 alone neither maintained self-administration behavior nor altered brain reward thresholds; and (4) NGB 2904 significantly inhibited cocaine-triggered reinstatement of extinguished drug-seeking behavior, but not sucrose-plus-sucrose-cue-triggered reinstatement of sucrose-seeking behavior. Overall, these data show that the novel D(3)-selective antagonist NGB 2904 attenuates cocaine's rewarding effects as assessed by PR self-administration, BSR, and cocaine-triggered reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Owing to these properties and to its lack of rewarding effects (as assessed by BSR and by substitution during drug self-administration), NGB 2904 merits further investigation as a potential agent for treatment of cocaine addiction.
Noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine, ketamine, and MK-801 produce schizophrenia-like psychosis in humans. The same NMDA antagonists injure retrosplenial cortical neurons in adult rats. We examined the effects of atypical antipsychotics and an inhibitor of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase pp60 (Src) on the cortical injury produced by MK-801. An atypical antipsychotic (either clozapine, ziprasidone, olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone) or vehicle was administered to adult female Sprague-Dawley rats. PP1 (Src inhibitor), PP3 (nonfunctional analog of PP1) or vehicle (DMSO) was administered to another group of animals. After pretreatment, animals were injected with MK-801, killed 24 h after the MK-801, and injury to retrosplenial cortex assessed by neuronal Hsp70 protein expression. All atypical antipsychotics examined significantly attenuated MK-801-induced cortical damage. PP1 protected compared to vehicle, whereas PP3 did not protect. The ED50s (decrease injury by 50%) were as follows: PP1 &lt;0.1 mg/kg; olanzapine 0.8 mg/kg; risperdal 1 mg/kg; clozapine 3 mg/kg; ziprasidone 32 mg/kg; and quetiapine 45 mg/kg. The data show that the atypical antipsychotics tested as well as a Src kinase inhibitor prevent the injury produced by the psychomimetic MK-801, and the potency of the atypical antipsychotics for preventing cortical injury was roughly similar to the potency of these drugs for treating psychosis in patients.
Objective To explore the possible role of voltage-gated potassium channel-interacting protein 1 (KChIP1) in the pathogenesis of epilepsy. Methods Sprague Dawley female adult rats were treated with pentylenettrazole (PTZ) to develop acute and chronic epilepsy models. The approximate coronal sections of normal and epilepsy rat brain were processed for immunohistochemistry. Double-labeling confocal microscopy was used to determine the coexistence of KChIP1 and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Results KChIP1 was expressed abundantly throughout adult rat brain. KChIP1 is highly co-localize with GABA transmitter in hippocampus and cerebral cortex. In the acute PTZ-induced convulsive rats, the number of KChIP1-postive cells was significantly increased especially in the regions of CA1 and CA3 (P &lt; 0.05); whereas the chronic PTZ-induced convulsive rats were found no changes. The number of GABA-labeled and co-labeled neurons in the hippocampus appeared to have no significant alteration responding to the epilepsy-genesis treatments. Conclusion KChIP1 might be involved in the PTZ-induced epileptogenesis process as a regulator to neuronal excitability through influencing the properties of potassium channels. KChIP1 is preferentially expressed in GABAergic neurons, but its changes did not couple with GABA in the epileptic models.
Cerebellar Purkinje cells represent a group of neurons highly vulnerable to ischemia. Excitotoxicity is thought to be an important pathophysiological mechanism in Purkinje cell death following ischemia. The glutamate transporter is the only mechanism for the removal of glutamate from the extracellular fluid in the brain. Therefore, glutamate transporters are believed to play a critical role in protecting Purkinje cells from ischemia-induced damage. Two distinct glutamate transporters, GLAST and EAAT4, are expressed most abundantly in the cerebellar cortex. GLAST is expressed in Bergmann glia, whereas EAAT4 is concentrated in the perisynaptic regions of Purkinje cell spines. However, the in vivo functional significance of these glial and neuronal glutamate transporters in postischemic Purkinje cell death is largely unknown. To clarify the role of these glutamate transporters in the protection of Purkinje cells after global brain ischemia, we evaluated Purkinje cell loss after cardiac arrest in mice lacking GLAST or EAAT4. We found that Purkinje cells with low EAAT4 expression were selectively lost after cardiac arrest in GLAST mutant mice. This result demonstrates that GLAST plays a role in preventing excitotoxic cerebellar damage after ischemia in concert with EAAT4.







Microcephaly, retinal dysplasia, pedal edema syndrome is a rare syndrome and possibly under diagnosed. We could find less than 25 cases reported in the literature. Patients were initially categorized as having either microcephaly and lymphedema or microcephaly and chorioretinal dysplasia. The existence of the 3 criteria in the same patients is reported. Other features such as mental retardation and short stature were noticed in other patients. In the Pediatric Department of the Armed Forces Hospital Southern Region, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we report a case with all clinical manifestations described in the above-related syndromes. The girl has microcephaly, retinal dysplasia, pedal edema, short stature, mental retardation, and some other dysmorphic features. The parents are not relatives, but both have retinal dysplastic changes. This report documents the existence of all different features reported in the literature in one patient, suggesting that different clinical features of reported patients are possibly the variable expression of the same syndrome.
Intracranial extraskeletal mesenchymal chondrosarcoma is a rare malignant variant of chondrosarcomas. We present a 5-year-old Saudi male child who was brought to the Emergency Department with the complaints of headache, irritability, vomiting, and unsteadiness of gait with right hemiparesis. Radiological studies confirmed the presence of a space-occupying lesion in the left cerebral hemisphere of the brain. Through a left temporoparietal craniotomy a total macroscopic excision of the tumor was carried out, and the tumor was found attached to the dura at the base of the temporal fossa. The tumor was well circumscribed, extra axial in location, and was easily dissected from the other part of the brain. The histopathological examination revealed the tumor to be a mesenchymal chondrosarcoma. This rare tumor of the pediatric age group should be included in the differential diagnosis of all intracranial tumors with aggressive characteristics.
Advances in perinatal monitoring and early treatment for hyperbilirubinemia in high-risk patients have greatly reduced the incidence of kernicterus. Findings on MRI in patients with kernicterus are characteristic. The most characteristic pattern of neuropathological lesions in kernicterus is symmetric and highly selective involvement of the basal ganglia. In this study, we report the MRI findings in 2 infants with clinical and laboratory evidence of kernicterus.
Neurosyphilis is the infection of the central nervous system with treponema pallidum species, and true to its reputation as the old mimic, can present with a multitude of clinical scenarios, one of which is stroke in the young. Rare in developed countries, except for an at-risk population of drug abusers and HIV infected patients; it is still common in the rest of the world. We describe the case of a young Indian male, his presentation, diagnosis and treatment, and remarkable recovery on aqueous penicillin G therapy following his presentation with a stroke.
Spinal tumors are rare; intramedullary tumors are uncommon among these lesions, and occur in only 10% of cases in adults. Ependymoma is the most frequent histological type (40-60%). We report the case of a 22-year-old girl, presenting with local back pain, ascendant paresthesia, a progressive flask paraparesis, and a vesical globe. The clinical examination concluded in a mild motor weakness with areflexia of both patellar and Achilles tendons. The diagnosis of intramedullary tumor was made on MRI. The radiological and the macroscopic aspects evoked an ependymoma; the diagnosis was histologically confirmed after surgery (myxopapillary ependymoma) with a favorable evolution.
Inflammatory demyelinating pseudotumor (IDP) is a rare inflammatory lesion of unknown etiology, which presents as a space-occupying lesion but responds dramatically to steroid therapy. The objective of this report is to document 2 cases of IDP seen in Kuwait. Two female patients, aged 35 and 27 years presented with the clinical and radiological features of a space-occupying lesion. Radiological investigations showed partial ring-enhancing lesions with insignificant mass effect, which were multiple in patient one, and single in patient 2. Biopsies in each patient showed features of a demyelinating disorder. Both patients remarkably improved clinically on steroid therapy. The report highlights the need for an early and correct diagnosis of IDP for therapeutic purposes.











Although diabetes might not be typically associated with reduced intelligence in children, mild cognitive function impairment may occur if onset is before 5 years of age, or the child has recurrent hypoglycemic seizures for longer periods. Therefore, children receiving intensive insulin therapy should be closely monitored to prevent hypoglycemic seizures. Some studies have showed that the hypoglycemic effect is minimal on cognition, and may be due to hyperglycemic microvascular disease associated with diabetes. Others suggested a protective effect for hypoglycemia on developing cognitive function decrement in diabetic children. Both electronic as well as published databases were searched, and studies assessed regarding their methodology. The conclusion showed that this issue is still controversial with better evidence toward negative effects of hypoglycemia on younger age group memories, especially those exposed to cumulative hypoglycemic attacks for a longer time and intensity.
Vertebral osteomyelitis (VO) is an infectious disease of the vertebral body that requires early diagnosis with identification of the infecting organism to direct antibiotic therapy. Most VO can be treated nonsurgically, but 10% to 20% of cases require open surgical treatment. Excellent clinical outcomes can be achieved with appropriate medical and surgical treatment.
The assessment of the flow-void in the cerebral aqueduct of patients with post-traumatic hydrocephalus on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evaluation could concur the right diagnosis and have a prognostic value. We analysed prospectively 28 patients after a severe head injury (GCS&lt;or=8), with radiological or clinical suspicion of post-traumatic hydrocephalus and a fast flow-void signal in the cerebral acqueduct on T2-weighted and proton density MRI. Twenty-two patients were shunted (n=19) or revised (n=3). Six patients were followed-up without surgery. Twenty out of 22 shunted patients (91%) showed variable reduction of the fast flow-void. Eighteen of the operated patients (82%) presented a significant clinical improvement at 6-month follow-up. All patients (n=2) who had no change of the fast flow-void after surgery did not clinically improve. The six non-shunted patients did not present any clinical or radiological improvement. In head-injured patients, fast flow-void in the cerebral aqueduct is diagnostic for post-traumatic hydrocephalus and its reduction after ventriculo-peritoneal shunt is correlated with a neurological improvement. In already shunted patients, a persistent fast flow-void is associated with a lack of or very slow clinical improvement and it should be considered indicative of under-drainage.


Because of electrical and thermal spread to healthy nervous tissue, the application of electrosurgical tools in neurosurgery has specific limitations. This is true for both bipolar and monopolar devices. These limitations are not inherent to an instrument in which action is based on electromagnetic interaction with human tissue. We evaluated the indications and the clinical applicability of a new radiofrequency electrosurgical unit that works on this biophysical principle. The system was found to be a useful addition for the resection of morphologically tougher tissue with keyhole approaches in which the ultrasound aspirator cannot easily be applied.


A MOTOR NEUROPROSTHETIC device, or brain computer interface, is a machine that can take some type of signal from the brain and convert that information into overt device control such that it reflects the intentions of the user's brain. In essence, these constructs can decode the electrophysiological signals representing motor intent. With the parallel evolution of neuroscience, engineering, and rapid computing, the era of clinical neuroprosthetics is approaching as a practical reality for people with severe motor impairment. Patients with such diseases as spinal cord injury, stroke, limb loss, and neuromuscular disorders may benefit through the implantation of these brain computer interfaces that serve to augment their ability to communicate and interact with their environment. In the upcoming years, it will be important for the neurosurgeon to understand what a brain computer interface is, its fundamental principle of operation, and what the salient surgical issues are when considering implantation. We review the current state of the field of motor neuroprosthetics research, the early clinical applications, and the essential considerations from a neurosurgical perspective for the future.
CD-1 mice were exposed to the organophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) both prenatally (gestational days 15-18; doses 0, 3 or 6 mg/kg) and postnatally (postnatal days 11-14, doses 0, 1 or 3 mg/kg). When four-month-olds, females underwent a social recognition test in which ultrasound vocalizations (USVs) and social investigation behavior emitted by a resident female in the presence of a female partner were measured during two subsequent 3 min sessions (interval between the two sessions 45 min). Throughout the social recognition test a marked increase in USVs was found in females prenatally treated with the highest CPF dose; USV increase was also paralleled by a selective increase in frequency and not in duration of social investigation. These results confirm that developmental exposure to CPF induces long-lasting alterations in the social behavior repertoire of the mouse, thus extending our previous observations on the effects of postnatal CPF on male agonistic behavior to the female sex. They also suggest that social recognition can be easily and rapidly assessed in the female mouse making it possible to evaluate, primarily by means of USV emission, even subtle alteration of social behavioral patterns dissociated from cognitive components of individual recognition.
Methyl mercury (MeHg) is highly neurotoxic and may lead to numerous neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we investigated the role of glutathione (GSH) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in MeHg-induced neurotoxicity, using primary cell cultures of cerebellar neurons and astrocytes. To evaluate the effect of GSH on MeHg-induced cytotoxicity, ROS and GSH were measured using the fluorescent indicators chloro methyl derivative of di-chloro di-hydro fluorescein diacetate (CMH(2)DCFDA) and monochlorobimane (MCB). Cell-associated MeHg was measured with (14)C-radiolabeled MeHg. Mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity was detected by MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide]. MTT timeline study was also performed to evaluate the effects of both the concentration and duration of MeHg exposure. The intracellular GSH content was modified by pretreatment with N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) or di-ethyl maleate (DEM) for 12 h. Treatment with 5 microM MeHg for 30 min led to significant (p&lt;0.05) increase in ROS and reduction (p&lt;0.001) in GSH content. Depletion of intracellular GSH by DEM further increased the generation of MeHg-induced ROS in both cell cultures. Conversely, NAC supplementation increased intracellular GSH and provided protection against MeHg-induced oxidative stress in both cell cultures. MTT studies also confirmed the efficacy of NAC supplementation in attenuating MeHg-induced cytotoxicity. The cell-associated MeHg was significantly (p&lt;0.02) increased after DEM treatment. In summary, depletion of GSH increases MeHg accumulation and enhances MeHg-induced oxidative stress, and conversely, supplementation with GSH precursor protects against MeHg exposure in vitro.

Aromatase is an enzyme that converts androgens to estrogens and may play a role in mood and mental status. The aim of this study was to demonstrate that brain aromatase distribution could be evaluated with a novel positron emission tomography (PET) tracer [(11)C]vorozole. Vorozole is a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor that reversibly binds to the heme domain of aromatase. In vitro experiments in rat brain, using frozen section autoradiography, illustrated specific binding in the medial amygdala (MA), the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BST) and the preoptic area (POA) of male rat brain. Specific binding in female rat brain was found in the MA and the BST; however, the signals were lower than those of males. The K(d) of [(11)C]vorozole binding to aromatase in MA was determined to be 0.60+/-0.06 nM by Scatchard plot analysis using homogenates. An in vivo PET study in female rhesus monkey brain demonstrated the uptake of [(11)C]vorozole in the amygdala, where the uptake was blocked by the presence of excess amounts of unlabeled vorozole. Thus, this tracer has a high affinity for brain aromatase and could have a potential for in vivo aromatase imaging. This technique might enable the investigation of human brain aromatase in healthy and diseased persons.


Noxious stimuli that are applied to different somatic sites interact; often one stimulus diminishes the sensation elicited from another site. By contrast, inhibitory interactions between visceral stimuli are not well documented. We investigated the interaction between the effects of noxious distension of the colorectum and noxious stimuli applied to the jejunum, in the rat. Colorectal distension elicited a visceromotor reflex, which was quantified using electromyographic (EMG) recordings from the external oblique muscle of the upper abdomen. The same motor units were activated when a strong pinch was applied to the flank skin. Distension of the jejunum did not provoke an EMG response at this site, but when it was applied during colorectal distension it blocked the EMG response. Jejunal distension also inhibited the response to noxious skin pinch. The inhibition of the visceromotor response to colorectal distension was prevented by local application of tetrodotoxin to the jejunum, and was markedly reduced when nicardipine was infused into the local jejunal circulation. Chronic sub-diaphragmatic vagotomy had no effect on the colorectal distension-induced EMG activity or its inhibition by jejunal distension. The nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium suppressed phasic contractile activity in the jejunum, had only a small effect on the inhibition of visceromotor response by jejunal distension. It is concluded that signals that arise from skin pinch and colorectal distension converge in the central nervous system with pathways that are activated by jejunal spinal afferents; the jejunal signals strongly inhibit the abdominal motor activity evoked by noxious stimuli.
Neuroimaging methods have so far identified various structures in the brain involved in the processing of pain and its control. However, our understanding of their anatomical connectivities is relatively weak. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), a magnetic resonance imaging-based method, allows in vivo mapping of the anatomical connections in the human brain and was used to investigate the white matter connections originating from the periaquaductal grey (PAG) and nucleus cuneiformis (NCF). We performed DTI on 8 healthy right-handed male volunteers. Group analysis showed that tract paths could be defined and their likelihood quantified for connections between the PAG and separately for the NCF, to the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus and rostroventral medial medulla bilaterally. The connections identified confirm the existence of an anatomical circuitry for the functionally characterised top-down influences on pain processing via brainstem structures in humans.
Pain during inflammatory joint diseases is enhanced by the generation of hypersensitivity in nociceptive neurons in the peripheral nervous system. To explore the signaling mechanisms of mechanical hypersensitivity during joint inflammation, experimental arthritis was induced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the synovial cavity of rat knee joints. As a pain index, the struggle threshold of the knee extension angle was measured. In rats with arthritis, the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), induced by passive joint movement, increased significantly in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons innervating the knee joint compared to the nave rats that received the same movement. The intrathecal injection of a MEK inhibitor, U0126, reduced the phosphorylation of ERK in DRG neurons and alleviated the struggle behavior elicited by the passive movement of the joint. In addition, the injection of U0126 into the joint also reduced the struggle behavior. These findings indicate that the ERK signaling is activated in both cell bodies in DRG neurons and peripheral nerve fibers and may be involved in the mechanical sensitivity of the inflamed joint. Furthermore, the phosphorylated ERK-positive neurons co-expressed the P2X3 receptor, and the injection of TNP-ATP, which antagonizes P2X receptors, into the inflamed joint reduced the phosphorylated ERK and the struggle behavior. Thus, it is suggested that the activation of the P2X3 receptor is involved in the phosphorylation of ERK in DRG neurons and the mechanical hypersensitivity of the inflamed knee joint.
The ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) is a core structure underlying the generation of affective behaviors to threats. The prototypical threat to an individual is exposure to a noxious stimulus and the dorsomedial division of the VMH (dmVMH) receives nociceptive input. The present study evaluated the contribution of the dmVMH to generation of the affective reaction to pain in rats. Noxious tailshock elicits from rats vocalization afterdischarges (VADs) that have distinct spectrographic characteristics and are a validated model of the affective reaction to pain. VAD-like vocalizations (vocalizations with the same spectral characteristics of VADs) were elicited by stimulation (electrical or chemical) of the dmVMH. Stimulation in the vicinity of the dmVMH was ineffective in eliciting VADs. Manipulation of GABA(A) neurochemistry within the dmVMH altered the threshold for elicitation of VADs by dmVMH stimulation or tailshock. Administration of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline or the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the dmVMH lowered and elevated VAD thresholds, respectively. These treatments did not alter thresholds of other tailshock elicited responses (vocalizations during tailshock or spinal motor reflexes). Bicuculline and muscimol administered into the dmVMH also elevated and lowered the asymptotic level of fear conditioning supported by dmVMH stimulation or tailshock. These findings demonstrate that the dmVMH contributes to the processing of pain affect and that the affective dimension of pain belongs to a broader class of sensory experience that represents threat to the individual.
Antisense (AS) oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) targeting the Nav 1.8 sodium channel have been reported to decrease inflammatory hyperalgesia and L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation-induced mechanical allodynia in rats. The present studies were conducted to further characterize Nav 1.8 AS antinociceptive profile in rats to better understand the role of Nav 1.8 in different pain states. Consistent with earlier reports, chronic intrathecal Nav 1.8 AS, but not mismatch (MM), ODN decreased TTX-resistant sodium current density (by 60.5+/-10.2% relative to MM; p&lt;0.05) in neurons from L4 to L5 dorsal root ganglia and significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia following intraplantar complete Freund's adjuvant. In addition, 10 days following chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve, Nav 1.8 AS, but not MM, ODN also attenuated mechanical allodynia (54.3+/-8.2% effect, p&lt;0.05 vs. MM) 2 days after initiation of ODN treatment. The anti-allodynic effects remained for the duration of the AS treatment, and CCI rats returned to an allodynic state 4 days after discontinuing AS. In contrast, Nav 1.8 AS ODN failed to reduce mechanical allodynia in the vincristine chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain model or a skin-incision model of post-operative pain. Finally, Nav 1.8 AS, but not MM, ODN treatment produced a small but significant attenuation of acute noxious mechanical sensitivity in nave animals (17.6+/-6.2% effect, p&lt;0.05 vs. MM). These data demonstrate a greater involvement of Nav 1.8 in frank nerve injury and inflammatory pain as compared to acute, post-operative or chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain states.
We investigated the effects of a single course of antenatal betamethasone on cognition- and anxiety-related behavior and synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) immunoreactivity in the adult rat hippocampus. On d 20 of gestation, pregnant rats were injected with either 1) 170 microg/kg body weight of betamethasone (&quot;clinically equivalent dose,&quot; equivalent to 12 mg twice, 24 h apart); 2) half this dose; or 3) vehicle. Cognition- and anxiety-related behavior of the offspring was analyzed at an age of 5 mo using the Morris water maze, object recognition task, and open field test. Subsequently, synaptophysin and MAP2 immunoreactivity were measured in the hippocampus. We report no detrimental effects of antenatal betamethasone on cognition- and anxiety-related behavior and synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the adult rat. On the other hand, MAP2 immunoreactivity was decreased by betamethasone in males, suggesting a permanent impairment in the hippocampus. Interestingly, the lower dose appears to have less influence in terms of growth restriction, known to be associated with an increased risk of disease in adulthood. Further research might elucidate whether the betamethasone effect on hippocampal neurons persists later in life and could affect the aging process increasing the risk for neuropathology of the adult.

Previous physiological studies have suggested central roles of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP). However, little information is available about the localization of BNP in the brain. In this study, we determined cDNA sequence encoding the entire coding region of prepro-BNP of Japanese and cynomologus monkeys, and then examined the immunohistochemical localization of BNP in the monkey hypothalamus. Japanese and cynomologus monkey prepro-BNP consisted of 132 amino acid residues with biologically active C-terminal 32 amino acids. Comparisons of deduced amino acid sequences among different species revealed high homology between monkey and human (91% in prerpro-BNP and 97% in the mature region). Immunohistochemical examination showed that BNP immunoreactive dots were observed in the paraventricular, periventricular, and supraoptic nuclei of the monkey hypothalamus. The present result suggests the central role of BNP in the neuroendocrine system in the hypothalamus.
Fetal development is a period sensitive to environmental influences such as maternal drug use. The most commonly used illicit drug by pregnant women is marijuana. The present study investigated the effects of in utero marijuana exposure on expression levels of opioid-related genes in the human fetal forebrain in light of the strong interaction between the cannabinoid and opioid systems. The study group consisted of 42 midgestation fetuses from saline-induced voluntary abortions. The opioid peptide precursors (preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin (PENK)) and receptor (mu, kappa and delta) mRNA expression were assessed in distinct brain regions. The effect of prenatal cannabis exposure was analyzed by multiple regression controlling for confounding variables (maternal alcohol and cigarette use, fetal age, sex, growth measure and post-mortem interval). Prenatal cannabis exposure was significantly associated with increased mu receptor expression in the amygdala, reduced kappa receptor mRNA in mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and reduced preproenkephalin expression in the caudal putamen. Prenatal alcohol exposure primarily influenced the kappa receptor mRNA with reduced levels in the amygdala, claustrum, putamen and insula cortex. No significant effect of prenatal nicotine exposure could be discerned in the present study group. These results indicate that maternal cannabis and alcohol exposure during pregnancy differentially impair opioid-related genes in distinct brain circuits that may have long-term effects on cognitive and emotional behaviors.
A bovine alpha s1-casein tryptic hydrolysate was previously demonstrated to display an anxiolytic-like activity in the conditioned defensive burying and in the elevated plus-maze models when i.p. injected. The present study assessed the anxiolytic-like effects of this tryptic hydrolysate after an oral administration in rats faced to the same behavioural situations using diazepam as a reference. In a first experiment, the behavioural effects of the hydrolysate in the conditioned defensive burying test were investigated at doses ranging 5-50 mg/kg. The results showed that the minimal dose required to elicit an anxiolytic-like activity is 15 mg/kg. In a second experiment, the alpha s1-casein tryptic hydrolysate (15 mg/kg, p.o.) was demonstrated to display an anxiolytic-like activity similar to diazepam (3 mg/kg, p.o.) in the conditioned defensive burying test and the elevated plus-maze. However, the ethological analysis of behaviour indicated that this hydrolysate has a different activity compared to diazepam. While diazepam induced a disinhibition state in rats, possibly related to the risk-taking behaviour observed after a benzodiazepine ingestion in humans, the tryptic hydrolysate did not display such a side effect. These results suggest that the mechanism of action of the bovine alpha s1-casein tryptic hydrolysate may differ from that of diazepam.
The potential in vivo anticonvulsant effect of calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) inhibitor ascomycin against seizures induced by intrahippocampal microdialysis of picrotoxin was examined in the present study. After establishing individual picrotoxin seizure thresholds, ascomycin was continually microperfused into the rat hippocampus through microdialysis probes at concentrations 10, 50 and 100 microM. No behavioral or electroencephalographic effects were observed during microperfusion of ascomycin alone. Low concentrations (10 microM) of ascomycin did not prevent picrotoxin seizures, however, 50 and 100 microM ascomycin showed antiepileptic effect, completely suppressing seizures in 41.7% and 75% of the animals studied respectively. Mean seizure duration and mean number of seizures were significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.01) by microperfusion of 100 microM ascomycin. Calcineurin activity might be involved in the biochemical changes leading to picrotoxin-induced epileptic seizures. The present findings provide additional in vivo evidence of the involvement of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation mechanisms in the development of epileptic seizures, suggesting that calcineurin modulation may be a possible strategy in the search for new anticonvulsant drugs.
One of the functions of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) is to modulate glutamate release. Thus, targeting mGluR2/3s might be a novel treatment for several psychiatric disorders associated with inappropriate glutamatergic neurotransmission, such as schizophrenia. In an effort to evaluate the antipsychotic properties of LY379268, a potent and selective mGluR2/3 agonist, we examined its effect on ketamine-evoked hyperlocomotion and sensorimotor gating deficit (PPI) in rats, an animal model of schizophrenia. We also measured the ex vivo tissue level of glutamate (Glu), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) as well as the DA metabolites DOPAC and the major 5-HT metabolite HIAA to determine the neurochemical effects of ketamine (12 mg/kg) and LY379268 (1 mg/kg) in the dentate gyrus (DG). While LY379268 (1-3 mg/kg) reduced ketamine-evoked hyperlocomotion (12 mg/kg), it could not restore ketamine-evoked PPI deficits (4-12 mg/kg). In the DG we found that ketamine decreased Glu and DA levels, as well as HIAA/5-HT turnover, and that LY379268 could prevent ketamine effects on Glu level but not on monoamine transmission. These results may indicate that the inability of LY379268 to reverse PPI deficits is attributable to its lack of effect on ketamine-induced changes in monoamine transmission, but that LY379268 can prevent ketamine-evoked changes in glutamate, which is sufficient to block hyperlocomotion. In addition to the partial effectiveness of LY379268 in the ketamine model of schizophrenia, we observed a dual effect of LY379268 on anxious states, whereby a low dose of this compound (1 mg/kg) produced anxiolytic effects, while a higher dose (3 mg/kg) appeared to be anxiogenic. Additional work is needed to address a possible role of LY379268 in schizophrenia and anxiety treatment.
Information in the nervous system may be carried by both the rate and timing of neuronal spikes. Recent findings of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) have fueled the interest in the potential roles of spike timing in processing and storage of information in neural circuits. Induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in a variety of in vitro and in vivo systems has been shown to depend on the temporal order of pre- and postsynaptic spiking. Spike timing-dependent modification of neuronal excitability and dendritic integration was also observed. Such STDP at the synaptic and cellular level is likely to play important roles in activity-induced functional changes in neuronal receptive fields and human perception.
From a structural perspective, the predominant glial cell of the central nervous system, the astrocyte, is positioned to regulate synaptic transmission and neurovascular coupling: the processes of one astrocyte contact tens of thousands of synapses, while other processes of the same cell form endfeet on capillaries and arterioles. The application of subcellular imaging of Ca2+ signaling to astrocytes now provides functional data to support this structural notion. Astrocytes express receptors for many neurotransmitters, and their activation leads to oscillations in internal Ca2+. These oscillations induce the accumulation of arachidonic acid and the release of the chemical transmitters glutamate, d-serine, and ATP. Ca2+ oscillations in astrocytic endfeet can control cerebral microcirculation through the arachidonic acid metabolites prostaglandin E2 and epoxyeicosatrienoic acids that induce arteriole dilation, and 20-HETE that induces arteriole constriction. In addition to actions on the vasculature, the release of chemical transmitters from astrocytes regulates neuronal function. Astrocyte-derived glutamate, which preferentially acts on extrasynaptic receptors, can promote neuronal synchrony, enhance neuronal excitability, and modulate synaptic transmission. Astrocyte-derived d-serine, by acting on the glycine-binding site of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, can modulate synaptic plasticity. Astrocyte-derived ATP, which is hydrolyzed to adenosine in the extracellular space, has inhibitory actions and mediates synaptic cross-talk underlying heterosynaptic depression. Now that we appreciate this range of actions of astrocytic signaling, some of the immediate challenges are to determine how the astrocyte regulates neuronal integration and how both excitatory (glutamate) and inhibitory signals (adenosine) provided by the same glial cell act in concert to regulate neuronal function.
This paper proposes core innovations in the strategy of research on demographic behaviour. One aim is a shift of attention away from events and towards a focus on dynamic processes and their interplay: away from a preoccupation with marriage and divorce, births, deaths, migrations, and household structure towards a broader perspective that takes account of partnership and intimacy, parenthood, potential and well-being, position in society and space, and personal ties. Another aim is a much closer engagement with genetics, neuroscience, psychology, and behavioural economics. A third aim is a strategy that pays more attention to pathways within the individual, to the processes entailed when the individual interacts with various contexts, and to progressions that involve the interplay of the pathways and processes through the life course. These shifts of emphasis, which have already begun to occur, require a systematic reassessment of priorities for research on demographic behaviour.
Although the dualistic concept is unpopular among neuroscientists involved in experimental studies of the brain, neurophysiological literature is full of covert dualistic statements on the possibility of understanding neural mechanisms of human consciousness. Particularly, the covert dualistic attitude is exhibited in the unwillingness to discuss neural mechanisms of consciousness, leaving the problem of consciousness to psychologists and philosophers. This covert dualism seems to be rooted in the main paradigm of neuroscience that suggests that cognitive functions, such as language production and comprehension, face recognition, declarative memory, emotions, etc., are performed by neural networks consisting of simple elements. I argue that neural networks of any complexity consisting of neurons whose function is limited to the generation of electrical potentials and the transmission of signals to other neurons are hardly capable of producing human mental activity, including consciousness. Based on results obtained in physiological, morphological, clinical, and genetic studies of cognitive functions (mainly linguistic ones), I advocate the hypothesis that the performance of cognitive functions is based on complex cooperative activity of &quot;complex&quot; neurons that are carriers of &quot;elementary cognition.&quot; The uniqueness of human cognitive functions, which has a genetic basis, is determined by the specificity of genes expressed by these &quot;complex&quot; neurons. The main goal of the review is to show that the identification of the genes implicated in cognitive functions and the understanding of a functional role of their products is a possible way to overcome covert dualism in neuroscience.
Insulin is best known for its role in peripheral glucose homeostasis. Less studied, but not less important, is its role in the central nervous system. Insulin and its receptor are located in the central nervous system and are both implicated in neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity. Interestingly, over the past few years it has become evident that the effects of insulin, on neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity, are mediated by a common signal transduction cascade, which has been identified as &quot;the PI3K route&quot;. This route has turned out to be a major integrator of insulin signaling in the brain. A pronounced feature of this insulin-activated route is that it promotes survival by directly inactivating the pro-apoptotic machinery. Interestingly, it is this same route that is required for the induction of long-term potentiation and depression, basic processes underlying learning and memory. This leads to the hypothesis that the PI3K route forms a direct link between learning and memory and neuronal survival. The implications of this hypothesis are far reaching, since it provides an explanation why insulin has beneficial effects on learning and memory and how synaptic activity can prevent cellular degeneration. Applying this knowledge may provide novel therapeutic approaches in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
Visual discrimination and reversal learning were tested in adult C57Bl/6 mice that had been treated on postnatal days (PND) 4-10 with diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. DFP-treated mice attained the learning criterion in the Y maze significantly earlier than saline-treated mice. Female mice treated with DFP showed a more rapid decline in errors in the initial discrimination task, compared to female mice treated with saline. There was no effect of DFP treatment on learning the reverse discrimination. The data suggest that long-lasting effects of treatment with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor can improve discrimination learning, similarly to the improvement reported by acute administration in adults.
Polymorphisms in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene have been suggested to be associated with schizophrenia. In a replication attempt, Swedish patients with schizophrenia (n=187) and control subjects (n=275) were assessed for four BDNF gene polymorphisms. There were no significantly different allele, genotype or haplotype frequencies between cases or controls. Neither were there any differences when schizophrenic patients were sub-divided with regard to a number of different clinical variables, although a small group of psychotic patients with prominent affective features displayed higher frequencies of the less common alleles of the Val66Met and 11757 G/C polymorphisms compared to controls. The present Swedish results do not verify previous associations between putative functional BDNF gene polymorphisms and schizophrenia. However, when combined with previous studies meta-analyses indicated that the BDNF 270 T-allele and the Val66Met homozygous state were associated with the disorder. Thus, the BDNF gene may confer susceptibility to schizophrenia. Additional studies are warranted to shed further light on this possibility.
Prior research has indicated that tolerance develops to the antinociceptive effects of ethanol and continues even during withdrawal. Three potential pharmacological mechanisms for this tolerance are examined, using nitrendipine (L-type calcium channel blocker), theophylline (adenosine A1/A2 antagonist) and flumazenil (benzodiazepine antagonist). Rats received 10 days of exposure to an ethanol-containing liquid diet (6.5% w/v). A radiant heat tail-flick assay was used to assess hyperalgesia at 12 h after removal of the liquid diet, as well as tolerance to the effects of cumulative doses of ethanol (0.5-2 g/kg). Co-administration of flumazenil (10 mg/kg, i.p., b.i.d.), nitrendipine (5 mg/kg, i.p., b.i.d.) or theophylline (1 mg/kg, i.p., b.i.d.) with chronic ethanol prevented development of the hyperalgesia produced by ethanol withdrawal, but only theophylline reduced tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of ethanol administered during ethanol withdrawal. In contrast, when administered during ethanol withdrawal, theophylline (1-10 mg/kg) blocked the anti-hyperalgesic effects of ethanol during ethanol withdrawal, whereas nitrendipine (5-25 mg/kg) enabled ethanol to produce levels of antinociception comparable to non-dependent rats. These findings indicate that L-type calcium channels and adenosine receptors play important, but differing roles in the development of hyperalgesia during withdrawal, and to tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of ethanol.
The study examined the high energy-phosphate metabolism of basal ganglia in antipsychotic-naive schizophrenia patients with and without developmental reflexes in comparison to healthy subjects. Nineteen antipsychotic-naive schizophrenics of whom 11 had developmental reflexes and 26 age-sex-matched healthy subjects without developmental reflexes underwent in-vivo 2-D 31P Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy of basal ganglia on a 1.5-T scanner. Mean age-at-onset of psychosis was significantly lower in patients with developmental reflexes. Mean PCr/Total ATP ratio in bilateral basal ganglia was lower in patients than healthy subjects. The ratio was the least in patients with developmental reflexes (F=10.7; df=2, 42; p&lt;0.001). Schizophrenia patients with developmental reflexes had the lowest PCr/Total ATP ratio in basal ganglia indicating more severe metabolic abnormality. These patients had younger age-at-onset of psychosis. Together, this suggests neurodevelopmental etiopathogenesis in schizophrenia.
Evolutionary psychiatry emerged from the conceptual successes of sociobiology and evolutionary psychology. It will need to avoid the many mistakes that biology-free Evolutionary Psychology has been prey to. It should not ignore the wealth of information that exists between the phenotypic expression of symptoms and the genotypic sources of core brain/mind processes that are disrupted in psychiatric disorders. Syndromal-conceptual thinking has become a barrier to illuminating the biological sources of psychiatric disorders. Endophenoytpic-biomarker approaches now offer robust alternatives for generating linkages between psychiatrically relevant psychological changes and the neurobiological infrastructure of disordered mentation. Here I summarize recent advances in endophenotypic thinking in biological psychiatry, and suggest that various core emotional-affective processes may be among the most important endophenotypes that need to be clarified at both neurobiological and genetic levels of analysis. To this end, I discuss strategies to link basic emotional processes that are commonly imbalanced in psychiatric disorders to neuroanatomical, neurochemical, neurophysiology, and molecular genetic levels of analysis. Conjoint animal behavioral-genetic and gene expression, microarray analyses can clarify a variety of key emotional endophenotypes and thereby provide a coherent infrastructure for psychiatric systematics. To further clarify the neurobiological dimensions of psychiatric disorders, we must also focus on psychosocial and environmental stress vectors that converge to create imbalanced emotional and motivational brain activities of psychiatric significance.
One of the most curious questions plaguing subscribers of evolutionary theory is how natural selection's fine-tuned editing function could allow disease to persist. For evolutionary psychiatrists, the existence of psychopathology is thus perplexing. To illustrate a potential answer to one instance of this broad question, we examine the correlates of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) within our normal repertoire of thought and action. The evidence presents a picture of OCD as a dysregulation of normal behaviors and mental states throughout the course of human development. We speculate that such correspondence may be more than a coincidence and that OCD is a consequence of a dysregulation of the neural circuits that are crucially involved in threat detection and harm avoidance. These neural systems are also likely to underlie aspects of religious experience and ritual as well as the wonders of romantic and early parental love.
The plethora of varied and often conflictual research evidence on the functional psychoses calls for a unifying explanatory framework. An evolutionary framework is appropriate in view of the paradoxical epidemiology of the disorders. Evolutionary models that rely on balanced polymorphism or group selection models are not supported by the evidence. Rather, a hypothesis is presented arguing that the spectrum of psychoses should be regarded as a costly by-product of social brain evolution in Homo sapiens. Under social selective pressures, hominid ancestors evolved a sophisticated neural network supporting social cognition and adaptive interpersonal behaviour--this is termed the 'social brain'. The functional psychoses (and schizophrenia in particular) are characterised by functional and structural deficits in these fronto-temporal and fronto-parietal circuits; hence the epithet 'social brain disorders' is fitting. I argue that accumulating evidence for an evolved social brain calls for a new philosophy of mind; a philosophy focussed on the social and interpersonal nature of human experience and derived from the philosophies of Fromm, Heidegger and Merleau-Ponty. Such a paradigm shift would aid modern neuroscience in finally abandoning Cartesian dualism and would guide psychiatry towards an integrated and 'socio-neurologically' embedded understanding of mental disorders.
Thrombospondin-related anonymous protein, TRAP, has a critical role in the hepatocyte invasion step of Plasmodium sporozoites, the transmissible form of the parasite causing malaria. The extracellular domains of this sporozoite surface protein interact with hepatocyte surface receptors whereas its intracellular domain acts as a link to the sporozoite actomyosin motor system. Liver heparan sulfate proteoglycans have been identified as potential ligands for TRAP. Proteoglycan binding has been associated with the A- and TSR domains of TRAP. We present the solution NMR structure of the TSR domain of TRAP and a chemical shift mapping study of its heparin binding epitope. The domain has an elongated structure stabilized by an array of tryptophan and arginine residues as well as disulfide bonds. The fold is very similar to those of thrombospondin type-1 (TSP-1) and F-spondin TSRs. The heparin binding site of TRAP-TSR is located in the N-terminal half of the structure, the layered side chains forming an integral part of the site. The smallest heparin fragment capable of binding to TRAP-TSR is a tetrasaccharide.
Psychiatric rehabilitation services are primarily delivered using group modalities. Recent evidence points to the deleterious effects of poor cognitive functioning on group involvement, skill development and functional outcomes. This paper reviews the impact of individual cognitive deficits on group functioning, discusses the rationale for using a cognitive framework for group development, and presents multiple examples of group programming with compensatory and remediation techniques to improve group functioning. Examples include modifying groups to address cognitive limitations, as well as developing groups targeting specific cognitive functions. The groups described are suitable for persons with serious and persistent mental illness across hospital and community treatment settings.
Research examining pathways to care among African Americans with recent-onset psychosis is limited but suggests that African Americans have more complex and less desirable routes into care compared with whites. Delays in treatment of psychotic illness contribute to increasing rates of hospitalization, lengths of stay, long-term functional disability, and poor outcomes. African Americans may be less likely to seek help than whites, which may be due partly to stigma and beliefs in the African-American community about causes of mental illness as well as to external obstacles, such as involuntary civil commitment. Because African Americans are more likely than whites to seek assistance in primary care, the general practitioner or family physician has a potentially greater role in the identification of psychotic illnesses among African Americans. Further research is necessary to evaluate the role of ethnicity in treatment delays among patients with recent-onset psychotic illnesses.
The extent to which an individual engages in a cognitive task is associated with performance in laboratory settings(1) and a variety of domains of functioning, such as athletic activity and artistic expression.(2) The neural circuitry associated with task engagement is in the process of being elucidated by cognitive neuroscience investigations. These newly acquired data provide an opportunity to understand the cognitive, social, and functional disabilities that lie at the core of dysfunction in patients with schizophrenia. This article describes the importance of task engagement in human functioning, its impairment in schizophrenia, and the possibility that disengagement during late adolescence may herald future development of schizophrenia.(3,4) Since treatment studies suggest that improvement in this aspect of cognitive functioning has the potential to improve the functioning of patients with schizophrenia in various domains, it is possible that these improvements may be mediated by improved engagement with external processes, including social processes and patient-clinician relationships, leading to improved therapeutic alliance and increased treatment adherence.
What information is used for sorting pictures of complex stimuli into categories? We applied a reverse correlation method to reveal the visual features mediating categorization in humans and baboons. Two baboons and 6 humans were trained to sort, by species, pictures of human and baboon faces on which random visual noise was superimposed. On ambiguous probe trials, a human-baboon morph was presented, eliciting &quot;human&quot; responses on some trials and &quot;baboon&quot; responses on others. The difference between the noise patterns that induced the two responses made explicit the information mediating the classification. Unlike the humans, the baboons based their categorization on information that closely matched that used by a theoretical observer responding solely on the basis of the pixel similarities between the probe and training images. We show that the classification-image technique and principal components analysis provide a method to make explicit the differences in the information mediating categorization in humans and animals.
Wistar rats have been selectively bred for high (HABs) or low (LABs) anxiety-related behavior based on results obtained in the elevated-plus maze. They also display robust behavioral differences in a variety of additional anxiety tests. The present study was undertaken to further characterize physiological substrates that contribute to the expression of this anxious trait. We report changes in brain and peripheral structures involved in the regulation of both the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and sympatho-adrenal systems. Following exposure to a mild stressor, HABs displayed a hyper-reactivity of the HPA axis associated with a hypo-reactivity of the sympatho-adrenal system and a lower serotonin turnover in the lateral septum and amygdala. At rest, HABs showed a higher adrenal weight and lower tyrosine hydroxylase and phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase mRNAs expression in their adrenals than LABs. In the anterior pituitary, HABs also exhibited increased proopiomelanocortin and decreased vasopressin V1b receptor mRNAs expression, whereas glucocorticoid receptor mRNA levels remained unchanged. These results indicate that the behavioral phenotype of HABs is associated with peripheral and central alterations of endocrine mechanisms involved in stress response regulation. Data are discussed in relation to coping strategies adopted to manage stressful situations. In conclusion, HABs can be considered as an useful model to study the etiology and pathophysiology of stress-related disorders and their neuroendocrine substrates.






We investigated the role of cerebral motor structures during mental hand rotation. Neural activity was measured with event-related potentials (ERPs) in 16 healthy participants while they performed handedness judgments of visually presented hands. Mental rotation was associated with ERP amplitude modulations as early as 170 ms but most strongly during a time window of about 600-800 ms. Source analysis of ERPs during these time windows indicated generators in bilateral extrastriate and parietal cortices. The results do not support a direct involvement of anterior motor cortices in the neural computations underlying mental rotation. However, motor regions may play a role in providing ongoing kinaesthetic feedback during mental rotation or in checking the results of the imagined transformation.
A close association between tinnitus and psychiatric disorders has been demonstrated, but little is known about how the severity of tinnitus is related to these disorders. The authors investigated the strength of the association between tinnitus and both the prevalence and severity of anxiety and depressive disorders. One study group consisted of 80 consecutive patients and another of 144 patients who were deemed by screening to be at high risk for severe and disabling tinnitus. The severity of tinnitus was assessed by clinical gradings on a 3-point scale and by the Tinnitus Severity Questionnaire. DSM-III-R criteria were used to identify psychiatric disorders by structured clinical interview. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS-S-A) were used to assess the severity of anxiety and depression. There was a correlation between the severity of tinnitus and depression in both study groups; however, the corresponding correlations for anxiety disorders were lower, and reached statistical significance only in the high-risk group. Various measures found significant correlations between the severity of tinnitus and the severity of depression and anxiety. We conclude that the severity of tinnitus is associated with psychiatric disorders, as well as with the severity of anxiety and depression in tinnitus patients, and may account for approximately 20% of the variance of the observed association.
Demyelination contributes to loss of function following spinal cord injury. We have shown previously that transplantation of human embryonic stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitors into adult rat 200 kD contusive spinal cord injury sites enhances remyelination and promotes recovery of motor function. Previous studies using oligodendrocyte lineage cells have noted a correlation between the presence of demyelinating pathology and the survival and migration rate of the transplanted cells. The present study compared the survival and migration of human embryonic stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitors injected 7 days after a 200 or 50 kD contusive spinal cord injury, as well as the locomotor outcome of transplantation. Our findings indicate that a 200 kD spinal cord injury induces extensive demyelination, whereas a 50 kD spinal cord injury induces no detectable demyelination. Cells transplanted into the 200 kD injury group survived, migrated, and resulted in robust remyelination, replicating our previous studies. In contrast, cells transplanted into the 50 kD injury group survived, exhibited limited migration, and failed to induce remyelination as demyelination in this injury group was absent. Animals that received a 50 kD injury displayed only a transient decline in locomotor function as a result of the injury. Importantly, human embryonic stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor transplants into the 50 kD injury group did not cause a further decline in locomotion. Our studies highlight the importance of a demyelinating pathology as a prerequisite for the function of transplanted myelinogenic cells. In addition, our results indicate that transplantation of human embryonic stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells into the injured spinal cord is not associated with a decline in locomotor function.
Points of interest from the 17th Annual American Neuropsychiatric Association are reviewed, including several cognitive neuroscience frameworks that have been proposed to account for the neural basis of moral cognition. Also discussed are the brain mechanisms behind creative innovation, and an overview is presented of several of this year's outstanding contributions to clinical and basic neuroscience.
Neurological soft signs have been observed in patients with schizophrenia and their relatives. However, it has not been considered whether the increased rates of neurological soft signs are related to measures of psychosis proneness in the general population. We tested this hypothesis in a group of normal volunteers (n = 28) who scored highly for positive schizotypy when assessed online and a control group (n = 33) who scored below the mean. Compared with the controls, high psychosis-prone individuals showed significantly higher Total and Other Soft Signs subscale scores on the Neurological Evaluation Scale. It appears that soft signs are also associated with psychosis proneness when measured in the general population, which suggests that soft signs are distributed along a continuum of risk for schizophrenia.

Cognitive impairment has the greatest impact on illness outcome in schizophrenia. The most significant challenge in schizophrenia therapeutics, thus, is to develop an efficacious treatment for cognitive impairments. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as Physostigmine and Rivastigmine, are considered effective treatments for cognitive decline in Alzheimer's Disease, where the loss of cholinergic neurons is thought to be responsible for various cognitive deficits. The current study investigated the cognitive effects of Rivastigmine given as an add-on therapy to antipsychotic-treated schizophrenia patients in a placebo-controlled double-blind design. The study initially involved 40 patients, of which 21 patients (11 assigned to Rivastigmine and 10 assigned to placebo) agreed to continued participation, remained on the study drug, and underwent assessment of executive functioning, verbal skills, verbal and spatial working memory, attention and psychomotor speed on three occasions: (i) at baseline, and then (ii) after 12 weeks and (iii) 24 weeks of treatment with placebo or Rivastigmine. The results failed to reveal significant improvement on any cognitive measure with Rivastigmine treatment, compared with the placebo treatment. Some cognitive variables showed significant practice effects in both the placebo and Rivastigmine groups. No effects were noted in symptoms or side effects ratings. The beneficial cognitive effects of Rivastigmine seen in an open-label preliminary study are not substantiated by this study. Future studies should investigate the effects of other procholinergic drugs, such as Galantamine, which also act on the nicotine receptors and may produce stronger cognitive effects in schizophrenia.

Our previous studies have demonstrated that although LPS and Staphylococcus aureus induce homologous tolerance, they induce priming to each other instead of cross-tolerance. The phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3) kinase pathway has been implicated in microbial signaling and inflammatory gene expression regulation. We hypothesized that LPS or S. aureus induced tolerance and priming responses to each other are PI3 kinase pathway-dependent. CD1 mice received intraperitoneal injections of 1% Biogel and were treated intraperitoneally with vehicle, LPS, or S. aureus (5 mg/kg) 3 days later. Peritoneal macrophages (M) were harvested 24 h later and exposed to vehicle or the PI3 kinase inhibitors wortmannin (10 nmol/L) or LY294002 (10 nmol/L) 1 h before in vitro stimulation with LPS or S. aureus (10 microg/mL). Both LPS and S. aureus significantly induced tumor necrosis factor alpha and thromboxane B2 synthesis (P &lt; 0.05, n = 3) in naive cells. LPS and S. aureus induced homologous tolerance were associated with suppressed tumor necrosis factor alpha and thromboxane B2 levels but augmented interleukin 10 production. However, LPS and S. aureus induced priming to each other, as shown by augmented mediator production. Wortmannin and LY294002 reversed LPS tolerance yet had no effect on S. aureus tolerance. PI3 kinase blockade attenuated the priming responses to both LPS and S. aureus. Mice pretreated with LPS and challenged with LPS were protected. In contrast, mice pretreated with LPS and wortmannin demonstrated LPS tolerance reversal. These data suggest that PI3 kinase is essential for LPS induced homologous tolerance and reciprocal LPS and S. aureus induced priming responses.


The number of cases of neurological disease is expected to rise in the next 10 years, making this the second leading cause of morbidity and mortality after heart disease in Malaysia. The lack of human resources in the neurological field currently serving the Malaysian population may cause a deficiency in specialized care, especially in rural areas where neurological and neurosurgical care may be lacking. Thus, a resolve was made to increase the numbers of specialists by the Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) with the help of the Ministry of Health of Malaysia. A study was made to evaluate the number of referral centers needed in strategic parts of Malaysia. Our calculation was based on service demands and operative procedures following the guidelines of the Association of British Neurologists (ABN) where 15 minutes of service time was equivalent to 1 unit. Based on 2 million population covered in the state of Kelantan by this University Hospital, 4.27 neurologists are needed to meet service demands with a consultant to population ratio (CPR) of 1:468,384, compared to 7.46 neurosurgeons, with a CPR of 1:268,097. According to the current service demands, one neurologist has to work more than 407 hours per year and one neurosurgeon 1,219 hours per year in our hospital. Hospitals with a larger catchment area would need to have more neurologists and neurosurgeons for optimal care in their area. Thus, more neurologists and neurosurgeons are needed to be produced, since the existing numbers are too small for quality care in Malaysia.
Abstract of the inaugural lecture on appointment to the Chair of Neural Regeneration at University College London January 2006. Record of personal research. Electron microscopic observations led to the concept that the adult brain is capable of forming new synapses after injury, and the search for methods to repair brain and spinal cord injuries. It is proposed that the failure of regeneration after central axotomy is due to protective glial scarring leading to the loss of the aligned astrocytic pathways needed for axon elongation. Taking advantage of the discovery that the adult olfactory system is capable of continual renewal, cultured olfactory ensheathing cells were transplanted into lesions of the spinal cord and spinal roots. The transplants re-opened scarred glial pathways, allowed the regeneration of severed nerve fibres, and the restoration of various functions, including paw reaching, climbing, and supraspinal respiratory impulses to the phrenic nerve.

The development and transplantation of autologous cells derived from nuclear transfer embryonic stem cell (NT-ESC) lines to treat patients suffering from disease has been termed therapeutic cloning. Human NT is still a developing field, with further research required to improve somatic cell NT and human embryonic stem cell differentiation to deliver safe and effective cell replacement therapies. Furthermore, the implications of transferring mitochondrial heteroplasmic cells, which may harbor aberrant epigenetic gene expression profiles, are of concern. The production of human NT-ESC lines also remains plagued by ethical dilemmas, societal concerns, and controversies. Recently, a number of alternate therapeutic strategies have been proposed to circumvent the moral implications surrounding human nuclear transfer. It will be critical to overcome these biological, legislative, and moral restraints to maximize the potential of this therapeutic strategy and to alleviate human disease.






Surgical attempts to correct hyperopia have yielded varying results over the last 130 years. These techniques include the reshaping of the cornea through incisions, burns, or lamellar cuts with removal of peripheral tissue; the addition of central inlays; laser ablations; and the replacement of the crystalline lens. By examining the success of each surgical technique, the refractive surgeon may be able to make an informed decision on its indications and limitations, based on the specific patient's characteristics. Reporting the outcomes and complications of hyperopic surgery will help refine our approach to the management of an increasingly hyperopic and presbyopic population.
Activation of dopamine (DA) D1 receptors (D1Rs) in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) markedly affects the levels of prodynorphin, the precursor of aversion-associated dynorphin peptides. The location of prodynorphin, specifically as related to the dopaminergic inputs and D1Rs in the Acb, is fundamental for establishing the physiologically relevant sites. To determine these sites, we examined the electron microscopic dual-immunolabeling of prodynorphin and D1R or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a marker of catecholamine terminals in the rat Acb shell. This subregion is targeted by mesolimbic dopaminergic inputs affecting reward-aversion responses and locomotor activity. Prodynorphin was prominently localized to large (100-200 nm) granular aggregates in somatodendritic and axonal profiles, some of which expressed dynorphin A/B. In somata and dendrites, prodynorphin was often found in punctate clusters in the cytoplasm. Of the total prodynorphin-labeled dendrites, approximately 63% expressed D1Rs, which were largely located on the plasma membranes. In comparison with dendrites, many more axon terminals contained prodynorphin, although only 15% of these terminals contained D1R-labeling. Prodynorphin terminals formed symmetric synapses with D1R-labeled or unlabeled dendrites, and also apposed TH-containing axon terminals. Our results provide ultrastructural evidence that in the Acb shell, the prodynorphin is available for cleavage to physiologically active peptides in both dendrites and terminals of neurons that express D1Rs. They also indicate that dynorphin peptides have distributions that would enable their participation in modulation of DA release or D1R-mediated postsynaptic responses in Acb shell neurons.
The concepts and methods of systems biology are extended to neuropharmacology in order to test and design drugs for the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Computational modelling by integrating compartmental neural modelling techniques and detailed kinetic descriptions of pharmacological modulation of transmitter-receptor interaction is offered as a method to test the electrophysiological and behavioural effects of putative drugs. Even more, an inverse method is suggested as a method for controlling a neural system to realise a prescribed temporal pattern. In particular, as an application of the proposed new methodology, a computational platform is offered to analyse the generation and pharmacological modulation of theta rhythm related to anxiety.
Interleukin-8/CXCL8 (IL-8) is a prominent factor that modulates endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis. Therefore, the present study focused on the regulatory mechanisms of IL-8 expression induced by environmental pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Treatment of human microvascular endothelial cells (HMECs) with specific PCB congener, 2,2',4,6,6'-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB 104), dose dependently increased levels of IL-8 mRNA and secreted protein. IL-8-neutralizing antibody inhibited migration of endothelial cells stimulated by conditioned media derived from PCB 104-treated HMECs. Site-directed mutagenesis of the IL-8 promoter- and DNA-binding assays revealed that activator protein 1 (AP-1) and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) sites are required for PCB 104-induced IL-8 transcription. Most importantly, pharmacological inhibition of Src kinase activity or overexpression of dominant-negative c-src in HMECs resulted in a significant decrease in IL-8 expression and promoter activity. In contrast, ectopic expression of activated c-Src markedly increased promoter activity of IL-8. These stimulatory effects of dominant-positive c-src were abrogated by mutagenesis of AP-1- and NF-kappaB-binding sites in the IL-8 promoter.
The density and composition of cell surface proteins are major determinants for cellular functions. Regulation of cell surface molecules occurs at several levels, including the efficiency of surface transport, and is therefore of great interest. As the major phosphoprotein-binding modules, 14-3-3 proteins are known for their crucial roles in a wide range of cellular activities, including the subcellular localization of target proteins. Accumulating evidence suggests a role for 14-3-3 in surface transport of membrane proteins, in which 14-3-3 binding reduces endoplasmic reticulum (ER) localization, thereby promoting surface expression of membrane proteins. Here, we focus on recent evidence of 14-3-3-mediated surface transport and discuss the possible molecular mechanisms.
Children with language-learning impairments (LLI) form a heterogeneous population with the majority having both spoken and written language deficits as well as sensorimotor deficits, specifically those related to dynamic processing. Research has focused on whether or not sensorimotor deficits, specifically auditory spectrotemporal processing deficits, cause phonological deficit, leading to language and reading impairments. New trends aimed at resolving this question include prospective longitudinal studies of genetically at-risk infants, electrophysiological and neuroimaging studies, and studies aimed at evaluating the effects of auditory training (including musical training) on brain organization for language. Better understanding of the origins of developmental LLI will advance our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying individual differences in language development and lead to more effective educational and intervention strategies. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue &quot;Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological disorders&quot;, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).
Cognitive memory involves long-term memories for facts (semantic memory) and personal experiences (episodic memory) that can be brought to mind. There is consensus that the hippocampus and related medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures are crucial for adult cognitive memory, but much less is known about their contribution to memory during infancy and childhood. We argue that the MTL is involved in memory from early in life, supporting recognition memory within the first postnatal months and recall memory within the first year. We propose that normal development involves a sequence in which a form of semantic-like memory emerges first, whereas the characteristics of episodic memory develop only later with progressive development of the hippocampus. Early bilateral injury to the hippocampus disrupts this normal pattern such that memory skills cannot develop beyond the stage of semantic memories. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue &quot;Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological disorders&quot;, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).
During prenatal and early postnatal development, the cerebral cortex exhibits synchronized oscillatory network activity that is believed to be essential for the generation of neuronal cortical circuits. The nature and functional role of these early activity patterns are of central interest in neuroscience. Much of the research is performed in rodents and in vitro, but how closely do these model systems relate to the human fetal brain? In this review, we compare observations in humans with in vivo and in vitro rodent data, focusing on particular oscillatory activity patterns that share many common features: delta brushes, spindle bursts and spindle-like oscillations. There is considerable evidence that the basic functional properties of immature cortical networks are conserved through mammalian evolution, making the neonatal rodent an excellent model for studying early cortical activity and associated plasticity during the developmental period corresponding to the human fetal stage. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue &quot;Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological disorders&quot;, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).
Current observations indicate that dysfunction of neuronal circuitry dynamics contributes to the abnormal information processing in the brain in schizophrenia. It is presumed that disrupted auditory gating, abnormal P300-evoked potentials and deficits in mismatch negativity in schizophrenic patients indicate impaired processing of information. Recently, abnormalities in neuronal synchrony and oscillatory activity have been postulated as the mechanisms that underlie the distorted perception and cognitive dysfunction associated with schizophrenia. These novel observations might reveal the pathophysiology of the disorder, and indicate potential targets for antipsychotic drug therapy. Neuronal circuitry dynamics, such as network oscillations and sensory-gating processes, are conserved phylogenetically, which provides excellent opportunities for designing translational biomarkers. Whether preclinical, experimental compounds that impact on network oscillations and sensory processing (such as agonists and modulators of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors) elicit the same neurophysiological events in schizophrenic patients and, subsequently, improve perception and cognitive functions will be determined when these drug candidates are available clinically.
Tricyclic antidepressants, together with anticonvulsants, are considered to be first-line drugs for the treatment of neuropathic pain. Antidepressants are analgesic in patients with chronic pain and no concomitant depression, indicating that the analgesic and antidepressant effects occur independently. The analgesia induced by these drugs seems to be centrally mediated but consistent evidence also indicates a peripheral site of action. Several pharmacological mechanisms account for their antinociceptive effect but the inhibition of monoamine transporters (and, consequently, the facilitation of descending inhibition pain systems) is implicated on the basis of mechanistic and knockout-mouse studies. However, pain is a common symptom of depression, and depression is frequent in chronic pain patients, supporting the hypothesis that pain and depression share some common biochemical mechanisms. We suggest that antidepressants have a genuine analgesic effect and that research into their mechanisms of action will help to facilitate the development of new drugs.

A new antiepileptic and anxiolytic drug, ELB138, was evaluated in a clinical pilot study in dogs with newly diagnosed or chronic idiopathic epilepsy. The purpose was to verify clinically the anticonvulsant effectiveness of this substance, which had already been demonstrated experimentally. Data from 29 dogs treated with ELB138 were compared with results obtained retrospectively from 82 dogs treated with conventional antiepileptic medication. The reduction in seizure frequency using ELB138 in dogs with newly diagnosed idiopathic epilepsy was comparable to the reduction in dogs treated either with phenobarbital or primidone. In dogs with chronic epilepsy and add-on therapy with either ELB138 or potassium bromide, such supplementation reduced the seizure frequency and the duration and severity of seizures. The most obvious difference between ELB138 treatment and conventional medications became clear in the evaluation of side effects, which in those dogs treated with ELB138 were rare, and consisted mostly of transient polyphagia. This pilot study confirmed that ELB138 has a potent anticonvulsant effect in dogs with idiopathic epilepsy. These results will form the basis for a multicentre, blinded study.
Dosher and Lu (1998) [Perceptual learning reflects external noise filtering and internal noise reduction through channel reweighting. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 95 (23), 13988-13993.] proposed three mechanisms of perceptual learning: stimulus enhancement, external noise exclusion, and multiplicative noise reduction. In this study, we used pre-training as a manipulation to evaluate the separability of these mechanisms as a key test of the theoretical framework. Observers were trained in identifying the motion direction of a moving sine-wave grating in fovea with varying amount of superimposed external noise across trials, after receiving no pre-training, pre-training in high external noise, or pre-training in zero external noise in the same task. We found: (1) Without pre-training, perceptual learning significantly reduced contrast thresholds by about the same amount across all the external noise levels. (2) Both types of pre-training significantly reduced contrast thresholds in the corresponding conditions. (3) Pre-training in high external noise greatly reduced subsequent learning in high external noise, accounting for 64.6% of the total (pre-training + subsequent) improvements in that condition. On the other hand, the amount of subsequent learning in low external noise conditions was essentially the same as the total (pre-training + subsequent) amount of improvements in high external noise, suggesting that pre-training in high external noise had mostly only improved performance in noisy displays. (4) Pre-training in zero external noise practically eliminated or left very little additional learning in all the external noise conditions. We concluded that the two mechanisms of perceptual learning, stimulus enhancement, and external noise exclusion, can be trained independently in motion direction discrimination in fovea; training in low noise suffices to improve observer performance over all the external noise conditions.

This review presents an analysis of current research aimed at deciphering the interplay of cell extrinsic and intrinsic signals required for specification and differentiation of noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons. The development of noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons depends upon expression of a core set of DNA regulatory molecules, including the Phox2 homeodomain proteins and the basic helix-loop-helix proteins, HAND2 and MASH1 whose expression is dependent upon cell extrinsic cues. Both bone morphogenetic protein(s) and cAMP have an integral role in the specification/differentiation of noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons but how signaling downstream of these molecules is integrated and identification of their particular functions is just beginning to be elucidated. Data currently available suggests a model with BMP providing both instructive and permissive cues in a pathway integrated by cAMP and MAPK by activation of both canonical and non-canonical intracellular signaling cascades.
A novel in vitro bladder preparation was used to examine effect of various stimuli (stretch, von Frey hair compression, stroking of receptive fields, applications of chemical stimuli to the mucosa) on electrophysiological recordings from guinea pig bladder afferents in vitro. Several functionally distinct classes of bladder sensory neurons were distinguished. These include stretch-sensitive afferents-muscle mechanoreceptors which behaved as &quot;in-series tension receptors&quot; and tension-mucosal mechanoreceptors, which could be activated by stretch, mucosal stroking with light von Frey hair (0.1-2 mN) and by hypertonic solutions (1 M mannitol and 490-850 mM NaCl) applied locally to their receptive fields in the mucosa. In addition, we have recorded stretch-insensitive afferents-mucosal mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors. The non-selective P2X/P2Y purinoreceptor antagonist, PPADS (30 microM) did not affect stretch-induced firing by low threshold muscle mechanoreceptors but significantly inhibited alpha,beta-methylene ATP (30 microM)-induced contractions and associated afferent firing. Transduction by low threshold stretch-sensitive muscle mechanoreceptors does not appear to involve exocytotic synaptic transmission since it occurs in Ca2+-free (with 1 mM EDTA and 6 mM Mg2+) Krebs solution. The data suggest that the endogenous transmitter ATP is not involved in mechanotransduction by this specific class of low threshold muscle mechanoreceptors in the guinea pig bladder; rather they appear to transduce mechanical stimuli directly, possibly via stretch-activated ion channels. Mechanisms of activation of other classes of mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors remain to be established.
Sensory information from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is transmitted centrally via primary afferents that terminate within the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS) and utilize glutamate as their major neurotransmitter. Neurons of the NTS integrate this sensory information and transmit it to parasympathetic preganglionic neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV), as well as to other areas, using principally glutamate, GABA and norepinephrine as neurotransmitters. Although susceptible to modulation by a vast array of neurotransmitters, the glutamatergic NTS to DMV synapse seems to play a minor role in the tonic modulation of gastric vagal reflexes. GABAergic neurotransmission between the NTS and DMV, however, is of critical importance as its in vivo blockade induces dramatic effects on gastric tone, motility and secretion. In in vitro experiments, however, this synapse appears initially resistant to modulation by most exogenously applied neuromodulators. Using opioid peptides as a model, this review will discuss the remarkable plasticity of the NTS-DMV GABAergic synapse. Modulation of this synapse appears dependent upon the levels of cAMP within the brainstem circuit. In particular, this review will outline how vagal afferent inputs appear to dampen the cAMP-PKA system via tonic activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors. Removal of vagal sensory input, coincident activation of the cAMP-PKA system, or inhibition of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, allows receptor trafficking to occur selectively at the level of the NTS-DMV GABAergic synapse. Thus, we propose that the state of activation of vagal sensory inputs determines the gastric motor response via selective engagement of GABAergic synapses. This mini-review is based upon a presentation given at the International Society for Autonomic Neuroscience meeting in Marseille, France in July 2005.
The sensory innervation to the pancreatobiliary system is poorly characterized. Afferent signals from the gastrointestinal tract and biliary tree are transmitted to the central nervous system via the vagus and spinal nerves. We aimed to record afferent discharge in order to characterize the vagal and splanchnic afferent signals from the possum upper gastrointestinal tract, biliary tree and pancreas. In 21 anaesthetised possums nerve fibres were teased from the vagus or splanchnic nerve for multi-unit recording. Mechanical stimuli consisted of balloon distension of the gallbladder and duodenum (2-7 ml) and fluid distension (0-20 mm Hg) of the bile or pancreatic ducts. Approximately 60% of fibres from all nerves displayed spontaneous discharge. Spinal afferent responses to mechanical stimuli were infrequent (n=13). Increased discharge occurred in response to duodenal (12/99 fibres) or gallbladder (7/96 fibres) distension, but not to bile duct (0/73 fibres) or pancreatic duct (0/51 fibres) distension. Vagal afferent responses to distension of the duodenum or stomach (5-30 ml) were more common (n=8). Increased discharge was recorded in response to duodenal (49/134 fibres), or gastric (22/70 fibres) distension. Responses to gallbladder distension were less frequent (6/99 fibres) and as with the spinal afferent no response to bile duct (0/66) or pancreatic duct (0/70) distension were recorded. We conclude that mechanosensitive afferents in the pancreatobiliary system are relatively rare, particularly within the ducts, and/or that they are adapted to monitor stimuli other than luminal distension.
Sickness behaviors are a set of adaptive responses to infection that include lethargy, anorexia, and, of direct relevance to this work, learning and memory impairments. The proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta) has been proposed as the primary peripheral mediator of these sickness behaviors, though few studies have investigated the effects of peripheral IL-1beta on learning and memory. We used three different versions of the Morris water task (Morris water task), a spatial learning and memory task, to separately assess the effects of peripheral IL-1beta on acquisition, consolidation, and retention of spatial location information. Using a dose that induced anorexia, assessed as a significant reduction in body weight, we observed no performance impairments in the IL-1beta-treated rats across the different versions of the task, suggesting that peripheral IL-1beta alone is insufficient to induce spatial learning and memory impairments in the rat. The observed dissociation of anorexia and cognitive dysfunction suggests that, either spatial learning and memory are not principal components of the sickness response, or cognitive dysfunction requires different or additional peripheral mediator(s).
There has been debate whether lesions strictly limited to retrosplenial (RS) cortex impair spatial navigation, and how robust and reliable any such impairment is. The present study used a detailed behavioral analysis with naive or strategies-pretrained rats given RS lesions and trained in a water maze (WM). Naive RS lesioned rats failed to acquire the required WM strategies throughout training. Strategies-pretrained RS lesioned rats were specifically impaired in spatial place memory without a WM strategies impairment. Additional training overcame the spatial memory impairment. Thus the behavioral consequences of the lesion depend on the specific previous experience of the animal. The use of appropriate training and testing techniques has revealed experience-dependant dissociable impairments in WM strategies learning and in spatial memory, indicating that RS cortex is involved in both forms of learning.
Well-consolidated fear-related memories, once retrieved, are susceptible to disruption and require reconsolidation in order to be maintained. We examined whether reactivated reward-related memories are also susceptible to interference by evaluating the effect of propranolol (PROP), a beta-adrenergic antagonist known to impair reconsolidation of fear-related memories, on context-induced sucrose seeking. PROP administration upon reactivation reduced sucrose seeking behaviour 3 weeks post-training, indicating that reconsolidation of reward-related memories can be disrupted after a long post-training interval.
Hormonal differences between males and females have surfaced as a crucial component in the search for effective treatments after experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Recent findings have shown that selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) may have therapeutic benefit. The present study examined the effects of raloxifene, a SERM, on functional recovery after bilateral cortical contusion injury (bCCI) or sham procedure. Male rats received injections of raloxifene (3.0mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (1.0 ml/kg, i.p.) 15 min, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h after bCCI or sham procedure. Rats were tested on both sensorimotor (bilateral tactile removal and locomotor placing tests) and cognitive tests (reference and working memory in the Morris water maze). Raloxifene-treated animals showed a significant reduction in the initial magnitude of the deficit and facilitated the rate of recovery for the bilateral tactile removal test, compared to vehicle-treated animals. The raloxifene-treated animals also showed a significant improvement in the acquisition of working memory compared to vehicle-treated animals. However, raloxifene did not significantly improve the acquisition of reference memory or locomotor placing ability. Raloxifene treatment also did not result in a significant reduction in the size of the lesion cavity. Thus, the task-dependent improvements seen following raloxifene treatment do not appear to be the result of cortical neuroprotection. However, these results suggest that raloxifene improves functional outcome following bCCI and may present an interesting avenue for future research.
We tested the hypothesis that a recently developed transgenic rat model of Huntington's disease (tgHD rats) showed an age-and genotype-dependent change in psychomotor performance and in the frequency of choreiform movements similar to HD patients. Wild type and tgHD (homozygotic and heterozygotic) rats were behaviorally tested at an age of 15 and 20 months. Our results show that tgHD rats exhibit an age-, and genotype-dependent deterioration of the psychomotor performance and choreiform symptoms, closely mimicking the clinical time course changes of psychomotor symptoms of HD patients. These data provide further experimental evidence that the tgHD rat can be considered as a relevant animal model of HD.
The roles of JSAP1 and JIP1 in cell adhesion and spreading were examined using mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient in JIP1 (JIP1-KO), JSAP1 (JSAP1-KO), and in both JIP1 and JSAP1 (double-KO), and by using their wild type. After being plated on fibronectin-coated culture plates, wild type MEFs rapidly adhered and differentiated to typical longitudinal fibroblasts in 4 h. JSAP1-KO MEFs showed a similar sequence of adhesion and cell spreading, but their adhesion was weak, and cell spreading sequence proceeded in a delayed manner compared with the wild type. In spreading JSAP1-KO MEFs, adhesion-triggered actin cytoskeleton reorganization and FAK activation proceeded at a slower pace than in wild type MEFs. The cellular properties of double-KO MEFs and JIP1-KO MEFs were similar to those of JSAP1-KO MEFs and wild type MEFs, respectively. These results suggest that JSAP1 plays a role in adhesion and cell spreading by regulating the rapid reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton.
Dystroglycan (DG) complex, composed of alphaDG and betaDG, provides a link between the extracellular matrix (ECM) and cortical cytoskeleton. Although the proteolytic processing of betaDG was reported in various physiological and pathological conditions, its exact mechanism remains unknown. In this study, we addressed this issue using the cell culture system of rat schwannoma cell line RT4. We found that the culture medium of RT4 cells was enriched with the protease activity that degrades the fusion protein construct of the extracellular domain of betaDG specifically. This activity was suppressed by the inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9, but not by the inhibitors of MMP-1, MMP-3, MMP-8, and MMP-13. Zymography and RT-PCR analysis showed that RT4 cells secreted MMP-2 and MMP-9 into the culture medium. Finally, active MMP-2 and MMP-9 enzymes degraded the fusion protein construct of the extracellular domain of betaDG. These results indicate (1) that RT4 cells secrete the protease activity that degrades the extracellular domain of betaDG specifically and (2) that MMP-2 and MMP-9 may be involved in this process.
Extraordinal activation of nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopaminergic systems (midbrain dopaminergic system) is thought to be one of the most important etiologies for schizophrenia, though the reason why unusual hyperactivation of the dopaminergic system occurs in the schizophrenic brain is quite obscure. Dysbindin, one of the most susceptible genes for schizophrenia, has been reported to be reduced in the schizophrenic brain. In situ hybridization analysis showed the mRNA expression of dysbindin in the mouse substantia nigra. Furthermore, suppression of dysbindin expression in PC12 cells resulted in an increase of the expression of SNAP25, which plays an important role in neurotransmitter release, and increased the release of dopamine. On the other hand, up-regulation of dysbindin expression in PC12 cells showed a tendency to decrease the expression of SNAP25. These data suggest that dysbindin might regulate the dopamine release of the dopaminergic system via modulation of the expression of SNAP25.
Hemopexin (HPX), serving as scavenger and transporter of toxic plasma heme, has been postulated to play a key role in the homeostasis of NO. Here, kinetics of HPX-heme(II) nitrosylation and O2-mediated oxidation of HPX-heme(II)-NO are reported. NO reacts reversibly with HPX-heme(II) yielding HPX-heme(II)-NO, according to the minimum reaction scheme: HPX-heme(II)+NO kon&lt;--&gt;koff HPX-heme(II)-NO values of kon, koff, and K (=kon/koff) are (6.3+/-0.3)x10(3)M-1s-1, (9.1+/-0.4)x10(-4)s-1, and (6.9+/-0.6)x10(6)M-1, respectively, at pH 7.0 and 10.0 degrees C. O2 reacts with HPX-heme(II)-NO yielding HPX-heme(III) and NO3-, by means of the ferric heme-bound peroxynitrite intermediate (HPX-heme(III)-N(O)OO), according to the minimum reaction scheme: HPX-heme(II)-NO+O2 hon&lt;--&gt; HPX-heme(III)-N(O)OO l--&gt;HPX-heme(III)+NO3- the backward reaction rate is negligible. Values of hon and l are (2.4+/-0.3)x10(1)M-1s-1 and (1.4+/-0.2)x10(-3)s-1, respectively, at pH 7.0 and 10.0 degrees C. The decay of HPX-heme(III)-N(O)OO (i.e., l) is rate limiting. The HPX-heme(III)-N(O)OO intermediate has been characterized by optical absorption spectroscopy in the Soret region (lambdamax=409 nm and epsilon409=1.51x10(5)M-1cm-1). These results, representing the first kinetic evidence for HPX-heme(II) nitrosylation and O2-mediated oxidation of HPX-heme(II)-NO, might be predictive of transient (pseudo-enzymatic) function(s) of heme carriers.

There is mounting evidence that prefrontal cortex (PFC) is activated during mnemonic operations such as working memory maintenance and also during response-related operations. In the current study, we examine the neural organization of mnemonic and response operations with respect to each other within PFC. Stimulus-evoked and sustained functional MRI activity was recorded during performance of a mental calculation task. The presence or absence of mnemonic and response demands was manipulated in a 2 x 2 factorial design with conditions requiring: (1) memory encoding and maintenance (M+); (2) response selection and execution (R+); (3) encoding, maintenance, and response execution (M+R+); (4) neither mnemonic nor response-related processes (M-R-). The first step of the analyses identified PFC voxels exhibiting differential activity during (M+) vs. (R+) trials. Within these voxels, we then examined activity during multiple phases of (M+R+) trials. Greater stimulus-evoked and sustained activity was observed within the anterior extent of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 46) during R+ vs. M+ trials. In contrast, greater activity was observed in the posterior extent of dorsolateral PFC during M+ vs. R+ trials. Importantly, both regions were activated during (M+R+) trials. Activity levels during all of these conditions exceeded levels observed during (M-R-) control trials. These results suggest that integrative functions of PFC that allow past information to guide future actions may emerge from communication between discrete subregions supporting mnemonic and response operations.
Selective attention is critical for guiding human behavior. Recent theories have described the process of attention as a biased competition between sensory inputs, but questions remain concerning the anatomical basis of these competitive mechanisms. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we found that disruption of the right parietal cortex improved the perception of relevant stimuli in competitive visual displays. This enhancement of selective attention is consistent with previous observations and suggests a crucial role of the superior parietal lobule and supramarginal gyrus in mediating competition between visual inputs.
Neonatal maternal separation (MS) has been used to model long-term changes in neurochemistry and behaviour associated with exposure to early-life stress. This study characterises changes in behavioural and neuroendocrine parameters following MS. On postnatal days (PND) 3-15, male and female Long-Evans rats underwent 3 h daily MS. Non-handled (NH) control offspring remained with the dams. Starting at PND 90, behaviour was assessed at weekly intervals in the elevated plus-maze, elevated T-maze, and locomotor activity boxes, and body weight monitored throughout. At the end of the study, adrenals were weighed and blood collected for analysis of plasma corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) under basal conditions and following restraint stress. As adults, MS weighed more than NH animals. Activity on the open arms of the plus-maze was similar between MS and NH animals. In the T-maze, MS males had shorter emergence latencies than their NH counterparts. Spontaneous ambulation in a novel environment was significantly higher in MS than in NH animals, and males exhibited overall lower activity than females. Basal plasma corticosterone was lower in MS than in NH females, but no rearing condition difference was observed following restraint stress. Females had higher corticosterone and ACTH levels than males, whereas adrenal glands of MS animals weighed less than those of NH controls. The MS paradigm caused long-term gender dependent effects on behaviour and HPA axis status. The consistent gender differences confirm and expand existing results showing altered anxiety and stress reactivity in male and female rats.
Using combined retrograde labeling and Fos protein immunohistochemistry, we show that after masseter inflammation, a population of neurons in the dorsal portion of the subnuclei interpolaris/caudalis transition zone at the level of the obex was activated and projected to the oval paracentral nucleus (OPC) of the intralaminar thalamic nuclei. The present findings indicate a trigeminothalamic pathway to the OPC intralaminar nucleus involved in central processing of orofacial deep noxious input.
The central representation of geomagnetic information in the avian brain continues to challenge researchers. Although the homing pigeon hippocampal formation primarily participates in the map-like representation of landmarks, some suggestive data indicate that it may also participate in spatial behavior guided by geomagnetic information. Forty-four isolated neurons were recorded from the hippocampal formation of homing pigeons trained to shuttle between two goal locations under changing (direction and intensity, and direction only) magnetic field conditions. Of the 37 slow-firing cells sampled (&lt;14 spikes/s), none displayed a change in firing rate at the time of magnetic field transitions or during different ambient magnetic field conditions. By contrast, three of seven fast firing cells (&gt;17 spikes/s) clearly displayed a phasic increase in firing during at least one of the magnetic field transitions used. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that a subset of hippocampal formation neurons receives information regarding changes in the earth's magnetic field that may be used to guide behavior.
Several studies have shown that the neuronal calcium sensor (NCS-1) and phosphoinositol 4-kinase-beta (PI4K-beta) regulate the exocytotic process of nerve and neuroendocrine cells. The aim of our study was to investigate their possible interaction at rest and during stimulation in living cells and to decipher the role of this interaction in the secretory process. In PC12 cells, we observed a stimulation-induced recruitment of NCS-1 and PI4K-beta from the intracellular compartment toward the plasma membrane. This recruitment was highly correlated to the intracellular Ca(2+) rise induced by secretagogues. Using fluorescence resonance energy transfer between PI4K-beta-ECFP and NCS-1-EYFP, we show that both proteins are interacting in resting cells and that this interaction increases with stimulation. It appears that the membrane insertion of NCS-1 is necessary for the interaction with PI4K-beta, since a mutation that prevented the membrane insertion of NCS-1 abolished NCS-1-PI4K-beta interaction, as revealed by fluorescence resonance energy transfer analysis. Additionally, the overexpression of mutated NCS-1 prevents the stimulatory effect on secretion induced by PI4K-beta, suggesting that the interaction of the two proteins on a membrane compartment is necessary for the secretory function. Moreover, extinction of endogenous PI4K-beta by small interfering RNA inhibits secretion and completely prevents the stimulatory effect of NCS-1 on calcium-evoked exocytosis from permeabilized PC12 cells, showing directly for the first time the functional implication of a NCS-1.PI4K-beta complex in regulated exocytosis.
A subtle but chronic alteration in metabolic balance between amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) anabolic and catabolic activities is thought to cause Abeta accumulation, leading to a decade-long pathological cascade of Alzheimer disease. However, it is still unclear whether a reduction of the catabolic activity of Abeta in the brain causes neuronal dysfunction in vivo. In the present study, to clarify a possible connection between a reduction in neprilysin activity and impairment of synaptic and cognitive functions, we cross-bred amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice (APP23) with neprilysin-deficient mice and biochemically and immunoelectron-microscopically analyzed Abeta accumulation in the brain. We also examined hippocampal synaptic plasticity using an in vivo recording technique and cognitive function using a battery of learning and memory behavior tests, including Y-maze, novel-object recognition, Morris water maze, and contextual fear conditioning tests at the age of 13-16 weeks. We present direct experimental evidence that reduced activity of neprilysin, the major Abeta-degrading enzyme, in the brain elevates oligomeric forms of Abeta at the synapses and leads to impaired hippocampal synaptic plasticity and cognitive function before the appearance of amyloid plaque load. Thus, reduced neprilysin activity appears to be a causative event that is at least partly responsible for the memory-associated symptoms of Alzheimer disease. This supports the idea that a strategy to reduce Abeta oligomers in the brain by up-regulating neprilysin activity would contribute to alleviation of these symptoms.
The cytokines IL-1alpha and IL-1beta are induced rapidly after insults to the CNS, and their subsequent signaling through the type 1 IL-1 receptor (IL-1R1) has been regarded as essential for a normal astroglial and microglial/macrophage response. To determine whether abrogating signaling through the IL-1R1 will alter the cardinal astrocytic responses to injury, we analyzed molecules characteristic of activated astrocytes in response to a penetrating stab wound in wild type mice and mice with a targeted deletion of IL-1R1. Here we show that after a stab wound injury, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) induction on a per cell basis is delayed in the IL-1R1-null mice compared to wild type counterparts. However, the induction of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, tenascin, S-100B as well as glutamate transporter proteins, GLAST and GLT-1, and glutamine synthetase are independent of IL-1RI signaling. Cumulatively, our studies on gliosis in the IL-1R1-null mice indicate that abrogating IL-1R1 signaling delays some responses of astroglial activation; however, many of the important neuroprotective adaptations of astrocytes to brain trauma are preserved. These data recommend the continued development of therapeutics to abrogate IL-1R1 signaling to treat traumatic brain injuries. However, astroglial scar related proteins were induced irrespective of blocking IL-1R1 signaling and thus, other therapeutic strategies will be required to inhibit glial scarring.
We have characterized a method of labeling of axons in the post-mortem spinal cord using a silastic disc holding pins coated with DiI and DiO at the rostral and caudal ends of the cord. We optimized the DiI and DiO tracing techniques under different conditions of fixative concentration (1% versus 4% paraformaldehyde, PF), at room temperature (RT) versus 37 degrees C for up to 24 weeks. Crystal coated pins embedded in a silastic disc provided a novel method of dye application. Confocal microscopy of longitudinal sections showed DiI and DiO labeled both the axonal membrane and myelin sheath. DiI diffused significantly longer distances than DiO. Both dyes migrated greater distances at 37 degrees C compared with RT. No significant difference of dye labeling was found between 1% and 4% PF fixation. After prolonged incubation there was evidence that dye diffused through the aqueous medium and produced circumferential labeling of the cord. Placing a wax seal around the labeling site prevented this non-contiguous labeling. Labeling of myelin sheaths at extended distances into the cord suggested that dye could migrate between cells with prolonged incubation periods. Our data suggested that higher temperature facilitated dye diffusion along the axons, and demonstrated that with caution DiI and DiO could be used as specific tracers in the same spinal cords.
An increasing number of neuroscience experiments are using virtual reality to provide a more immersive and less artificial experimental environment. This is particularly useful to navigation and three-dimensional scene perception experiments. Such experiments require accurate real-time tracking of the observer's head in order to render the virtual scene. Here, we present data on the accuracy of a commonly used six degrees of freedom tracker (Intersense IS900) when it is moved in ways typical of virtual reality applications. We compared the reported location of the tracker with its location computed by an optical tracking method. When the tracker was stationary, the root mean square error in spatial accuracy was 0.64 mm. However, we found that errors increased over ten-fold (up to 17 mm) when the tracker moved at speeds common in virtual reality applications. We demonstrate that the errors we report here are predominantly due to inaccuracies of the IS900 system rather than the optical tracking against which it was compared.
The development of the visual pathway has been extensively studied. However, despite of the importance of the perigeniculate nucleus within this pathway, there is a lack of information concerning its development. The present study examined the dendritic development of perigeniculate nucleus cells using single cell injections in 400-500 microm thick fixed brain slices from kittens of different ages between postnatal day 0 and postnatal day 125. A total of 189 perigeniculate nucleus cells were reconstructed from serial sections for qualitative and quantitative analysis. Cells during the first month were characterized by an abundance of branch points and appendages. There was a significant (P&gt;0.05), albeit variable, increase in the number of branch points and appendages up to about postnatal day 12 after which the numbers were rapidly reduced over the next two weeks. Similarly, appendage numbers significantly increased over the first two weeks until postnatal day 17 and then fell to near adult levels by postnatal day 34. The majority of branch points and appendages occur within 100-200 microm of the soma (10-30% of the dendritic diameter). The data indicate that perigeniculate nucleus dendritic maturation lags shortly behind that of the retina but may precede that of its dorsal thalamic target, the lateral geniculate nucleus. Thus, it may be that the earlier maturation of the perigeniculate nucleus and its inhibitory input is a necessary requirement for the proper development of retinogeniculate and corticothalamic topographic maps within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and perigeniculate nucleus.
Most gap junctions between neurons in mammalian retina contain abundant connexin36, often in association with the scaffolding protein zonula occludens-1. We now investigate co-association of connexin36, zonula occludens-1, zonula occludens-2 and Y-box transcription factor 3 (zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein) in mouse and rat retina. By immunoblotting, zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein and zonula occludens-2 were both detected in retina, and zonula occludens-2 in retina was found to co-immunoprecipitate with connexin36. By immunofluorescence, the four proteins appeared as puncta distributed in the plexiform layers. In the inner plexiform layer, most connexin36-puncta were co-localized with zonula occludens-1, and many were co-localized with zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein. Moreover, zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein was often co-localized with zonula occludens-1. Nearly all zonula occludens-2-puncta were positive for connexin36, zonula occludens-1 and zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein. In the outer plexiform layer, connexin36 was also often co-localized with zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein. In connexin36 knockout mice, labeling of zonula occludens-1 was slightly reduced in the inner plexiform layer, zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein was decreased in the outer plexiform layer, and both zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein and zonula occludens-2 were markedly decreased in the inner sublamina of the inner plexiform layer, whereas zonula occludens-1, zonula occludens-2 and zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein puncta persisted and remained co-localized in the outer sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. By freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling, connexin36 was found to be co-localized with zonula occludens-2 within individual neuronal gap junctions. In addition, zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein was abundant in a portion of ultrastructurally-defined gap junctions throughout the inner plexiform layer, and some of these junctions contained both connexin36 and zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein. These distinct patterns of connexin36 association with zonula occludens-1, zonula occludens-2 and zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein in different sublaminae of retina, and differential responses of these proteins to connexin36 gene deletion suggest differential regulatory and scaffolding roles of these gap junction accessory proteins. Further, the persistence of a subpopulation of zonula occludens-1/zonula occludens-2/zonula occludens-1-associated nucleic acid-binding protein co-localized puncta in the outer part of the inner plexiform layer of connexin36 knockout mice suggests close association of these proteins with other structures in retina, possibly including gap junctions composed of an as-yet-unidentified connexin.
Methamphetamine (METH) is an illicit and potent psychostimulant, which acts as an indirect dopamine agonist. In the striatum, METH has been shown to cause long lasting neurotoxic damage to dopaminergic nerve terminals and recently, the degeneration and death of striatal cells. The present study was undertaken to identify the type of striatal neurons that undergo apoptosis after METH. Male mice received a single high dose of METH (30 mg/kg, i.p.) and were killed 24 h later. To demonstrate that METH induces apoptosis in neurons, we combined terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining with immunohistofluorescence for the neuronal marker neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN). Staining for TUNEL and NeuN was colocalized throughout the striatum. METH induces apoptosis in approximately 25% of striatal neurons. Cell counts of TUNEL-positive neurons in the dorsomedial, ventromedial, dorsolateral and ventrolateral quadrants of the striatum did not reveal anatomical preference. The type of striatal neuron undergoing cell death was determined by combining TUNEL with immunohistofluorescence for selective markers of striatal neurons: dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, of apparent Mr 32,000, parvalbumin, choline acetyltransferase and somatostatin (SST). METH induces apoptosis in approximately 21% of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, of apparent Mr 32,000-positive neurons (projection neurons), 45% of GABA-parvalbumin-positive neurons in the dorsal striatum, and 29% of cholinergic neurons in the dorsal-medial striatum. In contrast, the SST-positive interneurons were refractory to METH-induced apoptosis. Finally, the amount of cell loss determined with Nissl staining correlated with the amount of TUNEL staining in the striatum of METH-treated animals. In conclusion, some of the striatal projection neurons and the GABA-parvalbumin and cholinergic interneurons were removed by apoptosis in the aftermath of METH. This imbalance in the populations of striatal neurons may lead to functional abnormalities in the output and processing of neural information in this part of the brain.
Although traumatic brain injury is a major cause of symptomatic epilepsy, the mechanism by which it leads to recurrent seizures is unknown. An animal model of posttraumatic epilepsy that reliably reproduces the clinical sequelae of human traumatic brain injury is essential to identify the molecular and cellular substrates of posttraumatic epileptogenesis, and perform preclinical screening of new antiepileptogenic compounds. We studied the electrophysiologic, behavioral, and structural features of posttraumatic epilepsy induced by severe, non-penetrating lateral fluid-percussion brain injury in rats. Data from two independent experiments indicated that 43% to 50% of injured animals developed epilepsy, with a latency period between 7 weeks to 1 year. Mean seizure frequency was 0.3+/-0.2 seizures per day and mean seizure duration was 113+/-46 s. Behavioral seizure severity increased over time in the majority of animals. Secondarily-generalized seizures comprised an average of 66+/-37% of all seizures. Mossy fiber sprouting was increased in the ipsilateral hippocampus of animals with posttraumatic epilepsy compared with those subjected to traumatic brain injury without epilepsy. Stereologic cell counts indicated a loss of dentate hilar neurons ipsilaterally following traumatic brain injury. Our data suggest that posttraumatic epilepsy occurs with a frequency of 40% to 50% after severe non-penetrating fluid-percussion brain injury in rats, and that the lateral fluid percussion model can serve as a clinically-relevant tool for pathophysiologic and preclinical studies.
Hypoglycemia elicits an integrated array of CNS-mediated counterregulatory responses, including activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The role of antecedent adrenocortical hypersecretion in impaired glucose counterregulation remains controversial. The present studies utilized the selective, nonsteroidal glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, CP-472555, as a pharmacological tool to investigate the hypothesis that hypoglycemic hypercorticosteronemia modulates CNS efferent autonomic and neuroendocrine motor responses to recurring insulin-induced hypoglycemia via glucocorticoid receptor-dependent mechanisms. Groups of adult male rats were injected s.c. with either one or four doses of the intermediate-acting insulin, Humulin neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH), on as many days, while controls were injected with diluent alone. Animals injected with four doses of insulin were pretreated by i.c.v. administration of graded doses of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist or vehicle alone prior to the first three doses of insulin. Repeated daily injection of NPH exacerbated hypoglycemia, attenuated patterns of glucagon and epinephrine secretion, and diminished neuronal transcriptional activation in discrete CNS metabolic loci, including the lateral hypothalamic area, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, and nucleus of the solitary tract. While i.c.v. delivery of 25 or 100 ng doses of CP-472555 did not alter any of these parameters, animals treated with 500 ng exhibited circulating glucose, glucagon, and epinephrine levels that were similar to those in rats injected with one dose of insulin, as well as a reversal of recurring insulin-induced hypoglycemia-associated reductions in Fos immunolabeling in the lateral hypothalamic area, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. These results provide unique pharmacological evidence that antecedent activation of central glucocorticoid receptor is required for exacerbation of hypoglycemia during recurring insulin-induced hypoglycemia, and that these receptors mediate modulatory effects of hypoglycemic hypercorticosteronemia on autonomic efferent responses to recurring insulin-induced hypoglycemia. The data also suggest that neurons in central loci characterized here by antagonist-mediated overturn of recurring insulin-induced hypoglycemia-induced decreases in neuronal transcriptional activation may be direct or indirect substrates for this hormonal modulation action.
In normal rats the proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, which are induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharides, are able to control thalamo-cortical excitability by exerting strong effects on physiological synchronization such as sleep and on pathological synchronization like that in epileptic discharges. To investigate whether proinflammatory cytokines or lipopolysaccharides could modulate absence seizures resulting from a very different generator mechanism than the already investigated bicuculline-, kindling- and kainate-induced seizures, we used a genetically epileptic Wistar Albino Glaxo/Rijswijk rat strain, which is spontaneously generating high voltage spike-wave discharges. Wistar Albino Glaxo/Rijswijk rats responded with an increase of the number of spike-wave discharges to lipopolysaccharide injection (from 10 microg/kg to 350 microg/kg). Repetitive administration of 350 microg/kg lipopolysaccharides daily for 5 days increased the number of spike-wave discharges on the first, second and third days but the number of spike-wave discharges returned to the control value on day 5, at the 5th injection of lipopolysaccharides, showing a tolerance to lipopolysaccharides. The lipopolysaccharide-induced increase in spike-wave discharges was not directly correlated with the elevation of the core body temperature, as it is in febrile seizures, although lipopolysaccharide induced prostaglandin and is clearly pyrogenic at the doses used. Indomethacin, the prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, efficiently blocked lipopolysaccharide-induced enhancement of spike-wave discharge genesis suggesting that the spike-wave discharge facilitating effect of lipopolysaccharides involves induction of cyclooxygenase 2 and subsequent synthesis and actions of prostaglandin E2. Low dose (40 mg/kg, i.p.) of competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, and low dose of lipopolysaccharide (20 microg/kg) showed a synergistic interaction to increase the number of spike-wave discharges, whereas at supramaximal doses of lipopolysaccharide and the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist no synergy was present. The data reveal a functional connection between absence epileptic activity and lipopolysaccharide induction of prostaglandin synthesis and prostaglandin action and suggest some common cellular targets in epilepsy and lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation.
Recurrent epileptic seizures are known to provoke various forms of cellular reorganization in the brains of humans and experimental animals. However, little is known about the mechanism of neuronal cell death resulting from epileptic seizures elicited by GABA antagonists. In the present study, we explored the effect on the central nervous systems of freely moving adult rats, of repeated brief epileptic seizures induced by systemic injection of pentylenetetrazole, a GABA-A receptor antagonist. Starting with minor convulsions, repeated epileptic seizures elicited a progressive increase in seizure severity, culminating in the fully kindled state. Histological examination showed that the epileptic seizures caused overt neuronal cell death in the limbic system, including the hippocampus and amygdala, and its adjoining cortex. During the recurrent epileptic seizures, neurogenesis occurred in the subgranular zone of the hippocampus, the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle, and the amygdala. This type of pentylenetetrazole-induced neurogenesis was seen at an early stage of epileptogenesis in some regions in which massive cell loss was not evident. This suggests that neurogenesis is not a secondary consequence of neuronal cell death, but rather an independent effect of recurrent epileptic seizures.
Cortical sensory neurons adapt their response properties to use and disuse of peripheral receptors in their receptive field. Changes in synaptic strength can be generated in cortex by simply altering the balance of input activity, so that a persistent bias in activity levels modifies cortical receptive field properties. Such activity-dependent plasticity in cortical cell responses occurs in rat cortex when all but two whiskers are trimmed for a period of time at any age. The up-regulation of evoked responses to the intact whiskers is first seen within 24 h in the supragranular layers [Laminar comparison of somatosensory cortical plasticity. Science 265(5180):1885-1888] and continues until a new stable state is achieved [Experience-dependent plasticity in adult rat barrel cortex. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 90(5):2082-2086; Armstrong-James M, Diamond ME, Ebner FF (1994) An innocuous bias in whisker use in adult rat modifies receptive fields of barrel cortex neurons. J Neurosci 14:6978-6991]. These and many other results suggest that activity-dependent changes in cortical cell responses have an accumulation threshold that can be achieved more quickly by increasing the spike rate arising from the active region of the receptive field. Here we test the hypothesis that the rate of neuronal response change can be accelerated by placing the animals in a high activity environment after whisker trimming. Test stimuli reveal an highly significant receptive field bias in response to intact and trimmed whiskers in layer IV as well as in layers II-III neurons in only 15 h after whisker trimming. Layer IV barrel cells fail to show plasticity after 15-24 h in a standard cage environment, but produce a response bias when activity is elevated by the enriched environment. We conclude that elevated activity achieves the threshold for response modification more quickly, and this, in turn, accelerates the rate of receptive field plasticity.
Discoidin domain receptor 1 is a tyrosine kinase receptor expressed in a variety of tissues including the brain. This study describes mRNA and protein expression of discoidin domain receptor 1 in mouse brain during development and provides new insights into its role during gliogenesis and neurogenesis. We performed in situ hybridization for discoidin domain receptor 1 in mouse brains at embryonic day 18, postnatal days 5, 9, 15, 21 and adulthood and observed a diffuse pattern in the proliferative areas during embryogenesis. From postnatal day 5 onwards, a defined cellular expression pattern of discoidin domain receptor 1 was observed, mainly located in white matter tracts and following a spatio-temporal pattern that overlapped the progress of myelination. Next, we performed double-labeling reactions (in situ hybridization followed by immunohistochemistry) that confirmed that discoidin domain receptor 1 was expressed by mature oligodendrocytes. We observed that cells positive for discoidin domain receptor 1 also expressed carnosine and anti-adenomatous polyposis coli, two mature oligodendrocyte markers. Based on the localization of discoidin domain receptor 1 specifically in the white matter fiber tracts during postnatal development, we suggest that discoidin domain receptor 1 participates in the development and maintenance of the myelin sheath.
Sympathetic cholinergic postganglionic neurons are present in many sympathetic ganglia. Three classes of sympathetic cholinergic neuron have been reported in mammals; sudomotor neurons, vasodilator neurons and neurons innervating the periosteum. We have examined thoracic sympathetic ganglia in rats to determine if any other classes of cholinergic neurons exist. We could identify cholinergic sudomotor neurons and neurons innervating the rib periosteum, but confirmed that cholinergic sympathetic vasodilator neurons are absent in this species. Sudomotor neurons contained vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and always lacked calbindin. Cholinergic neurons innervating the periosteum contained VIP and sometimes calbindin, but always lacked CGRP. Cholinergic neurons innervating the periosteum were usually surrounded by terminals immunoreactive for CGRP. We conclude that if any undiscovered populations of cholinergic neurons exist in the rat thoracic sympathetic chain, then they are indistinguishable in size, neurochemistry and inputs from sudomotor or cholinergic neurons innervating the periosteum. It may be that the latter two populations account for all cholinergic neurons in the rat thoracic sympathetic chain ganglia.
Chronic restraint stress is known to affect the morphology and synaptic organization of the hippocampus, predominantly within CA3 but also in CA1 and dentate gyrus. In this study, we provide the first evidence for specific ultrastructural alterations affecting asymmetric axo-spinous synapses in CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare following chronic restraint stress (6 h/day, 21 days) in the rat. The structure of asymmetric axo-spinous post-synaptic densities was investigated using serial section three-dimensional reconstruction procedures in control (n=4) and chronic restraint stress (n=3) animals. Dendritic spine profiles (spine head+neck) associated with the sampled synaptic contacts (30 per animal) were also reconstructed in three-dimensions. Morphometric analyses revealed a significant increase in post-synaptic density surface area (+36%; P=0.03) and a highly significant increase in post-synaptic density volume (+79%; P=0.003) in the chronic restraint stress group. These changes were directly associated with 'non-macular' (perforated, complex and segmented) post-synaptic densities. A highly significant overall increase in the 'post-synaptic density surface area/spine surface area' ratio was also detected in the chronic restraint stress group (+27%; P=0.002). In contrast, no quantitative changes in spine parameters were found between groups. The Cavalieri method was used to assess the effects of chronic restraint stress exposure upon CA1 hippocampal volume. The mean volume of total dorsal anterior CA1 hippocampus was significantly lower in the chronic restraint stress group (-16%; P=0.036). However, when corrected for volume changes, no significant alteration in a relative estimate of the mean number of asymmetric axo-spinous synapses was detected in CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare between control and chronic restraint stress groups. The data indicate a structural remodeling of excitatory axo-spinous synaptic connectivity in rat CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare as a result of chronic restraint stress.
Neurogenesis may contribute to functional recovery after neural injury. Nitric oxide donors such as DETA-NONOate promote functional recovery after stroke. However, the mechanisms underlying functional improvement have not been ascertained. We therefore investigated the effects of DETA-NONOate on neural progenitor/stem cell neurospheres derived from the subventricular zone from young and retired breeder rat brain. Subventricular zone cells were dissociated from normal young adult male Wistar rats (2-3 months old) and retired breeder rats (14 months old), treated with or without DETA-NONOate. Subventricular zone neurosphere formation, proliferation, telomerase activity, and Neurogenin 1 mRNA expression were significantly decreased and glial fibrillary acidic protein expression was significantly increased in subventricular zone neurospheres from retired breeder rats compared with young rats. Treatment of neurospheres with DETA-NONOate significantly decreased neurosphere formation and telomerase activity, and promoted neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth concomitantly with increased N-cadherin and beta-catenin mRNA expression in both young and old neurospheres. DETA-NONOate selectively increased Neurogenin 1 and decreased glial fibrillary acidic protein mRNA expression in retired breeder neurospheres. N-cadherin significantly increased Neurogenin 1 mRNA expression in young and old neurospheres. Anti-N-cadherin reversed DETA-NONOate-induced neurosphere adhesion, neuronal differentiation, neurite outgrowth, and beta-catenin mRNA expression. Our data indicate that age has a potent effect on the characteristics of subventricular zone neurospheres; neurospheres from young rats show significantly higher formation, proliferation and telomerase activity than older neurospheres. In contrast, older neurospheres exhibit significantly increased glial differentiation than young neurospheres. DETA-NONOate promotes neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth in both young and older neurospheres. The molecular mechanisms associated with the DETA-NONOate modulation of neurospheres from young and older animals as well age dependent effects of neurospheres appear to be controlled by N-cadherin and beta-catenin gene expression, which subsequently regulates the neuronal differentiating factor Neurogenin expression in both young and old neural progenitor cells.
In an earlier study, we reported that nitric oxide is involved in lipopolysaccharide plus 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-induced malignant transformation via increases in metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity and inducible nitric oxide synthase gene expression in rat glioma C6 cells, however the mechanism has remained undefined. Lipopolysaccharide plus 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, but not lipopolysaccharide or 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate alone, induced transformation in glioma C6 cells (but not in human glioblastoma cells GBM-8401 cells) without affecting their viability. An increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase protein expression, nitric oxide production, and metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity is identified lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-treated C6 cells, however lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (but not lipopolysaccharide) addition shows the similar inductive pattern on metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity without affecting inducible nitric oxide synthase protein expression and nitric oxide production in GBM-8401 cells. Treatment of C6 cells with lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate increases the expression of phosphorylated extracellular regulated protein kinases and Jun N-terminal kinases, but not p38, proteins, and an addition of the extracellular regulated protein kinases inhibitor PD98059 or Jun N-terminal kinases inhibitors SP600125, but not the p38 inhibitor SB203580, significantly blocked lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase protein expression and metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity accompanied by blocking morphological transformation in C6 cells. Among 19 structurally related flavonoids, kaempferol and wogonin exhibit significant inhibitory effects on lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-induced morphological transformation and colony formation, and attenuation of inducible nitric oxide synthase, phosphorylated extracellular regulated protein kinases protein expression, and metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity was observed. 2'-OH flavone at a dose of 100 microM inhibition of lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-induced events via apoptosis induction is identified. Furthermore, lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, but not lipopolysaccharide or 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, induces tumoral invasion and migration in vitro and in vivo, and those are blocked by kaempferol and wogonin addition. These data suggest that combination of lipopolysaccharide and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate promotes tumoral progression via activating metalloproteinase 9 enzyme activity and inducible nitric oxide synthase gene expression, which is located downstream of mitogen-activated protein kinases activation, in rat glioma cells C6. Kaempferol and wogonin exhibit effective inhibitory effects on lipopolysaccharide/12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate-induced events, and thus possess the potential for further development.
Corticotropin releasing factor, acting at hypothalamic corticotropin releasing factor receptors, contributes to the neural signaling pathways mediating stress-related responses, as well as those involved in maintaining energy balance homeostasis. Sympathetically-regulated lipid metabolism and heat production in brown adipose tissue contributes to the non-shivering thermogenic component of stress-evoked hyperthermia and to energy expenditure aspects of body weight regulation. To identify potential central pathways through which hypothalamic corticotropin releasing factor influences brown adipose tissue thermogenesis, corticotropin releasing factor was microinjected into the lateral ventricle (i.c.v.) or into hypothalamic sites while recording sympathetic outflow to brown adipose tissue, brown adipose tissue temperature, expired CO2, heart rate and arterial pressure in urethane/chloralose-anesthetized, artificially-ventilated rats. I.c.v. corticotropin releasing factor or corticotropin releasing factor microinjection into the preoptic area or the dorsomedial hypothalamus, but not the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, elicited sustained increases in brown adipose tissue sympathetic nerve activity, brown adipose tissue temperature, expired CO2 and heart rate. These sympathetic responses to i.c.v. corticotropin releasing factor were eliminated by inhibition of neuronal activity in the dorsomedial hypothalamus or in the raphe pallidus, a putative site of sympathetic premotor neurons for brown adipose tissue, and were markedly reduced by microinjection of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists into the dorsomedial hypothalamus. The increases in brown adipose tissue sympathetic outflow, brown adipose tissue temperature and heart rate elicited from corticotropin releasing factor into the preoptic area were reversed by inhibition of neuronal discharge in dorsomedial hypothalamus. These data indicate that corticotropin releasing factor release within the preoptic area activates a sympathoexcitatory pathway to brown adipose tissue and to the heart, perhaps similar to that activated by increased prostaglandin production in the preoptic area, that includes neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus and in the raphe pallidus.
The cellular processes that take place during the transition from pre-seizure state to seizure remain to be defined. In this study in awake, paralyzed rats, we used an electrical impedance measure of changes in extra-cellular intracranial volume to estimate changes in cell size in acute models of epilepsy. Animals were prepared with extradural electroencephalographic (EEG)/impedance electrodes and a venous catheter. On a subsequent day, animals were paralyzed, ventilated and treated with picrotoxin, kainic acid or fluorocitrate in doses that usually induce epileptiform discharges. We now report that increases in baseline impedance were induced by kainic acid and smaller increases by picrotoxin. We also demonstrated that epileptiform discharges were preceded by small, accelerated increases in impedance. Increases in baseline impedance were highly correlated with increases in power of non-ictal high frequency EEG activity. Seizures were accompanied by increases in impedance and all treatments induced transient, relatively large, increases in impedance often associated with unilateral reductions in low frequency EEG, likely periods of spreading depression. We conclude: cerebral cells swell in convulsant models of epilepsy, that there are pre-ictal accelerations in cell swelling, and that spreading depression-like events are frequently associated with seizures.
We examined the role of cyclooxygenase-2 in the development of ischemic tolerance induced by cortical spreading depression against transient, focal brain ischemia. Cortical spreading depression was continuously induced for 2 h with topical KCl (13+/-1 depolarizations/2 h) in male Wistar rats. At 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 days following recovery, the middle cerebral artery was transiently occluded for 120 min. Four days later, the animals were killed and infarct volume was determined. Additionally, cyclooxygenase-2 levels in the cerebral cortex and 15 deoxy-Delta(12, 14) PGJ2 levels in cerebrospinal fluid were determined at these times with Western blotting and immunoassay, respectively. Infarct volume was reduced compared with non-cortical spreading depression control animals (274.3+/-15.3 mm3) when cortical spreading depression was performed 3 and 4 days before middle cerebral artery occlusion (163.9+/-14.2 mm3, 154.9+/-14.2 mm3) but not at 1, 2 and 5 days (280.4+/-17.3 mm3, 276.3+/-16.9 mm3 and 268.5+/-17.3 mm3). Cyclooxygenase-2 levels increased most dramatically starting at 2 days, peaked at 3 days, and started to return toward baseline at 4 days after cortical spreading depression. 15 Deoxy-Delta(12, 14) PGJ2 levels increased from 134.7+/-83 pg/ml at baseline to 718+/-98 pg/ml at 3 days. Administration of N-[2-cyclohexyloxy-4-nitrophenyl] methanesulphonamide (10 mg/kg, i.v.), a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, at 1 h prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion in cortical spreading depression preconditioned animals did not affect infarct volume (162.6+/-62.1 mm3). However, administration of N-[2-cyclohexyloxy-4-nitrophenyl] methanesulphonamide given three times prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion prevented the reduced infarct volume induced by cortical spreading depression preconditioning (272.9+/-63.2 mm3). Administration of L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (4 mg/kg, i.v.) prior to cortical spreading depression blocked increases in cyclooxygenase-2 normally seen at 3 and 4 days. We conclude that NO-mediated cyclooxygenase-2 upregulation by cortical spreading depression protects the brain against ischemic damage.
Apamin-sensitive, SK channels play an important role in generating the rhythmic firing patterns exhibited by midbrain dopamine neurons in vitro. However, their contribution to the firing properties of these cells in intact animals has yet to be determined. In the present series of experiments, extracellular single unit recording techniques were used to assess the central effects of prototypical SK channel ligands on the firing pattern of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra of the chloral hydrate anesthetized rat. I.v. administration of the SK channel blocker apamin (0.4 mg/kg), increased bursting activity in approximately 50% of the dopamine neurons tested without altering average firing rate. The majority of these cells responded slowly to the effects of apamin, gradually transitioning from an irregular single spike to a phasic discharge composed of the same relative proportion of long (&gt;or=three spike) and short (two spike) bursts as &quot;natural&quot; bursting activity recorded in drug naive animals. Local administration of apamin increased bursting activity in all cells tested. Systemic administration of the SK channel opener, 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone (5-25 mg/kg) also had no effect on average firing rate but suppressed bursting activity and increased the precision of firing. The effects of 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinon on firing pattern were abolished when recording electrodes contained apamin (125 microM). These results suggest that SK channels actively contribute to the spontaneous firing patterns exhibited by dopamine neurons in vivo and provide additional support for the proposition that this channel could serve as a useful target for modifying their activity.
The function of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 capsaicin receptor is subject to modulation by phosphorylation catalyzed by various enzymes including protein kinase C and cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The aim of this study was to compare the significance of the basal and stimulated activity of protein kinase C and cAMP-dependent protein kinase in transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor responsiveness in the rat in vitro by measurement of the intracellular calcium concentration in cultured trigeminal ganglion neurons and in vivo by determination of the behavioral noxious heat threshold. KT5720, a selective inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, reduced the calcium transients induced by capsaicin or the other, much more potent transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor agonist resiniferatoxin in trigeminal sensory neurons and diminished the drop of the noxious heat threshold (heat allodynia) evoked by intraplantar resiniferatoxin injection. Chelerythrine chloride, a selective inhibitor of protein kinase C, failed to alter either of these responses, although it inhibited the effect of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in the in vitro assay. Staurosporine, a rather nonselective protein kinase inhibitor, failed to reduce the capsaicin- and resiniferatoxin-induced calcium transients but inhibited the resiniferatoxin-evoked heat allodynia. Dibutyryl-cAMP and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, activator(s) of cAMP-dependent protein kinase and protein kinase C, respectively, enhanced the effect of capsaicin in the calcium uptake assay while forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, augmented that of resiniferatoxin in the heat allodynia model. None of the protein kinase inhibitors or activators altered the calcium transients evoked by high potassium, a nonspecific depolarizing stimulus. It is concluded that basal activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, unlike protein kinase C, is involved in the maintenance of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor function in somata of trigeminal sensory neurons but stimulation of either cAMP-dependent protein kinase or protein kinase C above the resting level can lead to an enhanced transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor responsiveness. Similar mechanisms are likely to operate in vivo in peripheral terminals of nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurons.
In vertebrates, most glycinergic inhibitory neurons discharge phasically at a relatively low frequency. Such a pattern of glycine liberation from presynaptic terminals may affect the kinetics of post-synaptic glycine receptors. To examine this influence, we have analyzed the behavior of glycine receptors in response to repetitive stimulation at frequencies at which consecutive outside-out currents did not superimpose (0.5-4 Hz). Neurotransmitter release was mimicked on outside-out patches from zebrafish hindbrain Mauthner cells using fast flow application techniques. The amplitude of outside-out currents evoked by short (1 ms) repetitive applications of a saturating concentration (3 mM) of glycine remained unchanged for application frequencies&lt;or=1 Hz. When the application frequency was increased from 1 to 4 Hz, the amplitude of the outside-out currents decreased with time to reach a steady state level. This decrease in current amplitude was larger and occurred faster with increasing application frequencies. Recovery occurred when the stimulation frequency was decreased back to 1 Hz. The recovery time constant was independent on the application frequency. This frequency-dependent inhibition was also observed for non-saturating glycine concentrations. Our results indicate that glycine receptor activity is down-regulated when the stimulation frequency increases to values&gt;1 Hz. Glycine-evoked current simulations using a simple Markov model describing zebrafish glycine receptor kinetic behavior, indicates that this down-regulation of glycine receptor efficacy is due to a progressive accumulation of the receptors in a long lasting desensitization state. Our simulations suggest that this down-regulation can occur even when spontaneous inhibitory currents were generated randomly at a frequency&gt;1 Hz.
The CB1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1) is the predominant type of cannabinoid receptor in the CNS, in which it displays a unique anatomical distribution and is present at higher densities than most other known seven transmembrane domain receptors. Nevertheless, as with almost all seven transmembrane domain receptors, the tertiary and quaternary structure of this receptor is still unknown. Studies of CB1 in rat cerebral tissue are scarce, and even less is known regarding the expression of CB1 in the human brain. Thus, the aim of the present work was to characterize CB1 expression in membranes from postmortem human brain using specific antisera raised against this protein. Western blot analysis of P1 and P2 fractions, and crude plasma membrane preparations from the prefrontal cortex showed that CB1 migrated as a 60 kDa monomer under reducing conditions. These data were confirmed by blotting experiments carried out with human U373MG astrocytoma cells as a positive control for CB1 expression and wild-type CHO cells as negative control. In addition, when proteins were solubilized in the absence of dithiothreitol, the anti-human CB1 antiserum detected a new band migrating at around 120 kDa corresponding in size to a putative CB1 dimer. This band was sensitive to reducing agents (50 mM dithiothreitol) and showed sodium dodecylsulphate stability, suggesting the existence of disulfide-linked CB1 dimers in the membrane preparations. Important differences in the anatomical distribution of CB1 were observed with regard to that described previously in monkey and rat; in the human brain, CB1 levels were higher in cortex and caudate than in the cerebellum.
Eugenol, an aromatic molecule derived from several plants, has been receiving examination for clinical relevance in epilepsy and headache. To investigate the neurophysiologic properties of the action of eugenol, its effects on epileptiform field potentials elicited by omission of extracellular Mg2+, spreading depression induced by KCl microinjection, electrically evoked field potentials, and long-term potentiation were tested in rat neocortical and hippocampal tissues. Eugenol (10-100 micromol/l) dose-dependently and reversibly suppressed both epileptiform field potentials and spreading depression Eugenol also reversibly decreased the amplitude of the field postsynaptic potentials evoked in CA1 area of hippocampus and the third layer of neocortex. Eugenol significantly reduced the long-term potentiation by approximately 30% compared with controls. Thus, eugenol can suppress epileptiform field potentials and spreading depression, likely via inhibition of synaptic plasticity. The results indicate the potential for eugenol to use in the treatment of epilepsy and cephalic pain.
In this study we have used the transcription assay with 5'-fluorouridine incorporation into nascent RNA to analyze the nuclear organization and dynamics of transcription sites in rat trigeminal ganglia neurons. The 5'-FU administrated by i.p. injection was successfully incorporated into nuclear domains containing actively transcribing genes of trigeminal neurons. 5'-Fluorouridine RNA-labeling was detected with immunocytochemistry at light and electron microscopy levels. The 5'-fluorouridine incorporation sites were detected in the nucleolus, particularly on the dense fibrillar component, and in numerous transcription foci spread throughout the euchromatin regions, without preferential positioning at the nuclear periphery or in the nuclear interior. Double labeling experiments to combine 5'-fluorouridine incorporation with molecular markers of nuclear compartments showed the absence of transcription sites in Cajal bodies and nuclear speckles of splicing factors. Similarly, no 5'-fluorouridine labeling was detected in well-characterized chromatin silencing domain, the telomeric heterochromatin. The specificity and sensitivity of the run-on transcription assay in trigeminal ganglia neurons was verified by the i.p. administration of the transcription inhibitor actinomycin D. The dramatic reduction in RNA synthesis upon actinomycin D treatment was associated with two important cellular events, heterochromatin silencing and formation of DNA damage/repair nuclear foci, demonstrated by the expression of tri-methylated histone H4 and phosphorylated H2AX, respectively. 5'-Fluorouridine incorporation in animal models provides a useful tool to investigate the organization of gene expression in mammalian neurons in both normal physiology and experimental pathology systems.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids play an important role in the development of pathological states in brain after hypoxia/ischemia. Here, we investigated the role of docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3) in brain phospholipids for neuronal survival. We used organotypic cultures of rat brain hippocampal slices exposed to 40 min of oxygen-glucose deprivation, to study the consequences of experimental ischemia. In [14C]docosahexaenoic acid-labeled cultures, oxygen-glucose deprivation induced significant release of radioactive docosahexaenoic acid. This release could be blocked by the selective inhibitor of the Ca2+-independent phospholipase A2, 4-bromoenol lactone (10 microM), when it was added 30 min prior to oxygen-glucose deprivation. Addition of 4-bromoenol lactone at 30 min prior to oxygen-glucose deprivation markedly decreased the neuronal damage induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation. The protective effect was substantially higher in dentate gyrus than in CA1 and CA3 areas. Enrichment of the hippocampal tissue with docosahexaenoic acid by incubation with 10 microM docosahexaenoic acid for 24 h exerted the same neuroprotective effect, which was observed after treatment with 4-bromoenol lactone. In contrast to the 24 h-preincubation, simultaneous addition of docosahexaenoic acid with the onset of oxygen-glucose deprivation had no protective effect. This suggests that incorporation of docosahexaenoic acid into phospholipids is required for the protective effect observed. Then the possible involvement of arachidonic acid metabolism in docosahexaenoic acid-induced neuroprotection was tested. Inhibition of prostaglandin production by ibuprofen produced no change in neuroprotection after 24-h incubation of the hippocampal slices with docosahexaenoic acid. Simultaneous inhibition of Ca2+-independent and Ca2+-dependent phospholipases A2 by treatment with the general phospholipase A2 inhibitor methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (3 microM, 30 min prior to oxygen-glucose deprivation) resulted in significant enhancement of the neuroprotective effect in the dentate gyrus, but not in the CA1 and CA3 areas. In summary, the results reported here indicate that docosahexaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid-containing phospholipids provide potent protection against neurodegeneration after hypoxia/hypoglycemia. Furthermore, our data suggest that Ca2+-independent phospholipase A2, the isoform, which has been largely ignored so far, is a possible target for treatment of ischemia-related pathologies in brain.
Gymnotid electric fish explore their environment and communicate with conspecifics by means of rhythmic electric organ discharges. The neural command for each electric organ discharge arises from activity of a medullary pacemaker nucleus composed of two neuronal types: pacemaker and relay cells. During different behaviors as in courtship, exploration and agonistic interactions, these species display specific electric organ discharge frequency and/or waveform modulations. The neural bases of these modulations have been explained in terms of segregation of inputs to pacemaker or relay cells, as well as differential activation of the glutamate receptors of these cells. One of the most conspicuous electric organ discharge frequency modulations in Gymnotus carapo results from the activation of Mauthner cells, a pair of reticulospinal neurons that are involved in the organization of sensory-evoked escape responses in teleost fish. The activation of Mauthner cells in these animals produces a prolonged increase in electric organ discharge rate, whose neural mechanisms involves the activation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and metabotropic glutamatergic receptors of pacemaker cells. Here we provide evidence which indicates that pacemaker cells are the only cellular target of the synaptic inputs responsible for the Mauthner cell initiated electric organ discharge modulation at the medullary pacemaker nucleus. Additionally, although pacemaker cells express both NMDA and non-NMDA ionotropic receptors, we found that non-NMDA receptors are not involved in this synaptic action which suggests that NMDA and non-NMDA receptor subtypes are not co-localized at the subsynaptic membrane. NMDA receptor activation of pacemaker cells seems to be an efficient neural strategy to produce long-lasting enhancements of the fish sampling capability during Mauthner cell-initiated motor behaviors.
In the last 15 years a role has been ascribed for the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus as a supraspinal pain modulating area. The medullary dorsal reticular nucleus is reciprocally connected with the spinal dorsal horn, is populated mainly by nociceptive neurons and regulates spinal nociceptive processing. Here we analyze the distribution of brain projections from the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus using the iontophoretic administration of the anterograde tracer biotinylated-dextran amine and the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B. Fibers and terminal boutons labeled from the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus were located predominately in the brainstem, although extending also to the forebrain. In the medulla oblongata, anterograde labeling was observed in the orofacial motor nuclei, inferior olive, caudal ventrolateral medulla, rostral ventromedial medulla, nucleus tractus solitarius and most of the reticular formation. Labeling at the pons-cerebellum level was present in the locus coeruleus, A5 and A7 noradrenergic cell groups, parabrachial and deep cerebellar nuclei, whereas in the mesencephalon it was located in the periaqueductal gray matter, deep mesencephalic, oculomotor and anterior pretectal nuclei, and substantia nigra. In the diencephalon, fibers and terminal boutons were found mainly in the parafascicular, ventromedial, and posterior thalamic nuclei and in the arcuate, lateral, posterior, peri- and paraventricular hypothalamic areas. Telencephalic labeling was consistent but less intense and concentrated in the septal nuclei, globus pallidus and amygdala. The well-known role of the medullary dorsal reticular nucleus in nociception and its pattern of brain projections in rats suggests that the nucleus is possibly implicated in the modulation of: (i) the ascending nociceptive transmission involved in the motivational-affective dimension of pain; (ii) the endogenous supraspinal pain control system centered in the periaqueductal gray matter-rostral ventromedial medulla-spinal cord circuitry; (iii) the motor reactions associated with pain.
At excitatory synapses onto hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells, activation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and subsequent down-regulation of protein phosphatases has a crucial role in the induction of long-term potentiation by low-frequency patterns of synaptic stimulation. Because the second messenger cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate can regulate the activity of different forms of the cyclic AMP degrading enzyme phosphodiesterase, we examined whether increases in cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate can modulate long-term potentiation induction in the mouse hippocampal CA1 region through effects on cyclic AMP signaling. Using the cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate-specific phosphodiesterase inhibitor zaprinast or the nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-D,L-penicillamine to elevate cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate levels we found that increases in cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate strongly inhibit the induction of long-term potentiation by low-frequency patterns of synaptic stimulation where protein kinase A activation is required for long-term potentiation induction. In contrast, zaprinast and S-nitroso-D,L-penicillamine had no effect on the induction of long-term potentiation by high-frequency patterns of synaptic stimulation that induce long-term potentiation in a protein kinase A-independent manner. Directly activating protein kinase A with the phosphodiesterase-resistant cyclic AMP analog 8-Br-cAMP, blocking all phosphodiesterases with 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, or inhibiting protein phosphatases rescued long-term potentiation induction in zaprinast-treated slices. Together, these results suggest that increases in cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate inhibit long-term potentiation by activating phosphodiesterases that interfere with the protein kinase A-mediated suppression of protein phosphatases needed for long-term potentiation induction. Consistent with the notion that this cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate-mediated inhibitory pathway is recruited by some patterns of synaptic activity, blocking cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate production strongly facilitated the induction of long-term potentiation by long trains of theta-frequency synaptic stimulation. Together, our results indicate that increases in cyclic guanosine 3',5'monophosphate can act as a long-term potentiation suppressor mechanism that selectively constrains the induction of protein kinase A-dependent forms of long-term potentiation induced by low-frequency patterns of synaptic stimulation.
Psychostimulants change the function of cortico-basal ganglia circuits. Some of these effects are mediated by altered gene regulation in projection neurons of the striatum which participate in these circuits. Psychostimulant-induced changes in gene expression in these neurons are a consequence of excessive stimulation of G-protein-coupled receptors, particularly the D1 dopamine receptor subtype. Recent findings show that the psychostimulant methylphenidate, which causes dopamine overflow in the striatum, produces changes in striatal gene regulation similar, but not identical, to those induced by psychostimulants such as cocaine and amphetamine. We investigated, in rats, the role of striatal D1 receptors in methylphenidate-induced gene expression, by intrastriatal administration of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390. Effects on the expression of two plasticity-related molecules, the transcription factor zif 268 and the synaptic plasticity factor Homer 1a, in the striatum and cortex were assessed. Intrastriatal infusion of SCH-23390 (2-10 microg) attenuated zif 268 and Homer 1a mRNA expression induced by methylphenidate (10 mg/kg, i.p.) in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, this unilateral SCH-23390 infusion not only inhibited gene induction at the infusion site in the central striatum, but also in distant striatal regions including the nucleus accumbens, as well as throughout the entire contralateral striatum. These results indicate that striatal D1 receptors are critical for gene induction by methylphenidate. Moreover, the ipsilateral and contralateral effects of local SCH-23390 administration suggest that D1 receptor-stimulated striatal output exerts robust control over widespread striatal activities/gene expression via regulation of input to the striatum.
Neurons in the CNS can regenerate their axons in an environment of the peripheral nervous system, but this ability is limited. Here we show that an anti-glaucoma drug, nipradilol, at low concentration led to a four-fold increase in the number of cat retinal ganglion cells regenerating their axons into a transplanted peripheral nerve 4 and 6 weeks after axotomy. Nipradilol also increased the number of three main regenerating retinal ganglion cell types (alpha, beta, not alpha/beta), and enhanced the rate of axonal regeneration of these retinal ganglion cells. Nipradilol is a donor of nitric oxide and an antagonist of alpha-1, beta-1 and -2 adrenoreceptors, and we therefore examined whether one of these pharmacological effects might be more important in promoting axon regeneration. A nitric oxide donor increased the number of regenerating retinal ganglion cells, but not the rate of axonal regeneration. Denitro-nipradilol (nitric oxide-deprived nipradilol) or a nitric oxide scavenger injected before nipradilol increased the number of regenerating retinal ganglion cells but did not promote regeneration rate. Blockade of individual alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptors did not increase the number of regenerating retinal ganglion cells or the rate of regeneration. From these results, it is suggested that nitric oxide plays a crucial role in mediating the effects of nipradilol on axon regeneration and neuroprotection, and the metabolite of nipradilol supports the effects.
Adenosine has been proposed as a homeostatic &quot;sleep factor&quot; that promotes the transition from waking to sleep by affecting several sleep-wake regulatory systems. In the basal forebrain, adenosine accumulates during wakefulness and, when locally applied, suppresses neuronal activity and promotes sleep. However, the neuronal phenotype mediating these effects is unknown. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in in vitro rat brain slices to investigate the effect of adenosine on identified cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata. Adenosine (0.5-100 microM) reduced the magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata cholinergic neuronal firing rate by activating an inwardly rectifying potassium current that reversed at -82 mV and was blocked by barium (100 microM). Application of the A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclo-pentyl-theophylline (200 nM) blocked the effects of adenosine. Adenosine was also tested on two groups of electrophysiologically distinct noncholinergic magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata neurons. In the first group adenosine, via activation of postsynaptic A1 receptors, reduced spontaneous firing via inhibition of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current. Blocking the H-current with ZD7288 (20 microM) abolished adenosine effects on these neurons. The second group was not affected by adenosine. These results demonstrate that, in the magnocellular preoptic nucleus and substantia innominata region of the basal forebrain, adenosine inhibits both cholinergic neurons and a subset of noncholinergic neurons. Both of these effects occur via postsynaptic A1 receptors, but are mediated downstream by two separate mechanisms.
Patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) can exhibit an exceptionally wide variety of symptoms. This is largely due to the semi-random distribution of the lesions in the central nervous system (CNS). Most lesions occur in apparently &quot;silent&quot; areas in the brain, and so cause no detectable symptoms. The disease is therefore much more active than a mere clinical monitoring would suggest. Most symptoms are related to a loss of function. During the relapses, this is due to a failure of axonal conduction at the site of the lesion(s). The conduction block is caused by the local demyelination which prevents the saltatory conduction but also seemingly, to some extend, by the inflammation per se. Remissions are related to a recovery of function of the affected axons owing to a spreading of sodium channels along the demyelinated axolemma but also to cerebral functional plasticity and remyelination. However, nerve conduction remains slower and less secure than normal, easily altered by physico-chemical changes such as the increase in body temperature (Uhthoff's phenomenon). Remission is incomplete when the lesion has led to axonal transaction and therefore axonal loss. Progression in MS is mainly related to &quot;slow-burning&quot; diffuse and chronic axonal loss in a toxic inflammatory milieu. Lastly, some symptoms in MS are so-called &quot;positive&quot; arising from an acquired hyperexcitability of demyelinated axons and occur either spontaneously (e.g. paresthesias) or mechanically (e.g. Lhermitte's sign).
Still today, as for the time of Charcot, multiple sclerosis is defined by pathology with the presence of inflammatory demyelinating foci (&quot;plaques&quot;) disseminated in the white matter of the central nervous system (CNS). Each lesion follows its genuine course with an acute formation followed by a more or less complete regression whereas new lesions are forming elsewhere in the CNS throughout the disease duration. A permanent dynamics of the inflammatory activity, substratum of the lesional &quot;dissemination in space and time&quot; characteristic of the disease, is therefore operating. During the relapsing-remitting phase, focal lesions are at the forefront of the pathological abnormalities. During the progressive phase, be it secondary or primary, macroscopic atrophy and axonal loss, the main explanation of the irreversible neurological disability and the expression of the diffuse, chronic and progressive degeneration of the CNS, are emerging to the first place. Persisting controversies are many. Are there several distinct immunohistopathological patterns of the disease or do they correspond to different moments of the same disease? Is there a continuum between classic MS and pathological variants such as Marburg's disease, Balo's concentric sclerosis, Schilder's disease, and Devic's acute neuromyelitis optica or are there distinct nosological entities? As for autoimmunisation which leads to the selective destruction of myelin, is it primary or secondary to an oligodendrocytic apoptotic process?
The fundamental challenge in the social sciences is moving from complicated correlations to useful prediction. Progress usually reflects an interplay between theory, data, and tools. Six areas of innovation, principally data and tools, are now pushing at the frontiers of these sciences: longitudinal data, laboratory experimentation, improved statistical methods, geographic information tools, biosocial science, and international replication. These innovations are gaining power as they cross disciplinary boundaries, helping to attribute causality to observed relationships, to understand their nature, and thereby to improve the accuracy and usefulness of predictions.
Many common neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, stroke and multiple sclerosis, are caused by a loss of neurons and glial cells. In recent years, neurons and glia have been generated successfully from stem cells in culture, fueling efforts to develop stem-cell-based transplantation therapies for human patients. More recently, efforts have been extended to stimulating the formation and preventing the death of neurons and glial cells produced by endogenous stem cells within the adult central nervous system. The next step is to translate these exciting advances from the laboratory into clinically useful therapies.
Cognitive dysfunction is a major feature of drug addiction. In the present paper, we compared the decision-making ability using the Iowa gambling task of methadone- and buprenorphine-maintained individuals to non opiate-dependent drug-free controls. Buprenorphine-maintained individuals performed better than methadone-maintained individuals, and not differently than non opiate-dependent controls. In addition, methadone-maintained individuals had more perseverative errors on the Wisconsin card sorting task (WCST) as compared with non opiate-dependent drug-free controls whereas buprenorphine-maintained individuals had intermediate scores. Scores on Weschler adult intelligence scale (WAIS-R) were similar for methadone- and buprenorphine-maintained individuals whereas drug-free controls had significantly higher scores. In addition, both opiate-dependent groups performed more poorly than drug-free controls on the Benton visual retention test (BVRT). The results suggest that buprenorphine in contrast to methadone improves decision-making, and thus may be more effective in rehabilitation programs of opiate-dependent subjects and this improvement may be related to its distinct pharmacological action as a k antagonist.

Moving one part of the body can generate interaction forces that tend to destabilize other parts of the body. However, stability is maintained by mechanisms that predict and actively oppose these interaction forces. When our body or environment changes, these anticipatory mechanisms adapt so as to continue to produce accurate predictions. In this study, we examine the acquisition of a novel predictive coordination between the arms, in a situation in which a force is produced on one hand as a consequence of the action of the other hand. Specifically, a force was applied to the left hand that depended on the velocity of the right hand. With practice, subjects learned to stabilize the perturbed left arm during right-arm movements by predicting and actively opposing the externally applied forces. After adaptation, we examined how learning generalized to a new joint configuration of the right or left arm to investigate the coordinate systems in which the internal transformation from movement to force is represented. This revealed a dissociation between the representation of the action of the right arm and the representation of its consequence, that is the force on the left arm. The movement is represented in extrinsic coordinates related to the velocity of the hand, whereas the force resulting from the movement is represented in a joint-based intrinsic coordinate system.
The accessory radula closer (ARC) muscle of Aplysia has long been studied as a typical &quot;slow&quot; muscle, one that would be assumed to respond only to the overall, integrated spike rate of its motor neurons, B15 and B16. The precise timing of the individual spikes should not much matter. However, but real B15 and B16 spike patterns recorded in vivo show great variability that extends down to the timing of individual spikes. By replaying these real as well as artificially constructed spike patterns into ARC muscles in vitro, we examined the consequences of this spike-level variability for contraction. Replaying the same pattern several times reproduces precisely the same contraction shape: the B15/B16-ARC neuromuscular transform is deterministic. However, varying the timing of the spikes produces very different contraction shapes and amplitudes. The transform in fact operates at an interface between &quot;fast&quot; and &quot;slow&quot; regimens. It is fast enough that the timing of individual spikes greatly influences the detailed contraction shape. At the same time, slow integration of the spike pattern through the nonlinear transform allows the variable spike timing to determine also the overall contraction amplitude. Indeed, the variability appears to be necessary to maintain the contraction amplitude at a robust level. This phenomenon is tuned by neuromodulators that tune the speed and nonlinearity of the transform. Thus, the variable timing of individual spikes does matter, in at least two, functionally significant ways, in this &quot;slow&quot; neuromuscular system.
Several lines of evidence have indicated that the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are a site of memory storage for certain forms of motor learning, most notably associative eyelid conditioning. In particular, these experiments, together with network models, have implicated the excitatory glutamatergic synapse between mossy fibers and DCN neurons in this memory trace. However, to date, evidence for persistent use-dependent change in the strength of this synapse has been almost entirely absent. Here, we report that high-frequency burst stimulation of mossy fibers, either alone or paired with postsynaptic depolarization, gives rise to long-term depression (LTD) of the mossy fiber-DCN synapse. This form of LTD is not associated with changes in the paired-pulse ratio and is blocked by loading with a postsynaptic Ca2+ chelator but not by bath application of an NMDA receptor antagonist. Mossy fiber-DCN LTD requires activation of a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) and protein translation. Unlike mGluR/translation-dependent LTD in other brain regions, this form of LTD requires mGluR1 and is mGluR5 independent.


The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus controls circadian rhythms in behavioral, neuroendocrine and physiological functions. In this study, we test the hypothesis that caudal SCN efferents to the subparaventricular zone (SPVZ) control the rhythm in rest-activity (R-A) through projections on posterior hypothalamic area arousal systems (PHA). Small electrolytic lesions of the ventral SPVZ cause a selective loss of the circadian R-A rhythm, sparing the core body temperature rhythm. In contrast, large excitotoxic lesions of the posterior hypothalamic area (PHA) that effectively ablate populations of hypocretin and melanin concentrating hormone neurons projecting to cortex and subcortical arousal areas decrease R-A rhythm amplitude but do not disrupt circadian regulation. Since dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus lesions have effects similar to PHA lesions (Chou, T.C., Scammell, T.E., Gooley, J.J., Gaus, S.E., Saper, C.B., Lu, J., 2003. Critical role of dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus in a wide range of behavioral circadian rhythms. J. Neurosci. 23:10691-10702), these data support the view that the SPVZ is the principal relay nucleus for SCN signals to the multiple posterior hypothalamic arousal systems involved in generation of the R-A rhythm.
The authors report six patients with multifocal axonal polyneuropathy and the subsequent diagnosis of celiac disease (CD). Five patients did not improve or had only modest improvement following dietary intervention or immune therapies; one patient with marked weakness and mild electrodiagnostic findings had complete resolution of the neuropathy following immunomodulatory therapy. CD may be a cause of multifocal axonal polyneuropathy.
Erasmus Darwin was the founder of evolutionary biology, a renown poet, an inventor, and a general medical practitioner. Erasmus Darwin wrote specifically about the evolutionary and phylogenetic development of the nervous system, neuroembryology, psychiatric illness (including delusions and depression), and electrical therapy for childhood hemiplegia. He conducted experiments in neuro-ophthalmology and wrote about color vision, afterimages, the blind spot, and visual memory.


Kinesin is a linear motor protein driven by energy released by ATP hydrolysis. In the present work, we genetically installed an M13 peptide sequence into Loop 12 of kinesin, which is one of the major microtubule binding regions of the protein. Because the M13 sequence has high affinity for Ca(2+)-calmodulin, the association of the engineered kinesin with microtubules showed a steep Ca(2+)-dependency in ATPase activity at Ca(2+) concentrations of pCa 6.5-8. The calmodulin-binding domain of plant kinesin-like calmodulin-binding protein is also known to confer Ca(2+)-calmodulin regulation to kinesins. Unlike this plant kinesin, however, our novel engineered kinesin achieves this regulation while maintaining the interaction between kinesin and microtubules. The engineered kinesin is switched on/off reversibly by an external signal (i.e., Ca(2+)-calmodulin) and, thus, can be used as a model system for a bio/nano-actuator.
Truncated tau protein is the characteristic feature of human sporadic Alzheimer's disease. We have identified truncated tau proteins conformationally different from normal healthy tau. Subpopulations of these structurally different tau species promoted abnormal microtubule assembly in vitro suggesting toxic gain of function. To validate pathological activity in vivo we expressed active form of human truncated tau protein as transgene, in the rat brain. Its neuronal expression led to the development of the neurofibrillary degeneration of Alzheimer's type. Furthermore, biochemical analysis of neurofibrillary changes revealed that massive sarcosyl insoluble tau complexes consisted of human Alzheimer's tau and endogenous rat tau in ratio 1:1 including characteristic Alzheimer's disease (AD)-specific proteins (A68). This work represents first insight into the possible causative role of truncated tau in AD neurofibrillary degeneration in vivo.
The Nogo system has recently been implicated not only in regeneration but also in modulating plasticity. One reason for declining memory functions in aging may be altered plasticity in the aged hippocampus and cortex cerebri. Therefore, we have examined the levels of mRNA encoding Nogo, OMgp and MAG, as well as the receptor components NgR, Lingo-1 and Troy in cortex and hippocampus of young (4 months), middle aged (16 months) and old (24 months) Fisher 344 rats. No significant changes of receptor components or the ligands OMgp or MAG were observed. Nogo mRNA, however, was significantly decreased in hippocampal subregions of aged animals. The specific decrease of Nogo mRNA levels in hippocampus and possibly cortex cerebri may relate to age-dependent decline of brain plasticity.

Temperature signaling can be initiated by members of transient receptor potential family (thermo-TRP) channels. Hot and cold substances applied to teeth usually elicit pain sensation. This study investigated the expression of thermo-TRP channels in dental primary afferent neurons of the rat identified by retrograde labeling with a fluorescent dye in maxillary molars. Single cell reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry revealed expression of TRPV1, TRPM8, and TRPA1 in subsets of such neurons. Capsaicin (a TRPV1 agonist), menthol (a TRPM8 agonist), and icilin (a TRPM8 and TRPA1 agonist) increased intracellular calcium and evoked cationic currents in subsets of neurons, as did the appropriate temperature changes (&gt;43 degrees , &lt;25 degrees , and &lt;17 degrees C, respectively). Some neurons expressed more than one TRP channel and responded to two or three corresponding stimuli (ligands or thermal stimuli). Immunohistochemistry and single cell reverse transcription-PCR following whole cell recordings provided direct evidence for the association between the responsiveness to thermo-TRP ligands and expression of thermo-TRP channels. The results suggest that activation of thermo-TRP channels expressed by dental afferent neurons contributes to tooth pain evoked by temperature stimuli. Accordingly, blockade of thermo-TRP channels will provide a novel therapeutic intervention for the treatment of tooth pain.
Organisms ranging from bacteria to humans synchronize their internal clocks to daily cycles of light and dark. Photic entrainment of the Drosophila clock is mediated by proteasomal degradation of the clock protein TIMELESS (TIM). We have identified mutations in jetlag-a gene coding for an F-box protein with leucine-rich repeats-that result in reduced light sensitivity of the circadian clock. Mutant flies show rhythmic behavior in constant light, reduced phase shifts in response to light pulses, and reduced light-dependent degradation of TIM. Expression of JET along with the circadian photoreceptor cryptochrome (CRY) in cultured S2R cells confers light-dependent degradation onto TIM, thereby reconstituting the acute response + of the circadian clock to light in a cell culture system. Our results suggest that JET is essential for resetting the clock by transmitting light signals from CRY to TIM.
Several molecules, involved in cellular communication in the mature nervous system, appear to play important roles during neural development. These roles include neuronal growth, morphological changes of neurites, and neuronal survival. Such plasticity processes seem to be in part the result of activation of different receptor subtypes, which could cause Ca(2+) influx, a major candidate to be an outgrowth promoter. In this context, we performed immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization experiments to examine the following aspects of the development of chick cerebellum Purkinje cells: (i) expression of AMPA-type glutamate receptor GluR2/3 proteins; (ii) the levels of mRNAs coding for the GluR2 and GluR3 flip/flop isoforms; and (iii) expression of calbindin (CB) and parvalbumin (PV). Expression of GluR2/3 proteins, CB, PV, and the mRNAs coding for GluR2 and GluR3 splice variants all revealed a differential expression during development in chick Purkinje cells. GluR2/3 proteins and the GluR3 flop variant start to be expressed at E10, while the expression of CB, PV, the GluR3 flip isoform and the splice variants of GluR2 all started around E12-E14. All proteins showed an increasing expression from embryonic stages into the posthatching period. These results reveal a developmentally regulated expression of GluR2/3 proteins, including their splice variants, and of CB and PV in Purkinje cells. These findings may suggest a relationship between these proteins and specific cerebellar developmental processes.
Classical conditioning the rabbit nictitating membrane involves changes in synaptic and intrinsic membrane properties of cerebellar Purkinje cell dendrites, and a 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive potassium channel underlies these membrane properties. We characterized I(A) currents in adult, rabbit Purkinje cells to determine whether I(A) is the target channel involved in learning. Whole-cell recordings of Purkinje cell somas and dendrites revealed a fast activating and inactivating current with half maximal activation at -27.08 +/- 3.48 mV and -25.51 +/- 1.15 mV in somas and dendrites, respectively; half maximal inactivation at -58.91 +/- 2.34 mV and -49.90 +/- 2.58 mV; and a recovery time constant of 22.81 +/- 1.92 ms and 16.60 +/- 4.26 ms. Outside-out patch recordings from cerebellar Purkinje cell somas confirmed these 4-AP-sensitive currents with half maximal activation at -13.85 +/- 1.17 mV and half maximal inactivation at -55.07 +/- 5.54 mV. More importantly, there was an overlap of activation and incomplete inactivation at potentials from -60 to -40 mV, suggesting a &quot;window&quot; current that was responsible for subthreshold variations of membrane potential and might underlie conditioning-specific increases in Purkinje cell excitability. The potassium current was inhibited by 4-AP and by Heteropodatoxin, a specific blocker of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 channels, but not by Stromatoxin, a blocker of Kv4.2 channels. Mouse monoclonal antibody labeling identified both Kv4.3 and Kv4.2 subunits in the granule cell layer but only Kv4.3 subunits in the molecular layer. This is the first demonstration of A-type currents in adult, rabbit Purkinje cells that may play a role in regulating membrane potential and firing frequency and comprise the target channel mediating conditioning-specific changes of excitability in rabbit Purkinje cell dendrites.


Synaptic vesicle fusion is catalyzed by assembly of synaptic SNARE complexes, and is regulated by the synaptic vesicle GTP-binding protein Rab3 that binds to RIM and to rabphilin. RIM is a known physiological regulator of fusion, but the role of rabphilin remains obscure. We now show that rabphilin regulates recovery of synaptic vesicles from use-dependent depression, probably by a direct interaction with the SNARE protein SNAP-25. Deletion of rabphilin dramatically accelerates recovery of depressed synaptic responses; this phenotype is rescued by viral expression of wild-type rabphilin, but not of mutant rabphilin lacking the second rabphilin C2 domain that binds to SNAP-25. Moreover, deletion of rabphilin also increases the size of synaptic responses in synapses lacking the vesicular SNARE protein synaptobrevin in which synaptic responses are severely depressed. Our data suggest that binding of rabphilin to SNAP-25 regulates exocytosis of synaptic vesicles after the readily releasable pool has either been physiologically exhausted by use-dependent depression, or has been artificially depleted by deletion of synaptobrevin.
Neuregulins play crucial roles in early development of Schwann cells (SCs), but their roles in the activities of SCs during denervation and reinnervation of muscle are less clear. In the present study, the Tet-On system has been used in transgenic mice to enable inducible expression of a mutant, constitutively active neuregulin receptor (ErbB2) in SCs. This induction simulates neuregulin signaling to these cells. Reporter transgenes were used to show a tightly regulated, SC-selective expression in muscle. Induction leads to a number of changes in SCs at neuromuscular junctions that mimic the response to muscle denervation/reinnervation. These include process extension, soma migration, and proliferation. SCs also come to express nestin, a protein characteristic of their reaction to muscle denervation. This activation of SCs results in the sprouting of nerve terminals, and these sprouts follow the extensions of the SCs. However, these sprouts and their associated SCs disappear after the removal of the inducer. Last, induction of the active receptor is sufficient to rescue SCs in neonatal muscle from denervation-induced apoptosis. These findings show that the responses of SCs in muscle to denervation can be explained by induction of an autocrine/paracrine neuregulin signaling cascade suggested by previous molecular studies.
Transient global ischemia is a neuronal insult that induces delayed cell death. A hallmark event in the early post-ischemic period is enhanced permeability of mitochondrial membranes. The precise mechanisms by which mitochondrial function is disrupted are, as yet, unclear. Here we show that global ischemia promotes alterations in mitochondrial membrane contact points, a rise in intramitochondrial Zn2+, and activation of large, multi-conductance channels in mitochondrial outer membranes by 1 h after insult. Mitochondrial channel activity was associated with enhanced protease activity and proteolytic cleavage of BCL-xL to generate its pro-death counterpart, deltaN-BCL-xL. The findings implicate deltaN-BCL-xL in large, multi-conductance channel activity. Consistent with this, large channel activity was mimicked by introduction of recombinant deltaN-BCL-xL to control mitochondria and blocked by introduction of a functional BCL-xL antibody to post-ischemic mitochondria via the patch pipette. Channel activity was also inhibited by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, indicative of a role for the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) of the outer mitochondrial membrane. In vivo administration of the membrane-impermeant Zn2+ chelator CaEDTA before ischemia or in vitro application of the membrane-permeant Zn2+ chelator tetrakis-(2-pyridylmethyl) ethylenediamine attenuated channel activity, suggesting a requirement for Zn2+. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which ischemic insults disrupt the functional integrity of the outer mitochondrial membrane and implicate deltaN-BCL-xL and VDAC in the large, Zn2+-dependent mitochondrial channels observed in post-ischemic hippocampal mitochondria.
Patients infected by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) develop acquired immune deficiency syndrome-associated dementia complex (ADC), a disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of motor impairments and cognitive deficits. The number of cells in the brain that are productively infected by HIV-1 is relatively small and consists predominantly of macrophages and microglia, yet HIV-1 causes widespread neuronal loss. A better understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms mediating HIV-1 neurotoxicity is crucial for developing effective neuroprotective therapies against ADC. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120), which is shed from the virus, is one of the agents causing neuronal cell death. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying its neurotoxic effect remain unclear. We report that gp120 injected into the rat striatum or hippocampus is sequestered by neurons and subsequently retrogradely transported to distal neurons that project to these brain areas. Cleaved caspase-3 and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling, hallmarks of apoptosis, were seen in neurons internalizing and transporting gp120. The retrograde transport of gp120 and apoptosis were mediated by the chemokine receptor CXCR4 because AMD3100, a selective CXCR4 inhibitor, blocked both events. Furthermore, colchicine or nocodazole, two inhibitors of intracellular trafficking, abolished gp120-mediated apoptosis in distal areas. These results indicate that axonal transport of gp120 might play a role in HIV-1-mediated widespread neuronal cell death.
Deletion of synaptobrevin/vesicle-associated membrane protein, the major synaptic vesicle soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (R-SNARE), severely decreases but does not abolish spontaneous and evoked synaptic vesicle exocytosis. We now show that the closely related R-SNARE protein cellubrevin rescues synaptic transmission in synaptobrevin-deficient neurons but that deletion of both cellubrevin and synaptobrevin does not cause a more severe decrease in exocytosis than deletion of synaptobrevin alone. We then examined the structural requirements for synaptobrevin to function in exocytosis. We found that substituting glutamine for arginine in the zero-layer of the SNARE motif did not significantly impair synaptobrevin-dependent exocytosis, whereas insertion of 12 or 24 residues between the SNARE motif and transmembrane region abolished the ability of synaptobrevin to mediate Ca2+-evoked exocytosis. Surprisingly, however, synaptobrevin with the 12-residue but not the 24-residue insertion restored spontaneous release in synaptobrevin-deficient neurons. Our data suggest that synaptobrevin mediates Ca2+-triggered exocytosis by tight coupling of the SNARE motif to the transmembrane region and hence forcing the membranes into close proximity for fusion. Furthermore, the fusion reactions underlying evoked and spontaneous release differ mechanistically.
Alcohol, primarily in the form of ethyl alcohol (ethanol), has occupied an important place in the history of humankind for at least 8,000 years. In most Western societies, at least 90% of people consume alcohol at some time during their lives, and 30% or more of drinkers develop alcohol-related problems. Severe alcohol-related life impairment, alcohol dependence (alcoholism), is observed at some time during their lives in about 10% of men and 3-5% of women. An additional 5-10% of each sex develops persistent, but less intense, problems that are diagnosed as alcohol abuse. It this review, neurobiological aspects of suicidal behavior in alcoholism is discussed. In individuals with comorbid depression and alcoholism, greater serotonergic impairment may be associated with higher risk of completed suicide. Dopaminergic dysfunction may play an important role in the pathophysiology of suicidal behavior in alcoholism. Brain damage and neurobehavioral deficits are associated with alcohol use disorders and may contribute to suicidal behavior in persons with alcohol dependence or abuse. Aggression/impulsivity and alcoholism severity affect risk for suicide among individuals with alcoholism. Major depressive episodes and stressful life events particularly, partner-relationship disruptions, may precipitate suicidal behavior in individuals with alcohol use disorders. Alcohol misuse and psychosocial adversity can combine to increase stress on the person, and, thereby, potentially, increase the risk for suicidal behavior. The management of suicidal patients with alcohol use disorders is also discussed. It is to be hoped that the efforts of clinicians will reduce morbidity and mortality associated with alcohol misuse.
We have developed a novel mobile bioprobe using a conjugate of a kinesin-driven microtubule (MT) and malachite green (MG) as a platform for capturing MG RNA aptamers. The fluorescence of MG increases when it is bound to an MG aptamer, allowing MT-MG conjugates to work as sensors of RNA transcripts containing the MG aptamer sequence. Kinesin motor proteins provide an effective driving force to create mobile bioprobes without any manipulation. Although the fluorescence of a small number of MG-binding aptamers is low, the self-organization of tubulins into MTs enables the microscopic observation of the bound aptamers by collecting them on MTs. We demonstrate that MT-MG conjugates can select target aptamers from a transcription mixture and transport them without losing their inherent motility. Because the MG aptamer binds MG in a reversible manner, MT-MG conjugates can conditionally load and unload the target aptamers. This is one advantage of this system over the molecular probes developed previously in which reversible unloading is impossible due to high-affinity binding, such as between avidin and biotin. Furthermore, an MT-MG conjugate can be used as a platform for other MG aptameric sensors with recognition regions for various target analytes optimized by further selection procedures. This is the first step to applying living systems to in vitro devices. This technique could provide a new paradigm of mobile bioprobes establishing high-throughput in vitro selection systems using microfluidic devices operating in parallel.
A greater knowledge of the neurochemical changes occurring during pain states will undoubtedly aid in the discovery of effective pain pharmacotherapies. This study highlights the acute effects of inflammatory agents on neurochemical changes in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a supraspinal site involved in the processing of painful stimuli. Consistent with previous reports, a peripheral injection of 0.1 mg prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) into the intraplantar area of the rat paw produced thermal hypersensitivity that peaked 10 min after administration. In vivo microdialysis studies in the same animals revealed that this behavioral response correlated with a greater than 2-fold increase (230%) in extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels in the RVM. In contrast, levels of other neurotransmitters measured, including norepinephrine and dopamine, were not altered in animals receiving this inflammatory agent. Similar to PGE(2), an intraplantar injection of capsaicin (0.1 mg) produced a robust thermal hypersensitivity that was paralleled by a 3-fold increase in levels of 5-HT in the RVM. The next series of experiments showed that acute administration of the opioid analgesic, morphine (5.6 mg/kg; IP), attenuated PGE(2)-induced thermal hypersensitivity and reversed the increase in extracellular 5-HT observed in the RVM. Taken together, these findings extend previous reports of central neurochemical changes during inflammatory pain conditions and show that the combination of behavioral endpoints with microdialysis can yield important insights into the neurochemical environment of the pain circuitry.
Perinatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage is a major cause of neuronal and behavior deficits, in which the onset of injury can be before, at or after birth, and the effects may be delayed. Pontosubicular neuron necrosis (PSN) is one of perinatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and its pathological peculiarity is neuronal apoptosis. In this study, we investigated whether apoptotic cascade of PSN used a caspase-pathway or not, and whether hypoglycemia activated apoptosis or not. Sections of the pons of PSN with and without hypoglycemia were stained using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), Bcl-2, Bcl-x and activated caspase 3. Additionally, we performed immunoblot analysis of Bcl-2, Bcl-x and activated caspase 3. TUNEL-positive cell was closely associated with the presence of karyorrhexis. Under combination of karyorrhectic and TUNEL-positive cells, number of apoptotic cells in premature brains was significantly more than in mature brains. Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury was considered to easily lead to apoptosis in premature infants. Moreover, as this pathophysiology, caspase-pathway activation contributed to neuronal death from caspase-immunoexpression analyses. PSN with hypoglycemia showed large number of apoptotic cells and higher expression of activated caspase 3. The result may be more severe with the background of hypoglycemia and prematurity complicated by hypoxia and/or ischemia.
Cortical contributions to brainstem plasticity in the somatosensory system are poorly understood. Tactile receptive fields (RFs) of brainstem dorsal column nuclei (DCN) neurons rapidly enlarge when peripheral inputs are disrupted by local anesthetic blocks with lidocaine (LID). Cortical inputs appear to influence this plasticity because enlargements have been shown to be greater when cortical inputs are disrupted. Like disruptions of peripheral inputs, disruptions of DCN inhibition by DCN administration of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BMI) also cause rapid enlargements of DCN RFs when cortical inputs are intact. These findings leave questions about interactions between cortical inputs, DCN inhibition, and DCN RF plasticity. To study potential interactions, the present experiments evaluated RF sizes of DCN tactilely responsive neurons in anesthetized rats following DCN microinjection of BMI when cortical inputs were acutely disrupted or intact. These tests were also supplemented by subsequent LID tests to directly compare post-BMI and post-LID effects on the same RF. BMI caused DCN RF enlargements when cortical inputs were disrupted or intact; however, enlargements after cortical input disruption were greater than when cortical inputs were intact. Following RF enlargement and retraction after BMI, LID often caused a second enlargement of the same RF, across skin that partially matched skin involved in the enlargement after BMI. This occurred when cortical inputs were disrupted or intact. We hypothesize that cortical inputs are not required for BMI and LID to initiate partially matching enlargements in individual DCN tactile RFs, however, cortical inputs constrain magnitudes of these enlargements.
Cell migration is an integral process in neural development. Analyses of radial cell migration (RCM) have revealed three modes of migration and specific defects in migration in various mouse mutants. In contrast, the dynamics of non-radial cell migration (NRCM) are incompletely understood. To investigate the dynamics of NRCM, we utilized a slice culture assay coupled with time-lapse videomicroscopy. This analysis revealed that non-radially migrating cells have a complex pattern of extending and retracting one or multiple processes while the nucleus advances concurrently or independently. These data indicate that the process of interneuron migration is unique to that seen for any mode of RCM. Non-radially migrating neurons moved for an average of 0.85 microm/min and paused for approximately 14% of the time observed. Given the novel morphology of NRCM, we hypothesized that specific aspects of migration would be defective with mutations in known cell migration genes, as described for RCM. This was tested by examining the dynamics of migration in the Lis1 mutant mouse; a well-defined cell migration mutant with known defects in NRCM. In contrast to wild-type cells, the rate of nuclear movement was significantly reduced in Lis1+/- interneurons, whereas the rate of active leading edge movement was similar. Morphologically, the leading process was significantly longer and the number of branches reduced in Lis1+/- mice. Together, these data indicate that the NRCM defect in Lis1+/- mice affects specific cellular processes. These data provide insight into NRCM and practical methods for future studies on the role(s) of specific genes in interneuron migration.
The identity and biology of stem cells and progenitors in the adult brain are of considerable interest, because these cells hold great promise for the development of novel therapies for damaged brain tissue in human diseases. This research field critically needs biological markers that specifically identify the resident precursors in the germinal zones of the adult central nervous system so that the discovery of regulatory influences for adult neurogenesis may be facilitated. In this study, by using a combination of in situ hybridization, bromodeoxyuridine incorporation, immunocolocalization, and ultrastructural studies, we show that in rodents Tctex-1, a cytoplasmic dynein light chain, is selectively enriched in almost all cycling progenitors and young neuronal progeny, but not in mature granular cells and astrocytes, in the subgranular zone of the adult dentate gyrus. Tctex-1 is also selectively abundant in cells closely resembling previously described immature progenitors and migrating neuroblasts at the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle. Our results suggest that Tctex-1 serves as a novel marker for the identification of neural progenitors of the adult brain.
Most vagal afferent neurons in rat nodose ganglia express mRNA coding for the NR1 subunit of the heteromeric N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor ion channel. NMDA receptor subunit immunoreactivity has been detected on axon terminals of vagal afferents in the dorsal hindbrain, suggesting a role for presynaptic NMDA receptors in viscerosensory function. Although NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2B, NR2C, and NR2D) have been linked to distinct neuronal populations in the brain, the NMDA receptor subunit phenotype of vagal afferent neurons has not been determined. Therefore, we examined NMDA receptor subunit (NR1, NR2B, NR2C, and NR2D) immunoreactivity in vagal afferent neurons. We found that, although the left nodose contained significantly more neurons (7,603), than the right (5,978), the proportions of NMDA subunits expressed in the left and right nodose ganglia were not significantly different. Immunoreactivity for NMDA NR1 subunit was present in 92.3% of all nodose neurons. NR2B immunoreactivity was present in 56.7% of neurons; NR2C-expressing nodose neurons made up 49.4% of the total population; NR2D subunit immunoreactivity was observed in just 13.5% of all nodose neurons. Double labeling revealed that 30.2% of nodose neurons expressed immunoreactivity to both NR2B and NR2C, whereas NR2B and NR2D immunoreactivities were colocalized in 11.5% of nodose neurons. NR2C immunoreactivity colocalized with NR2D in 13.1% of nodose neurons. Our results indicate that most vagal afferent neurons express NMDA receptor ion channels composed of NR1, NR2B, and NR2C subunits and that a minority phenotype that expresses NR2D also expresses NR1, NR2B, and NR2C.
The connectivity of the amygdaloid complex has been extensively explored with both anterograde and retrograde tracers. Even though the afferents of the centromedial amygdala [comprising the central (CEA) and medial (MEA) amygdaloid nuclei] are well established, relatively little is known about the neuropeptide phenotype of these connections. In this study, we first examined the distribution of mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and delta-opioid receptor (DOR) in the amygdala via in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. We then investigated the distribution of Met-enkephalin (ENK) and Leu-ENK fibers with immunohistochemistry and examined the distribution of preproenkephalin mRNA in the amygdala by using in situ hybridization. Finally, we examined the ENK projections to the CEA and MEA by using stereotaxic injections of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B or fluorogold revealed by immunohistochemistry combined with in situ hybridization to identify ENKergic neurons. Our results indicate that the centromedial amygdala receives ENK afferents, as indicated by the presence of MOR, DOR, and ENK fibers in the CEA and MEA, originating primarily from the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and from other amygdaloid nuclei. The posterior BST, the basomedial nucleus (BMA), and the cortical nucleus of the amygdala (COA) were found to be the major ENK afferents of the MEA, whereas the anterolateral BST, the COA, the MEA, and the BMA provided the main ENKergic innervation of the CEA. In addition, we found that the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and the pontine parabrachial nucleus provide a moderate ENK input to the CEA and MEA. The functional implications of these connections in stress, anxiety, and nociception are discussed.
The extrinsic efferent innervation of the distal colon and rectum of the guinea pig was compared, by using retrograde tracing combined with immunohistochemistry. Application of the carbocyanine tracer DiI to the rectum filled significantly greater numbers of extrinsic neurons than similar injections into the distal colon. Approximately three-fourths of all filled neurons from either location were either sympathetic or parasympathetic; the rest were spinal sensory neurons. Nerve cell bodies in sympathetic prevertebral ganglia labelled from the two regions were similar in number. Both regions were innervated by sympathetic neurons in paravertebral ganglia; however, the rectum received much more input from this source than the colon. The rectum received significantly more input from pelvic ganglia than the colon. The rectum also received direct innervation from two groups of neurons in the spinal cord. Neurons located in the spinal parasympathetic nucleus in segment S2 and S3 were labelled by DiI injected into the rectal wall. Similar numbers of neurons, located in intermediolateral cell column and dorsal commissural nucleus of lumbar segments, also projected directly to rectum, but not colon. The great majority (&gt;80%) of retrogradely labelled nerve cell bodies in sympathetic ganglia were immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase. In pelvic ganglia, retrogradely labelled neurons contained choline acetyltransferase and/or nitric oxide synthase or tyrosine hydroxylase. Although the rectum and colon in this species are continuous and macroscopically indistinguishable, they have significantly different patterns of extrinsic efferent innervation, presumably reflecting their different functions.
Behavioral studies show that the GABAergic system in the central amygdala (CeA) nucleus has a complex role in the reinforcing effects effects of ethanol and the anxiogenic response to ethanol withdrawal. Opioid peptides and nociceptin/orphanin FQ (nociceptin) within the CeA are implicated also in regulating voluntary ethanol consumption and ethanol relapse. Recently, we reported that basal GABAergic transmission was increased in ethanol-dependent rats, and that acute ethanol increases GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in CeA neurons from both nave and ethanol-dependent rats to the same extent, suggesting lack of tolerance for the acute effect of ethanol. Here, we investigated the effect of nociceptin on IPSCs in CeA neurons and its interaction with ethanol effects on these GABA synapses. We found that nociceptin moderately decreased IPSC amplitudes, acting mostly presynaptically as it increased paired-pulse facilitation ratio of IPSCs and decreased miniature IPSC frequencies (but not amplitudes). Nociceptin also prevented the ethanol-induced augmentation of IPSCs in CeA of nave rats. Interestingly, in CeA of ethanol-dependent rats, the nociceptin-induced inhibition of IPSCs was increased, indicating an enhanced sensitivity to nociceptin. Nociceptin also blocked the ethanol-induced augmentation of IPSCs in ethanol-dependent rats. Our data suggest that nociceptin has a role in regulating the GABAergic system and opposing the effect elicited by ethanol. Thus, nociceptin may represent a therapeutic target for alleviating alcohol dependence.
Four connexins (Cxs), mouse (m)Cx30.2, Cx40, Cx43, and Cx45, determine cell-cell electrical signaling in mouse heart, and Cx43 and Cx45 are known to form unapposed hemichannels. Here we show that mCx30.2, which is most abundantly expressed in sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodal regions of the heart, and its putative human ortholog, human (h)Cx31.9, also form functional hemichannels, which, like mCx30.2 cell-cell channels, are permeable to cationic dyes up to approximately 400 Da in size. DAPI uptake by HeLa cells expressing mCx30.2 was &gt;10-fold faster than that by HeLa parental cells. In Ca(2+)-free medium, uptake of DAPI by HeLaCx30.2-EGFP cells was increased approximately 2-fold, but uptake by parental cells was not affected. Conversely, acidification by application of CO(2) reduced DAPI uptake by HeLaCx30.2-EGFP cells but had little effect on uptake by parental cells. Cells expressing mCx30.2 exhibited higher rates of DAPI uptake than did cells expressing any of the other cardiac Cxs. Cardiomyocytes of 2-day-old rats transfected with hCx31.9-EGFP took up DAPI and ethidium bromide 5-10 times faster than wild-type cardiomyocytes. Mefloquine, a close derivative of quinine and quinidine that exhibits antimalarial and antiarrhythmic properties, reduced conductance of cell-cell junctions and dye uptake through mCx30.2 hemichannels with approximately the same affinity (IC(50) = approximately 10 microM) and increased dependence of junctional conductance on transjunctional voltage. Unitary conductance of mCx30.2 hemichannels was approximately 20 pS, about twice the cell-cell channel conductance. Hemichannels formed of mCx30.2 and hCx31.9 may slow propagation of excitation in the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes by shortening the space constant and depolarizing the excitable membrane.
It was recently demonstrated that amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide vaccination was effective in reducing the Abeta burden in Alzheimer model mice. However, the clinical trial was halted because of the development of meningoencephalitis in some patients. To overcome this problem, anti-Abeta antibody therapy and other types of vaccination are now in trial. In this study, we have developed safe and effective nonviral Abeta DNA vaccines against Alzheimer's disease. We administered these vaccines to model (APP23) mice and evaluated Abeta burden reduction. Prophylactic treatments started before Abeta deposition reduced Abeta burden to 15.5% and 38.5% of that found in untreated mice at 7 and 18 months of age, respectively. Therapeutic treatment started after Abeta deposition reduced Abeta burden to approximately 50% at the age of 18 months. Importantly, this therapy induced neither neuroinflammation nor T cell responses to Abeta peptide in both APP23 and wild-type B6 mice, even after long-term vaccination. Although it is reported that other anti-Abeta therapies have pharmacological and/or technical difficulties, nonviral DNA vaccines are highly secure and easily controllable and are promising for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Glycinergic and GABAergic excitatory chloride-mediated signaling is often the first form of activity to emerge in the nascent nervous system and has been proposed to be essential for several aspects of nervous system development. However, few studies have examined the effects of disrupting glycinergic transmission. Here we perturbed glycinergic transmission in vivo from the onset of development in zebrafish and examined its impact on the formation of the locomotor circuitry. Targeted knockdown of the embryonic glycine receptor alpha2-subunit disrupted rhythm-generating networks and reduced the frequency of spontaneous glycinergic and glutamatergic events. Immunohistochemistry revealed a reduction in the number of spinal interneurons without affecting sensory and motor neurons. This effect was accompanied by a concomitant increase in the number of mitotic cells, suggesting that glycine receptors regulate interneuron differentiation during early development. Despite the loss of many interneurons, a subthreshold rhythm-generating circuit was still capable of forming. These data provide evidence that glycine receptors, in addition to their role in neurotransmission, regulate interneuron differentiation during development of this central neural network.
Delivery of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionate receptors (AMPARs) to the synapse is a critical factor controlling synaptic strength. It is now established that blockade of synaptic activity increases the surface expression of AMPARs. Factors modulating the delivery, insertion and expression of AMPARs are not completely known. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we first confirmed rapamycin-mediated inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway in cortical neuronal culture. We then demonstrated that acute AMPAR activity blockade increased the synaptic expression of GluR2/3 subunits and rapamycin significantly reduced this expression. Our results suggest a role for the mTOR pathway in surface expression of AMPA receptors on cortical neurons.
Current gene therapy models for Parkinson's disease (PD) have adapted two treatment strategies. One is to restore dopamine (DA) production by delivering the genes of DA-synthesizing enzymes such as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to the striatum to relieve motor symptoms of PD. Another is to block or slow down progressive degenerative changes by delivering neurotrophic factors such as glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) to protect the remained neurons. To test the assumption that the combination of the two strategies may have a compound or synergistic effect, we had constructed tetracycline-inducible (tet-off) AAV vector carrying GDNF and TH. After co-transfection of PC12 cells with this vector and the inducer plasmid, the expression of GDNF and TH protected these cells from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium-induced injury, and significantly increased the content of dopamine in GDNF/TH-expressing cells compared with the control. Furthermore, mRNA expression of GDNF and TH could be effectively and reversibly regulated by doxycycline (Dox) and the function of GDNF and TH could be repressed by Dox. These results suggest that the tet-off AAV vector carrying GDNF and TH may be a useful tool for gene therapy in the treatment of PD.
In our previous double-labeling studies, the fluorescent anatomical tracers Fluorogold (FG) and Texas red dextran amine (TRDA) were used to demonstrate that descending brain neurons, approximately 80% of which are reticulospinal (RS) neurons, in spinal cord-transected larval lamprey regenerate their axons. However, the numbers of FG-labeled descending brain neurons decreased significantly with increasing recovery times, from 2 to 16 weeks. For some FG-labeled mammalian neurons, FG appears to degrade and/or be lost over time, while in other neurons this tracer can kill neurons. In the present study, these possibilities were examined in larval lamprey for FG-labeled descending brain neurons. As in our previous studies, FG was applied to the spinal cord at 40% body length (BL, relative distance from the head) to retrogradely labeled descending brain neurons, and after recovery times of 2, 8, or 16 weeks, HRP, a non-toxic retrograde tracer, was applied to the spinal cord at 20% BL to determine if the numbers of HRP-labeled neurons were reduced. At these three recovery times, the numbers of HRP-labeled descending brain neurons were not significantly different than the numbers of HRP-labeled neurons in control animals that were not labeled with FG. Furthermore, the size and morphology of cell bodies and dendritic trees were not noticeably different in descending brain neurons with and without FG. Thus, in larval lamprey, FG does not appear to kill these neurons, but some FG probably is degraded and/or lost from neurons with increasing recovery times.
The varepsilon4 allele of the APOE locus is the only confirmed risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). The phosphate and tensin homolog (PTEN) gene is both a biological and positional candidate gene for LOAD. Eight polymorphisms spanning this gene were selected from dbSNP and genotyped in pooled DNA samples of both cases and controls. No evidence for association with LOAD was obtained in this study although further investigation revealed low levels of linkage disequlibrium (LD) between the genotyped SNPs. Our results suggest that it is unlikely that genetic variation within the PTEN gene contributes to risk of LOAD.
Precursor cells have been shown to be affected by oxidative stress, in vivo and vitro, but little is known about the expression of antioxidant mechanisms in neuronal/glial differentiation. We have characterized the expression of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD), one of the main antioxidant proteins involved in the breakdown of superoxide, in the immature rat dorsolateral subventricular zone (SVZ), rostral migratory stream (RMS) and hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ). Progenitor cells were identified immunohistochemically on cryostat sections by 5'Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation and expressing cells were further characterized using double labeling for progenitor markers. In the SVZ, only a subpopulation of BrdU+ cells, mostly found in the medial SVZ, expressed Cu/Zn SOD. These cells were mostly nestin+ and some were also vimentin+. In contrast, in the lateral SVZ few Cu/Zn SOD+/BrdU+ cells were found. These were primarily nestin+, vimentin-, showed some PSA-NCAM expression, but only a few were NG2+. In the RMS and SGZ virtually all BrdU+ progenitors were Cu/Zn SOD+ and expressed nestin and vimentin. Some RMS cells were also PSA-NCAM+. These findings show a heterogeneous expression of Cu/Zn SOD in restricted cell types in the germinative zones and suggest a role for antioxidant Cu/Zn SOD in progenitor cells of the immature rat brain.
Parkin is a ubiquitin ligase involved in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Elevating parkin expression in cells reduces markers of oxidative stress while blocking parkin expression increases oxidative stress. In parkin gene knock down mouse and fly models, mitochondria function is deficient. Parkin is neuroprotective against a variety of toxic insults, while it remains unclear which of the above properties of parkin may mediate the protective actions. One of the models for which parkin is protective is overexpression of alpha-synuclein, a protein that self-aggregates in Parkinson disease. The microtubule-associated protein tau is another protein that self-aggregates in specific neurodegenerative diseases that also involve loss of dopamine neurons such as frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration. We recently developed a tau-induced dopaminergic degeneration model in rats using adeno-associated virus vectors. In this study, we successfully targeted either a mixed tau/parkin vector or mixed tau/control vector to the rat substantia nigra. While there was significant loss of dopamine neurons in the tau/control group relative to uninjected substantia nigra, there was no cell loss in the tau/parkin group. We found no difference in total tau levels between tau/control and tau/parkin groups. Parkin therefore protects dopamine neurons against tau as it does against alpha-synuclein, which further supports parkin as a therapeutic target for diseases involving loss of dopamine neurons.
Bone marrow stromal cells are multipotential stem cells that contribute to the differentiation of tissues such as bone, cartilage, fat and muscle. In the experiment, we found that bone marrow stromal cells can be induced to differentiate into cells expressing characteristic markers of Schwann cells, such as S-100 and glial fibrillary acidic protein, promoting peripheral nerve regeneration. Tissue-engineered bioartificial nerve grafting of rats by differentiated bone marrow stromal cells was applied for bridging a 10 mm-long sciatic nerve defect. Twenty-eight inbred strains of female F344 rats weighing 160 approximately 200 g were randomly divided into four nerve grafting groups, with seven rats in each group. Differentiated bone marrow stromal cell-laden group: poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid tubes with an intrinsic framework were seeded with syngeneic bone marrow stromal cells which were induced for 5 days; Schwann cell-laden group: poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid tubes with an intrinsic framework were seeded with syngeneic Schwann cells; acellular group: poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid tubes were only filled with an intrinsic framework; autografts group. Three months later, a series of examinations was performed, including electrophysiological methods, walking track analysis, immunohistological staining of nerves, immunostaining of S-100 and neurofilament, and axon counts. The outcome indicated that bone marrow stromal cells are able to differentiate into Schwann-like cells and Schwann-like cells could promote nerve regeneration. Bone marrow stromal cells may be potentially optional seed cells for peripheral nerve tissue engineering because of abilities of promoting axonal regeneration.
Topographical organization in the neocortex shows experience-dependent plasticity. We hypothesized that experimental sensitization of the esophagus results in changes of the topographical distribution of the evoked potentials and the corresponding dipole source activities to painful stimulation. An endoscopic method was used to deliver 35 electrical stimuli at the pain threshold to a fixed area of the mucosa in 10 healthy volunteer men and women. The stimulations were repeated after 30 min (reproducibility experiment), and after 60 min following perfusion of 200 ml 0.1 N hydrochloric acid (sensitization experiment). During stimulation the electroencephalogram was recorded from 64 surface electrodes. The sensitization resulted in a decrease in the pain threshold (F=6.2; P=0.004). The topographic distribution of the evoked potentials showed reproducible negative (N1, N2) and positive (P1, P2) components. After acid perfusion a reduced latency and a change in localization was seen for the P1 subdivided into frontal and occipital components (F=29.5, P&lt;0.001; F=53.7, P&lt;0.001). Furthermore the sensitization resulted in a reduction of the latency for P2 (F=6.2, P=0.009). The source analysis showed consistent dipolar activity in the bilateral opercular-insular cortex before and after acid perfusion. For the anterior cingulate dipole there was a reduction in latency (P=0.03) and a posterior shift (P=0.0002) following acid perfusion. The findings indicate that short-term sensitization of the esophagus results in central neuroplastic changes involving the cingulate gyrus, which also showed pathological activation in functional diseases of the gut, thus reflecting the importance of this region in visceral pain and hyperalgesia.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells recognized with the NG2 antibody respond rapidly to CNS injuries with hypertrophy and upregulation of the NG2 chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan within 24 h. These cells participate in glial scar formation, remaining around the injury site for several weeks. After injury, reactive oligodendrocyte precursor cells increase their production of several chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, including NG2: this cell type thus represents a component of the inhibitory environment that prevents regeneration of axons in the injured CNS. This study analyzes factors that activate oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Both microglia and astrocytes become reactive around motor neurons following peripheral nerve lesions. We show that oligodendrocyte precursor cells do not hypertrophy or increase NG2 levels after these lesions. Those lesions that cause an oligodendrocyte precursor cell reaction generally open the blood-brain barrier. We therefore opened the blood-brain barrier with microinjections of vascular endothelial growth factor or lipopolysaccharide to the rat and mouse brain, and examined oligodendrocyte precursor cell reactivity after 24 h. Both treatments led to increases in NG2 and hypertrophy of oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Of directly injected blood components serum and thrombin were without effect, while platelets and macrophages activated oligodendrocyte precursor cells. We tested the effects of a range of injury-related cytokines, of which tumor necrosis factor alpha; interleukin-1; transforming growth factor beta; interferon gamma had effects on oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Oligodendrocyte precursor cell chemokines, and mitogens did not increase NG2 levels.
Pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide originally isolated from the hypothalamus, named for its high potency in stimulating adenylyl cyclase in pituitary cells. PACAP acts through the specific receptor PAC1-R to modulate the action of neurotransmitters, and additionally, to regulate cell viability via autocrine/intracrine mechanisms. Evidence has now been obtained that PACAP and multiple splice variants of PAC1-R are expressed in the rat cochlea. mRNA for PACAP precursor protein is found by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in microdissected cochlear lateral wall, organ of Corti, and spiral ganglion subfractions. A specific pattern of expression of mRNA for PAC1-R splice variants, which mediate the response to PACAP, has been revealed by RT-PCR and cloning for the cochlear subfractions. Transcript for the short form of PAC1-R is found in all three subfractions. Four additional splice variants -- hop1, hop2, hip, and a novel hop1 splice variant -- are expressed in the lateral wall. For the amino terminus splice region of PAC1-R, a new splice variant has been detected in the organ of Corti, representing a deletion of the first 7 of 21 amino acids detected in the PAC1-R very-short sequence. Overall, from message determinations in cochlear subfractions, there are five PAC1-R splice variants in the lateral wall, two in the organ of Corti and one in the spiral ganglion, indicating multiple possible responses to PACAP and/or mechanisms to modulate the response to PACAP in the cochlea. The variety of PAC1-R splice variants expressed may reflect the diversity in cell function between subfractions that is modulated by PACAP. The neuropeptide and its specific receptor have been immunolocalized in the lateral wall, the source of the largest number of cochlear PAC1-R splice variants. The receptor was targeted by primary antibodies which would elicit immunoreactivity for all splice variants of PAC1-R detected with RT-PCR, and evidence has been obtained with Western blot analysis suggesting that PAC1-R is glycosylated in vivo. Within the lateral wall, PACAP and PAC1-R were immunolocalized primarily to the stria vascularis, with immunoreactivity for both neuropeptide and receptor increasing from the basal to apical cochlear turns. Within the stria, PACAP immunoreactivity was localized to the basolateral extensions of marginal cells, while PAC1-R was clearly associated with tight junctions between the marginal cells close to the endolymphatic compartment. In addition, evidence was obtained that PAC1-R was associated with endothelial cells of the capillaries in the stria vascularis. The large number of splice variants expressed, coupled to the specificity in linkage between PAC1-R splice variants and G-protein-coupled second messenger pathways, could provide a mechanism to closely modulate tight junction integrity in the stria vascularis, impacting the endolymphatic potential.
The mouse retina offers an increasingly valuable model for vision research given the possibilities for genetic manipulation. Here we assess how the structural properties of mouse retinal ganglion cells relate to the stratification pattern of the dendrites of these neurons within the inner plexiform layer. For this purpose, we used 14 morphological measures to classify mouse retinal ganglion cells parametrically into different clusters. Retinal ganglion cells were labeled in one of three ways: Lucifer Yellow injection, 'DiOlistics' or transgenic expression of yellow fluorescent protein. The resulting analysis of 182 cells revealed 10 clusters of monostratified cells, with dendrites confined to either On or Off sublaminae of the inner plexiform layer, and four clusters of bistratified cells, dendrites spanning the On and Off sublaminae. We also sought to establish how these parametrically identified retinal ganglion cell clusters relate to cell types identified previously on the basis of immunocytochemical staining and the expression of yellow fluorescent protein. Cells labeled with an antibody against melanopsin were found to be located within a single cluster, while those labeled with the SMI-32 antibody were in four different clusters. Yellow fluorescent protein expressing cells were distributed within 13 of the 14 clusters identified here, which demonstrates that yellow fluorescent protein expression is a useful method for labeling virtually the entire population of mouse retinal ganglion cells. Collectively, these findings provide a valuable baseline for future studies dealing with the effects of genetic mutations on the morphological development of these neurons.
We studied the distribution and cellular localization of Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2, a member of the system A family of amino acid transporters, in the rat and human cerebral cortex using immunocytochemical methods. Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2-positive neurons were pyramidal and non-pyramidal, and Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2/GABA double-labeling studies revealed that Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2 was highly expressed by GABAergic neurons. Double-labeling studies with the synaptophysin indicated that rare axon terminals express Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2. Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2-immunoreactivity was also found in astrocytes, leptomeninges, ependymal cells and choroid plexus. Electron microscopy showed robust Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2-immunoreactivity in the somato-dendritic compartment of neurons and in glial processes, but, as in the case of double-labeling studies, failed to reveal Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2-immunoreactivity in terminals. To rule out the possibility that the absence of Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 1- and Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2-positive terminals was due to insufficient antigen detection, we evaluated Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 1/synaptophysin and Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2/synaptophysin coexpression using non-standard immunocytochemical procedures and found that Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 1 and Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2+ terminals were rare in all conditions. These findings indicate that Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 1 and Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2 are virtually absent in cortical terminals, and suggest that they do not contribute significantly to replenishing the Glu and GABA transmitter pools through the glutamate-glutamine cycle. The strong expression of Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2 in the somato-dendritic compartment and in non-neuronal elements that are integral parts of the blood-brain and brain-cerebrospinal fluid barrier suggests that Na(+)-coupled neutral amino acid transporter 2 plays a role in regulating the levels of Gln and other amino acids in the metabolic compartment of cortical neurons.
We have developed a slice preparation of the mouse basal ganglia which contains portions of the striatum, external pallidum, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra and the neocortex. This basal ganglia slice is unique in preserving functional direct and indirect connections between the striatum and the substantia nigra as well as interconnectivity between the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus. We used fiber tract tracing studies and electrophysiological recordings to demonstrate the full functionality of these pathways. Deposits of 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetra-methylindocarbocyamine perchlorate in the different basal ganglia resulted in labeled fibers in each of their target nuclei. Confirming these results, electrical stimulation of the different nuclei elicited whole-cell recorded postsynaptic potentials in their target neurons with an appropriate pharmacological profile. Electrical and glutamate activation of the striatum evoked bursts of glutamatergic and GABAergic activities in whole-cell recorded nigral neurons indicating that the direct and indirect pathways are operative in this slice. It also showed that the responses evoked are not due to fibers en passant but to the activation of striatal cell bodies. These findings provide the first direct evidence for a preserved basal ganglia circuitry in vitro and make the basal ganglia slice a suitable preparation for analyzing the activity of the direct and indirect pathways in physiological and pathological conditions.
Acetylcholine reduces nociceptive input in part by activating inhibitory M2 muscarinic receptors on primary sensory neurons, and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and muscarinic agonists produce analgesia in humans and animals. M2 muscarinic receptors are upregulated in animals with diabetic neuropathy, but their level of expression and function after peripheral nerve injury has not been previously examined. This study tested, using intracellular Ca(2+) response to membrane depolarization, the effect of the M2 muscarinic receptor agonist bethanechol on individual dorsal root ganglion cells from normal and L5-6 spinal nerve-ligated rats, followed by M2 muscarinic receptor immunostaining. We also examined functional transient receptor potential for vanilloids-1 activity by determining intracellular Ca(2+) response evoked by capsaicin in M2 muscarinic receptor immunoreactive cells. In normal dorsal root ganglion cells, bethanechol inhibited the Ca(2+) response in a concentration-related fashion, and this inhibition was blocked by the M2 muscarinic receptor antagonist gallamine. Cells expressing M2 muscarinic receptors by immunostaining were significantly inhibited by bethanechol, whereas those lacking positive staining were not. The proportion of studied dorsal root ganglion neurons with positive M2 muscarinic receptor staining increased significantly in the injured ipsilateral L5-6 and the uninjured ipsilateral L4 ganglia, but not in the contralateral dorsal root ganglion neurons compared with normals. In contrast, the proportion of neurons responding to capsaicin significantly decreased in the injured ipsilateral L5-6 dorsal root ganglion cells. These results suggest that inhibitory M2 muscarinic receptors are upregulated in small- and medium-sized axotomized dorsal root ganglion neurons and their uninjured neighbors following nerve injury, and may represent an appropriate target for analgesia in this setting.
Neuropeptide Y has been implicated in pain modulation and is substantially up-regulated in dorsal root ganglia after peripheral nerve injury. To identify the role of neuropeptide Y after axotomy, we investigated the behavioral and neurochemical phenotype of neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor knockout mice with focus on dorsal root ganglion neurons and spinal cord. Using a specific antibody Y1 receptor immunoreactivity was found in dorsal root ganglia and in dorsal horn neurons of wild-type, but not knockout mice. The Y1 receptor knockout mice exhibited a pronounced mechanical hypersensitivity. After sciatic nerve axotomy, the deletion of Y1 receptor protected knockout mice from the axotomy-induced loss of dorsal root ganglion neurons seen in wild-type mice. Lower levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were identified by immunohistochemistry in dorsal root ganglia and dorsal horn of knockout mice, and the axotomy-induced down-regulation of both calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P was accentuated in Y1 receptor knockout. However, the transcript levels for calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were significantly higher in knockout than in wild-type dorsal root ganglia ipsilateral to the axotomy, while more calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like immunoreactivity accumulated proximal and distal to a crush of the sciatic nerve. These results indicate that the deletion of the Y1 receptor causes increased release and compensatory increased synthesis of calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Together, these findings suggest that, after peripheral nerve injury, neuropeptide Y, via its Y1 receptor receptor, plays a key role in cell survival as well as in transport and synthesis of the excitatory dorsal horn messengers calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P and thus may contribute to pain hypersensitivity.
We evaluated the activity of the atypical antipsychotic drug olanzapine on differentiation and gene expression in adult neural precursor cells in vitro. Neural precursors obtained from forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ)-derived neurospheres express a subset (13/24) of receptors known to bind olanzapine at high to intermediate affinities; in contrast, all 24 are expressed in the SVZ. In the presence of 10 nM, 100 nM or 1 microM olanzapine, there is no significant change in the frequency of oligodendrocytes, neurons, GABAergic neurons and astrocytes generated from neurosphere precursors. In parallel, there is no apparent change in cell proliferation in response to olanzapine, based upon bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. There are no major changes in cytological differentiation in response to the drug; however, at one concentration (10 nM) there is a small but statistically significant increase in the size of glial fibrillary acidic protein-labeled astrocytes derived from neurosphere precursors. In addition, olanzapine apparently modulates expression of one serotonin receptor -- 5HT2A -- in differentiating neurosphere cultures; however, it does not modify expression of several other receptors or schizophrenia vulnerability genes. Thus, olanzapine has a limited influence on differentiation and gene expression in adult neural precursor cells in vitro.
Previous studies in our laboratories found that isolectin B(4)(IB(4))-positive polymodal nociceptors in the mouse do not express transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), nor does deletion of TRPV1 compromise the ability of these afferents to detect thermal stimuli. Considering that IB(4)-positive afferents account for over 70% of cutaneous nociceptors and that 30-50% of all mouse primary afferents express TRPV1, it is highly likely that many TRPV1-positive fibers project to non-cutaneous structures. To investigate this issue, Alexa Fluor-conjugated wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) or IB(4) was injected into the nerves innervating quadriceps muscle (femoral) or hindlimb skin (saphenous) of male C57Bl/6 mice. Similarly, Alexa Fluor-conjugated cholera toxin-beta was injected subserosally into the distal colon. Spinal ganglia at the appropriate level (L2-3 for saphenous and femoral nerves; L6 for colon) were processed for TRPV1, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neurofilament heavy chain (NHF) and IB(4) visualization and examined on a confocal microscope. Colon afferents contained the highest percentage of both TRPV1- and CGRP-positive neurons, followed by femoral (WGA) and saphenous afferents (WGA and IB(4)). In contrast, NHF staining was more prevalent among femoral afferents, followed by saphenous (WGA) and colon afferents. IB(4) binding was observed in very few colon or saphenous (WGA) afferents, with no femoral afferents binding or transporting IB(4). Considering that the largest percentages of TRPV1-positive neurons observed in this study were within visceral and muscle afferent populations (neurons that typically are not subject to noxious temperatures), these results suggest that TRPV1 may not function primarily as a temperature sensor but rather as a detector of protons, vanilloid compounds or through interactions with other membrane proteins.
We previously demonstrated that copper facilitated the formation of reactive oxygen species, and inhibited pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase in vitro and in animal models of Wilson's disease in vivo. However, direct Cu(2+) toxicity has only been demonstrated for Wilson's disease. We now hypothesize that inhibition of these mitochondrial dehydrogenases might also contribute to many other injuries and disorders that are reactive oxygen species-mediated. We have modeled reactive oxygen species-mediated injuries using inducers of reactive oxygen species such as hydrogen peroxide, ethacrynic acid or menadione, or another redox active metal (Cd(2+)). Here we demonstrated that these toxic exposures were accompanied by an early marked reduction in both pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activities, followed by a decrease in neuronal mitochondrial transmembrane potential and ATP, prior to murine cortical neuronal death. Thiamine (6 mM), and dihydrolipoic acid (50 microM), required cofactors for pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (thiamine as thiamine pyrophosphate), attenuated the reactive oxygen species-induced reductions in these enzyme activities, as well as subsequent loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and ATP, and neuronal death. We next tested the effect of thiamine supplementation on an in vivo model of reactive oxygen species-mediated injury, transient middle cerebral artery occlusion, and reperfusion in rats. Oral or i.p. thiamine administration reduced the middle cerebral artery occlusion-induced infarct. These data suggest that reactive oxygen species-induced neuronal death may be caused in part by reactive oxygen species-mediated inhibition of pyruvate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase in vitro and in vivo, and that thiamine or dihydrolipoic acid may constitute potential therapeutic agents not just against Cu(2+) neurotoxicity, but may reduce neuronal degeneration in the broader range of diseases mediated by free radical stress.
The circadian visual system is able to integrate light energy over time, enabling phase response and Fos induction in the suprachiasmatic nucleus to increase in proportion to the total energy of the photic stimulus. In the present studies, the contribution of the intergeniculate leaflet to light energy integration by the hamster circadian rhythm system was evaluated. Fos protein is induced in intergeniculate leaflet neurons at much lower irradiance levels than seen in suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons. Bilateral N-methyl-d-aspartate lesions of the intergeniculate leaflet decreased phase response of the circadian locomotor rhythm to high irradiance and, in animals exposed to long duration light stimuli, reduced Fos induction in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Normal photon integration, as indicated by attenuated rhythm phase shifts and Fos induction in suprachiasmatic nucleus cells in response to the energy in light stimuli, does not occur in the absence of the intergeniculate leaflet and is likely to be a property of the circadian rhythm system, rather than solely of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Anatomical analysis showed that virtually no intergeniculate leaflet neurons projecting to the suprachiasmatic nucleus contain Fos induced by either light or locomotion in a novel wheel. However, cells projecting to the pretectum were found to contain novel-wheel induced Fos. The intergeniculate leaflet is implicated in the normal assessment of light by the circadian rhythm system, but the circuitry by which either photic or non-photic information gains access to the suprachiasmatic nucleus may be more complex than previously thought.
Severe transient forebrain ischemia causes selective neuronal death in the hippocampal cornus ammonis 1 region. We tested the hypothesis that fimbria-fornix deafferentation can provide long-term protection to cornus ammonis 1 neurons and modulate neurogenesis following ischemia. Fimbria-fornix lesion or sham-fimbria-fornix lesion was performed on Wistar rats 13 days prior to 10 min forebrain ischemia or sham ischemia. Temperature was regulated and rats survived for 7, 14 or 28 days. Immunofluorescent bromodeoxyuridine and neuron specific nuclear protein staining and immunochemistry terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling staining were performed. At 7 days after ischemia, 73%+/-14% of cornus ammonis 1 neurons were damaged, while deafferentation reduced the injury to 36%+/-17% of cornus ammonis 1 neurons. This protection persisted for at least 28 days. Ischemia significantly increased the number of bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells (85-90 cells/section in stroke group vs. 6 to 11 cells/section in normal or sham stroke group), with very few terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling-stained cells adjacent to the hippocampal cornus ammonis 1. Fimbria-fornix lesioning followed by ischemia increased the percentage of new neurons 13-fold over ischemia alone and 6.5-fold over sham lesion plus ischemia. The results indicate that fimbria-fornix deafferentation provides long-term neuroprotection in cornus ammonis 1 following forebrain ischemia and promotes neurogenesis after ischemic insults.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine transporter (5-HTT) regulates 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurotransmission by removing 5-HT from the synaptic cleft. Emerging evidence from clinical and genetic studies implicates the 5-HTT in various neuropsychiatric conditions, including anxiety and depression. Here we report that a 5-HTT null mutant mouse line was generated by gene trapping that disrupted the sequence encoding the C-terminus of 5-HTT. This mutation resulted in significant reduction of 5-HTT mRNA and loss of 5-HTT protein. Brain levels of 5-HT and its major metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, were markedly decreased in C-terminus 5-HTT -/- mice, while 5-HT uptake or 5-HT content in platelets was absent. Behavioral phenotyping showed that C-terminus 5-HTT -/- mice were normal on a screen for gross behavioral, neurological, and sensory functions. In the tail suspension test for depression-related behavior, C-terminus 5-HTT -/- mice showed increased immobility relative to their +/+ controls. By comparison, a previously generated line of 5-HTT -/- mice lacking exon 2, encoding the N-terminus of the 5-HTT, showed abnormally high immobility in response to repeated, but not acute, exposure to the tail suspension test. In a novel, brightly-lit open field, both C-terminus 5-HTT -/- mice and N-terminus 5-HTT -/- mice displayed decreased center time and reduced locomotor activity compared with their +/+ controls. Both mutant lines buried significantly fewer marbles than their +/+ controls in the marble burying test. These findings further demonstrate the neurobiological functions of the 5-HTT and add to a growing literature linking genetic variation in 5-HTT function with emotional abnormalities.
Several studies have demonstrated anatomical and functional segregation along the dorsoventral axis of the hippocampus. This study examined the possible differences in the AMPA and NMDA receptor subunit composition and receptor binding parameters between dorsal and ventral hippocampus, since several evidence suggest diversification of NMDA receptor-dependent processes between the two hippocampal poles. Three sets of rat dorsal and ventral hippocampus slices were prepared: 1) transverse slices for examining a) the expression of the AMPA (GluRA, GluRB, GluRC) and NMDA (NR1, NR2A, NR2B) subunits mRNA using in situ hybridization, b) the protein expression of NR2A and NR2B subunits using Western blotting, and c) by using quantitative autoradiography, c(1)) the specific binding of the AMPA receptor agonist [(3)H]AMPA and c(2)) the specific binding of the NMDA receptor antagonist [(3)H]MK-801, 2) longitudinal slices containing only the cornus ammonis 1 (CA1) region for performing [(3)H]MK-801 saturation experiments and 3) transverse slices for electrophysiological measures of NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Ventral compared with dorsal hippocampus showed for NMDA receptors: 1) lower levels of mRNA and protein expression for NR2A and NR2B subunits in CA1 with the ratio of NR2A /NR2B differing between the two poles and 2) lower levels of [(3)H]MK-801 binding in the ventral hippocampus, with the lowest value observed in CA1, apparently resulting from a decreased receptor density since the B(max) value was lower in ventral hippocampus. For the AMPA receptors CA1 our results showed in ventral hippocampus compared with dorsal hippocampus: 1) lower levels of mRNA expression for GluRA, GluRB and GluRC subunits, which were more pronounced in CA1 and in dentate gyrus region and 2) lower levels of [(3)H]AMPA binding. Intracellular recordings obtained from pyramidal neurons in CA1 showed longer NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials in ventral hippocampus compared with dorsal hippocampus. In conclusion, the differences in the subunit mRNA and protein expression of NMDA and AMPA receptors as well as the lower density of their binding sites observed in ventral hippocampus compared with dorsal hippocampus suggest that the glutamatergic function differs between the two hippocampal poles. Consistently, the lower value of the ratio NR2A/NR2B seen in the ventral part would imply that the ventral hippocampus NMDA receptor subtype is functionally different than the dorsal hippocampus subtype, as supported by our intracellular recordings. This could be related to the lower ability of ventral hippocampus for long-term synaptic plasticity and to the higher involvement of the NMDA receptors in the epileptiform discharges, observed in ventral hippocampus compared with dorsal hippocampus.
Cytochrome c oxidase is a multisubunit, bigenomically encoded inner mitochondrial membrane protein. Its enzymatic activity and amount in the brain vary with metabolic demands, but the precise regulation of all 13 subunits to form a functional holoenzyme in a 1:1 stoichiometry is not well understood. To determine if all 13 subunit transcripts were coordinately regulated by functional alteration in neurons, cultured primary neurons were depolarized by potassium chloride for 5-24 h, or tetrodotoxin inactivated for 2-6 days. In vivo studies were done on rats monocularly enucleated for 4 days to 2 weeks. Expressions of cytochrome c oxidase subunit mRNAs were measured by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Results showed that in vitro, all 13 transcripts were significantly up-regulated after 5 h of depolarizing stimulation. With tetrodotoxin blockade, however, the three mitochondrial-encoded transcripts were down-regulated earlier than the 10 nuclear ones (2 days versus 4 days). In vivo, all three mitochondrial-encoded subunit mRNAs were also down-regulated earlier than the nuclear ones in deprived visual cortex (4 days versus 1 week after monocular enucleation). Cytochrome c oxidase activity and protein levels were significantly decreased in parallel after 4 days of deprivation in vitro and 1 week in vivo. Our results are consistent with a coordinated mechanism of up-regulation of all 13 transcripts in response to functional stimulation, but an earlier and more severe down-regulation of the mitochondrial transcripts than the nuclear ones in response to functional deprivation. Thus, the mitochondrial subunits may play a more important role in regulating cytochrome c oxidase protein amount and activity in neurons. Our results also point to the need of all 13 subunits to form a functional holoenzyme.
Previous studies have revealed a direct histaminergic projection from the tuberomamillary nucleus of hypothalamus to the cerebellum and a postsynaptic excitatory effect of histamine on the cerebellar interpositus nucleus neurons via histamine H(2) receptors in vitro, indicating that the histaminergic afferent inputs of cerebellar nuclei may be involved in the cerebellar function of motor control. To test this hypothesis, in this study histaminergic agents were bilaterally microinjected into the cerebellar interpositus nucleus of intact adult male rats, and their effects on motor balance and coordination of the animals performing accelerating rota-rod treadmill and balance beam tasks were observed. The results showed that microinjection of histamine into the cerebellar interpositus nucleus remarkably increased the time that animals balanced steadily on the rota-rod and markedly shortened the duration of passage through the balance beam, whereas GABA significantly depressed motor performances of animals on the rota-rod and beam, and normal saline influenced neither. In addition, administration of selective histamine H(2) receptor antagonist ranitidine considerably decreased the animals' endurance time on rota-rod and noticeably increased the passing time on beam, but selective histamine H(1) receptor antagonist triprolidine showed no effect. Furthermore, microinjection of histamine reversed the inhibitory effects of ranitidine on rota-rod and beam performance. These results demonstrate that histamine enhances rat motor balance and coordination through activation of histamine H(2) receptors in the cerebellar interpositus nucleus and suggest that the hypothalamocerebellar histaminergic projections may play a modulatory role on the cerebellar circuitry to ensure that movements are accurately executed.
Hypocretinergic (orexinergic) neurons in the hypothalamus project to the nucleus pontis oralis, a nucleus which plays a crucial role in the generation of active (rapid eye movement) sleep. We recently reported that the microinjection of hypocretin into the nucleus pontis oralis of chronically-instrumented, unanesthetized cats induces a behavioral state that is comparable to naturally-occurring active sleep. The present study examined the intracellular signaling pathways underlying the active sleep-inducing effects of hypocretin. Accordingly, hypocretin-1, a protein kinase C inhibitor and a protein kinase A inhibitor were injected into the nucleus pontis oralis in selected combinations in order to determine their effects on sleep and waking states of chronically instrumented, unanesthetized cats. Microinjections of hypocretin-1 into the nucleus pontis oralis elicited active sleep with a short latency. However, a pre-injection of bisindolylmaleimide-I, a protein kinase C-specific inhibitor, completely blocked the active sleep-inducing effects of hypocretin-1. The combined injection of bisindolylmaleimide-I and hypocretin-1 significantly increased the latency to active sleep induced by hypocretin-1; it also abolished the increase in the time spent in active sleep induced by hypocretin-1. On the other hand, the injection of 2'5'-dideoxyadenosine, an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, did not block the occurrence of active sleep by hypocretin-1. We conclude that the active sleep-inducing effect of hypocretin in the nucleus pontis oralis is mediated by intracellular signaling pathways that act via G-protein stimulation of protein kinase C.
The cytosolic Ca(2+) released from internal stores is important for distinctive cell functions. To assess the role of ryanodine/Ca(2+) releasing mechanisms in the rhythmic activity of respiratory neurons, effects of intracellular injection of ryanodine on the membrane potential trajectory of postinspiratory and augmenting inspiratory neurons were investigated in unanesthetized, decerebrate, paralyzed and artificially ventilated cats. Ryanodine injection hyperpolarized the membrane and decreased input resistance throughout the respiratory cycle in both types of respiratory neurons. Specifically, membrane repolarization during postinspiration was accelerated in postinspiratory neurons, and the large hyperpolarization at the onset of postinspiration was increased in augmenting inspiratory neurons. Spike-afterhyperpolarization consisting of a fast, early component and slow, late component increased in size after ryanodine, resulting in prolongation of inter-spike intervals and decrease of burst discharge. Intracellular injection of caffeine produced similar effects on these respiratory neurons, and Ruthenium Red, an antagonist of ryanodine receptors, had opposite effects. Immunoreactivity for ryanodine receptors was detected in all respiratory neurons labeled intracellularly with neurobiotin. These results demonstrate that ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) stores modulate the periodic membrane potential fluctuations and spike activity in respiratory neurons.
Parkinson's disease is associated with a progressive loss of substantia nigra pars compacta dopaminergic neurons. The cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying Parkinson's disease neurodegeneration have not been fully determined. Clinical investigations and subacute in vivo studies using the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine have generated some observations suggesting that apoptosis is involved in neurodegeneration; however, this view remains equivocal. In this study, the substantia nigra pars compacta neurodegenerative process was examined in the chronic mouse 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid model of Parkinson's disease treated with 10 doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (25 mg/kg) and probenecid (250 mg/kg) over five weeks. One day after chronic treatment, numerous terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive cells were detected specifically in the substantia nigra pars compacta displaying shrunken volume, chromatin condensation, and DNA fragmentation. The number of apoptotic cells declined over time. No terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive cells were found in untreated or probenecid-treated control animals. Cytomorphometric analysis of substantia nigra pars compacta nuclear loci revealed eccentric nucleoli dislocation and vesicular degranulation in all of the apoptotic neurons for the mouse 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid model for Parkinson's disease. The terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive cells phenotypically showed neuronal origin (NeuN-positive) with a loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. While the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling-positive cells were not co-localized with astroglial (GFAP-positive) cells, some apoptotic cells were clearly associated with the activated microglial (macrophage antigen complex-1 and isolectin B(4)-positive) cells suggesting an active process of dead cell removal. In the one-day and seven-day post-treated mouse 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid model for Parkinson's disease, marked depression of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra pars compacta and striatum was observed, which was correlated with significant reductions of striatal dopamine content and uptake. These results suggest that initial neuronal apoptosis and morphological changes are involved, at least in part, in the chronic neurodegeneration of mouse 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid model for Parkinson's disease.
Serotonin 1A sub-type receptors play an important role in the etiopathogenesis of depression, which is known to occur more often in females than males. Early experiences can be a predisposing factor for depression; however, the underlying cellular processes remain unknown. In an effort to address such issues, we employed neonatal handling, an experimental model of early experience, which has been previously shown to render females more vulnerable to display enhanced depression-like behavior in response to chronic stress, while it increases the ability of males to cope. In rat pre-pubertal (30 days of age) and adult (90 days) hippocampus, of both males and females, the effect of neonatal handling on serotonin 1A sub-type receptor mRNA and protein levels was determined by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, respectively, while the number of binding sites was determined by in vitro autoradiography using [(3)H]8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin as the ligand. Our results revealed a significant sex difference in serotonin 1A sub-type receptor mRNA, protein and binding sites, with females having higher levels than males. Handling resulted in statistically significant decreased numbers of cells positive for serotonin 1A sub-type receptor mRNA or protein, as well as [(3)H]8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding sites in the area 4 of Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus of both pre-pubertal males and females. In adult animals the number of serotonin 1A sub-type receptor mRNA positive cells was increased as a result of handling in the area 1 of Ammon's horn, area 4 of Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus of males, while it was decreased only in the area 4 of Ammon's horn of females. Furthermore, the number of serotonin sub-type 1A receptor immunopositive cells, as well as [(3)H]8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino)tetralin binding sites was increased in the area 1 of Ammon's horn, area 4 of Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus of handled males, whereas it was decreased in these same brain areas in the handled females. We can thus infer that neonatal handling results in alterations in postsynaptic serotonergic neurotransmission, which may contribute to the sex dimorphic effects of handling as to the vulnerability toward depression-like behavior in response to chronic stressful stimuli.
Exposure of mice to the anesthetic gas nitrous oxide (N(2)O) produces a marked antinociceptive effect. Protein kinase C is a key regulatory enzyme that may be targeted by general anesthetics. However, a relationship between N(2)O-induced antinociception and protein kinase C has yet to be established. The present study was conducted to identify whether protein kinase C might influence N(2)O-induced antinociception in mice. Regular exposure (11 min) to N(2)O produced concentration-dependent antinociception in mice, as determined using the abdominal constriction test. N(2)O-induced antinociception was attenuated by i.c.v. pretreatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, a protein kinase C activator. This phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate antagonism of N(2)O-induced antinociception was reversed by i.c.v. pretreatment with calphostin C, a protein kinase C inhibitor. Long-term exposure (41 min in total, including 30 min prior to, and 11 min of analgesic testing) to 70% N(2)O produced reduced analgesic effects, compared with regular exposure to 70% N(2)O, thus indicating acute tolerance to N(2)O-induced antinociception. However, mice pretreated with calphostin C, chelerythrine, which is another protein kinase C inhibitor, and phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, did not develop acute tolerance. Regarding activation of protein kinase C, regular exposure to 70% N(2)O did not increase protein kinase C within the membrane fraction of brain tissue, as determined by immunoblot analysis, but long-term exposure to 70% N(2)O did. The i.c.v. pretreatment with calphostin C and phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate prevented the increase in protein kinase C observed with long-term exposure to 70% N(2)O. These results suggest that brain protein kinase C negatively regulates the antinociceptive effect of N(2)O, and that activation of brain protein kinase C is related to the development of acute tolerance to N(2)O-induced antinociception in mice.
This study was designed to characterize the morphology of commissural axons, with the goal of revealing some of the organizing principles of their projections in the lumbosacral cord. Axons were labeled anterogradely with biotinylated-dextran amine which was injected in the left lamina VIII and the adjoining parts of lamina VII in the lumbar segments L5-L6 in seven cats. After 3-4 weeks, commissural axons were well labeled throughout lumbosacral segments L1-S2. After crossing the midline at the injection level, labeled axons traveled rostrally and/or caudally in the contralateral ventral and lateral funiculi giving off multiple axon collaterals. The trajectories of 34 single axons were traced in their entirety from their points of origin to their distal ends. Most of these axons were thin (proximal diameter &lt;3.5 microm) and short (&lt;30 mm), and gave off 6 to 32 axon collaterals at short intercollateral distances (mean &lt;2 mm) in the lumbosacral enlargement. Some thicker axons (diameter &gt;3.5 microm) ascended as far as the thoracic level; these supplied only four to six collaterals at long intercollateral intervals ( approximately 6.5 mm). All of the axons except one projected unilaterally. The axons as a whole terminated throughout the contralateral ventral horn. However, axons that traveled in different parts of the white matter had different characteristic terminal arborizations. The collaterals of axons that traveled in the ventral funiculus terminated preferentially in laminae VII-VIII, while those in the lateral funiculus terminated in lamina IX. Although the collateral branching patterns differed from one axon to another, collaterals arising from a particular axon usually exhibited similar patterns at different rostrocaudal levels. These uniform collateral termination patterns indicate that the morphology of each neuron might be specifically related to its function. This may allow future studies to identify different functional types of commissural neurons on the basis of much less extensive reconstructions.

Memory consolidation in the neocortex is thought to be mediated in part by bi-directional modifications of synaptic strength. The sensorimotor cortex shows marked spontaneous activity near 10 Hz during both waking and sleep in the form of electroencephalographic spindle waves, and is also sensitive to electrical activation of inputs at 10 Hz. Induction of long-term synaptic depression in corpus callosum inputs to layer V of the sensorimotor cortex of the awake, adult rat requires repeated low-frequency stimulation over many days. To determine if 10 Hz stimulation may facilitate the induction of long-term depression, we compared the amounts of long-term depression induced by conventional 1 Hz trains, repeated delivery of 450 pairs of stimulation pulses using a 100 ms interpulse interval, and 45 short, 2 s, 10 Hz trains. Each pattern was delivered daily for 10 days and was matched for total duration and number of pulses. Changes in synaptic responses were assessed by monitoring field potentials evoked by stimulation of the corpus callosum. A facilitation of synaptic responses in layer V was observed during delivery of both paired-pulse trains and 10 Hz trains. There was no significant difference in long-term depression induced by 1 Hz stimulation and repeated paired-pulse stimulation, but 10 Hz trains induced significantly greater long-term depression than 1 Hz trains in both the early monosynaptic and late polysynaptic field potential components. The effectiveness of short 10 Hz trains for the induction of long-term depression suggests that synchronous population activity at frequencies near 10 Hz such as spindle waves may contribute to endogenous synaptic depression in sensorimotor cortex.
Dendrites and spines undergo dynamic changes in physiological conditions, such as learning and memory, and in pathological conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy. Long-term dendritic plasticity has also been reported after ischemia/hypoxia, which might be compensatory effects of surviving neurons for the functional recovery after the insults. However, the dendritic changes shortly after ischemia, which might be associated with the pathogenesis of ischemic cell death, remain largely unknown. To reveal the morphological changes of ischemia-vulnerable neurons after ischemia, the present study investigated the alteration of dendritic arborization of CA1 pyramidal neurons in rats after transient cerebral ischemia using intracellular staining technique in vivo. The general appearance of dendritic arborization of CA1 neurons within 48 h after ischemia was similar to that of control neurons. However, a dramatic increase of dendritic disorientation was observed after ischemia with many basal dendrites coursed into the territory of apical dendrites and apical dendrites branched into the region of basal dendrites. In addition, a significant increase of apical dendritic length was found 24 h after ischemia. The increase of dendritic length after ischemia was mainly due to the dendritic sprouting rather than the extension of individual dendrites, which mainly occurred in the middle segment of the apical dendrites. These results reveal a plasticity change in dendritic arborization of CA1 neurons shortly after cerebral ischemia.

Early postnatal development of the jaw muscles is characterized by the transition from suckling to chewing behavior. As chewing develops the jaw closing muscles become more powerful compared with the jaw openers. These changes are likely to affect the amount of daily muscle activity. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to characterize for a jaw opener (digastric) and jaw closer (masseter) the total duration of daily muscle activity (i.e. the duty time), and the daily burst numbers and lengths during early postnatal development. Using radiotelemetry the activity of these muscles was recorded in 10 young New Zealand White rabbits between three and eight weeks of age. Fiber-type composition was analyzed at eight weeks of age by determining the myosin heavy chain content of the fibers. During postnatal development both muscles showed no significant decrease or increase in their daily activity. However, the interindividual variation of the duty time and burst number significantly decreased. There were no significant differences between the digastric and masseter except for the most powerful activities at eight weeks of age, where the masseter showed a significantly higher duty time and burst number than the digastric. The masseter contained a higher number of slow-type fibers expressing myosin heavy chain-I and myosin heavy chain-cardiac alpha than the digastric. The present results suggest that the amount of jaw muscle activation is already established early during postnatal development, before the transition from suckling to chewing behavior. This amount of activation seems to be related to the number of slow-type fibers.
Cholinergic projections from the nucleus basalis play a critical role in cortical plasticity. For instance, cholinergic deafferentation increases dendritic spine density and expression of the GluR1 subunit of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptor in frontal cortex. Acetylcholine modulates glutamatergic activity in cortex, and the N-methyl-d-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor plays a role in many forms of synaptic plasticity. To assess whether N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors mediate the increase in GluR1 and spine density resulting from cholinergic deafferentation, we examined the effect of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor blockade on nucleus basalis lesion-induced upregulation of GluR1 and dendritic spines. Rats received unilateral sham or 192 IgG saporin lesions of the nucleus basalis. Half of the rats in each group were treated with the N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist MK-801 or phosphate-buffered saline. Two weeks later, brains were processed for either immunohistochemical staining of the GluR1 subunit or Golgi histology. In layer II-III of frontal cortex, neuronal GluR1 expression was assessed using an unbiased stereological technique, and spine density was assessed on basilar branches of pyramidal neurons. GluR1 expression was increased after nucleus basalis lesion, but this increase was prevented with MK-801. Similarly, nucleus basalis-lesioned animals had significantly higher spine densities, and this effect was also prevented by treatment with MK-801. Thus, N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor blockade prevented both GluR1 and spine density upregulation following cholinergic deafferentation, suggesting that these effects are N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-mediated.
The neuron population of the hippocampal formation exhibits oscillatory activity within the theta (theta) frequency band (4-10 Hz), and the intrinsic resonance properties of individual hippocampal neurons contribute to this network oscillation. The subiculum is the pivotal output region of the hippocampal formation and it is involved in many of the physiological and pathological functions of the limbic system. To study the characteristics and underlying mechanisms of resonance activity in subicular pyramidal neurons, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from these neurons in rat horizontal brain slices. We applied sinusoidal currents with constant amplitudes and linearly increasing frequencies to measure the resonance frequency of subicular pyramidal neurons. We found that the resonance frequency of subicular pyramidal neurons was about 2 Hz at room temperature and 4-6 Hz at 32-35 degrees C. The resonance frequency increased at hyperpolarized membrane potentials and decreased at depolarized membrane potentials. We also investigated three sub-threshold currents involved in the resonance: a slow hyperpolarization-activated cation current; an instantaneously activating, inwardly rectifying potassium current; and an inwardly persistent sodium current. The application of ZD7288 abolished the resonance hump, indicating that hyperpolarization-activated cation current generated resonance. The application of Ba(2+) enlarged the resonance hump at hyperpolarized potentials below -80 mV, indicating that inwardly rectifying potassium current attenuated resonance. The application of TTX suppressed the resonance at depolarized potentials, indicating that persistent sodium current amplified resonance when neurons were depolarized. Thus, there is a theta-frequency resonance mediated by hyperpolarization-activated cation current in subicular pyramidal neurons. This theta-frequency resonance of individual subicular pyramidal neurons may participate in the population's theta oscillation and contribute to the functions of the subiculum.
Curcumin, a major constituent of the spice turmeric, is a nutriceutical compound reported to possess therapeutic properties against a variety of diseases ranging from cancer to cystic fibrosis. In whole-cell patch-clamp experiments on bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells, curcumin reversibly inhibited the Kv1.4K+ current with an IC50 of 4.4 microM and a Hill coefficient of 2.32. Inhibition by curcumin was significantly enhanced by repeated depolarization; however, this agent did not alter the voltage-dependence of steady-state inactivation. Kv1.4 is the first voltage-gated ion channel demonstrated to be inhibited by curcumin. Furthermore, these results identify curcumin as one of the most potent antagonists of these K+ channels identified thus far. It remains to be seen whether any of the therapeutic actions of curcumin might originate with its ability to inhibit Kv1.4 or other voltage-gated K+ channel.
Glutamate-induced oxidative toxicity is mediated by glutathione depletion in the HT22 mouse hippocampal cell line. Previous results with pharmacological agents implicated the extracellular signal-regulated kinases-1/2 (ERK1/2) in glutamate toxicity in HT22 cells and immature embryonic rat cortical neurons. In this report, we definitively establish a role for ERK1/2 in oxidative toxicity using dominant negative MEK1 expression in transiently transfected HT22 cells to block glutamate-induced cell death. In contrast, chronic activation of ERK (i.e. brought about by transfection of constitutively active ERK2 chimera) is not sufficient to trigger HT22 cell death demonstrating that ERK1/2 activation is not sufficient for toxicity. Activation of ERK1/2 in HT22 cells has a distinct kinetic profile with an initial peak occurring between 30 min and 1 h of glutamate treatment and a second peak typically emerging after 6 h. We demonstrate here that the initial phase of ERK1/2 induction is because of activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor type I (mGluRI). ERK1/2 activation by mGluRI contributes to an HT22 cell adaptive response to oxidative stress as glutamate-induced toxicity is enhanced upon pharmacological inhibition of mGluRI. The protective effect of ERK1/2 activation at early times after glutamate treatment is mediated by a restoration of glutathione (GSH) levels that are reduced because of depletion of intracellular cysteine pools. Thus, ERK1/2 appears to play dual roles in HT22 cells acting as part of a cellular adaptive response during the initial phases of glutamate-induced oxidative stress and contributing to toxicity during later stages of stress.
Collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMPs) are a family of neuron-enriched proteins that regulate neurite outgrowth and growth cone dynamics. Here, we show that Cdk5 phosphorylates CRMP1, CRMP2, and CRMP4, priming for subsequent phosphorylation by GSK3 in vitro. In contrast, DYRK2 phosphorylates and primes CRMP4 only. The Cdk5 and DYRK2 inhibitor purvalanol decreases the phosphorylation of CRMP proteins in neurons, whereas CRMP1 and CRMP2, but not CRMP4, phosphorylation is decreased in Cdk5(-/-) cortices. Stimulation of neuroblastoma cells with IGF1 or TPA decreases GSK3 activity concomitantly with CRMP2 and CRMP4 phosphorylation. Conversely, increased GSK3 activity is not sufficient to increase CRMP phosphorylation. However, the growth cone collapse-inducing protein Sema3A increases Cdk5 activity and promotes phosphorylation of CRMP2 (but not CRMP4). Therefore, inhibition of GSK3 alters phosphorylation of all CRMP isoforms; however, individual isoforms can be differentially regulated by their respective priming kinase. This is the first GSK3 substrate found to be regulated in this manner and may explain the hyperphosphorylation of CRMP2 observed in Alzheimer's disease.



Recent evidence now suggests the involvement of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) system in mood disorders. Specifically, several members of the FGF family have been shown to be dysregulated in individuals with major depression. In this review, we will introduce the FGF system in terms of structure and function during development, in adulthood, and in various regions and cell types. We will also review the FGF system as a mediator of neural plasticity. Furthermore, this review will summarize animal as well as human studies. The majority of animal studies have focused on stress, environmental enrichment, pharmacological manipulations, and the hippocampus. By contrast, human studies have focused on volumetric measurements, antidepressant literature, and, most recently, post-mortem microarray experiments. In summary, a reduced tone in the FGF system might alter brain development or remodeling and result in a predisposition or vulnerability to mood disorders, including major depression.
The neural circuitry that mediates mood under normal and abnormal conditions remains incompletely understood. Most attention in the field has focused on hippocampal and frontal cortical regions for their role in depression and antidepressant action. While these regions no doubt play important roles in these phenomena, there is compelling evidence that other brain regions are also involved. Here we focus on the potential role of the nucleus accumbens (NAc; ventral striatum) and its dopaminergic input from the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which form the mesolimbic dopamine system, in depression. The mesolimbic dopamine system is most often associated with the rewarding effects of food, sex, and drugs of abuse. Given the prominence of anhedonia, reduced motivation, and decreased energy level in most individuals with depression, we propose that the NAc and VTA contribute importantly to the pathophysiology and symptomatology of depression and may even be involved in its etiology. We review recent studies showing that manipulations of key proteins (e.g. CREB, dynorphin, BDNF, MCH, or Clock) within the VTA-NAc circuit of rodents produce unique behavioral phenotypes, some of which are directly relevant to depression. Studies of these and other proteins in the mesolimbic dopamine system have established novel approaches to modeling key symptoms of depression in animals, and could enable the development of antidepressant medications with fundamentally new mechanisms of action.

Based on an existing series of 5-HT2A receptor ligands containing a basic nitrogen, we designed a non-basic lead that had reduced affinity for both the 5-HT2A receptor and the IKr potassium channel. The present paper describes the development of this lead to a novel series of non-basic piperidine sulfonamides and amides that have high affinity for the 5-HT2A receptor, whilst maintaining excellent selectivity over off target activities such as the IKr channel. This work has shown that the proposed pharmacophore model for the 5-HT2A receptor which suggests that a basic nitrogen is required for the binding of ligands is questionable.
Modifying the density and distribution of ion channels in a neuron (by natural up- and downregulation or by pharmacological intervention or by spontaneous mutations) changes its activity pattern. In this investigation we analyzed how the impulse patterns are regulated by the density of voltage-gated channels in a neuron model based on voltage-clamp measurements of hippocampal interneurons. At least three distinct oscillatory patterns, associated with three distinct regions in the Na-K channel density plane, were found. A stability analysis showed that the different regions are characterized by saddle-node, double-orbit, and Hopf-bifurcation threshold dynamics, respectively. Single, strongly graded action potentials occur in an area outside the oscillatory regions, but less graded action potentials occur together with repetitive firing over a considerable range of channel densities. The relationship found here between channel densities and oscillatory behavior may partly explain the difference between the principal spiking patterns previously described for crab axons (class 1 and 2) and cortical neurons (regular firing and fast spiking).


Understanding the generation of neuronal and glial diversity is one of the major goals of developmental neuroscience. The Drosophila CNS midline cells constitute a simple neurogenomic system to study neurogenesis, cell fate acquisition, and neuronal function. Previously, we identified and determined the developmental expression profiles of 224 midline-expressed genes. Here, the expression of 59 transcription factors, signaling proteins, and neural function genes was analyzed using multi-label confocal imaging, and their expression patterns mapped at the single-cell level at multiple stages of CNS development. These maps uniquely identify individual cells and predict potential regulatory events and combinatorial protein interactions that may occur in each midline cell type during their development. Analysis of neural function genes, including those encoding peptide neurotransmitters, neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzymes, transporters, and neurotransmitter receptors, allows functional characterization of each neuronal cell type. This work is essential for a comprehensive genetic analysis of midline cell development that will likely have widespread significance given the high degree of evolutionary conservation of the genes analyzed.
1-Benzyl-5-aryltetrazoles were discovered to be novel antagonists for the P2X(7) receptor. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies were conducted around both the benzyl and phenyl moieties. In addition, the importance of the regiochemical substitution on the tetrazole was examined. Compounds were evaluated for activity to inhibit calcium flux in both human and rat recombinant P2X(7) cell lines using fluorometric imaging plate reader technology. Analogues were also assayed for their ability to inhibit IL-1beta release and to inhibit P2X(7)-mediated pore formation in human THP-1 cells. Compound 15d was advanced to efficacy studies in a model of neuropathic pain where significant reversal of mechanical allodynia was observed at doses that did not affect motor coordination.
A new weight-drop head-injury apparatus is described that can produce a momentary depression of predetermined depth at a predetermined site of the elastic calvaria of scalped young adult rats. In Wistar rats weighing about 200 g, a 0.75-mm deep calvaria depression immediately caused ultrastructural (neurofilament) compaction in many long axon segments, which were diffusely scattered among non-compacted axons in a well-defined area of cortical layers IV and V under the impact site. Apart from these morphological changes and swollen astrocytic processes in their vicinity, the brain tissue appeared non-impaired. The blood pressure, intracranial pressure, heart rate and respiration rate had returned to the normal range in 1 min. Diffuse axonal swelling caused by impaired axonal transport, ultrastructural compaction in neuronal soma-dendrite domains, impression fracture and subarachnoid or subdural hemorrhages were observed only in rats with a calvaria depression of 1mm or more. All these features create favorable circumstances for study of various problems that are closely related to the ultrastructural (neurofilament) compaction in axons, such as the fate of the affected axons.
Biogenic amines are critically important neuromodulators in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Quantification of these amines can be difficult, particularly in neural extracts of Drosophila melanogaster that contain interfering electroactive compounds. We have developed a method for the reliable separation and quantification of the biogenic amines dopamine, serotonin, tyramine, and octopamine in Drosophila brain extracts using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Our method obviates the need for complex preparatory procedures or instrumentation, and can reproducibly detect picogram quantities of these amines. By optimizing the composition of the mobile phase and the electrode potential, and by examining common complications in the analysis of biological samples, we have developed a reliable technique for monitoring levels of biogenic amines in the Drosophila brain.
The Epac family of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMPGEFs, also known as Epac1 and Epac2) mediate stimulatory actions of the second messenger cAMP on insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells. Because Epac2 is reported to interact in vitro with the isolated nucleotide-binding fold-1 (NBF-1) of the beta-cell sulphonylurea receptor-1 (SUR1), we hypothesized that cAMP might act via Epac1 and/or Epac2 to inhibit beta-cell ATP-sensitive K+ channels (K(ATP) channels; a hetero-octomer of SUR1 and Kir6.2). If so, Epac-mediated inhibition of K(ATP) channels might explain prior reports that cAMP-elevating agents promote beta-cell depolarization, Ca2+ influx and insulin secretion. Here we report that Epac-selective cAMP analogues (2'-O-Me-cAMP; 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP; 8-pMeOPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP), but not a cGMP analogue (2'-O-Me-cGMP), inhibit the function of K(ATP) channels in human beta cells and rat INS-1 insulin-secreting cells. Inhibition of K(ATP) channels is also observed when cAMP, itself, is administered intracellularly, whereas no such effect is observed upon administration N6-Bnz-cAMP, a cAMP analogue that activates protein kinase A (PKA) but not Epac. The inhibitory actions of Epac-selective cAMP analogues at K(ATP) channels are mimicked by a cAMP agonist (8-Bromoadenosine-3', 5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Sp-isomer, Sp-8-Br-cAMPS), but not a cAMP antagonist (8-Bromoadenosine-3', 5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rp-isomer, Rp-8-Br-cAMPS), and are abrogated following transfection of INS-1 cells with a dominant-negative Epac1 that fails to bind cAMP. Because both Epac1 and Epac2 coimmunoprecipitate with full-length SUR1 in HEK cell lysates, such findings delineate a novel mechanism of second messenger signal transduction in which cAMP acts via Epac to modulate ion channel function, an effect measurable as the inhibition of K(ATP) channel activity in pancreatic beta cells.
Decision making in an uncertain environment poses a conflict between the opposing demands of gathering and exploiting information. In a classic illustration of this 'exploration-exploitation' dilemma, a gambler choosing between multiple slot machines balances the desire to select what seems, on the basis of accumulated experience, the richest option, against the desire to choose a less familiar option that might turn out more advantageous (and thereby provide information for improving future decisions). Far from representing idle curiosity, such exploration is often critical for organisms to discover how best to harvest resources such as food and water. In appetitive choice, substantial experimental evidence, underpinned by computational reinforcement learning (RL) theory, indicates that a dopaminergic, striatal and medial prefrontal network mediates learning to exploit. In contrast, although exploration has been well studied from both theoretical and ethological perspectives, its neural substrates are much less clear. Here we show, in a gambling task, that human subjects' choices can be characterized by a computationally well-regarded strategy for addressing the explore/exploit dilemma. Furthermore, using this characterization to classify decisions as exploratory or exploitative, we employ functional magnetic resonance imaging to show that the frontopolar cortex and intraparietal sulcus are preferentially active during exploratory decisions. In contrast, regions of striatum and ventromedial prefrontal cortex exhibit activity characteristic of an involvement in value-based exploitative decision making. The results suggest a model of action selection under uncertainty that involves switching between exploratory and exploitative behavioural modes, and provide a computationally precise characterization of the contribution of key decision-related brain systems to each of these functions.
Axon pruning by degeneration remodels exuberant axonal connections and is widely required for the development of proper circuitry in the nervous system from insects to mammals. Developmental axon degeneration morphologically resembles injury-induced Wallerian degeneration, suggesting similar underlying mechanisms. As previously reported for mice, we show that Wlds protein substantially delays Wallerian degeneration in flies. Surprisingly, Wlds has no effect on naturally occurring developmental axon degeneration in flies or mice, although it protects against injury-induced degeneration of the same axons at the same developmental age. By contrast, the ubiquitin-proteasome system is intrinsically required for both developmental and injury-induced axon degeneration. We also show that the glial cell surface receptor Draper is required for efficient clearance of axon fragments during developmental axon degeneration, similar to its function in injury-induced degeneration. Thus, mechanistically, naturally occurring developmental axon pruning by degeneration and injury-induced axon degeneration differ significantly in early steps, but may converge onto a common execution pathway.
The brain is complex and dynamic. The spatial scales of interest to the neurobiologist range from individual synapses (approximately 1 microm) to neural circuits (centimeters); the timescales range from the flickering of channels (less than a millisecond) to long-term memory (years). Remarkably, fluorescence microscopy has the potential to revolutionize research on all of these spatial and temporal scales. Two-photon excitation (2PE) laser scanning microscopy allows high-resolution and high-sensitivity fluorescence microscopy in intact neural tissue, which is hostile to traditional forms of microscopy. Over the last 10 years, applications of 2PE, including microscopy and photostimulation, have contributed to our understanding of a broad array of neurobiological phenomena, including the dynamics of single channels in individual synapses and the functional organization of cortical maps. Here we review the principles of 2PE microscopy, highlight recent applications, discuss its limitations, and point to areas for future research and development.
Activity-dependent dendritic growth is dependent upon intracellular calcium signaling. Yet the specific mechanisms by which calcium signals lead to morphologic changes in dendrites are not well understood. A paper in this issue of Neuron by Wayman et al. describes a novel calcium-dependent signaling cascade linking neuronal activity and calcium influx to expression of Wnt-2, a member of a family of proteins that controls elaboration of dendrites.
Although environmental enrichment is presumed to enhance learning, appetitive behavior may also be altered by this experience: anticipatory responding for sucrose is reduced in environmentally enriched (EE) rats [van der Harst, J.E., Baars, A.M. and Spruijt, B.M. Standard housed rats are more sensitive to rewards than enriched housed rats as reflected by their anticipatory behaviour. Behav Brain Res 2003;142:151-156]. To assess the impact of differential environmental experience on learning and appetitive behavior, we trained 17 EE and socially isolated (SI) rats in a three-phase, operant-shaping procedure for sucrose reinforcement. In phase one, a feeder cue was paired with sucrose availability. In phase two, a nose poke to either one of two lit holes on the opposing wall activated the feeder cue. In phase three, the feeder cue was elicited by a poke to a single lit hole. While acquisition rates in phase one and phase two were similar, EE animals reached phase-three criteria [completion of 100 trials in 45 min and 15 or fewer bad pokes] faster than SI animals. These two groups showed similar session completion rates, reinforced and non-reinforced licking responses, and overall behavioral activity during phase three acquisition; however, SI rats performed more bad pokes (responses to the non-lit hole after nose-poke cue onset) and intertrial interval (ITI) pokes during this training period. Because all ITI (and presumably many bad) pokes were initiated before onset of nose-poke cue, this difference indicates greater anticipatory responding in SI animals. This experience-dependent alteration in appetitive behavior may explain, in part, the tendency of SI rats to show attenuated learning rates in appetitive contexts in which complex contingencies exist.
Psychopathy is a complex personality disorder that includes interpersonal and affective traits such as glibness, lack of empathy, guilt or remorse, shallow affect, and irresponsibility, and behavioral characteristics such as impulsivity, poor behavioral control, and promiscuity. Much is known about the assessment of psychopathy; however, relatively little is understood about the relevant brain disturbances. The present review integrates data from studies of behavioral and cognitive changes associated with focal brain lesions or insults and results from psychophysiology, cognitive psychology and cognitive and affective neuroscience in health and psychopathy. The review illustrates that the brain regions implicated in psychopathy include the orbital frontal cortex, insula, anterior and posterior cingulate, amygdala, parahippocampal gyrus, and anterior superior temporal gyrus. The relevant functional neuroanatomy of psychopathy thus includes limbic and paralimbic structures that may be collectively termed 'the paralimbic system'. The paralimbic system dysfunction model of psychopathy is discussed as it relates to the extant literature on psychopathy.
Myocyte enhancer factor 2A (MEF-2A) is a calcium-regulated transcription factor that promotes cell survival during nervous system development. To define and further characterize the distribution pattern of MEF-2A in the adult mammalian brain, we used a specific polyclonal antiserum against human MEF-2A to identify nuclear-localized MEF-2A protein in hippocampal and frontal cortical regions. Western blot and immunocytochemical analyses showed that MEF-2A was expressed not only in laminar structures but also in blood vessels of rat and human brains. MEF-2A was colocalized with doublecortin (DCX), a microtubule-associated protein expressed by migrating neuroblasts, in CA1 and CA2 boundaries of the hippocampus. MEF-2A was expressed heterogeneously in additional structures of the rat brain, including the striatum, thalamus, and cerebellum. Furthermore, we found a strong nuclear and diffuse MEF-2A labeling pattern in spinal cord cells of rat and human material. Finally, the neurovasculature of adult rats and humans not only showed a strong expression of MEF-2A but also labeled positive for hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-regulated (HCN) channels. This study further characterizes the distribution pattern of MEF-2A in the mammalian nervous system, demonstrates that MEF-2A colocalizes with DCX in selected neurons, and finds MEF-2A and HCN1 proteins in the neurovasculature network.
Haemoglobins bearing reactive sulfhydryl groups have been shown to be able to interplay with glutathione in some detoxification processes. Blood from different mouse strains commonly used as experimental animal models, i.e., C57, DBA and ICR, was treated with oxidants with the aim of evaluating: (i) the involvement of protein SH groups in oxido-reductive reactions that are commonly carried out by glutathione and (ii) the impact of this phenomenon on blood-mediated metabolism of thiol reactants. All the main forms of glutathione (reduced, disulfide, and mixed disulfide with haemoglobin) were measured after oxidant treatment. Significant differences were found among the studied strains: DBA mice formed preferably mixed disulfides instead of glutathione disulfide, whereas the opposite behaviour was shown by C57 mice. Unexpectedly, the ICR strain resulted to be composed of three different subgroups (ICRa, ICRb, and ICRc), with the ICRa behaving similarly to the DBA strain, ICRc to the C57 strain, and ICRc showing an intermediate behaviour. These results are due to the different number of haemoglobin SH groups in the studied mouse strains. In particular, additional fast-reacting SH groups were found in haemoglobin from DBA, ICRa, and ICRb mice, but not in the C57 and ICRc strain. These differences were also reflected in the susceptibility of haemoglobin to dimerize and in its ability to react with S-nitrosocysteine. Because of the widely different reactivity of haemoglobin cysteinyl residues, the mouse strains examined are an interesting but complicated model in which to study the pharmacological and toxicological action of some drugs.
The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) integrates preautonomic and neuroendocrine control of energy homeostasis, fluid balance, and the stress response. We recently demonstrated that glucocorticoids act via a membrane receptor to rapidly cause endocannabinoid-mediated suppression of synaptic excitation in PVN neurosecretory neurons. Leptin, a major signal of nutritional state, suppresses CB(1) cannabinoid receptor-dependent hyperphagia (increased appetite) in fasting animals by reducing hypothalamic levels of endocannabinoids. Here we show that glucocorticoids stimulate endocannabinoid biosynthesis and release via a Galpha(s)-cAMP-protein kinase A-dependent mechanism and that leptin blocks glucocorticoid-induced endocannabinoid biosynthesis and suppression of excitation in the PVN via a phosphodiesterase-3B-mediated reduction in intracellular cAMP levels. We demonstrate this rapid hormonal interaction in both PVN magnocellular and parvocellular neurosecretory cells. Leptin blockade of the glucocorticoid-induced, endocannabinoid-mediated suppression of excitation was absent in leptin receptor-deficient obese Zucker rats. Our findings reveal a novel hormonal crosstalk that rapidly modulates synaptic excitation via endocannabinoid release in the hypothalamus and that provides a nutritional state-sensitive mechanism to integrate the neuroendocrine regulation of energy homeostasis, fluid balance, and the stress response.
The magnitude and direction of synaptic plasticity can be determined by the precise timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic action potentials on a millisecond timescale. In vivo, however, neural activity has structure on longer timescales. Here we show that plasticity at the CA3-CA1 synapse depends strongly on parameters other than millisecond spike timing. As a result, the notion that a single spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) rule alone can fully describe the mapping between neural activity and synapse strength is invalid. We have begun to explore the influence of additional behaviorally relevant activity parameters on STDP and found conditions under which underlying spike-timing-dependent rules for potentiation and depression can be separated from one another. Potentiation requires postsynaptic burst firing at 5 Hz or higher, a firing pattern that occurs during the theta rhythm. Potentiation is measurable after only tens of presynaptic-before-postsynaptic pairings. Depression requires hundreds of pairings but has less stringent long timescale requirements and broad timing dependence. By varying these parameters, we obtain STDP curves that are long-term potentiation only, bidirectional, or long-term depression only. This expanded description of the CA3-CA1 learning rule reconciles apparent contradictions between spike-timing-dependent plasticity and previous work at CA3-CA1 synapses.
Although there is general consensus that the hippocampus is not critically involved in the acquisition of fear conditioned to an explicit conditioned stimulus (CS), the extent to which the hippocampus participates in contextual fear conditioning remains unclear. To further characterize the potential role of the hippocampus in contextual fear conditioning, the present experiments examined the effect of excitotoxic lesions of dorsal hippocampus on the acquisition of a novel contextual fear conditioning paradigm in which a unimodal (olfactory) cue served to disambiguate discrete &quot;contexts&quot; within a single behavioral training chamber. Selective lesions of dorsal hippocampus severely attenuated olfactory contextual conditioning without affecting conditioning to an explicit auditory or olfactory CS. Additional experiments indicate that these contextual conditioning deficits cannot be attributed to a lesion-induced decrement in olfactory perception, a preferential impairment of &quot;weak&quot; forms of conditioning, or hyperactivity. Thus, the hippocampus appears to contribute importantly to the acquisition of fear conditioned to explicitly nonspatial, unimodal, temporally, and spatially diffuse contextual stimuli.
The detailed structure of multidigit receptive fields (RFs) in somatosensory cortical areas such as the SII region has not been investigated previously using systematically controlled stimuli. Recently (Fitzgerald et al., 2004), we showed that the SII region comprises three adjoining fields: posterior, central, and anterior. Here we characterize the RF structures of the 928 neurons that were reported in that study using a motorized oriented bar that was indented into the 12 finger pads of digits 2-5. Most (81%) of the neurons were responsive to the oriented bar stimuli, and 81% of those neurons had RFs that spanned multiple digits. Furthermore, the RFs varied greatly in size, shape, and complexity. Some RFs contained only excitatory finger pads, some contained only inhibitory pads, and some contained both types of pads. A subset of the neurons (23%) showed orientation tuning within one or more pads. The RFs spread across different digits more than within individual digits, and the responsive finger pads for a given neuron tended to cluster together within the hand. Distal and lateral finger pads were better represented than proximal and medial finger pads. Furthermore, neurons in the posterior, central, and anterior SII region fields contained different proportions of RF types. These results collectively indicate that most SII region neurons are selective for different stimulus forms either within single finger pads or across multiple pads. We hypothesize that these RFs represent the kernels underlying the representation of tactile shape.
Orientation tuning has been studied extensively in the visual system, but little is known about it in the somatosensory system. Here we investigate tuning in the second somatosensory (SII) region using a motorized stimulator that presented a small oriented bar to the 12 finger pads of digits 2-5 (D2-D5) of the macaque monkey. A subset (23%; n = 218) of the 928 SII region neurons [the same 928 neurons studied by Fitzgerald et al. (2004, 2006)] exhibited tuning, and most of these were tuned on one or two finger pads. All eight 22.5 degrees separated orientations were represented as the preferred orientation of multiple neurons, although not necessarily in equal numbers. A measure of bandwidth indicated that tuning in the SII region is sharp and is similar to the tuning observed in visual cortical areas. In addition, two-dimensional Gaussians that were fit to the tuning curves had very high r2 values, indicating that most tuning curves are both unimodal and symmetrical with respect to their preferred orientation. Most tuned neurons had additional untuned pads, although the responsiveness of these pads tended to be less than the responsiveness of tuned pads. Neurons with multiple tuned pads tended to have similar preferred orientations on their tuned pads, which can be interpreted as evidence for integration of information across fingers or as a form of positional invariance. Finally, comparison of the tuning properties showed that there are small but significant differences between the posterior, central, and anterior fields of the SII region.
Cannabinoids represent one of the most commonly used hallucinogenic drug classes. In addition, cannabis use is a primary risk factor for schizophrenia in susceptible individuals and can potently modulate the emotional salience of sensory stimuli. We report that systemic activation or blockade of cannabinoid CB1 receptors modulates emotional associative learning and memory formation in a subpopulation of neurons in the mammalian medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) that receives functional input from the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Using in vivo single-unit recordings in rats, we found that a CB1 receptor agonist potentiated the response of medial prefrontal cortical neurons to olfactory cues paired previously with a footshock, whereas this associative responding was prevented by a CB1 receptor antagonist. In an olfactory fear-conditioning procedure, CB1 agonist microinfusions into the mPFC enabled behavioral responses to olfactory cues paired with normally subthreshold footshock, whereas the antagonist completely blocked emotional learning. These results are the first demonstration that cannabinoid signaling in the mPFC can modulate the magnitude of neuronal emotional learning plasticity and memory formation through functional inputs from the BLA.
Neurotransplantation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) was used to assess communication between the central circadian pacemaker and peripheral oscillators in Syrian hamsters. Free-running rhythms of haPer1, haPer2, and Bmal1 expression were documented in liver, kidney, spleen, heart, skeletal muscle, and adrenal medulla after 3 d or 11 weeks of exposure to constant darkness. Ablation of the SCN of heterozygote tau mutants eliminated not only rhythms of locomotor activity but also rhythmic expression of these genes in all peripheral organs studied. The Per:Bmal ratio suggests that this effect was attributable not to asynchronous rhythmicity between SCN-lesioned individuals but to arrhythmicity within individuals. Grafts of wild-type SCN to heterozygous, SCN-lesioned tau mutant hamsters not only restored locomotor rhythms with the period of the donor but also led to recovery of rhythmic expression of haPer1, haPer2, and haBmal1 in liver and kidney. The phase of these rhythms most closely resembled that of intact wild-type hamsters. Rhythmic gene expression was also restored in skeletal muscle, but the phase was altered. Behaviorally effective SCN transplants failed to reinstate rhythms of clock gene expression in heart, spleen, or adrenal medulla. These findings confirm that peripheral organs differ in their response to SCN-dependent cues. Furthermore, the results indicate that conventional models of internal entrainment may need to be revised to explain control of the periphery by the pacemaker.
The temperamental style of behavioral inhibition has been characterized by exaggerated behavioral and neural responses to cues signaling threat. Virtually no work, however, has addressed whether behavioral inhibition may also confer heightened brain activation in response to positively valenced incentives. We used event-related functional MRI (fMRI) and a monetary incentive delay task to examine whether the neural response to incentives is also greater in adolescents characterized as behaviorally inhibited early in life compared with those characterized as non-inhibited. Whereas task performance did not differ between groups, fMRI revealed greater striatal activation to incentives in behaviorally inhibited adolescents than in non-inhibited adolescents. This was regardless of whether the incentive was an anticipated gain or loss. Alteration in neural systems underlying behavior modulated by both negative and positive contingencies may represent a correlate of behavioral inhibition that also underlies vulnerability to various forms of developmental psychopathology.
Transient subthreshold-activating somato-dendritic A-type K(+) currents (I(SA)s) have fundamental roles in neuronal function. They cause delayed excitation, influence spike repolarization, modulate the frequency of repetitive firing, and have important roles in signal processing in dendrites. We previously reported that DPPX proteins are key components of the channels mediating these currents (Kv4 channels) (Nadal, M.S., Ozaita, A., Amarillo, Y., Vega-Saenz, E., Ma, Y., Mo, W., Goldberg, E.M., Misumi, Y., Ikehara, Y., Neubert, T.A., Rudy, B., 2003. The CD26-related dipeptidyl aminopeptidase-like protein DPPX is a critical component of neuronal A-type K+ channels. Neuron 37, 449-461). The DPPX gene encodes alternatively spliced transcripts that generate single-spanning transmembrane proteins with a short, divergent intracellular domain and a large extracellular domain. We characterized the modulatory effects on Kv4.2-mediated currents and the rat brain distribution of three splice variants of the DPPX subfamily of proteins. These three splice isoforms--DPPX-S, DPPX-L, and DPPX-K--are expressed in adult rat brain and modify the voltage dependence and kinetic properties of Kv4.2 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Analysis of a deletion mutant that lacks the variable N-terminus showed that the N-terminus is not necessary for the modulation of Kv4 channels. Using in situ hybridization analysis, we found that the three splice variants are prominently expressed in brain regions where Kv4 subunits are also expressed. DPPX-K and DPPX-S mRNAs have a widespread distribution, whereas DPPX-L transcripts are concentrated in few specific areas of the rat brain. The emerging diversity of DPPX splice variants, differing only in the N-terminus of the protein, opens up intriguing possibilities for the modulation of Kv4 channels.
Abeta amyloidosis and tauopathy are characteristic changes in the brain of Alzheimer's disease. Although much evidence suggests that Abeta deposit is a critical initiation factor, the pathological pathway between Abeta amyloidosis and tau accumulation remains unclear. Tau accumulation was examined in the doubly transgenic mouse (APP-PS) expressing betaAPP(KM670/671NL) (Tg2576) and presenilin-1 L286V (PS-1 L286Vtg). Accelerated and enhanced Abeta amyloid deposits were detected from 8 weeks. Tau accumulation appeared at 4.5 months and markedly increased in dystrophic neurites around Abeta amyloid. Accumulated tau was phosphorylated, conformationally altered, and argyrophilic. Expression of tau and accumulation of sarkosyl-insoluble phosphorylated tau were increased in APP-PS brains compared with those of Tg2576 mice. Straight or twisted tubules mimicking paired helical filament were revealed at electron microscopic level in 16-month-old APP-PS. These findings suggest that mutant presenilin-1 accelerated Abeta-induced tauopathy and further promoted fibril formation of tau.
Blood pressure in women increases after menopause, and sympathetic tone in female rats decreases with estrogen injections in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) region that contains bulbospinal C1 adrenergic neurons and is involved in blood pressure control. We investigated the anatomical and physiological basis for estrogen effects in the RVLM. Neurons with alpha- or beta-subtypes of estrogen receptor (ER) immunoreactivity (-ir) overlapped in distribution with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-containing C1 neurons. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that ERalpha- and ERbeta-ir had distinct cellular and subcellular distributions. ERalpha-ir was most commonly in TH-lacking profiles, many of which were axons and peptide-containing afferents that contacted TH-containing dendrites. ERalpha-ir was also in some TH-containing dendrites. ERbeta-ir was most frequently in TH-containing somata and dendrites, particularly on endoplasmic reticula, mitochondria, and plasma membranes. In whole-cell patch clamp recordings from isolated bulbospinal RVLM neurons, 17beta-estradiol dose-dependently reduced voltage-gated Ca(++) currents, especially the long-lasting (L-type) component. This inhibition was reversed by washing or prevented by adding the non-subtype-selective ER antagonist ICI182780. An ERbeta-selective agonist, but not an ERalpha-selective agonist, reproduced the Ca(++) current inhibition. The data indicate that estrogens can modulate the function of RVLM C1 bulbospinal neurons either directly, through extranuclear ERbeta, or indirectly through extranuclear ERalpha in selected afferents. Moreover, Ca(++) current inhibition may underlie the decrease in sympathetic tone evoked by local 17beta-estradiol application. These findings provide a structural and functional basis for the effects of estrogens on blood pressure control and suggest a mechanism for the modulation of cardiovascular function by estrogen in women.
The ability of subtype-preferring alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonists to enhance the neurochemical effects of the antidepressant, fluoxetine, was evaluated by in vivo microdialysis. Combining the selective alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor antagonist, BRL-44408 (10 mg/kg, s.c.), with fluoxetine (30 mg/kg, s.c.) elevated the extracellular levels of serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline in the rat frontal cortex, an effect not observed following antidepressant treatment alone. In contrast, combining fluoxetine with the alpha(2B)- or alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor antagonists, imiloxan (10 mg/kg, s.c.) or rauwolscine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), respectively, did not similarly alter biogenic amine levels. Collectively, these results reveal a specific role for the alpha(2A)-adrenoceptor subtype in augmenting the neurochemical effects of antidepressants.
The present study investigated whether sympathetic neurotransmission is altered at an early stage of diabetes in mesenteric small arteries isolated from female non-obese diabetic (NOD) and control animals without diabetes from the same mouse strain. The NOD diabetic mice had increased plasma glucose and hypertension. Confocal microscopy showed distribution of nerve terminals was similar, but immunoreaction intensity for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and tyrosine hydroxylase was higher in small arteries from NOD diabetic compared with NOD control mice. In the presence of prazosin and activated with vasopressin, electrical field stimulation evoked contractions which were more pronounced in mesenteric arteries from NOD diabetic versus NOD control mice and inhibited by the NPY Y(1) receptor antagonist, BIBP 3226. NPY concentration-response curves were leftward shifted in arteries from NOD diabetic versus NOD control both in arteries with and without endothelium, but not in the presence of the BIBP 3226. The present findings suggest that enhanced NPY content and vasoconstriction to NPY by activation of NPY Y(1) receptors in arteries from diabetic mice may contribute to the enhanced sympathetic nerve activity and vascular resistance in female non-obese early diabetic animals.
The authors report eight patients with primary dural lymphoma (PDL). All patients had extra-axial masses on MRI that diffusely enhanced after gadolinium. Pathology revealed low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (marginal zone lymphoma of MALT [mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue] type) in all patients. All patients underwent radiation therapy, and three received chemotherapy. Complete response was achieved in 100% of patients, but three developed systemic relapse.
The authors describe diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) changes in the hippocampus within 48 hours of acute symptomatic seizures or status epilepticus in 12 patients. DWI showed increased signal and a decreased apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) in all patients, with corresponding lactate detected on MRS in six patients and EEG seizure activity in nine patients. On follow-up, the atrophic hippocampus had an increased ADC in six patients. DWI and MRS may predict development of hippocampal sclerosis.

The development of the vertebrate inner ear depends on the precise expression of fibroblast growth factors. In a mutagenesis screen for zebrafish with abnormalities of inner-ear development and behavior, we isolated a mutant line, ru622, whose phenotypic characteristics resembled those of null mutants for the gene encoding fibroblast growth factor 8 (Fgf8): an inconsistent startle response, circular swimming, fused otoliths, and abnormal semicircular canals. Positional cloning disclosed that the mutant gene encodes the transcriptional corepressor Atrophin2. Both the Fgf8 protein and zebrafish &quot;similar expression to fgf genes&quot; protein (Sef), an antagonist of fibroblast growth factors induced by Fgf8 itself, were found to be overexpressed in ru622 mutants. We therefore hypothesized that an excess of Sef eliminates Fgf8 signals and produces an fgf8 null phenotype in ru622 mutants. In support of this idea, we could rescue larvae whose atrophin2 expression had been diminished with morpholinos by reducing the expression of Sef as well. We propose that Atrophin2 plays a role in the feedback regulation of Fgf8 signaling. When mutation of the atrophin2 gene results in the overexpression of both Fgf8 and Sef, the excessive Sef inhibits Fgf8 signaling. The resultant imbalance of Fgf8 and Sef signals then underlies the abnormal aural development observed in ru622.
Talpid moles are small insectivores that live in dark underground tunnels. They depend heavily on touch to navigate and find food. Most species have an array of complex epidermal sensory structures called Eimer's organs that cover the tip of the nose. In this study, the anatomy of Eimer's organ was examined in the coast mole and star-nosed mole by using the fluorescent styryl pyridinium dye AM1-43 and immunocytochemical staining for neurofilament 200 and substance P. In addition, DiI was used to label neural components of Eimer's organ. AM1-43 labeled all of the Eimer's organ receptors after systemic injection, suggesting a role in mechanotransduction. Immunostaining with neurofilament 200 and substance P labeled distinct subtypes of sensory fibers. Substance P labeled a group of free nerve endings along the outer edge of Eimer's organ, indicating a nociceptive role for these fibers. In contrast, neurofilament 200 labeled a more central set of nerve endings, suggesting that these fibers function as low-threshold mechanoreceptors. By labeling subsets of trigeminal afferents distant from the receptor array with DiI, we revealed innervation patterns indicating that one afferent supplies the outer, substance P-positive set of free nerve endings, whereas several afferents differentially innervate the central free nerve endings. Our results suggest that the free nerve endings innervating Eimer's organ are largely mechanosensitive and may play an important role in the rapid sensory discrimination observed in these species.



Regrowth of injured axons across rather small spinal cord lesion gaps and subsequent functional recovery has been obtained after many interventions. Long-distance regeneration of injured axons across clinically relevant large spinal lesion gaps is relatively unexplored. Here, we aimed at stimulating long-distance regrowth of the injured corticospinal (CS) tract. During development, an oriented framework of immature astrocytes is important for correct CS axon outgrowth. Furthermore, a continuous growth promoting substrate may be needed to maintain a CS axon regrowth response across relatively large spinal lesion gaps. Hence, we acutely transplanted poly(D,L)-lactide matrices, which after seeded with immature astrocytes render aligned astrocyte-biomatrix complexes (R. Deumens, et al. Alignment of glial cells stimulates directional neurite growth of CNS neurons in vitro. Neuroscience 125 (3) (2004) 591-604), into 2-mm long dorsal hemisection lesion gaps. In order to create a growth promoting continuum, astrocyte suspensions were also injected rostral and caudal to the lesion gap. During 2 months, locomotion was continuously monitored. Histological analysis showed that astrocytes injected into host spinal tissue survived, but did not migrate. None of the astrocytes on the biomatrices survived within the lesion gap. BDA-labeled CS axons did not penetrate the graft. However, directly rostral to the lesion gap, 120.9+/-38.5% of the BDA-labeled CS axons were present in contrast to 12.8+/-3.9% in untreated control animals. The observed anatomical changes were not accompanied by locomotor improvements as analyzed with the BBB and CatWalk. We conclude that although multifactorial strategies may be needed to stimulate long-distance CS axon regrowth, future studies should focus on enhancing the viability of cell/biomatrix complexes within large spinal lesion gaps.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by the selective degeneration of motor neurons. The cause for nerve cell demise is not clear but involves activation of the caspase family of cysteine proteases. We have shown that ER stress and caspase-12 activation occur in ALS transgenic mice carrying the mutant copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. In these mice, we found that the antiapoptotic proteins, X-linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein (XIAP) and the related protein, MIAP2 were decreased. To study the role of this, we generated double transgenic mice expressing XIAP in ALS spinal cord neurons using the Thy1 promoter. Overexpression of XIAP inhibited caspase-12 cleavage and reduced calpain activity in the ALS mice. XIAP also reduced the breakdown of calpastatin that is an inhibitor of calpain. In the double transgenic mice, life span was increased by about 12%. These data support the view that XIAP has beneficial effects in ALS and extends survival. The neuroprotective effect of XIAP involves inhibition of caspases and the stabilization of the calpastatin/calpain system that is altered in the ALS mice.
Previous studies have demonstrated that morphine, administered systemically or directly into the periaqueductal gray (PAG), produces a significantly greater degree of antinociception in males in comparison with females. Because the midbrain PAG and its descending projections to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) constitute an essential neural circuit for opioid-based analgesia, the present studies were conducted to determine whether sex differences in the anatomical organization of the PAG-RVM pathway, and its activation during persistent inflammatory pain, could account for sex-based differences in opioid analgesia. In the rat, retrograde tracing was combined with Fos immunocytochemistry to investigate sexual dimorphism in the organization of the PAG-RVM circuit and its activation by persistent inflammatory pain induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). The ability of morphine to suppress the activation of the PAG-RVM circuit was also examined. Sexually dimorphic retrograde labeling was observed within the dorsomedial and lateral/ventrolateral PAG at all rostrocaudal levels, with females having significantly more PAG-RVM output neurons in comparison with males. While no sex differences were noted in the activation of the PAG by persistent inflammatory pain, significantly more PAG-RVM cells were activated in males in comparison with females. Systemic administration of morphine significantly suppressed CFA-induced Fos in the PAG in males only. The results of these studies demonstrate that both the anatomical organization and the functional activation of the PAG-RVM circuit are sexually dimorphic and may provide the anatomical substrate for sex-based differences in morphine analgesia.
We examined the identities of horizontal cell (HC) lateral components in cone terminals and the expression of glutamate receptors on the tips of HC dendrites. We injected A-type horizontal cells (AHCs) with neurobiotin and demonstrated that neurobiotin labeled completely all AHCs within a patch of retina. We converted neurobiotin by using diaminobenzidine and considered labeled processes to be from AHCs and unlabeled processes to be from B-type horizontal cells (BHCs). Three possible combinations of HC dendrites could exist in cone pedicles: both lateral components originating from AHCs, both from BHCs, or one from an AHC and the other from a BHC. EM observations revealed that a majority of cone terminals contained about equal numbers of lateral components originating from each of the two types of HCs and that each of the three possible combinations was present in equal numbers. Localization of different types of glutamate receptors on HC dendritic tips showed that 55% of AHC dendritic tips expressed AMPA receptors and 30% expressed kainate receptors, whereas, in the case of BHCs, 22% of dendritic tips expressed AMPA receptors and 33% expressed kainate receptors. This study suggests that cone photoreceptors feed the light signal equally into networks of AHCs and BHCs and that differential expression of AMPA/kainate receptors by different HCs could account for different functions.
Amygdalar intrinsic inhibitory networks comprise several subpopulations of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons, each characterized by distinct morphological features and clusters of functionally relevant neurochemical markers. In rodents, the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin (PVB) and calbindin D28k (CB) are coexpressed in large subpopulations of amygdalar interneurons. PVB-immunoreactive (-IR) neurons have also been shown to be ensheathed by perineuronal nets (PNN), extracellular matrix envelopes believed to affect ionic homeostasis and synaptic plasticity. We tested the hypothesis that differential expression of these three markers may define distinct neuronal subpopulations within the human amygdala. Toward this end, triple-fluorescent labeling using antisera raised against PVB and CB as well as biotinylated Wisteria floribunda lectin for detection of PNN was combined with confocal microscopy. Among the 1,779 PVB-IR neurons counted, 18% also expressed CB, 31% were ensheathed in PNN, and 7% expressed both CB and PNN. Forty-four percent of PVB-IR neurons did not colocalize with either CB or PNN. The distribution of each of these neuronal subgroups showed substantial rostrocaudal gradients. Furthermore, distinct morphological features were found to characterize each neuronal subgroup. In particular, significant differences relative to the distribution and morphology were detected between PVB-IR neurons expressing CB and PVB-IR neurons wrapped in PNNs. These results indicate that amygdalar PVB-IR neurons can be subdivided into at least four different subgroups, each characterized by a specific neurochemical profile, morphological characteristics, and three-dimensional distribution. Such properties suggest that each of these neuronal subpopulations may play a specific role within the intrinsic circuitry of the amygdala.
The primate amygdaloid complex projects to a number of visual cortices, including area V1, primary visual cortex, and area TE, a higher-order unimodal visual area involved in object recognition. We investigated the synaptic organization of these projections by injecting anterograde tracers into the amygdaloid complex of Macaca fascicularis monkeys and examining labeled boutons in areas TE and V1 using the electron microscope. The 256 boutons examined in area TE formed 263 synapses. Two hundred twenty-three (84%) of these were asymmetric synapses onto dendritic spines and 40 (15%) were asymmetric synapses onto dendritic shafts. Nine boutons (3.5%) formed double asymmetric synapses, generally on dendritic spines, and 2 (1%) of the boutons did not form a synapse. The 200 boutons examined in area V1 formed 211 synapses. One hundred eighty-nine (90%) were asymmetric synapses onto dendritic spines and 22 (10%) were asymmetric synapses onto dendritic shafts. Eleven boutons (5.5%) formed double synapses, usually with dendritic spines. We conclude from these observations that the amygdaloid complex provides an excitatory input to areas TE and V1 that primarily influences spiny, probably pyramidal, neurons in these cortices.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has long been shown to regulate gene transcription in response to cytokines and growth factors. Recent evidence suggests that STAT3 activation may also occur downstream of receptor-tyrosine kinase activation. In the current study we have identified STAT3 as a novel signal transducer for TrkA, the receptor-tyrosine kinase that mediates the functions of nerve growth factor (NGF). Activation of TrkA by NGF triggered STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser-727, and enhanced the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of STAT3. More importantly, neurotrophin-induced increase in STAT3 activation was observed to underlie several downstream functions of neurotrophin signaling. First of all, knockdown of STAT3 expression using the RNA interference approach attenuated NGF-induced transcription of immediate early genes in PC12 cells. Furthermore, reduced STAT3 expression in PC12 cells suppressed NGF-induced cyclin D1 expression, thereby inhibiting growth arrest normally triggered by NGF treatment. Finally, inhibition of STAT3 expression decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor-promoted neurite outgrowth in primary hippocampal neurons. Together, our findings have identified STAT3 as an essential component of neurotrophin signaling and functions.
DNA (cytosine-5) methylation represents one of the most widely used mechanisms of enduring cellular memory. Stable patterns of DNA methylation are established during development, resulting in creation of persisting cellular phenotypes. There is growing evidence that the nervous system has co-opted a number of cellular mechanisms used during development to subserve the formation of long term memory. In this study, we examined the role DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase (DNMT) activity might play in regulating the induction of synaptic plasticity. We found that the DNA within promoters for reelin and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, genes implicated in the induction of synaptic plasticity in the adult hippocampus, exhibited rapid and dramatic changes in cytosine methylation when DNMT activity was inhibited. Moreover, zebularine and 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine, inhibitors of DNMT activity, blocked the induction of long term potentiation at Schaffer collateral synapses. Activation of protein kinase C in the hippocampus decreased reelin promoter methylation and increased DNMT3A gene expression. Interestingly, DNMT activity is required for protein kinase C-induced increases in histone H3 acetylation. Considered together, these results suggest that DNMT activity is dynamically regulated in the adult nervous system and that DNMT may play a role in regulating the induction of synaptic plasticity in the mature CNS.
Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding to the C2A and C2B domains of synaptotagmin 1 is thought to trigger fast neurotransmitter release, but only Ca2+ binding to the C2B domain is essential for release. To investigate the underlying mechanism, we have compared the role of basic residues in Ca2+/phospholipid binding and in release. Mutations in a polybasic sequence on the side of the C2B domain beta-sandwich or in a basic residue in a top Ca2+-binding loop of the C2A domain (R233) cause comparable decreases in the apparent Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1 and the Ca2+ sensitivity of release, whereas mutation of the residue homologous to Arg233 in the C2B domain (Lys366) has no effect. Phosphatidylinositol polyphosphates co-activate Ca2+-dependent and -independent phospholipid binding to synaptotagmin 1, but the effects of these mutations on release only correlate with their effects on the Ca2+-dependent component. These results reveal clear distinctions in the Ca2+-dependent phospholipid binding modes of the synaptotagmin 1 C2 domains that may underlie their functional asymmetry and suggest that phosphatidylinositol polyphosphates may serve as physiological modulators of Ca2+ affinity of synaptotagmin 1 in vivo.
How does the bilingual brain distinguish and control which language is in use? Previous functional imaging experiments have not been able to answer this question because proficient bilinguals activate the same brain regions irrespective of the language being tested. Here, we reveal that neuronal responses within the left caudate are sensitive to changes in the language or the meaning of words. By demonstrating this effect in populations of German-English and Japanese-English bilinguals, we suggest that the left caudate plays a universal role in monitoring and controlling the language in use.
Interactions between neurons and glial cells in the brain may serve important functions in the development, maintenance, and plasticity of neural circuits. Fast neuron-glia synaptic transmission has been found between hippocampal neurons and NG2 cells, a distinct population of macroglia-like cells widely distributed in the brain. We report that these neuron-glia synapses undergo activity-dependent modifications analogous to long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory synapses, a hallmark of neuronal plasticity. However, unlike the induction of LTP at many neuron-neuron synapses, both induction and expression of LTP at neuron-NG2 synapses involve Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors on NG2 cells.

Traditionally, neuronal operations in the cerebral cortex have been viewed as occurring through the interaction of synaptic potentials in the dendrite and soma, followed by the initiation of an action potential, typically in the axon. Propagation of this action potential to the synaptic terminals is widely believed to be the only form of rapid communication of information between the soma and axonal synapses, and hence to postsynaptic neurons. Here we show that the voltage fluctuations associated with dendrosomatic synaptic activity propagate significant distances along the axon, and that modest changes in the somatic membrane potential of the presynaptic neuron modulate the amplitude and duration of axonal action potentials and, through a Ca2+-dependent mechanism, the average amplitude of the postsynaptic potential evoked by these spikes. These results indicate that synaptic activity in the dendrite and soma controls not only the pattern of action potentials generated, but also the amplitude of the synaptic potentials that these action potentials initiate in local cortical circuits, resulting in synaptic transmission that is a mixture of triggered and graded (analogue) signals.
In obesity and diabetes, the ability of hypothalamic neurons to sense and transduce changes in leptin and insulin levels is compromised. The effects of both hormones require intracellular signalling via the PI3-kinase pathway, which is inhibited by the phosphatase PTEN. We show that leptin-stimulated F-actin depolymerization in mouse hypothalamic cells is inhibited by PTEN, a process involving independent effects of both its lipid and protein phosphatase activities. Potentially mediating this F-actin depolymerization, leptin, but not insulin, stimulated the phosphorylation of PTEN in a CK2 dependent manner, and inhibited its phosphatase activity. Similarly, hyperpolarization of mouse pancreatic beta-cells by leptin also requires coincident PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 generation and actin depolymerization, and could be inhibited by mechanisms requiring both the lipid and protein phosphatase activities of PTEN. These results demonstrate a critical role for PTEN in leptin signalling and indicate a mechanism by which leptin and insulin can produce PI3K dependent differential cellular outputs.
Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to test at which levels of the neuroaxis signals are elicited when different modalities of sensory information from the limbs ascend to cortex cerebri. We applied graded electric stimuli to the rat hindlimbs and used echo-planar imaging to monitor activity changes in the lumbar spinal cord and medulla oblongata, where primary afferents of painful and nonpainful sensation synapse, respectively. BOLD signals were detected in ipsilateral lumbar spinal cord gray matter using sufficiently strong stimuli. Using stimuli well below the threshold needed for signals to be elicited in the spinal cord, we found BOLD responses in dorsal medulla oblongata. The distribution of these signals is compatible with the neuroanatomy of the respective synaptic relay stations of the corresponding sensory pathways. Hence, the sensory pathways conducting painful and nonpainful information were successfully distinguished. The fMRI signals in the spinal cord were markedly decreased by morphine, and these effects were counteracted by naloxone. We conclude that fMRI can be used as a reliable and valid method to monitor neuronal activity in the rat spinal cord and medulla oblongata in response to sensory stimuli. Previously, we also documented BOLD signals from thalamus and cortex. Thus, BOLD responses can be elicited at all principal synaptic relay stations along the neuroaxis from lumbar spinal cord to sensory cortex. Rat spinal cord fMRI should become a useful tool in experimental spinal cord injury and pain research.
Alpha1 tubulin (alpha1T) is a neuron-specific microtubule protein whose expression is induced in the developing and regenerating CNS. In the adult CNS, alpha1T expression remains high in neural progenitors. Transgenic zebrafish harboring a 1.7 kb alpha1T promoter fragment along with the first exon and intron express the transgene in a manner that recapitulates expression of the endogenous gene. We recently showed that this promoter mediates gene induction in retinal ganglion cells during optic nerve regeneration and in a subset of Mller glia that proliferate after retinal injury (Senut et al., 2004). To further characterize these Mller glia, we generated transgenic fish harboring an alpha1T promoter fragment that is specifically induced in these cells after retinal damage. Transgene expression, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, and stem cell marker expression suggested that alpha1T-expressing Mller glia dedifferentiate and become multipotent in response to injury. In addition, green fluorescent protein and BrdU-mediated lineage tracing combined with retinal gene expression analysis indicated that alpha1T-expressing Mller glia were capable of generating retinal neurons and glia. These data strongly suggest alpha1T-expressing Mller glia dedifferentiate and mediate regeneration of the injured zebrafish retina.
After consolidation, a process that requires gene expression and protein synthesis, memories are stable and highly resistant to disruption by amnestic influences. Recently, consolidated memory has been shown to become labile again after retrieval and to require a phase of reconsolidation to be preserved. New findings, showing that the dependence of reconsolidation on protein synthesis decreases with the age of memory, point to changing molecular requirements for reconsolidation during memory maturation. We examined this possibility by comparing the roles of protein synthesis (a general molecular requirement for memory consolidation) and the activation of protein kinase A (PKA) (a specific molecular requirement for memory consolidation), in memory reconsolidation at two time points after training. Using associative learning in Lymnaea, we show that reconsolidation after the retrieval of consolidated memory at both 6 and 24 h requires protein synthesis. In contrast, only reconsolidation at 6 h after training, but not at 24 h, requires PKA activity, which is in agreement with the measured retrieval-induced PKA activation at 6 h. This phase-dependent differential molecular requirement for reconsolidation supports the notion that even seemingly consolidated memories undergo further selective molecular maturation processes, which may only be detected by analyzing the role of specific pathways in memory reconsolidation after retrieval.
Neuronal pentraxins (NPs) define a family of proteins that are homologous to C-reactive and acute-phase proteins in the immune system and have been hypothesized to be involved in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. To investigate the role of NPs in vivo, we generated mice that lack one, two, or all three NPs. NP1/2 knock-out mice exhibited defects in the segregation of eye-specific retinal ganglion cell (RGC) projections to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, a process that involves activity-dependent synapse formation and elimination. Retinas from mice lacking NP1 and NP2 had cholinergically driven waves of activity that occurred at a frequency similar to that of wild-type mice, but several other parameters of retinal activity were altered. RGCs cultured from these mice exhibited a significant delay in functional maturation of glutamatergic synapses. Other developmental processes, such as pathfinding of RGCs at the optic chiasm and hippocampal long-term potentiation and long-term depression, appeared normal in NP-deficient mice. These data indicate that NPs are necessary for early synaptic refinements in the mammalian retina and dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. We speculate that NPs exert their effects through mechanisms that parallel the known role of short pentraxins outside the CNS.
State-dependent EEG in the hippocampus (HPC) has traditionally been divided into two activity patterns: theta, a large-amplitude, regular oscillation with a bandwidth of 3-12 Hz, and large-amplitude irregular activity (LIA), a less regular signal with broadband characteristics. Both of these activity patterns have been linked to the memory functions subserved by the HPC. Here we describe, using extracellular field recording techniques in naturally sleeping and urethane-anesthetized rats, a novel state present during deactivated stages of sleep and anesthesia that is characterized by a prominent large-amplitude and slow frequency (&lt; or =1 Hz) rhythm. We have called this activity the hippocampal slow oscillation (SO) because of its similarity and correspondence with the previously described neocortical SO. Almost all hippocampal units recorded exhibited differential spiking behavior during the SO as compared with other states. Although the hippocampal SO occurred in situations similar to the neocortical SO, it demonstrated some independence in its initiation, coordination, and coherence. The SO was abolished by sensory stimulation or cholinergic agonism and was enhanced by increasing anesthetic depth or muscarinic receptor antagonism. Laminar profile analyses of the SO showed a phase shift and prominent current sink-source alternations in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of CA1. This, along with correlated slow oscillatory field and multiunit activity in superficial entorhinal cortex suggests that the hippocampal SO may be coordinated with slow neocortical activity through input arriving via the temporo-ammonic pathway. This novel state may present a favorable milieu for synchronization-dependent synaptic plasticity within and between hippocampal and neocortical ensembles.
We have previously reported that a universal growth law, as proposed by West and collaborators for all living organisms, appears to be able to describe also the growth of tumors in vivo after an initial exponential growth phase. In contrast to the assumption of a fixed power exponent p (assumed by West et al. to be equal to 3/4), we propose in this paper a dynamic evolution of p, using experimental data from the cancer literature. In analogy with results obtained by applying scaling laws to the study of fragmentation of solids, the dynamic behaviour of p is related to the evolution of the fractal topology of neoplastic vascular systems. Our model might be applied for diagnostic purposes to mark the emergence of an efficient neo-angiogenetic structure if the results of our in silico experiments are confirmed by clinical observations.
Current models of attention, typically claim that vision and audition are limited by a common attentional resource which means that visual performance should be adversely affected by a concurrent auditory task and vice versa. Here, we test this implication by measuring auditory (pitch) and visual (contrast) thresholds in conjunction with cross-modal secondary tasks and find that no such interference occurs. Visual contrast discrimination thresholds were unaffected by a concurrent chord or pitch discrimination, and pitch-discrimination thresholds were virtually unaffected by a concurrent visual search or contrast discrimination task. However, if the dual tasks were presented within the same modality, thresholds were raised by a factor of between two (for visual discrimination) and four (for auditory discrimination). These results suggest that at least for low-level tasks such as discriminations of pitch and contrast, each sensory modality is under separate attentional control, rather than being limited by a supramodal attentional resource. This has implications for current theories of attention as well as for the use of multi-sensory media for efficient informational transmission.
Channels and transporters of the ClC family serve a variety of physiological functions. Understanding of their gating and transport mechanisms remains incomplete, with disagreement over the extent of protein conformational change involved. Using site-directed fluorescence labeling, we probe ClC-ec1, a prokaryotic ClC, for transport-related structural rearrangements. We specifically label cysteines introduced at several positions in the R helix of ClC-ec1 with AlexaFluor 488, an environment-sensitive fluorophore, and demonstrate that the labeled mutants show H+/Cl- transport activity indistinguishable from that of the wild-type protein. At each position that we examined we observe fluorescence changes upon acidification over the same pH range that is known to activate transport. The fluorescence change is also sensitive to Cl- concentration; furthermore, the Cl- and H+ dependencies are coupled as would be expected if the fluorescence change reflected a conformational change required for transport. Together, the results suggest that the changes in fluorescence report protein conformational changes underlying the transport process. Labeled transporters mutated to remove a glutamate critical to proton-coupled chloride transport retain pH-dependent fluorescence changes, suggesting that multiple residues confer pH dependence on the transport mechanism. These results have implications for models of transport and gating in ClC channels and transporters.
The neuropathology in many neurodegenerative diseases is mediated by inflammatory cascades that influence neuronal dysfunction and death. Minocycline reduces the neurodegeneration observed in various models of Parkinson's. We exploited the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model to assess the effect of minocycline on related neurodegeneration. Thirty Fisher 344 rats were divided into three daily treatment groups: (1) after: 45 mg/kg of minocycline beginning 24 h after lesioning; (2) before: 45 mg/kg of minocycline beginning 3 days before 6-OHDA lesioning; (3) control: corresponding saline-treated controls. Animals were assessed for apomorphine-induced rotations for 4 weeks. A longitudinal model for repeated measures showed that both after and before groups had significantly lower rotations than controls (P &lt; 0.001 for both comparisons). Pair-wise group comparisons showed that the before animals rotated less compared to controls (mean rotations: 164 +/- 38 versus 386 +/- 49, respectively, P = 0.001). After animals also rotated significantly less then controls (mean rotations: 125 +/- 41 versus 386 +/- 49, respectively, P &lt; 0.001). Animals receiving minocycline displayed reduced tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell loss in the lesioned nigra versus contralateral nonlesioned nigra, compared to controls (mean differences: 5065 for after, 3550 for before, and 6483 for controls; P = 0.158 for after versus controls, P = 0.019 for before versus controls). The remaining lesioned nigral cells of both minocycline-treated groups were larger than controls, with the most robust cell size and fiber density observed in the after group. These data suggest that the therapeutic potential of minocycline may depend on the time of drug administration relative to neuropathogenic event.
Antagonism of the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor (CB(1) receptor) by rimonabant (SR141716) reduces self-administration of alcohol and other drugs of abuse in animal models. These findings suggest that the CB(1) receptor may be a target for genetic differences that modify the salient features of rewarding drugs. In the present study, wild-type (CB(1) (+/+)) are compared to transgenic mice deficient in CB(1) receptors (CB(1) (-/-)). The goal was to investigate the influences of the cannabinoid receptor system on opioid peptide gene expression and on dopamine receptor gene expression which is commonly influenced by substances of abuse. We demonstrate using reverse transcription and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) that striatal mRNA for preproenkephalin (PPENK) and preprodynorphin (PPDYN) in the CB(1) (-/-) striatum increases when compared to CB(1) (+/+). Real-time PCR analyses to evaluate D(2) and D(4) dopamine receptor gene expression in striatum isolated from CB(1) (+/+) and CB(1) (-/-) revealed a nearly 2-fold increase in D(4) receptor mRNA in the striatum from CB(1) (-/-) mice and no significant change in D(2) expression. In contrast, treatment of C57BL/6 mice with the CB(1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant, produced a reduction of both D(2) and D(4) dopamine receptor expression in the striatum. These data suggest that genetic differences in CB(1) receptor may exert a modulatory effect on D(4) dopamine receptor and opioid peptide gene expression.
Prolonged over-exposure of rats to corticosterone attenuates 5-HT(1A)-receptor-mediated responses in hippocampal CA1 cells through an unknown mechanism, not involving downregulation of 5-HT(1A) receptor expression. We here tested if corticosterone changes 5-HT(1A) receptor function indirectly, by altering hippocampal mRNA expression of NCAM, SGK1, or RGS4, which all modulate 5-HT(1A) receptor function. We found that the expression of none of these candidates was affected by corticosterone treatment.
Functional neuroimaging has successfully identified brain areas that show greater responses to visual motion and adapted responses to repeated motion directions. However, such methods have been thought to lack the sensitivity and spatial resolution to isolate direction-selective responses to individual motion stimuli. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and pattern classification methods to show that ensemble activity patterns in human visual cortex contain robust direction-selective information, from which it is possible to decode seen and attended motion directions. Ensemble activity in areas V1-V4 and MT+/V5 allowed us to decode which of eight possible motion directions the subject was viewing on individual stimulus blocks. Moreover, ensemble activity evoked by single motion directions could effectively predict which of two overlapping motion directions was the focus of the subject's attention and presumably dominant in perception. Our results indicate that feature-based attention can bias direction-selective population activity in multiple visual areas, including MT+/V5 and early visual areas (V1-V4), consistent with gain-modulation models of feature-based attention and theories of early attentional selection. Our approach for measuring ensemble direction selectivity may provide new opportunities to investigate relationships between attentional selection, conscious perception, and direction-selective responses in the human brain.
The evolution of gender characteristics is an outcome of mate choice, which has been assumed to be genetically mediated. Recent research suggests that learning also has a role to play as an agent of sexual selection.
Myelin biogenesis is a complex process involving coordinated exocytosis, endocytosis, mRNA transport and cytoskeletal dynamics. Recent studies indicate that soluble neuronal signals may control the surface expression of proteolipid protein, a process that involves reduced endocytosis and/or increased transport carrier recruitment from an intracellular pool.
Sensory brain areas are usually characterized by their responses to external stimuli; however, neuroimaging studies have now shown that activation of auditory cortex occurs spontaneously and can be induced during silence by stimulus expectancy or mental imagery.
It was recently reported that the hexapeptide Ac-RYYRIK-ol binds with high affinity nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide (NOP) receptors and competitively antagonizes N/OFQ actions in the mouse vas deferens assay. Here we further describe the in vitro and in vivo pharmacological features of this NOP receptor ligand. In mouse brain homogenate the degradation half life of Ac-RYYRIK-ol (2.48 min) was significantly higher than that of the parent compound Ac-RYYRIK-NH2 (1.20 min). In the electrically stimulated mouse vas deferens, Ac-RYYRIK-ol (10-1000 nM) competitively antagonized the inhibitory effect of N/OFQ (pA2=8.46), while in the isolated mouse colon the hexapeptide mimicked N/OFQ contractile effects thus behaving as a NOP receptor agonist (pEC50=9.09). This latter effect was no longer evident in colon tissues taken from mice knock out for the NOP receptor gene (NOP-/-). In vivo in mice, similarly to N/OFQ, Ac-RYYRIK-ol (dose range 0.001-1 nmol) produced: i) pronociceptive effects after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration and antinociceptive actions when given intrathecally (i.t.) in the tail withdrawal assay; ii) inhibition of locomotor activity and iii) stimulation of food intake after supraspinal administration. Finally, in the forced swimming test, Ac-RYYRIK-ol was inactive per se, but reversed the antidepressant-like effects elicited by the NOP receptor selective antagonist UFP-101 ([Nphe(1),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH2). Thus, in all these in vivo assays Ac-RYYRIK-ol mimicked the actions of N/OFQ showing however higher potency. In conclusion, Ac-RYYRIK-ol displayed a complex pharmacological profile which is likely due to the low efficacy agonist nature of this novel ligand of the NOP receptor. The high potency, selectivity of action, and in vivo effectiveness make Ac-RYYRIK-ol a useful pharmacological tool for future studies in the field of N/OFQ and its NOP receptor.
Reflecting a paradigm shift in clinical neuroscience, many chronic psychiatric illnesses are now hypothesized to result from perturbed neural development. However, most work in this area focuses on schizophrenia. Here, we extend this paradigm to pediatric bipolar disorder (BD), thus demonstrating traction in the developmental psychobiology perspective. To study amygdala dysfunction, we examined neural mechanisms mediating face processing in 22 youths (mean age 14.21 +/- 3.11 yr) with BD and 21 controls of comparable age, gender, and IQ. Event-related functional MRI compared neural activation when attention was directed to emotional aspects of faces (hostility, subjects' fearfulness) vs. nonemotional aspects (nose width). Compared with controls, patients perceived greater hostility in neutral faces and reported more fear when viewing them. Also, compared with controls, patients had greater activation in the left amygdala, accumbens, putamen, and ventral prefrontal cortex when rating face hostility, and greater activation in the left amygdala and bilateral accumbens when rating their fear of the face. There were no between-group behavioral or neural differences in the nonemotional conditions. Results implicate deficient emotion-attention interactions in the pathophysiology of BD in youth and suggest that developmental psychobiology approaches to chronic mental illness have broad applicability.
Previous results from our genetic analyses using pedigrees from a French Canadian population suggested that the interval delimited by markers on chromosome 12, D12S86 and D12S378, was the most probable genomic region to contain a susceptibility gene for affective disorders. Association studies with microsatellite markers using a case/control sample from the same population (n = 427) revealed significant allelic associations between the bipolar phenotype and marker NBG6. Since this marker is located in intron 9 of the P2RX7 gene, we analyzed the surrounding genomic region for the presence of polymorphisms in regulatory, coding and intron/exon junction sequences. Twenty four (24) SNPs were genotyped in a case/control sample and 12 SNPs in all pedigrees used for linkage analysis. Allelic, genotypic or family-based association studies suggest the presence of two susceptibility loci, the P2RX7 and CaMKK2 genes. The strongest association was observed in bipolar families at the non-synonymous SNP P2RX7-E13A (rs2230912, P-value = 0.000708), which results from an over-transmission of the mutant G-allele to affected offspring. This Gln460Arg polymorphism occurs at an amino acid that is conserved between humans and rodents and is located in the C-terminal domain of the P2X7 receptor, known to be essential for normal P2RX7 function.

The New World arenaviruses Junin, Machupo, and Guanarito are the causative agents of hemorrhagic fevers (HF) with high mortality in humans. The cellular receptor for Old World arenaviruses and one subgroup of the New World arenaviruses (Clade C) have been identified as alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG). In contrast, the receptor(s) of the South American HF viruses, which belong to the Clade B New World arenaviruses, are currently unknown. To begin to characterize the cellular receptors used by these pathogens, we generated recombinant retroviral pseudotypes with the glycoproteins of Guanarito, Junin, and Machupo. Infection with the South American HF viruses is independent of alpha-DG and functional receptors for Guanarito, Junin, and Machupo were found on most human cell types and cells derived from non-human primate and rodents. Guanarito, Junin, and Machupo share a common receptor, which is distinct from the receptor(s) used by the closely related non-pathogenic Clade B virus Amapari, and the genetically more distant Clade A and C New World arenaviruses. We show that the cellular receptor(s) for the South American HF viruses are proteins or protein-linked entities and that infection is not dependent on protein-linked N-glycans, O-glycans, or glycosaminoglycans.

Amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is pivotal to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. Here we report the formation of a toxic Abeta-Cu2+ complex formed via a histidine-bridged dimer, as observed at Cu2+/peptide ratios of &gt;0.6:1 by EPR spectroscopy. The toxicity of the Abeta-Cu2+ complex to cultured primary cortical neurons was attenuated when either the pi -or tau-nitrogen of the imidazole side chains of His were methylated, thereby inhibiting formation of the His bridge. Toxicity did not correlate with the ability to form amyloid or perturb the acyl-chain region of a lipid membrane as measured by diphenyl-1,3,5-hexatriene anisotropy, but did correlate with lipid peroxidation and dityrosine formation. 31P magic angle spinning solid-state NMR showed that Abeta and Abeta-Cu2+ complexes interacted at the surface of a lipid membrane. These findings indicate that the generation of the Abeta toxic species is modulated by the Cu2+ concentration and the ability to form an intermolecular His bridge.
RGS9-2, a member of the R7 regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) protein family of neuronal RGS, is a critical regulator of G protein signaling. In striatal neurons, RGS9-2 is tightly associated with a novel palmitoylated protein, R7BP (R7 family binding protein). Here we report that R7BP acts to target the localization of RGS9-2 to the plasma membrane. Examination of the subcellular distribution in native striatal neurons revealed that both R7BP and RGS9-2 are almost entirely associated with the neuronal membranes. In addition to the plasma membrane, a large portion of RGS9-2 was found in the neuronal specializations, the postsynaptic densities, where it forms complexes with R7BP and its constitutive partner Gbeta5. Using site-directed mutagenesis we found that the molecular determinants that specify the subcellular targeting of RGS9-2.Gbeta5.R7BP complex are contained within the 21 C-terminal amino acids of R7BP. This function of the C terminus was found to require the synergistic contributions of its two distinct elements, a polybasic motif and palmitoylated cysteines, which when combined are sufficient for directing the intracellular localization of the constituent protein. In differentiated neurons, the C-terminal targeting motif of R7BP was found to be essential for mediating its postsynaptic localization. In addition to the plasma membrane targeting elements, we identified two functional nuclear localization sequences that can mediate the import of R7BP into the nucleus upon depalmitoylation. These findings provide a mechanism for the subcellular targeting of RGS9-2 in neurons.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are one of the largest families of proteins, and here we scan the recently sequenced chicken genome for GPCRs. We use a homology-based approach, utilizing comparisons with all human GPCRs, to detect and verify chicken GPCRs from translated genomic alignments and Genscan predictions. We present 557 manually curated sequences for GPCRs from the chicken genome, of which 455 were previously not annotated. More than 60% of the chicken Genscan gene predictions with a human ortholog needed curation, which drastically changed the average percentage identity between the human-chicken orthologous pairs (from 56.3% to 72.9%). Of the non-olfactory chicken GPCRs, 79% had a one-to-one orthologous relationship to a human GPCR. The Frizzled, Secretin, and subgroups of the Rhodopsin families have high proportions of orthologous pairs, although the percentage of amino acid identity varies. Other groups show large differences, such as the Adhesion family and GPCRs that bind exogenous ligands. The chicken has only three bitter Taste 2 receptors, and it also lacks an ortholog to human TAS1R2 (one of three GPCRs in the human genome in the Taste 1 receptor family [TAS1R]), implying that the chicken's ability and mode of detecting both bitter and sweet taste may differ from the human's. The chicken genome contains at least 229 olfactory receptors, and the majority of these (218) originate from a chicken-specific expansion. To our knowledge, this dataset of chicken GPCRs is the largest curated dataset from a single gene family from a non-mammalian vertebrate. Both the updated human GPCR dataset, as well the chicken GPCR dataset, are available for download.
Dominant mutations in superoxide dismutase cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a progressive paralytic disease characterized by loss of motor neurons. With the use of mice carrying a deletable mutant gene, expression within motor neurons was shown to be a primary determinant of disease onset and of an early phase of disease progression. Diminishing the mutant levels in microglia had little effect on the early disease phase but sharply slowed later disease progression. Onset and progression thus represent distinct disease phases defined by mutant action within different cell types to generate non-cell-autonomous killing of motor neurons; these findings validate therapies, including cell replacement, targeted to the non-neuronal cells.
The simple and well-defined structure of the C. elegans nervous system has made it an attractive model for studying the neural and genetic basis of behavior. However, the wider use physiological methods for monitoring neural activity in vivo or determining the effects of specific ion channels on neuronal function has been a relatively recent development. This chapter presents a compendium of protocols and technical reports on the current state of the art in C. elegans electrophysiology and neuroimaging. These include methods for calcium imaging in intact animals, in situ electrical recording from neurons and muscle cells, and in vitro recording from cultured neurons and oocytes.
Pentosan polysulphate, delivered by chronic intraventricular infusion, has been proposed as a potential therapy for human prion disease. The first treated patient is still alive several years after treatment started. Here we describe in detail a case of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in which this treatment was started at a relatively early stage but had no definite clinical benefit. The patient died from disease progression 16 months after diagnosis and 5 months after pentosan polysulphate treatment was commenced.
Cavernous malformations of the internal auditory canal are a rare clinical entity that, however, should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intracanalicular masses. Even though this type of malformation is usually associated with an evident gadolinium enhancement at MR examination, in some patients, like in this case, the signal characteristics may be not sufficiently specific to allow the correct preoperative diagnosis. Nevertheless, the clinical history, in particular, a rapid onset of cranial nerve deficits, lead to the suspicion of a vascular malformation.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic, disabling disorder. Psychosurgery may be indicated for a subset of patients for whom no conventional treatment is satisfactory. This paper focuses on the stereotactic subcaudate tractotomy (SST). Thus far, these procedures have been carried out using frame-based stereotactic techniques. However, modern - highly accurate - frameless stereotactic procedures have successfully been introduced in neurosurgical practice. We developed a novel frameless stereotactic subcaudate tractotomy procedure with promising initial results in a patient suffering from intractable OCD. This is the first report on frameless SST. Future studies should examine whether other ablative stereotactic psychosurgery procedures can be done using frameless stereotactic methods.

Nerve conduction studies are an essential part of the work-up of peripheral neuropathies. Many neuropathic syndromes can be suspected on clinical grounds, but optimal use of nerve conduction study techniques (in combination with needle electromyography) allows diagnostic classification and is therefore crucial to understanding and separation of neuropathies. Multifocal motor neuropathy, for example, may clinically present as ALS. Detection of evidence of demyelination (conduction blocks) leads to the correct diagnosis and to proper treatment. Nerve conduction studies provide essential information on (1) the spatial pattern of neuropathy, (2) the pattern of abnormalities distinguishing between primarily axonal and demyelinating pathology, and (3) the severity of neuropathic damage. This information is very comprehensive since many nerves and long segments of individual nerves can be sampled. Moreover the information is extremely detailed to the extent that the cellular pathology of a patient's neuropathy is usually defined best by physiological testing rather than by biopsy. Neuropathies can be generalized, focal, or multifocal; they can be symmetric or asymmetric; they can be distally predominant or proximal and distal. Primarily axonal neuropathies mainly affect sensory nerve and compound muscle action potential amplitudes, whereas demyelinating neuropathies lead to slowing of nerve conductions, and to increased temporal dispersion or conduction block. Usually, the pattern of demyelination allows to distinguish hereditary (uniform demyelination) from acquired (segmental demyelination) neuropathies. Electrodiagnostic criteria for primary demyelination are helpful to identify acquired demyelinating neuropathies.



In his book, The Organization of Behavior, Donald Olding Hebb introduced the concepts of synaptic plasticity and cell assemblies to provide a theory of the neurophysiological basis of behaviour. Hebb's ideas, as presented in this book and other writings, influenced all areas of psychology and neuroscience. Hebb was born in Chester, Nova Scotia, Canada and attended Dalhousie University (BA, 1925) and McGill University (MA, 1932). His PhD from Harvard in 1936 was supervised by Karl Lashley. Hebb worked with the neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield at the Montreal Neurological Institute for two years, taught at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, and was a research assistant with Lashley at the Yerkes Primate Labs in Florida before he became a professor of Psychology at McGill University in 1947. At McGill he taught the first year psychology course and wrote an introductory textbook in Psychology. Throughout his career, Hebb made many research discoveries, trained a number of researchers and won many honours. When he retired from McGill, he moved back to Nova Scotia, and became a Professor Emeritus at Dalhousie University. This paper reviews Hebb's life and work and the impact of his ideas in psychology and neuroscience.

Ocular angiogenesis, the formation of new vessels from the existing vascular tree, is a major cause of severe vision loss. It can affect different structures in the eye, including the retina, choroid and cornea. During the last decade our knowledge in the mechanisms underlying ocular angiogenesis has increased dramatically. We have witnessed the identification of key molecules. Many are classified as growth factors due to their biological properties, regulating angiogenesis. This knowledge has propelled the development of a new group of therapeutic tools, the antiangiogenic agents. This review gives an update on the role of growth factors in ocular angiogenesis from both a basic and a clinical perspective.

In memory retrieval, search can be guided by mental sets towards different subsets of the available evidence. Such retrieval orientations have been suggested to leave an imprint on event-related potentials (ERPs). The present study aimed at characterizing orientations towards perceptual and conceptual evidence in a recognition task, where pictures and words were studied. In the recognition test, items were presented in either the same format as at study or in the opposite format. A between-subjects manipulation modified the task, instructing an Exclusion group to endorse only items that preserved their format from study, and an Inclusion group to endorse both formats of a studied item. It was hypothesized that exclusion instructions would instill a perceptual and inclusion instructions a conceptual orientation. As a corollary, instructions were expected to dissociate the high end from the low end of the picture-word mirror effect. This expectation was confirmed in a behavioural experiment. In an ERP experiment, retrieval orientations were examined in their effects on correct rejections of new pictures and words. Confirming earlier findings [Hornberger, M., Morcom, A. M., &amp; Rugg, M. D. (2004). Neural correlates of retrieval orientation: effects of study-test similarity. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 16(7), 1196-1210], a perceptual orientation was accompanied by more positive-going amplitudes over widespread areas. The difference was larger for pictures than for words, supporting behavioural evidence that new pictures are more easily rejected on perceptual grounds than are new words. The Exclusion group showed no ERP evidence of cross-format old-new effects, despite reaction times indicative of involuntary conceptual recognition. The results indicate that perceptual and conceptual retrieval orientations imprint distinct signatures on ERPs. They further suggest that the examined old-new effects in ERPs are mainly linked to voluntary aspects of memory, even in a task where involuntary memory exerts effects on reaction times.

The purpose of the present study was to investigate the efficacy of 2 Hz transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) to reduce cue-induced heroin craving and the corresponding cardiovascular responses. Seventy heroin addicts with at least 1 month of abstinence were enrolled and randomly divided into two groups of 35, to receive single-trial 2 Hz TENS (TENS group) or mock TENS (mock group) during experimental procedure, respectively. They were required to express their degree of craving by visual analog scale before and after the presentation of a video-cue, and after TENS treatment, which lasted for 30 minutes. Heart rate and arterial blood pressure were simultaneously monitored in 56 cases, with 28 in each group. Results show that in mock group, video-cue induced a dramatic increase of craving score, which did not return to baseline in 150 minutes, whereas in the TENS group, 2 Hz TENS treatment produced a significant decrease of craving, reaching baseline in 90 minutes. Video-cue induced a significant increase of heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure, which remained elevated for at least 60 minutes in the mock group; whereas in the TENS group, they returned to baseline immediately after the termination of TENS. These results indicate that the craving induced by a heroin-related cue can be immediately and significantly suppressed, and the cardiovascular activation totally abolished by a single-trial 2 Hz TENS for 30 minutes.

Previous studies have reported that alcohol exposure reduces the number of neuronal-like pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells in culture. In this study, the interactive effect of coexposure of alcohol and nicotine on PC12 cell numbers was examined in comparison with the effect derived from alcohol or nicotine exposure individually. Moreover, the role of apoptosis in mediating changes in PC12 cell numbers was also investigated. It was hypothesized that alcohol would result in cell loss, and the presence of nicotine would attenuate the damaging effects of alcohol. PC12 cells were exposed to alcohol (100 mM), nicotine (10 microM), or both alcohol and nicotine for 24, 48, 72, or 96 h. Caspase-3 activity and DNA fragmentation, markers for apoptotic cell death, were measured to determine the role of apoptosis in mediating decreases in PC12 cell numbers. The findings indicated that both alcohol and nicotine exposure significantly decreased PC12 cell numbers when compared with the control treatment. Furthermore, the coexposure of these two drugs caused a significantly greater decrease in cell numbers when compared with cells exposed to either alcohol or nicotine alone. This additive effect was related to the duration of exposure with a marked reduction in cell numbers following 96 h of coexposure to alcohol and nicotine. Neither alcohol nor nicotine exposure appeared to alter caspase-3 activity or DNA fragmentation levels, suggesting that the reduction in PC12 cell numbers following alcohol and/or nicotine exposure may possibly be due to factors other than apoptosis, such as interference with proliferation rates.

Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents a transition between normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to investigate the predictive value of vitamin B12/folate, homocysteine, standard laboratory parameters, and concomitant diseases for development of AD in persons with an MCI diagnosis. Development of dementia was followed for 6 years in 93 consecutively recruited MCI persons. Information concerning the above factors was obtained from medical journals. Thirty-four percent of participants converted to AD within 6 years. A forward stepwise logistic regression was performed. The odds ratio (OR) for the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) was 0.777; for age, 1.084; and for thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), 0.287. The OR for homocysteine was 1.287 at 60 years of age and 1.087 at 65 years of age. Lower TSH levels together with the more established factors lower MMSE, higher homocysteine levels, and age were found to be predictive factors of AD. This may have clinical implications with regard to monitoring TSH levels and thyroxin substitution in MCI patients.


We describe an Italian family in which two sisters have macrocephaly due to hydrocephalus, and sensorineural hearing loss in addition to other brain abnormalities demonstrated by Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The girls, born to healthy non-consanguineous parents, have borderline psychomotor development delay (probably due to hearing defect) and minor dysmorphisms. The clinical picture fits the Chudley-McCullough syndrome, an autosomal recessive condition, to date described in only five families. Our data, in particular the neuroradiological findings, include all brain anomalies variably reported in previous works (hydrocephalus, corpus callosum partial agenesis, interhemispheric cyst, cerebral and cerebellar cortex dysplasia), thus illustrating the full phenotype of the syndrome.
The pathogenic basis of inclusion body myositis (IBM), the leading muscle degenerative disease afflicting the elderly, is unknown, although the histopathological features are remarkably similar to those observed in Alzheimer's disease. One leading hypothesis is that the buildup of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide within selective skeletal muscle fibers contributes to the degenerative phenotype. Abeta is a small peptide derived via endoproteolysis of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). To determine the pathogenic effect of augmenting Abeta42 levels in skeletal muscle, we used a genetic approach to replace the endogenous wild-type presenilin-1 (PS1) allele with the PS1(M146V) allele in MCK-APP mice. Although APP transgene expression was unaltered, Abeta levels, particularly Abeta42, were elevated in skeletal muscle of the double transgenic (MCK-APP/PS1) mice compared to the parental MCK-APP line. Elevated phospho-tau accumulation was found in the MCK-APP/PS1 mice, and the greater activation of GSK-3beta and cdk5 were observed. Other IBM-like pathological features, such as inclusion bodies and inflammatory infiltrates, were more severe and prominent in the MCK-APP/PS1 mice. Motor coordination and balance were more adversely affected and manifested at an earlier age in the MCK-APP/PS1 mice. The data presented here provide experimental evidence that Abeta42 plays a proximal and critical role in the muscle degenerative process.
During hypoxia, the level of adenosine in the carotid bodies increases as a result of ATP catabolism and adenosine efflux via adenosine transporters. Using Ca2+ imaging, we found that adenosine, acting via A2A receptors, triggered a rise in cytoplasmic [Ca2+] ([Ca2+]i) in type I (glomus) cells of rat carotid bodies. The adenosine response could be mimicked by forskolin (but not its inactive analog), and could be abolished by the PKA inhibitor H89. Simultaneous measurements of membrane potential (perforated patch recording) and [Ca2+]i showed that the adenosine-mediated [Ca2+]i rise was accompanied by depolarization. Ni2+, a voltage-gated Ca2+ channel (VGCC) blocker, abolished the adenosine-mediated [Ca2+]i rise. Although adenosine was reported to inhibit a 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive K+ current, 4-AP failed to trigger any [Ca2+]i rise, or to attenuate the adenosine response. In contrast, anandamide, an inhibitor of the TWIK-related acid-sensitive K+-1 (TASK-1) channels, triggered depolarization and [Ca2+]i rise. The adenosine response was attenuated by anandamide but not by tetraethylammonium. Our results suggest that adenosine, acting via the adenylate cyclase and PKA pathways, inhibits the TASK-1 K+ channels. This leads to depolarization and activation of Ca2+ entry via VGCC. This excitatory action of adenosine on type I cells may contribute to the chemosensitivity of the carotid body during hypoxia.
Anal manometry measures circumferential pressures but not axial forces that are responsible for defecation and contribute to fecal continence. Our aims were to investigate these mechanisms by measuring axial rectoanal forces with an intrarectal sphere or a latex balloon fixed at 8, 6, or 4 cm from the anal verge and connected to axial force and displacement transducers. Rectoanal forces and rectal pressures within a latex balloon were measured at baseline (i.e., at rest) and during maneuvers (i.e., squeeze, simulated evacuation, and a Valsalva maneuver) in 12 asymptomatic women and 12 women with symptoms of difficult defecation. Anal resting and squeeze pressures were also assessed by manometry and were similar in control patients and experimental patients. At rest, axial rectoanal forces were directed inward and increased as the device approached the anal verge. Control patients augmented this inward force when they squeezed and exerted an outward force during simulated expulsion and a Valsalva maneuver. The force change during maneuvers was also affected by device location and was highest at 4 cm from the verge. In experimental patients, the force at rest and the change in force during all maneuvers was lower than in control patients. The rectal pressure during a Valsalva maneuver was also lower in experimental patients than in control patients, suggestive of impaired propulsion. In conclusion, a subset of women with defecatory symptoms had weaker axial forces not only during expulsion but also during a Valsalva maneuver and when they squeezed (i.e., contracted) their pelvic floor muscles, suggestive of generalized pelvic floor weakness.
After surgical removal of all salivary secretions (&quot;desalivation&quot;), rats increase their consumption of water while eating dry laboratory chow. In the present experiments, desalivated rats drank even more water while they ate &quot;powdered&quot; high-salt food (i.e., &lt;15-mg food particles). The Na+ concentration of systemic plasma in these animals was not elevated during or immediately after the meal, which suggests that cerebral osmoreceptors were not involved in mediating the increased water intake. A presystemic osmoregulatory signal likely stimulated thirst because the Na+ and water contents of the gastric chyme computed to a solution approximately 150 mM NaCl. In contrast, desalivated rats drank much smaller volumes of water while eating &quot;pulverized&quot; high-salt food (i.e., 60-140-mg food particles), and the fluid mixture in the gastric chyme computed to approximately 280 mM NaCl solution. These and other findings suggest that the NaCl ingested in the powdered high-salt diet was dissolved in the gastric fluid and that duodenal osmoreceptors (or Na+-receptors) detected when the concentration of fluid leaving the stomach was elevated after each feeding bout, and promptly stimulated thirst, whereupon rats drank water until the gastric fluid was diluted back to isotonicity. However, when rats ate the pulverized high-salt diet, much of the NaCl ingested may have been embedded in the gastric chyme and therefore was not accessible to visceral osmoreceptors once it emptied from the stomach. Consistent with that hypothesis, fluid intakes were increased considerably when desalivated rats drank 0.10 M NaCl instead of water while eating either powdered or pulverized high-salt food.
It has long been known that the esophageal distension produced by swallowing elicits a powerful proximal gastric relaxation. Gastroinhibitory control by the esophagus involves neural pathways from esophageal distension-sensitive neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius centralis (cNTS) with connections to virtually all levels of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV). We have shown recently that cNTS responses are excitatory and primarily involve tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells, whereas the DMV response involves both an alpha1 excitatory and an alpha2 inhibitory response. In the present study, using an esophageal balloon distension to evoke gastric relaxation (esophageal-gastric reflex, EGR), we investigated the peripheral pharmacological basis responsible for this reflex. Systemic administration of atropine methyl nitrate reduced the amplitude of the gastric relaxation to 52.0+/-4.4% of the original EGR, whereas NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) reduced it to 26.3+/-7.2% of the original EGR. Concomitant administration of atropine methyl nitrate and L-NAME reduced the amplitude of the gastric relaxation to 4.0+/-2.5% of control. This reduction in the amplitude of induced EGR is quite comparable (4.3+/-2.6%) to that seen when the animal was pretreated with the nicotinic ganglionic blocker hexamethonium. In the presence of bethanechol, the amplitude of the esophageal distension-induced gastric relaxation was increased to 177.0+/-10.0% of control; administration of L-NAME reduced this amplitude to 19.9+/-9.5%. Our data provide a clear demonstration that the gastroinhibitory control by the esophagus is mediated via a dual vagal innervation consisting of inhibitory nitrergic and excitatory cholinergic transmission.
Individuals of many nontropical rodent species display reproductive, immunological, and somatic responses to day length. In general, short day (SD) lengths inhibit reproduction and enhance immune function in the laboratory when all other conditions are held constant. Most studies to date have focused on seasonal variation in immune function in adulthood. However, perinatal photoperiods also communicate critical day length information and serve to establish a developmental trajectory appropriate for the time of year. Nontropical rodents born early in the breeding season undergo rapid reproductive development, presumably to promote mating success during their first reproductive season. Rodents born late in the breeding season suspend somatic growth and puberty until the following vernal breeding season. We tested the hypothesis that perinatal day lengths have similar enduring effects on the immune system of rodents. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) were maintained prenatally and until weaning (21 days) in either SDs (8 h light:16 h dark) or long days (LD) (16 h light:8 h dark), then they were weaned into either the opposite photoperiod or maintained in their natal photoperiod, forming four groups (LD-LD, LD-SD, SD-LD, and SD-SD). After 8-wk in these conditions, cell-mediated immune activity was compared among groups. SD-SD hamsters of both sexes enhanced immune function relative to all other groups. The reproductive effects of perinatal photoperiod were not evident by the end of the experiment; circulating testosterone and cortisol sampled at the end of the experiment reflected the postweaning, but not the perinatal photoperiod. This experiment demonstrates long-lasting organizational effects of perinatal photoperiod on the rodent immune system and indicates that photoperiod-induced changes in the immune system are dissociable from changes in the reproductive system.
The hormone leptin and the gut peptide CCK synergistically interact to enhance the process of satiation. Although this interaction may occur at several levels of the neuroaxis, our previous results indicate that leptin can specifically enhance the satiation effect of CCK by acting on subdiaphragmatic vagal afferent neurons. Because of this localized action, we hypothesized that a high proportion of vagal afferent neurons innervating the stomach or duodenum would be responsive to leptin and/or CCK. To test this hypothesis, we measured changes in cytosolic calcium levels induced by leptin and CCK in cultured nodose ganglion neurons labeled with a retrograde neuronal tracer injected into either the stomach or the duodenum. In the neurons labeled from the stomach, CCK activated 74% (39 of 53) compared with only 35% (34 of 97) of nonlabeled cells. Of the CCK-responsive neurons 60% (18 of 30) were capsaicin-sensitive. Leptin activated 42% (22 of 53) of the stomach innervating neurons compared with 26% of nonlabeled neurons. All of the leptin-sensitive neurons labeled from the stomach also responded to CCK. In the neurons labeled from the duodenum, CCK activated 71% (20 of 28). Of these CCK-responsive neurons 80% (12 of 15) were capsaicin sensitive. Leptin activated 46% (13 of 28) of these duodenal innervating neurons, of which 89% (8 of 9) were capsaicin-sensitive. Among neurons labeled from the duodenum 43% (12 of 28) were responsive to both leptin and CCK, compared with only 15% (15 of 97) of unlabeled neurons. Our results support the hypothesis that vagal afferent sensitivity to CCK and leptin is concentrated in neurons that innervate the stomach and duodenum. These specific visceral afferent populations are likely to comprise a substrate through which acute leptin/CCK interactions enhance satiation.


Propofol formulated in a lipid vehicle supports the growth of microorganisms. There have been worldwide reports of extrinsic microbial contamination of propofol leading to outbreaks of serious postoperative nosocomial infections. Therefore it is essential that medical professionals follow strict aseptic precautions when handling propofol, as recommended by manufacturers of propofol and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Non-adherence to these recommendations increases the risk of nosocomial postoperative infections, which impose a heavy burden of morbidity and mortality and have serious economic consequences. It has also been recommended that the use of EDTA-containing formulations of propofol be considered. In vitro studies have confirmed that EDTA added to propofol retards microbial growth. Data on the incidence of nosocomial infections before and after the introduction of propofol with EDTA indicates that there have been no further cluster outbreaks and individual nosocomial infections appear to have been reduced. The addition of EDTA is an additional safety precaution to good aseptic practice.
We investigated the distribution of cortical, callosal, and thalamic connections from the primary somatosensory area (S1) in naked mole-rats, concentrating on lower incisor and forelimb representations. A neuronal tracer (WGA-HRP) was injected into the center of each respective representation under guidance from microelectrode recordings of neuronal activity. The locations of cells and terminals were determined by aligning plots of labeled cells with flattened cortical sections reacted for cytochrome oxidase. The S1 lower incisor area was found to have locally confined intrahemispheric connections and longer connections to a small cluster of cells in the presumptive secondary somatosensory (S2) and parietal ventral (PV) incisor fields. The S1 incisor area also had sparse connections with anterior cortex, in presumptive primary motor cortex. Homotopic callosal projections were identified between the S1 lower incisor areas in each hemisphere. Thalamocortical connections related to the incisor were confined to ventromedial portions of the ventral posterior medial subnucleus (VPM) and posterior medial nucleus (Po). Injections into the S1 forelimb area revealed reciprocal intrahemispheric connections to S2 and PV, to two areas in frontal cortex, and to two areas posterior to S1 that appear homologous to posterior lateral area and posterior medial area in rats. The S1 forelimb representation also had callosal projections to the contralateral S1 limb area and to contralateral S2 and PV. Thalamic distribution of label from forelimb injections included ventral portions of the ventral posterior lateral subnucleus (VPL), dorsolateral Po, the ventral lateral nucleus, and the ventral medial nucleus and neighboring intralaminar nuclei.

Current neuroimaging and neurophysiologic techniques have substantially increased our possibilities to study processes related to various language functions in the intact human brain. Learning to read and write influences the functional organization of the brain. What is universal and what is specific in the languages of the world are important issues. Most studies on healthy bilinguals indicate that essentially the same neural mechanisms are used for first and second languages, albeit with some linguistic and cultural influences related to speech and writing systems, particularly between alphabetical and nonalphabetical languages. Proficiency, age of acquisition, and amount of exposure can affect the cerebral representations of the languages. Accumulating data support the important role of working memory for acquiring high proficiency in the reading of native and second languages. It is proposed that longitudinal studies on second language acquisition are essential and that the specific problems related to second language learning in dyslexic children should have high priority.
Sex hormone relationships for onset risks of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were analyzed in a nested case-control study, derived from a large community-based prospective cohort. A self-reported history of RA in a first-degree relative, heavy cigarette smoking, and positive rheumatoid factor (RF) were confirmed predictors of subsequent RA onset in this data set. In the 11 premenopausal onset cases, lower serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels were observed as was an imbalance in serum IL-1beta to IL-1ra levels; the latter was not observed in the 43 controls (CNs). In the 18 male cases, significantly higher serum cortisol was observed in the six cases with positive family history versus the 12 with a negative history. To the contrary, a small minority of the male cases had combined low serum cortisol and testosterone, which was not observed in the 72 CNs. Significant gender dimorphism was observed between the sex hormones and serum log RF titers as well as in the correlations of serum log testosterone and estradiol. Principal component analysis of multiply-imputed data sets extracted four uncorrelated components, which provided concordant neuroendocrine immune relationships to the previously investigated univariate and multivariate analyses. The literature on developmental and environmental influences on sex hormones and risks of RA was reviewed.

Evidence suggests that neurotrophins may regulate certain immune functions and inflammation. In the present study, the localization and distribution of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its receptors were explored using immunohistochemical methods, with the aim of detecting the cause of the neurohyperplasia in early lesions of atopic dermatitis (AD). In AD involved skin, strong NGF-immunoreactive (IR) cells were observed in the epidermis. In some cases, a huge number of infiltrating cells with stronger NGF immunoreactivity was seen mainly in the dermal papillae. Some trkA immunoreactivity was observed in the outer membrane of cells in the basal and spinal layers of the epidermis. In the papillary dermis, a larger number of cells demonstrated strong trkA immunoreactivity. The p75 NGFr-IR nerve fibre profiles were increased (900 per mm(2); p&lt;0.001) compared to normal [the involved skin also differed from the uninvolved skin (p&lt;0.05)] in the dermal papillae. These nerve fibres were larger, coarser and branched, some of them terminated at p75 NGFr-IR basal cells, and also revealed a stronger fluorescence staining than the controls or the uninvolved skin. In normal healthy volunteers and AD uninvolved skin, the NGF immunoreactivity was weak in the basal layer of epidermis. Only a few trkA positive cells were seen in the basal layer of the epidermis and upper dermis. The IR epidermal basal cells revealed a striking patchy arrangement with strong p75 NGFr immunostaining in the peripheral part of the cells, and short and thick NGFr-IR nerve fibre profiles appeared as smooth endings scattered in the dermis including the cutaneous accessory organs. Using NGF and p75 NGFr double staining, both immunoreactivities showed a weak staining in the epidermis and dermis in normal and uninvolved skin. In the involved dermis of AD, the intensity of p75 NGFr-IR nerves was stronger in areas where there were also increased numbers of NGF-IR cells. These findings indicate that NGF and its receptors may contribute to the neurohyperplasia of AD.

The Brazilian scientific production saw more than a four-fold increase from the 1990s onwards. The aim of this study was to evaluate the evolution of scientific production by Brazilian clinical neuroscientists over the last 10 years. A search in the PubMed identified 295 clinical neuroscientists and their publications. Brazilian production corresponded to 2.37% of the papers published by the 20 indexed periodicals that regularly publish clinical neuroscience research. If only the first and last two years are compared, there was a real growth of 75.1%. More than 40% of the Brazilian papers were published in Arquivos de Neuro-Psiquiatria, the official journal of the Brazilian Academy of Neurology. When only those periodicals with impact factor higher than one are considered, the percentage falls to 0.86% in the whole 10-year period, but attains 1.23% in 2004. Epilepsy and infectious diseases were the sub-areas with the highest scientific production.
The functional role of subiculum within the hippocampal formation circuit remains largely unexplored, and a theoretical and experimental consensus on its functions has yet to emerge. In the present issue, M. E. Andrzejewski, R. C. Spencer, and A. E. Kelley (2006) provided evidence using pharmacological methods of a possible dissociation of function between dorsal and ventral subiculum in instrumental learning. Their findings provide an important contribution toward testing an emerging framework for understanding the functions of this key and underinvestigated component of the hippocampal formation.
The conditioning context arises from the relatively static features of the training environment. In rabbit eyeblink conditioning, procedures that retard acquisition (conditioned stimulus [CS] preexposure, unconditioned stimulus preexposure, blocking manipulations) are attenuated by context changes. In this article the authors investigate the effect of context exposure after initial delay conditioning. After conditioned responses (CRs) were established, one group received 6 sessions of context exposure, whereas control groups either remained in their home cages or received exposure to handling and a novel context. Thereafter, all groups received CS-alone testing. The expression of CRs was substantially reduced following context exposure relative to any retention loss in the home-cage control. Exposure to handling and a novel context facilitated the CRs rather than reducing them.
Exposure to the open arm of the elevated-plus maze was used to assess the neurobiological correlates of anxiety in the high-anxiety-related behavior (HAB) and low-anxiety-related behavior (LAB) rat lines. The authors sought to determine whether this mild stressor could be considered a valuable anxiety test revealing specific behavioral differences. Behavioral parameters scored were submitted to a discriminant and factor analysis to investigate emotional parameters discriminating HAB and LAB rats. Principal component analysis showed that the HAB rats' behavior was driven by anxiety, whereas the LAB rats' behavior was mainly explained by locomotor activity. Moreover, the rats displayed behaviors that reflected distinct coping strategies confirming anxiogenic open arm effects and differential appraisals of the stressor dependent on the genetic predisposition to either hyper- or hypo-anxiety.
Electrolytic lesions of the medial core of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in male Long-Evans rats increased spontaneous locomotion, enhanced the locomotor stimulating effect of acute 5.0 mg/kg cocaine, enhanced the development and subsequent expression of locomotor sensitization produced by repeated injections of 0.4 mg/kg nicotine but not 7.5 mg/kg cocaine, and enhanced the expression of conditioned locomotion. Given that 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the NAc typically have effects on locomotor-related processes that are opposite of those produced by electrolytic and excitotoxic lesions, these data are consistent with a hypothesis that the NAc output, especially from the core, inhibits a variety of such processes and that the DA input to the NAc enhances these processes by inhibiting this inhibitory output.
Various strains of mice display a reliable increase in motor activity in response to benzodiazepines given at low to moderate doses. This hyperactivity has been described as both an anxiolytic-associated increase in exploratory activity and a nonspecific stimulant effect controlled by central neural mechanisms separate from those involved in the anxiolytic-like effects. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the neural circuitry underlying the hyperactivity effects of benzodiazepines in mice. Specifically, we examined the relationship between anxiety and motor activity after bilateral intra-amygdala or intra-hippocampal microinjections of the nonselective full benzodiazepine receptor agonist midazolam in C57BL/6 mice. Behavioral measures of anxiety and motor activity in open field were examined in mice given localized injections of 0, 2, 8 or 32 nmol of midazolam directed into the amygdala or hippocampus. Midazolam injected into the amygdala at the low dose produced an anxiolytic-like effect, as reflected by an increase in central open field activity. Higher doses injected into the amygdala produced a motor-depressant action, indicative of a drug-induced sedative effect. Infusions into the hippocampus produced a biphasic effect on motor activity with the two lower doses of midazolam producing a motor-stimulant action and the high dose producing a motor-depressant effect. Hippocampus injections produced no anxiolytic-like effects. The current findings demonstrate that injections of midazolam produced a regional dissociation of the anxiety-related and motor-related parameters and provide evidence that the stimulant and anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines are independent phenomena regulated by different central mechanisms.
Differences in cocaine self-administration can be attributed to differences in the rewarding value that cocaine has for the individual. An ongoing debate, however, exists whether a high rewarding or a low rewarding value leads to an increase in self-administration. To investigate which of these two alternatives is correct, we investigated the occurrence of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference in apomorphine susceptible and apomorphine unsusceptible rats. We have recently shown that under specific environmental conditions (challenged-not habituated to the environment-as measured by distance travelled) apomorphine susceptible rats consistently self-administer more cocaine than apomorphine unsusceptible rats do. As conditioned place preference allows the assessment of the rewarding value of cocaine, we investigated the expression of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference in apomorphine susceptible and apomorphine unsusceptible rats under the same conditions as the self-administration experiments in order to establish whether the rewarding value of cocaine is greater or smaller in challenged apomorphine susceptible rats than in challenged apomorphine unsusceptible rats. The data clearly showed that challenged apomorphine susceptible rats had a preference for the cocaine-paired compartment with lower doses of cocaine (10 mg/kg) than challenged apomorphine unsusceptible rats. Apomorphine unsusceptible rats expressed conditioned place preference only with the highest dose tested (20 mg/kg). On the basis of these data, we concluded that the rewarding value that cocaine has in challenged apomorphine susceptible rats is greater than that in challenged apomorphine unsusceptible rats. It is suggested that challenged apomorphine susceptible rats self-administer more of a lower dose of cocaine than challenged apomorphine unsusceptible rats do, because the rewarding value of cocaine is greater in challenged apomorphine susceptible rats than in challenged apomorphine unsusceptible rats.
A large body of data suggests that potassium channels may play an important role in learning and memory. Previous in-vitro research in a number of species including Hermissenda and the rabbit suggests that a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive transient potassium channel may be involved in classical conditioning. We investigated the effects of in-vivo 4-aminopyridine administration (0.5 mg/kg) on classical conditioning of the rabbit nictitating membrane response using a battery of tests designed to assess the associative, sensory, and motor contributors of 4-aminopyridine to responding. 4-Aminopyridine enhanced both classical conditioning and conditioning-specific reflex modification compared with a saline vehicle control, and these effects had several nonassociative components including an increase in the frequency of responding to both the conditioned and the unconditioned stimuli, suggesting a sensitizing effect of the drug. Although 4-aminopyridine can have peripheral effects, it may also modify cerebellar excitability or hippocampal neurotransmitter balance resulting in heightened responsiveness to stimulation.
Songbirds, and in particular zebra finches, present a wonderful opportunity to study cognition in species that have evolved specialized abilities and brain structures for auditory cognition. The authors describe the rationale, methods, and apparatus used to test the auditory perceptual and cognitive abilities of songbirds. They have developed an operant conditioning system for conducting discrimination experiments simultaneously with several songbirds. The system uses specialized single-board computers, standard personal computers, CD-ROMs, and custom-written software to present stimuli, control training, and record responses. Also, the authors describe software to produce high-quality synthesized and naturally occurring acoustic stimuli for use in studies of auditory cognition. Typical results from a challenging frequency-range discrimination are included.
Macroscopic systems with many interacting subunits, when driven far from equilibrium, exhibit self-organization, for example when a pathological rhythm appears suddenly in an epileptic patient. Sudden changes occurring while conditions vary smoothly have, in cases of interest, underlying mathematics that are the subject of Thom's catastrophe theory. The assumption made herein that the system's state variables, akin to order parameters, reduce in practice to only one single real variable, ensures that the system derives from a potential function, and warrants recourse to the catastrophe theory. The order parameter is, furthermore, interpreted as a measure of the electropathophysiological activity in the brain, increasing monotonously with the degree of neuronal synchronism. With two neuronal influences, excitatory and inhibitory, as control parameters, the catastrophe is the archetypal cusp. Implementation of catastrophe theory leads to equations showing that fluctuations in a system's dynamics may be utilised for signalling steps precursory to oncoming catastrophes. Pre-seizure dynamics in epileptic patients exhibit steps towards and away from catastrophe; the steps away are interpreted in terms of homeostatic feedback, consequent on changing patterns of neuronal activity. A number of characteristics of epileptic seizures of differing types merely follow from the geometry of the cusp equilibrium surface. In particular, types of seizures are distinguished by their angle of final approach to onset in parameter space. The measurable parameters by which approach to catastrophe is characterized, may be of use in investigations of the organism's plasticity in epileptic patients, and in tests of therapeutic means for preventing seizures. There is no need to resort to a model, in the usual sense of the word, and therefore no differential equation needs to be set up.
The antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of the marine red alga Neorhodomela aculeate (N. aculeata) Masuda were investigated with neuronal and microglial cells. Extracts of N. aculeata had potent neuroprotective effects on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity and inhibited reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in the murine hippocampal HT22 cell line. Also, extracts of N. aculeata inhibited H2O2-induced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenates. The properties of the extract as an anti-inflammatory agent were investigated in microglial activation by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma): it reduced the inducible nitric oxide synthase that consequently resulted in the reduction of nitric oxide. These results suggest that the marine red alga N. aculeata could be considered as a potential source for reducing reactive oxygen species and inflammation related to neurological diseases.
Defects in placental development lead to pregnancies at risk for miscarriage and intrauterine growth retardation and are associated with preeclampsia, a leading cause of maternal death and premature birth. In preeclampsia, impaired placental formation has been associated with alterations in a specific trophoblast lineage, the invasive trophoblast cells. In this study, an RT-PCR Trophoblast Gene Expression Profile previously developed by our laboratory was utilized to examine the lineage-specific gene expression of the rat Rcho-1 trophoblast cell line. Our results demonstrated that Rcho-1 cells represent an isolated, trophoblast population committed to the giant cell lineage. RT-PCR analysis revealed that undifferentiated Rcho-1 cells expressed trophoblast stem cell marker, Id2, and trophoblast giant cell markers. On differentiation, Rcho-1 cells downregulated Id2 and upregulated Csh1, a marker of the trophoblast giant cell lineage. Neither undifferentiated nor differentiated Rcho-1 cells expressed spongiotrophoblast marker Tpbpa or labyrinthine markers Esx1 and Tec. Differentiating Rcho-1 cells in hypoxia did not alter the expression of lineage-specific markers; however, hypoxia did inhibit the downregulation of the trophoblast stem cell marker Id2. Differentiation in hypoxia also blocked the induction of CSH1 protein. In addition, hypoxia inhibited stress fiber formation and abolished the induction of palladin, a protein associated with stress fiber formation and focal adhesions. Thus, Rcho-1 cells can be maintained as a proliferative, lineage-specific cell line that is committed to the trophoblast giant cell lineage on differentiation in both normoxic and hypoxic conditions; however, hypoxia does inhibit aspects of trophoblast giant cell differentiation at the molecular, morphological, and functional levels.

The 3,4-fused sulfamides, sulfonamides and sulfone have been identified as highly potent gamma-secretase inhibitors. Evaluation of the SAR of substitution within these series has allowed the identification of a range of compounds which significantly reduce brain A beta in transgenic mouse models and thus have potential as possible treatments for Alzheimer's disease.
A new class of high affinity hNK1R antagonists based on seven-membered ring cores has been identified. This series, with relatively simple, compact structures, includes compounds with high affinity, good selectivity, and promising in vivo properties.
Based on a series of diaryl amides the corresponding inverse amides have been found to be potent TRPV1 receptor antagonists. Benzimidazole and indazolone derivatives prepared retained good potency in vitro and indazolone 4a was identified as a novel TRPV1 receptor antagonist suitable for evaluating orally in animal models of analgesia.
Emerging evidence suggests that the introns and intergenic sequences of the genomes of higher eukaryotes (the &quot;junk&quot; DNA) codes for a vast, RNA-based, genetic regulatory network. It is believed that this network is responsible for the variety and complexity of terrestrial life. We conjecture that this regulatory network is more properly viewed as an RNA &quot;community&quot;, composed of a rich and largely unexplored biochemical web of RNA interactions. Viewed as an RNA-community, we hypothesize that the RNA regulatory network of higher eukaryotes can re-wire itself, and employ various and evolvable mutational strategies in response to external pressures. Thus, we argue that much evolutionary change is due to intracellular, RNA-mediated learning processes. Successful strategies and pathways are then recorded (hard-wired) into the DNA genome via reverse transcriptase. We present evidence, which is consistent with this viewpoint, and make specific theorems, which could be used to test the utility of our framework. If essentially correct, the RNA-community view of eukaryotic cells could reconcile measured point mutation and gene duplication rates with actual rates of evolutionary change. Futhermore, the RNA-community view of eukaryotic cells suggests that agent-based modeling techniques, used in mathematical economics, game theory, and neuroscience, will likely be as useful in understanding the functioning of eukaryotic cells as the pathway-based approaches of systems biology. We conclude this paper by arguing that a sufficient amount of biological knowledge has been accumulated to initiate a systematic program of experimental and computational studies of the origins and macroevolution of terrestrial life.
A case of subarachnoid haemorrhage secondary to rupture of an intracranial aneurysm occurring in a patient with new-onset, frank thyrotoxicosis is described. This unusual case highlights the dilemma of whether to continue beta-blockers such as propanolol for frank thyrotoxicosis, or whether to assign higher priority to maintaining adequate cerebral perfusion pressure in established ischaemic deficit due to vasospasm. In a complicated case such as this, the Maudsley Mentation Test score and perfusion CT scanning are two useful adjuncts for the early detection and evaluation of the course of ischaemic deficit.
Very little data exists on the visco-elastic properties of the living human brain tissue and collection of such data is vital for mechanical modelling. The purpose of this study was to measure the rate of relaxation of brain that has been compressed by tumour after surgical decompression. Seven patients who underwent a lobectomy for an intracranial space occupying lesion were included in the study. All underwent two CT scans within the first 24 h after the surgery. Volumes of the residual void on the serial CT scan were calculated using tools in the image acquisition software. There was a rapid expansion of the brain to fill up the void space in the first 24 h after surgery. The average rate of relaxation of the compressed brain is 2.25(0.76 - 6.64) ml/h. The graphs plotted for the volume of the void space against the time after surgery when the CT scans were done can be used to further explore the dynamics of brain relaxation. The rate of brain relaxation in the first 24 h after removal of a mass lesion averages 2.25(0.76 - 6.64) ml/h in this study. Further studies using more frequent data collection would allow for more accurate definition of the rate of relaxation.
Cyclodextrins (CDs) are nanostructures widely applied in biotechnology and chemistry. Owing to partially hydrophobic character, CDs interact with biological membranes. While the mechanisms of CDs interactions with lipids were widely studied, their effects on proteins are less understood. In the present study we investigated the effects of beta cyclodextrin (betaCD) on GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) gating. To reliably resolve the kinetics of conformational transitions, currents were elicited by ultrafast gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) applications to outside-out patches from rat cultured hippocampal neurons. betaCD increased the amplitude of responses to saturating GABA concentration ([GABA]) in a dose-dependent manner and this effect was accompanied by profound alterations in the current kinetics. Current deactivation was slowed down by betaCD but this effect was biphasic with a maximum at around 0.5 mM betaCD. While the fast deactivation time constant was monotonically slowed down within considered betaCD concentration range, the slow component first increased and then, at millimolar betaCD concentration, decreased. The rate and extent of desensitization was decreased by betaCD in a dose-dependent manner. The analysis of current responses to nonsaturating [GABA] indicated that betaCD affected the GABA(A)R agonist binding site by slowing down the unbinding rate. Modulation of GABA(A)R desensitization and binding showed different concentration-dependence suggesting different modualtory sites with higher affinity of the latter one. All the betaCD effects were fully reversible indicating that cholesterol uptake into betaCD was not the primary mechanism. We conclude that betaCD is a strong modulator of GABA(A)R conformational transitions.
In anaesthetised male rats an intravenous (i.v.) injection of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) produced a specific patterned bursting response in the sympathetic vas deferens nerve (VDN) that corresponds to ejaculation. In the present, study selective dopamine agonists and antagonists were used to investigate whether dopaminergic mechanisms influence the generation of this ejaculatory-related response. Administration of a mixed D(1/2) receptor agonist (0.1-1.0 mg kg(-1) apomorphine i.v.) also evoked the characteristic bursting pattern responses in the VDN. Similar, but fewer, burst pattern responses could also be evoked by a selective D(2/3) receptor agonist (0.1-2.0 mg kg(-1) piribedil). Responses to 1.0 mg kg(-1) apomorphine were blocked by pretreatments with either 0.5 mg kg(-1) remoxipride (D(2) receptor antagonist) or 0.5 mg kg(-1) nafadotride (D(3) receptor antagonist), suggesting that D(2)-like receptors were involved. Responses could not be evoked by i.v. injections of apomorphine (1.0 mg kg(-1)) in anaesthetised male rats with a midthoracic spinal section, indicating that activation of D(2)-like receptors at supraspinal sites leads to an increase in the excitability of the lumbosacral pattern generator for ejaculation. In anaesthetised female rats a similar patterned bursting response occurred in the uterine nerve (UN) in response to apomorphine (0.5-2.0 mg kg(-1) i.v.). Thus a common neural mechanism may regulate sexual climactic reflexes in both sexes.

Therapies that might delay degeneration of synapses offer an appealing strategy for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and related dementias, prion diseases, schizophrenia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Analysis of mouse mutants provides one possible avenue towards identifying relevant mechanisms. Here, we used quantitative and serial section electron microscopy to find out whether the onset and time course of pre-synaptic nerve terminal degeneration is delayed in the striatum of Wallerian degeneration slow (Wld(s)) mutant mice. Synaptic degeneration was observed within 48 h of cortical ablation in wild-type mice but was delayed by approximately 1 week in Wld(s) mice. However, the morphological characteristics of degenerating nerve terminals in wild-type and Wld(s) mice were indistinguishable, in contrast to the differences reported previously in studies of the PNS. Surprisingly, the delayed onset of synaptic degeneration was accompanied by an increased incidence of complex synaptic morphologies on post-synaptic spines in the denervated Wld(S) striatum indicating an enhanced plastic response at both injured and uninjured synapses. The data suggest that targeting Wallerian-like mechanisms of synaptic degeneration could lead to the development of new therapies for the treatment of CNS disorders where synapse loss is a primary feature.
Congenital neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinosis (NCL) is a devastating inherited neurodegenerative disorder of unknown metabolic basis. Eight patients with this rare disorder, all with similar clinical and neuropathological findings, have been reported, and here we describe two further patients. Previously, we showed that a mutation in the cathepsin D gene causes congenital NCL in sheep. On the basis of the neuropathological and ultrastructural similarities between the sheep and patients affected with congenital NCL, we screened the cathepsin D gene for mutations in a patient of Pakistani origin. We identified a nucleotide duplication, c.764dupA, in the cathepsin D gene in homozygous form in the patient, and in heterozygous form in his father. This duplication is likely to be disease-causing, as it creates a premature stop codon, predicting a truncation of the protein. When transiently expressed in cell cultures, the mutant protein was enzymatically inactive, but stable. In paraffin-embedded brain tissue samples of two affected siblings of the Pakistani patient, cathepsin D was absent, suggesting rapid degradation of the c.764dupA mutant cathepsin D at mRNA or protein level in vivo. Further, we were able to confirm lack of cathepsin D in the brain tissue of yet another, unrelated, patient of English origin with congenital NCL. On the basis of the present data, and the nearly identical clinical and/or pathological phenotype of the other reported cases of congenital NCL, it is reasonable to suggest that cathepsin D deficiency caused by mutations in the corresponding gene may underlie all cases of congenital NCL. The present observations also suggest that cathepsin D deficiency should be considered as a possible diagnosis in microcephalic neonates, who present with seizures at or before birth.
Ryanodine receptor 1 (RYR1) gene mutations are associated with central core disease (CCD), multiminicore disease (MmD) and malignant hyperthermia (MH), and have been reported to be responsible for 47-67% of patients with CCD and rare cases with MmD. However, to date, the true frequency and distribution of the mutations along the RYR1 gene have not been determined yet, since mutation screening has been limited to three 'hot spots', with particular attention to the C-terminal region. In this study, 27 unrelated Japanese CCD patients were included. Clinical histories and muscle biopsies were carefully reviewed. We sequenced all the 106 exons encoding RYR1 with their flanking exon-intron boundaries, and identified 20 novel and 3 previously reported heterozygous missense mutations in 25 of the 27 CCD patients (93%), which is a much higher mutation detection rate than that perceived previously. Among them, six were located outside the known 'hot spots'. Sixteen of 27 (59%) CCD patients had mutations in the C-terminal 'hot spot'. Three CCD patients had a probable autosomal recessive disease with two heterozygous mutations. Patients with C-terminal mutations had earlier onset and rather consistent muscle pathology characterized by the presence of distinct cores in almost all type 1 fibres, interstitial fibrosis and type 2 fibre deficiency. In contrast, patients with mutations outside the C-terminal region had milder clinical phenotype and harbour more atypical cores in their muscle fibres. We also sequenced two genes encoding RYR1-associated proteins as candidate causative genes for CCD: the 12 kD FK506-binding protein (FKBP12) and the alpha1 subunit of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel or dihydropyridine receptor (CACNA1S). However, no mutation was found, suggesting that these genes may not, or only rarely, be responsible for CCD. Our results indicate that CCD may be caused by RYR1 mutations in the majority of patients.
When associated with the Nogo receptor (NgR), the transmembrane receptor p75NTR signals growth cone collapse. Arrest of CNS axon growth in vivo is mediated by CNS myelin-derived inhibitory ligands through either an unknown pathway after NgR- and Ca2+-dependent activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and/or sequential Rho-A/ROCK/LIM-kinase/cofilin phosphorylation leading to actin depolymerization. Paradoxically, rat retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons regenerate through the CNS myelin-rich transected optic nerve after intravitreal sciatic nerve grafting without inhibitory ligand neutralization. Here, we show that optic nerve regeneration in vivo correlates with Schwann cell-derived factor-induced cleavage of NgR and Nogo-A, and inactivation of p75NTR signalling by the induction of regulated intramembranous proteolysis (RIP) and the release of both extracellular (p75ECD) and intracellular (p75ICD) domains. Hence, Schwann cell-derived factors compromise inhibitory signalling by (i) antagonizing ligand/NgR binding with metalloproteinase-cleaved Nogo-A peptides; (ii) RIP of p75NTR; (iii) competitively blocking NgR/p75NTR clustering with soluble p75ECD; and (iv) consequent reduced downstream EGFR phosphorylation and suppression of Rho-A activation. Moreover, in RGC cultures, exogenous tumour necrosis- converting enzyme (TACE) initiates RIP of p75NTR, reduces EGFR phosphorylation, suppresses activation of Rho-A, cleaves the ECD from both NgR and TROY, and disinhibits neurotrophic factor (NTF) stimulated RGC neurite outgrowth in the presence of CNS myelin. Soluble NgRECD binds all CNS myelin-derived ligands and thus has the potential to act as an inhibitory signalling antagonist, but the role of TROY and its shed ectodomain in growth cone mobility is unknown. siRNA knockdown of p75NTR also inactivates Rho-A and disinhibits NTF-stimulated RGC neurite outgrowth in cultures with added CNS myelin. In all the above experimental paradigms, Schwann cell-derived factor/NTF-induced attenuation of NgR/p75NTR signalling suppresses EGFR activation, thereby potentiating axon growth disinhibition.
Autoantibodies to Shaker-type (Kv1) K+ channels are now known to be associated with three syndromes. Peripheral nerve hyperexcitability is the chief manifestation of acquired neuromyotonia; the combination of neuromyotonia with autonomic and CNS involvement is called Morvan's syndrome (MoS); and CNS manifestations without peripheral involvement is called limbic encephalitis (LE). To determine the cellular basis of these clinical manifestations, we immunostained mouse neural tissues with sera from patients with neuromyotonia (n = 10), MoS (n = 2) or LE (n = 5), comparing with specific antibodies to relevant K+ channel subunits. Fourteen of 17 patients' sera were positive for Kv1.1, Kv1.2 or Kv1.6 antibodies by immunoprecipitation of 125I-alpha-dendrotoxin-labelled rabbit brain K+ channels. Most sera (11 out of 17) labelled juxtaparanodes of peripheral myelinated axons, co-localizing with Kv1.1 and Kv1.2. In the CNS, all sera tested (n = 12) co-localized with one or more areas of high Kv1.1, Kv1.2 or Kv1.6 channel expression: 10 out of 12 sera co-localized with Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 at spinal cord juxtaparanodes or cerebellar layers, while 3 out of 12 sera co-localized additionally (n = 2) or exclusively (n = 1) with Kv1.6 subunits in Purkinje cells, motor and hippocampal neurons. However, only sera from LE patients labelled the hippocampal areas that are enriched in excitatory, Kv1.1-positive axon terminals. All sera (17 out of 17) labelled one or more of these Kv1 subunits when expressed at the cell membrane of transfected HeLa cells, but not when they were retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. Again, LE sera labelled Kv1.1 subunits more prominently than did MoS or neuromyotonia sera, suggesting an association between higher Kv1.1 specificity and limbic manifestations. In contrast, neuromyotonia sera bound more strongly to Kv1.2 subunits than to Kv1.1 or Kv1.6. These studies support the hypothesis that antibodies to mature surface membrane-expressed Shaker-type K+ channels cause acquired neuromyotonia, MoS and LE, and suggest that future assays based on immunofluorescence of cells expressing individual Kv1 subunits will prove more sensitive than the immunoprecipitation assay. Although more than one type of antibody is often detectable in individual sera, higher affinity for certain subunits or subunit combinations may determine the range of clinical manifestations.
The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases characterized by progressive spasticity in the lower limbs. Twenty-nine different loci (SPG) have been mapped so far, and 11 responsible genes have been identified. Clinically, one distinguishes between pure and complex HSP forms which are variably associated with numerous combinations of neurological and extra-neurological signs. Less is known about autosomal recessive forms (ARHSP) since the mapped loci have been identified often in single families and account for only a small percentage of patients. We report a new ARHSP locus (SPG30) on chromosome 2q37.3 in a consanguineous family with seven unaffected and four affected members of Algerian origin living in Eastern France with a significant multipoint lod score of 3.8. Ten other families from France (n = 4), Tunisia (n = 2), Algeria (n = 3) and the Czech Republic (n = 1) were not linked to the newly identified locus thus demonstrating further genetic heterogeneity. The phenotype of the linked family consists of spastic paraparesis and peripheral neuropathy associated with slight cerebellar signs confirmed by cerebellar atrophy on one CT scan.
It is now well-established that an active cross-talk occurs between neurons and glial cells, in the adult as well as in the developing and regenerating nervous systems. These functional interactions not only actively modulate synaptic transmission, but also support neuronal growth and differentiation. We have investigated the possible existence of a reciprocal interaction between inner ear vestibular neurons and Schwann cells maintained in primary cultures. We show that ATP released by the extending vestibular axons elevates intracellular calcium levels within Schwann cells. Purinergic activation of the Schwann P2X(7) receptor induces the release of neurotrophin BDNF, which occurs via a regulated, tetanus-toxin sensitive, vesicular pathway. BDNF, in turn, is required by the vestibular neuron to support its own survival and growth. Given the massive release of ATP during tissue damage, cross-talk between vestibular neurons and Schwann cells could play a primary role during regeneration.
People with autism and Asperger syndrome are anecdotally said to be hypersensitive to touch. In two experiments, we measured tactile thresholds and suprathreshold tactile sensitivity in a group of adults with Asperger syndrome. In the first experiment, tactile perceptual thresholds were measured. Two frequencies of vibrotactile stimulation were used: 30 and 200 Hz. The results demonstrated significantly lower tactile perceptual thresholds in the Asperger group at 200 Hz but not at 30 Hz, thus confirming tactile hypersensitivity but only for one class of stimulus. A second experiment investigated whether self-produced movement affected the perception of touch in a group of adults with Asperger syndrome. A suprathreshold tactile stimulus was produced either by the participant (self-produced condition) or by the experimenter (externally produced condition) and participants were asked to rate the perception of the tactile stimulation. The results demonstrated that, while both Asperger and control groups rated self-produced touch as less tickly than external touch, the Asperger group rated both types of tactile stimulus as significantly more tickly and intense than did the control group. This experiment confirms the finding of tactile hypersensitivity, but shows that the perceptual consequences of self-produced touch are attenuated in the normal way in people with Asperger syndrome. An abnormality in this process cannot therefore account for their tactile hypersensitivity.
We asked adults with Asperger Syndrome to judge pictorial stimuli in terms of certain social stereotypes to evaluate to what extent they have access to this type of social knowledge. Sixteen adults with Asperger Syndrome and 24 controls, matched for age and intelligence, were presented with sets of faces, bodies and objects, which had to be rated on a 7-point scale in terms of trustworthiness, attractiveness, social status, and age, or, in the case of objects, price. Despite impaired performance on two important aspects of social cognition (second-order mentalizing and face recognition) the social judgements of the individuals with Asperger Syndrome were just as competent and consistent as those of their matched controls, with only one exception: there was a trend for them to be less able to judge the attractiveness of faces if they were the same sex. We explain this difference in terms of a weakness in mentalizing, specifically the ability to take a different point of view: While all other stereotypic attributions could be made from an egocentric point of view, judging the attractiveness of faces of one's own sex requires taking the perspective of someone of the opposite sex, a challenge for people with mentalizing problems. We conclude that individuals with Asperger Syndrome show preserved aspects of social knowledge, as revealed in the attribution of stereotypes to pictures of people. These findings suggest that there are dissociable subcomponents to social cognition and that not all of these are compromised in Asperger Syndrome.
At the onset of West syndrome a specific impairment of visual function has been clearly demonstrated, while other aspects of sensorial development, and in particular of the auditory function, have been less studied. The aim of this study was to evaluate auditory function and orienting responses at the onset of West syndrome, and to relate the results with EEG patterns, visual function and neurodevelopmental competence. A prospective multicentric study was performed on 25 successively enrolled infants with West syndrome; all the patients underwent a full clinical assessment, including MRI and video-EEG, visual function and auditory orienting responses (AORs) as well as Griffiths' developmental scales. The whole assessment performed at the onset of spasms (T0) was repeated after two months (T1). AORs resulted significantly impaired both at T0 and T1. At the onset of spasms a highly significant relationship of auditory attention with visual function and neurodevelopmental competence was shown in both cryptogenic and symptomatic forms, but it was no longer present after two months. Our results may suggest a possible pervasive effect of the epileptic disorder on sensory processing, associated to a deficit of neurodevelopment. Although we failed to show a significant correlation between auditory orienting responses and EEG patterns, some evidence seems to support at least partially an influence of the epileptic disorder per se on the genesis of the sensorial impairment. A longer follow up and a larger cohort will be useful for a better clarification of these findings.

Semantic priming refers to a reduction in the reaction time to identify or make a judgment about a stimulus that has been immediately preceded by a semantically related word or picture and is thought to result from a partial overlap in the semantic associates of the two words. A semantic priming lexical decision task using spoken words was presented in event-related fMRI and behavioral paradigms. Word pairs varied in terms of semantic relatedness and the connectivity between associates. Thirteen right-handed subjects underwent fMRI imaging and 10 additional subjects were tested in a behavioral version of the semantic priming task. It was hypothesized priming would be greatest, reaction time fastest, and cortical activation reduced the most for related word pairs of high connectivity, followed by related word pairs of low connectivity, and then by unrelated word pairs. Behavioral and fMRI results confirmed these predictions. fMRI activity located primarily in bilateral posterior superior and middle temporal regions showed modulation by connectivity and relatedness. The results suggest that these regions are involved in semantic processing.
It was hypothesized that stuttering may be related to impaired sensory gating, leading to overflow of superfluous disturbing auditory feedback and breakdown of the speech sequence. This hypothesis was tested using the acoustic startle prepulse inhibition (PPI) paradigm. A group of 22 adults with developmental stuttering were compared with controls regarding the degree of PPI. No significant differences were found between the stuttering adults and the control group; the groups showed similar means and distribution. Likewise, no relation between the degree of PPI and the effect of altered auditory feedback on stuttering was found. In summary, the results of the study indicate that there is no relation between stuttering and PPI.
The primary mammalian circadian clock resides in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), a recipient of dense retinohypothalamic innervation. In its most basic form, the circadian rhythm system is part of the greater visual system. A secondary component of the circadian visual system is the retinorecipient intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) which has connections to many parts of the brain, including efferents converging on targets of the SCN. The IGL also provides a major input to the SCN, with a third major SCN afferent projection arriving from the median raphe nucleus. The last decade has seen a blossoming of research into the anatomy and function of the visual, geniculohypothalamic and midbrain serotonergic systems modulating circadian rhythmicity in a variety of species. There has also been a substantial and simultaneous elaboration of knowledge about the intrinsic structure of the SCN. Many of the developments have been driven by molecular biological investigation of the circadian clock and the molecular tools are enabling novel understanding of regional function within the SCN. The present discussion is an extension of the material covered by the 1994 review, &quot;The Circadian Visual System.&quot;

Dysfunctional beliefs such as fear-avoidance (i.e. fear of re-injury) and personality traits such as neuroticism are risk factors for poor health. However, there is little information regarding associations with poor perceived health after severe burn and what level of fear-avoidance is associated with poor health. In this study, we investigated fear-avoidance and neuroticism regarding their associations with post-burn health. Participants were 86 recovered burn patients and data were collected by a postal survey. Post-burn health was assessed with the nine subscales of the Burn Specific Health Scale-Brief (BSHS-B). In logistic regressions, fear-avoidance was related to poorer health in six subscales assessing both physical and psychosocial problems. Neuroticism was associated with poorer health in three subscales assessing mainly psychosocial problems. Chi-square analyses showed that participants with a moderate or high level of fear-avoidance &gt;or=1.0 (out of 4) were more likely to describe their health as poor and had a longer sick leave than those with a fear-avoidance level of &lt;1.0. In summary, fear-avoidance was associated with poorer health even at moderate levels and was associated with several aspects of post-burn health.
We present an overview of two of our on-going projects relating processes in the hippocampus to memory. We are trying to understand why retrograde amnesia occurs after damage to the hippocampus. Our experiments establish the generality of several new retrograde amnesia phenomena that are at odds with the consensus view of the role of the hippocampus in memory. We show in many memory tasks that complete damage to the hippocampus produces retrograde amnesia that is equivalent for recent and remote memories. Retrograde amnesia affects a much wider range of memory tasks than anterograde amnesia. Normal hippocampal processes can interfere with retention of a long-term memory stored outside the hippocampus. We conclude that the hippocampus competes with nonhippocampal systems during memory encoding and retrieval. Finally, we outline a project to understand and manipulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis in order to repair damaged hippocampal circuitry to recover lost cognitive functions.

Naturally occurring coumarins (NOCs) are anti-carcinogenic in the mouse skin model. To characterize the chemopreventive potential of NOCs against breast cancer, we first examined their effects on 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-DNA adduct formation in mouse mammary gland. We hypothesized that those NOCs that both inhibited cytochrome P450 1A1/1B1 and induced hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) would be the most effective in blocking DMBA-DNA adduct formation in mouse mammary gland. To address this hypothesis, simple coumarins (e.g. coumarin and limettin, which induced mouse hepatic GSTs but had little effect on P4501A1/1B1) and linear furanocoumarins (e.g. imperatorin and isopimpinellin, which induced hepatic GSTs and were potent inhibitors of P4501A1/1B1) were compared. Mice were pretreated with NOCs (150 mg/kg body wt, by gavage) prior to either a single dose of DMBA (50 microg) or multiple doses of DMBA (20 microg daily for 3 and 6 weeks). Mammary DMBA-DNA adduct formation was quantitated by the nuclease P1-enhanced 32P-postlabeling assay. With the single dose of DMBA, coumarin, limettin, imperatorin and isopimpinellin inhibited DMBA-DNA adduct formation by 50, 41, 79 and 88%, respectively. Coumarin, limettin and imperatorin blocked DMBA-DNA adduct formation by 36, 60, and 66% at 3 weeks, and by 0, 49 and 55% at 6 weeks of DMBA dosing, respectively. In a 6 week dose-response study of select NOCs and 7,8-benzoflavone (a potent P4501 inhibitor that had little effect on GSTs), DMBA-DNA adduct formation was inhibited by 0, 43 and 24% in the limettin groups; by 26, 26 and 69% in the isopimpinellin groups; and by 80, 96 and 97% in the 7,8- benzoflavone groups at 35, 70 and 150 mg/kg, respectively. Taken together, these results suggest that linear furanocoumarins had a greater inhibitory effect on DMBA-DNA adduct formation in mouse mammary glands compared with simple coumarins, and that the predominant effect may be P4501 inhibition.
Shc adapter proteins are thought to regulate cellular proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis by activating the SOS-Grb2-RAS-MAPK signaling cascade. Using the small hairpin RNA (shRNA) technique, we found that decreasing ShcA mRNA reduced the proliferative ability of HEK293 mammalian culture cells. We then recapitulated phosphorylation-dependent Shc-Grb2 complex formation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Immunoprecipitation followed by Western analysis demonstrated that activated TrkB, composed of the intracellular domain of TrkB fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST-TrkB(ICD)), promoted the association of ShcC and Grb2 in yeast. The Ras-recruitment system (RRS), in which a myristoylated (Myr)-bait and son of sevenless (hSOS)-prey are brought together to complement the defective Ras-cAMP pathway in a thermosensitive cdc25H mutant yeast strain, was used to validate a phenotypic assay. Yeast cells transformed with both Myr-ShcC and hSOS-Grb2 (referred to as scheme 1) or Myr-Grb2 and hSOS-ShcC (scheme 2) did not grow at non-permissive temperature; the additional transformation of GST-TrkB(ICD) enabled growth. GST-TrkB(ICD) also enabled growth with hSOS-Grb2 and either Myr-ShcA or Myr-SHP2. Mutational analysis of TrkB showed that its kinase activity was essential for complementation, while its docking site for Shc proteins was not. Mutational analysis of ShcC showed that the PTB and SH2 domains were not essential for complementation but phosphorylation at Y304 in the CH1 domain was. Phosphorylation at Y304 could not be substituted by an acidic amino acid. The RRS provides a genetic system to probe Shc proteins and potentially identify member specific protein partners and pharmacological reagents.
Recent magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of human auditory cortex are pointing to brain areas on lateral Heschl's gyrus as the 'pitch-processing center'. Here we describe results of a combined MEG-psychophysical study designed to investigate the timing of the formation of the percept of pitch and the generality of the hypothesized 'pitch-center'. We compared the cortical and behavioral responses to Huggins pitch (HP), a stimulus requiring binaural processing to elicit a pitch percept, with responses to tones embedded in noise (TN)-perceptually similar but physically very different signals. The stimuli were crafted to separate the electrophysiological responses to onset of the pitch percept from the onset of the initial stimulus. Our results demonstrate that responses to monaural pitch stimuli are affected by cross-correlational processes in the binaural pathway. Additionally, we show that MEG illuminates processes not simply observable in behavior. Crucially, the MEG data show that, although physically disparate, both HP and TN are mapped onto similar representations by 150 ms post-onset, and provide critical new evidence that the 'pitch onset response' reflects central pitch mechanisms, in agreement with models postulating a single, central pitch extractor.
Human behavior can be influenced by information that is not consciously perceived. Recent behavioral and electrophysiological evidence suggests, however, that the processing of subliminal stimuli is not completely beyond an observer's conscious control. The present study aimed to characterize the cortical network that implements strategic control over interfering subliminal information at multiple stages. Fourteen participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning while performing a metacontrast masking paradigm. We systematically varied the amount of conflicting versus non-conflicting trials across experimental blocks, and behavioral performance demonstrated strategic effects whenever a high proportion of subliminal prime stimuli induced response competition. A psychophysiological interaction analysis revealed the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) to exhibit context-dependent covariation with activation in the lateral occipital complex (LOC) and the putamen. The pre-SMA thereby appears to fulfill a superordinate function in the control of processing subliminal information by simultaneously modulating perceptual analysis and motor selection.
The cortico-ponto-cerebellar system is one of the largest projection systems in the primate brain, but in the human brain the nature of the information processing in this system remains elusive. Determining the areas of the cerebral cortex which contribute projections to this system will allow us to better understand information processing within it. Information from the cerebral cortex is conveyed to the cerebellum by topographically arranged fibres in the cerebral peduncle - an important fibre system in which all cortical outputs spatially converge on their way to the cerebellum via the pontine nuclei. Little is known of their anatomical organization in the human brain. New in vivo diffusion imaging and probabilistic tractography methods now offer a way in which input tracts in the cerebral peduncle can be characterized in detail. Here we use these methods to contrast their organization in humans and macaque monkeys. We confirm the dominant contribution of the cortical motor areas to the macaque monkey cerebral peduncle. However, we also present novel anatomical evidence for a relatively large prefrontal contribution to the human cortico-ponto-cerebellar system in the cerebral peduncle. These findings suggest the selective evolution of prefrontal inputs to the human cortico-ponto-cerebellar system.

In this article we consider the stochastic modeling of neurobiological time series from cognitive experiments. Our starting point is the variable-signal-plus-ongoing-activity model. From this model a differentially variable component analysis strategy is developed from a Bayesian perspective to estimate event-related signals on a single trial basis. After subtracting out the event-related signal from recorded single trial time series, the residual ongoing activity is treated as a piecewise stationary stochastic process and analyzed by an adaptive multivariate autoregressive modeling strategy which yields power, coherence, and Granger causality spectra. Results from applying these methods to local field potential recordings from monkeys performing cognitive tasks are presented.
Neurons in the central nervous system, and in the cortex in particular, are subject to a barrage of pulses from their presynaptic populations. These synaptic pulses are mediated by conductance changes and therefore lead to increases or decreases of the neuronal membrane potential with amplitudes that are dependent on the voltage: synaptic noise is multiplicative. The statistics of the membrane potential are of experimental interest because the measurement of a single subthreshold voltage can be used to probe the activity occurring across the presynaptic population. Though the interpulse interval is not always significantly smaller than the characteristic decay time of the pulses, and so the fluctuations have the nature of shot noise, the majority of results available in the literature have been calculated in the diffusion limit, which is valid for high-rate pulses. Here the effects that multiplicative conductance noise and shot noise have on the voltage fluctuations are examined. It is shown that both these aspects of synaptic drive sculpt high-order features of the subthreshold voltage distribution, such as the skew. It is further shown that the diffusion approximation can only capture the effects arising from the multiplicative conductance noise, predicting a negative voltage skew for excitatory drive. Exact results for the full dynamics are derived from a master-equation approach, predicting positively skewed distributions with long tails in voltage ranges typical for action potential generation. It is argued that, although the skew is a high-order feature of subthreshold voltage distributions, the increased probability of reaching firing threshold suggests a potential role for shot noise in shaping the neuronal transfer function.


Tuberculosis (TB) of the central nervous system (CNS) is still prevalent in many developing countries. Tuberculoma is always considered in the differential diagnosis of enhancing intra-axial lesions of the brain. Brain tuberculomas can present in many different clinical and radiological patterns, disseminated or miliary brain tuberculomas are very rare. We describe the case of a 25-year-old immunocompetent female with miliary brain tuberculomas. She presented with a history of progressive headache and unsteady gait. Serial Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies revealed growing, multiple small enhancing lesions in the brain, most lesions measured approximately 2mm in diameter, in both the supratentorial and infratentorial compartments. Her investigation failed to reveal any evidence of TB outside the CNS. Open biopsy revealed multiple caseating granulomas and mycobacterin tuberculosis was cultured. She improved clinically and radiologically after starting anti-tuberculous pharmacotherapy. The clinical course, radiological images and pathological studies of this patient are presented. In conclusion miliary brain tuberculomas are rare and unique clinical and radiological entity. It may affect immunocompetent individuals with no other signs of other systemic involvement.






There is overwhelming evidence that the brain melanocortin system is a key regulator of energy balance, and dysregulations in the brain melanocortin system can lead to obesity. The melanocortin system is one of the major downstream leptin signaling pathways in the brain. In contrast to leptin, preclinical studies indicate that diet-induced obese animals are still responsive to the anorectic effects of melanocortin receptor agonists, suggesting the melanocortin system is an interesting therapeutic opportunity. Besides regulating energy balance, melanocortins are involved in a variety of other neuroendocrine processes, including inflammation, blood pressure regulation, addictive and sexual behavior, and sensation of pain. This review evaluates the melanocortin system function from the perspective to use specific melanocortin (MC) receptors as drug targets, with a focus on the treatment of obesity and eating disorders in humans, and the implications this may have on mechanisms beyond the control of energy balance.
In this issue of CNS &amp; Neurological Disorders-Drug Targets, we focus on G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that are involved in regulating body weight. In six reviews, the melanocortins system (including MC4 and MC3 receptors, Agrp, MSH), the NPY receptors (including NPY-Y1, NPY-Y2, and NPY-Y5, PYY3-36), the cannabinoid system (including the development of rimonabant), the ghrelin (GHS, growth hormone secretagogue) system, the monoamine GPCRs (including serotonin, adrenergic and histamine receptors), orexin (hypocretin) system and the galanin receptors are covered. In this overview, an introduction to the GPCRs and the field of central regulation of food intake is provided together with brief mentioning of some other GPCRs that are also implicated in regulation of body weight, such as the melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), neuromedin U, prolactin-releasing peptide (PrRP), bombesin, cholecystokinin (CCK), Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) (and oxyntomodulin), neuropeptide B (NPB) and neuropeptide W (NPW), opioids peptides, free fatty acid (FFA) receptors (GPR40, GPR41). In total over 40 GPCRs are listed that have been implicated to affect regulation of body weight.
The alien hand syndrome is a deeply puzzling phenomenon in which brain-damaged patients experience their limb performing seemingly purposeful acts without their intention. Furthermore, the limb may interfere with the actions of their normal limb. We report a case of alien hand syndrome following a left medial frontal and corpus callosum ischemic lesion. From our clinical observations and the patient's performances on experimental tasks, we postulate that three factors contribute to the sense of alienness: First, the errant limb must be disinhibited and disproportionately reactive to external environmental stimuli. Second, the limb is under less volitional control and produces perseverative movements in which motor stereotypies are concatenated. Consequently, the disinhibited limb perseverates on external stimuli and appears purposeful, despite not being engaged in true goal-directed intentions. Finally, the patient needs to have a relatively intact action-monitoring system to be aware of the abnormal movements as they are occurring.
Is past tense production better modelled by a Single Mechanism or a Words and Rules model? We present data concerning a phenomenon that has not been considered by either model-regular past tense verbs with contrasting phonotactics. One set of verbs contains clusters at the inflected verb end that also occur in monomorphemic words ('monomorphemically legal clusters', MLC) whereas the other has clusters that can only occur in inflected forms ('monomorphemically illegal clusters', MIC). We argue that if children apply a morphological rule, phonotactics will not affect performance. Conversely, if children store past tense forms, they will perform better on verbs with MLCs because these clusters are more frequent. We investigated three populations--typically developing children, Grammatical-SLI (G-SLI) and Williams Syndrome (WS)--using past tense elicitation tasks. In Experiment 1 we reanalyse data from van der Lely and Ullman [van der Lely, H. K. J. &amp; Ullman, M. (2001). Past tense morphology in specifically language impaired and normally developing children. Language and Cognitive Processes, 16: 177-217] and show that G-SLI children perform better on MLC verbs, whereas for typically developing children phonotactics do not affect performance. In Experiment 2 we replicate these findings in new groups of G-SLI and typically developing children. In Experiment 3 we reanalyse data from Thomas et al. [Thomas, M. S. C., Grant, J., Barham, Z., Gsodl, M., Laing, E., Lakusta, L., Tyler, L.K., Grice, S., Paterson, S. &amp; Karmiloff-Smith, A. (2001) Past tense formation in Williams Syndrome. Language and Cognitive Processes, 16: 143-176] and show that phonotactics do not affect performance in individuals with WS. We argue that the results elucidate the underlying nature of morphology in these populations, and are better accommodated within a Words and Rules model of past tense acquisition.
As a safety net, psychiatric emergency services are sensitive to system changes. To determine the impact of a state's changes in its mental health system, administrators of publicly funded psychiatric emergency services were surveyed. They reported few (M=0.8) negative changes in coordination of care but 77% endorsed change in administrative burden (54% saying it negatively affected quality of services). Reporting negative effect of administrative burden was associated with treating more persons with substance abuse problems and greater challenge posed by distance to local providers. These results suggest that impact of state-level changes was not uniform but associated with local characteristics.

We investigated how motor agency in the voluntary control of body movement influences body awareness. In the Rubber Hand Illusion (RHI), synchronous tactile stimulation of a rubber hand and the participant's hand leads to a feeling of the rubber hand being incorporated in the participant's own body. One quantifiable behavioural correlate of the illusion is an induced shift in the perceived location of the participant's hand towards the rubber hand. Previous studies showed that the induced changes in body awareness are local and fragmented: the proprioceptive drift is largely restricted to the stimulated finger. In the present study, we investigated whether active and passive movements, rather than tactile stimulation, would lead to similarly fragmented body awareness. Participants watched a projected image of their hand under three conditions: active finger movement, passive finger movement, and tactile stimulation. Visual feedback was either synchronous or asynchronous with respect to stimulation of the hand. A significant overall RHI, defined as greater drifts following synchronous than asynchronous stimulation, was found in all cases. However, the distribution of the RHI across stimulated and non-stimulated fingers depended on the kind of stimulation. Localised proprioceptive drifts, specific to the stimulated finger, were found for tactile and passive stimulation. Conversely, during active movement of a single digit, the proprioceptive drifts were not localised to that digit, but were spread across the whole hand. Whereas a purely proprioceptive sense of body-ownership is local and fragmented, the motor sense of agency integrates distinct body-parts into a coherent, unified awareness of the body.
Zadra, Desjardins, and Marcotte (2006) have made a valuable contribution to the empirical testing of the Threat Simulation Theory (TST) (Revonsuo, 2000a) in recurrent dreams. For the most part, their results are in accordance with the theory, while some findings seem to conflict with the predictions of TST. In our commentary, we consider some alternative ways to interpret the results, and we conclude that many prominent features of most recurrent dreams seem to be manifestations of a threat simulation function, leading to repeated rehearsal of threat perception and avoidance, but a minority of recurrent dreams seem to have origins unrelated to threat simulation.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) amplicon vector is a versatile plasmid-based gene delivery vehicle with a large transgene capacity (up to 150 kb) and the ability to infect a broad range of cell types. The vector system was originally developed by Frenkel and her colleagues in 1980. Ever since, a great deal of effort by various investigators has been directed at minimizing the toxicity associated with the inevitable contamination by helper virus. In 1996, Fraefel and his colleagues successfully devised a cosmid-based packaging system that was free of contamination by helper virus (so-called helper virus-free packaging), which utilized as helper a set of 5 overlapping cosmid clones that covered the entire HSV genome, which lacked the DNA packaging/cleavage signals. With the helper virus-free system, broader applications of the vector became possible. Cloning of the entire HSV genome in bacteria artificial chromosome (BAC) plasmids enabled stable maintenance and propagation of the helper HSV genome in bacteria. It also allowed for the development of BAC-based helper virus-free packaging systems. In this article, we review various versions of DNA-based methods to prepare HSV amplicon vectors free of helper virus contamination. We also examine recent advances in vector design, including methods of vector construction, hybrid amplicon vectors, and the infectious BAC system. Future directions in improving packaging systems and vector designs are discussed.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are self-renewing, multipotent cells that generate the neuronal and glial cells of the nervous system. In mammals, contrary to long-held belief, neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain, and NSCs reside in the adult central nervous system. Thus, the brain may be amenable to repair following damage, and new avenues for cell-based therapy are being considered for the treatment of brain disease and injury, such as the stimulation of endogenous progenitor cells, the transplantation of adult-derived neural progenitor and stem cells, and, in particular, autologous cell transplantation. Although significant advances in this field have been made over the past decade, the adult NSC remains an elusive cell for study, and researchers are facing multiple challenges to the development of therapeutic applications from adult NSC research. Among these challenges are the identification and characterization of NSCs in vivo and in vitro, the understanding of the physiology of newly generated neuronal cells in the adult brain, the stimulation of endogenous progenitor cells to promote functional recovery, and the isolation and culture of homogenous populations of neural progenitor or stem cells from the adult brain for cell-based therapy.
Brain insults cause rapid cell death, and a disruption of functional circuits, in the affected regions. As the injured tissue recovers from events associated with cell death, regenerative processes are activated that over months lead to a certain degree of functional recovery. Factors produced by new neurons and glia, axonal sprouting of surviving neurons, and new synapse formation help to re-establish some of the lost functions. The timing and location of such events is crucial in the success of the regenerative process. Comprehensive gene expression profiling and proteomic analyses have enabled a deeper molecular and cellular mechanistic understanding of post-injury brain regeneration. These new mechanistic insights are aiding the design of novel therapeutic modalities that enhance regeneration.

Identification of molecules involved in neurite outgrowth during development and/or regeneration is a major goal in the field of neuroscience. Retinoic acid (RA) is a biologically important metabolite of vitamin A that acts as a trophic factor and has been implicated in neurite outgrowth and regeneration in many vertebrate species. Although abundant in the CNS of many vertebrates, the precise role of RA in neural regeneration has yet to be determined. Moreover, very little information is available regarding the role of RA in invertebrate nervous systems. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that RA induces neurite outgrowth from invertebrate neurons. Using individually identified neurons isolated from the CNS of Lymnaea stagnalis, we demonstrated that a significantly greater proportion of cells produced neurite outgrowth in RA. RA also extended the duration of time that cells remained electrically excitable in vitro, and we showed that exogenously applied RA acted as a chemoattractive factor and induced growth cone turning toward the source of RA. This is the first demonstration that RA can induce turning of an individual growth cone. These data strongly suggest that the actions of RA on neurite outgrowth and cell survival are highly conserved across species.
The expression of LIM homeobox genes islet1 and islet2 is tightly regulated during development of zebrafish primary motoneurons. All primary motoneurons express islet1 around the time they exit the cell cycle. By the time primary motoneurons undergo axogenesis, specific subtypes express islet1, whereas other subtypes express islet2, suggesting that these two genes have different functions. Here, we show that Islet1 is required for formation of zebrafish primary motoneurons; in the absence of Islet1, primary motoneurons are missing and there is an apparent increase in some types of ventral interneurons. We also provide evidence that Islet2 can substitute for Islet1 during primary motoneuron formation. Surprisingly, our results demonstrate that despite the motoneuron subtype-specific expression patterns of Islet1 and Islet2, the differences between the Islet1 and Islet2 proteins are not important for specification of the different primary motoneuron subtypes. Thus, primary motoneuron subtypes are likely to be specified by factors that act in parallel to or upstream of islet1 and islet2.
Plexin receptors play a crucial role in the transduction of axonal guidance events elicited by semaphorin proteins. In Drosophila, Plexin A (PlexA) is a receptor for the transmembrane semaphorin semaphorin-1a (Sema-1a) and is required for motor and central nervous system (CNS) axon guidance in the developing embryonic nervous system. However, it remains unknown how PlexB functions during neural development and which ligands serve to activate this receptor. Here, we show that plexB, like plexA, is robustly expressed in the developing CNS and is required for motor and CNS axon pathfinding. PlexB and PlexA serve both distinct and shared neuronal guidance functions. We observe a physical association between these two plexin receptors in vivo and find that they can utilize common downstream signaling mechanisms. PlexB does not directly bind to the cytosolic semaphorin signaling component MICAL (molecule that interacts with CasL), but requires MICAL for certain axonal guidance functions. Ligand binding and genetic analyses demonstrate that PlexB is a receptor for the secreted semaphorin Sema-2a, suggesting that secreted and transmembrane semaphorins in Drosophila use PlexB and PlexA, respectively, for axon pathfinding during neural development. These results establish roles for PlexB in central and peripheral axon pathfinding, define a functional ligand for PlexB, and implicate common signaling events in plexin-mediated axonal guidance.
DNA helicases are known to play important roles in the maintenance of genome integrity including the replication of trinucleotide repeats in the cells. Here, we report the HFM1 gene, which encodes the putative human DNA helicase. The HFM1 gene comprises 39 exons mapping to human chromosome 1p22.2. The HFM1 cDNA encompasses 4931 nucleotides with a single open reading frame (ORF) of 1435 amino acid residues encoding a predicted 172 kDa protein (hHFM1). The deduced protein sequence shares similar domain and motif structures to those of Mer3, a DNA helicase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae; seven consecutive motifs conserved among the DEXH-box type of DNA/RNA helicases at the N-terminal and a single putative zinc finger motif at the C-terminal regions of the protein. Further, the HFM1 transcript is preferentially expressed in testis and ovary. Collectively, hHFM1 is the evolutionally conserved putative human DNA helicase, which may function as a modulator for genome integrity in germ-line tissues.
This article is part of a supplemental issue of the journal devoted entirely to papers on how abuse liability of medications is affected by their formulation for medical use. This article reviews the history of abuse and addiction to medications in the United States and the legislation designed to control these problems. The provisions in legislation related specifically to formulations of medications designed to decrease their abuse potential will be noted. In addition, the role of the College on Problems of Drug Dependence (CPDD) as an organization initially founded to develop analgesic medications with less abuse potential than morphine is briefly reviewed. Examples of current approaches to the development of formulations of medications to decrease their abuse potential discussed in detail in the articles to follow are outlined. Finally, the use of behavioral economic analyses to better delineate the relative abuse potential of new medication formulations is discussed.
The annual meeting of the Australian Neuroscience Society (ANS) was held in Sydney, Australia, January 31-February 3, 2006. The main meeting was preceded by four satellite meetings. This report predominantly considers some of the drug targets highlighted at the ANS meeting, and at the Dementia, Ageing and Neurodegenerative Diseases Group (DANDIS) satellite. The targets considered are for neurodegeneration, stroke and neuroprotection. Also, various receptors, transporters and channels are considered as therapeutic targets in neuroscience.



Longitudinal cognitive outcome with respect to general cognitive status and memory at the group and individual levels was studied 10 years after temporal lobe resection for epilepsy. Twenty-five patients who had undergone a medium-term follow-up (T2, median = 2.7 years) also underwent a long-term follow-up (T3, median = 9.8 years). At the group level, there was a significant increment across time, partly due to practice, in IQ (P value from 0.049 to &lt;0.0001) but not in memory variables. On the basis of the normative interval of reassessed matched controls, the analysis at the individual level of change from baseline to T2 disclosed decrements in 12-29% of the patients and increments in 8-21%. These proportions diminished at T3 (0-12 and 0-16%) and the dominating pattern of Performance IQ and verbal memory was a return toward baseline. These findings make the interpretation of an initial (T2) postoperative increment or decrement more problematic and underline the need for a comprehensive evaluation across time, including both at the group and individual levels.
The mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system, projecting from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens (nAcc), is involved in reward-related behaviours and addictive processes, such as alcoholism and drug addiction. It was recently suggested that strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors (GlyR) in the nAcc regulate both basal and ethanol-induced mesolimbic DA activity via a neuronal loop involving endogenous activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in the VTA. However, as the nAcc appears to contain few glycine-immunoreactive cell bodies or fibres, the question as to what may be the endogenous ligand for GlyRs in this brain region remains open. Here we have investigated whether the amino acid taurine could serve this purpose using in vivo microdialysis in awake, freely moving male Wistar rats. Local perfusion of taurine (1, 10 or 100 mm in the perfusate) increased DA levels in the nAcc. The taurine (10 mm)-induced DA increase was, similarly to that previously observed after ethanol, completely blocked by (i) perfusion of the competitive GlyR antagonist strychnine in the nAcc, (ii) perfusion of the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (100 microm) in the VTA, and (iii) systemic administration of the acetylcholine-depleting drug vesamicol (0.4 mg/kg, i.p). The present results suggest that taurine may be an endogenous ligand for GlyRs in the nAcc and that the taurine-induced elevation of DA levels in this area, similarly to that observed after local ethanol, is mediated via a neuronal loop involving endogenous activation of nAChRs in the VTA.
Calcium (Ca2+) influx through presynaptic calcium channels triggers transmitter release, and any alterations in the gating of these calcium channels results in changes in the magnitude of transmitter released. We used (R)-roscovitine, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that also appears to act directly on calcium channels, as a tool to modulate presynaptic calcium influx and study effects on transmitter release. We show that this compound increased the quantal content of acetylcholine released from the Rana frog motor nerve terminal (by 149%) without changing paired-pulse facilitation (under low calcium conditions). In contrast, exposure to 3,4-diaminopyridine (DAP; which similarly affects transmitter release by partially blocking potassium channels, altering the shape of the presynaptic action potential, and indirectly increasing calcium entry) increased paired-pulse facilitation (by 23%). In addition, we show that (R)-roscovitine predominately slowed deactivation kinetics of calcium current (by 427%) recorded from Xenopus frog motoneurons, and as a result, increased the integral of calcium channel current evoked by a physiological action potential waveform (by 44%). Because we did not observe any significant effects of structurally related cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors [(S)-roscovitine or olomoucine] on evoked transmitter release or calcium current kinetics, it appears that these effects of (R)-roscovitine are independent of cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks). In summary, we hypothesize that (R)-roscovitine effects on transmitter release at the adult frog neuromuscular junction (NMJ) are mediated by its effects on calcium channel gating, and these effects increase our understanding of calcium triggered secretion at this synapse.
We have recently shown that serotonin in the primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) contributes to the flexible control of behaviour. 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced 5-HT depletions of OFC impair performance on a serial reversal discrimination task [Clarke et al. (2004)Science, 304, 878-880]. The deficit is characterized by perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus, a deficit similar to that seen following lesions of the intrinsic neurones of the OFC [Dias et al. (1996)Nature, 380, 69-72]. The effect is neurochemically selective as dopaminergic lesions of the OFC, induced by 6-hydroxydopamine, have no effect [Clarke et al. (2006)Cerebral Cortex]. In order to test for the generality of the effect of serotonin on orbitofrontal processing and, in particular, its effects on flexible behaviour, the present study investigated the effects of serotonin depletions of OFC on performance of another task dependent upon an intact OFC, the detour-reaching task [Wallis et al. (2001)European Journal of Neuroscience, 13, 1797-1808]. Successful performance of this task requires inhibition of the animal's prepotent response tendency to reach directly along its line of sight to the reward. Compared with sham-operated controls, we found that lesioned monkeys made significantly more barrier reaches directly along their line of sight to the visible reward during task acquisition. This finding provides further support for the role of prefrontal serotonin in inhibitory control processes specifically in tasks sensitive to OFC dysfunction.
Anticipation of predictable events is crucial for organizing motor performance. Using instructed delay tasks, it has been shown that even when delay duration is kept constant, reaction time fluctuates from trial to trial. As time estimation is at the core of anticipatory behavior, it is reasonable to speculate whether neuronal delay activity correlates with the subjective estimate of time. As a consequence of the scalar property of time estimation processes, the variability in time estimation increases continuously as time passes during the delay. This scalar property may then be reflected in the increasing variability in neuronal delay activity. We thus studied the influence of temporal prior information on neuronal delay activity in monkey motor cortex in two conceptually different tasks in which two equally probable delay durations were randomly presented. We hypothesized that if one considers the animal's subjective time as the time which elapses between the first (instruction) signal and movement onset, then, by suppressing this temporal variability, across-trial variability in neuronal discharge should decrease. We thus defined a new time scale in each trial such that, after rescaling, the time between the instruction signal and movement onset was identical in all trials. Each spike was then displaced in time accordingly. As expected, the variability in the timing of neuronal peak discharges no longer increased during the trial. This suggests a direct link between the temporal profile of spiking activity and time estimation. The timing of motor cortical activity reflected the 'elasticity' of the animal's subjective time.
There is a growing interest in the use of mice as a model system for species-specific communication. In particular, ultrasonic calls emitted by mouse pups communicate distress, and elicit a search and retrieval response from mothers. Behaviorally, mothers prefer and recognize these calls in two-alternative choice tests, in contrast to pup-nave females that do not have experience with pups. Here, we explored whether one particular acoustic feature that defines these calls-- the repetition rate of calls within a bout-- is represented differently in the auditory cortex of these two animal groups. Multiunit recordings in anesthetized CBA/CaJ mice revealed that: (i) neural entrainment to repeated stimuli extended up to the natural pup call repetition rate (5 Hz) in mothers; but (ii) neurons in nave females followed repeated stimuli well only at slower repetition rates; and (iii) entrained responses to repeated pup calls were less sensitive to natural pup call variability in mothers than in pup-nave females. In the broader context, our data suggest that auditory cortical responses to communication sounds are plastic, and that communicative significance is correlated with an improved cortical representation.
Gonadal hormones affect spatial learning and memory in mammals and circulating gonadal hormone concentrations fluctuate by season. Most nontropical rodents are spring/summer breeders and males display higher testosterone concentrations during the breeding season compared with the nonbreeding season (fall/winter). Seasonal patterns of testosterone concentration (as well as many other seasonal modifications of physiology, morphology, and behaviour) are induced by manipulation of photoperiod (day length; i.e. short or long days) in the laboratory. Coincident with reducing testosterone concentration, short days also impair spatial learning and memory performance in male white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) compared with long days. We hypothesized that short-day-induced reduction of testosterone concentrations inhibits spatial learning and memory performance compared with long days. Adult male white-footed mice were maintained in long (16 h light/day) or short (8 h light/day) days for 14 weeks following sham-castration, castration plus saline implant, or castration plus testosterone implant treatment. Spatial learning and memory was assessed using a water maze, and photoperiod-evoked changes in gene expression of sex steroid receptors within the hippocampus were also examined. Castrated, short-day mice with testosterone replacement displayed enhanced water maze performance compared with other short-day mice, but no differences among testosterone treatments were observed in long-day mice. Photoperiod did not affect hippocampal androgen, oestrogen alpha, or oestrogen beta receptor gene expression. These results suggest that photoperiod modulates the effects of testosterone on spatial learning performance by mechanisms indirect of the hippocampus.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) acts within the locus coeruleus (LC), to modulate activity of the LC-norepinephrine (NE) system. Combining molecular and cellular approaches, we demonstrate CRF receptor (CRFr) mRNA expression in Sprague-Dawley rat LC and provide the first in vivo evidence for agonist-induced internalization of CRFr. CRFr mRNA was detected in LC micropunches by RT-PCR. In dual labelling immunofluorescence studies, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) containing neurons exhibited CRFr labelling. At the ultrastructural level, immunogold-silver labelling for CRFr was localized to the plasma membrane of TH-immunoperoxidase labelled dendrites. CRF (100 ng) injection into the LC produced a robust neuronal activation that peaked 10-15 min after injection and was maintained for the duration of the recording. This was associated with CRFr internalization in LC neurons that was apparent at 5 and 30 min after injection. By 5 min after injection the ratio of cytoplasmic to total dendritic CRFr-labelling was 0.81 +/- 0.01 in rats injected with CRF and 0.59 +/- 0.02 in rats injected with artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF; P &lt; 0.0001). Enhanced internalization of CRFr was maintained at 30 min after CRF injection, with the ratio being 0.86 +/- 0.02 for CRF-injected cases and 0.57 +/- 0.03 for ACSF-injected cases (P &lt; 0.0001). Internalized CRFr was associated with early endosomes, indicative of degradation or recycling. Agonist-induced CRFr internalization in LC neurons may underlie acute desensitization to CRF or stress. This process may be a pivotal target by which stressors or pharmacological agents regulate the sensitivity of the LC-NE system to CRF and subsequent stressors.
Balanced dopaminergic cholinergic interactions are crucial for proper basal ganglia function. This is dramatically demonstrated by the worsening of Parkinson's disease symptoms following acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition. Typically, in the brain, the synapse-anchored synaptic AChE (AChE-S) variant is prevalent whereas the soluble readthrough AChE (AChE-R) variant is induced in response to cholinesterase inhibition or stress. Because of the known functional differences between these variants and the fact that AChE-R expression is triggered by various stimuli that themselves are often associated with Parkinson's disease risk, we hypothesized that the splice shift to AChE-R plays a functional role in Parkinsonian progression. After establishing that Paraoxon-induced AChE inhibition indeed aggravates experimental Parkinsonism triggered by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in mice, we tested the roles of individual AChE variants by exposing transgenic mice overexpressing either the AChE-S or AChE-R variant to MPTP. Differential reductions of tyrosine hydroxylase levels in the striatum and substantia nigra indicated that transgenic AChE-R expression confers resistance as compared with the parent FVB/N strain. In contrast, AChE-S overexpression accelerated the MPTP-induced damage. Survival, behavioral measures and plasma corticosterone levels were also compatible with the extent of the dopaminergic damage. Our findings highlight the functional differences between individual AChE variants and indicate that a naturally occurring stress or AChE inhibitor-induced splicing shift can act to minimize dopaminergic cholinergic imbalances. We propose that inherited or acquired alternative splicing deficits could accelerate Parkinsonism and that, correspondingly, adaptive alternative splicing events may attenuate disease progression.
A key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons accompanied by the formation of Lewy bodies (LB). Given the complex nature of the disease, it is imperative to develop a model system suitable for molecular and cellular manipulation in order to study the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of PD. Here, we report that a new in vitro model of PD has been developed by using Drosophila melanogaster primary neuronal cultures expressing a human mutant alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn; A30P). The selective loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons was observed when alpha-Syn was pan-neuronally expressed while non-dopaminergic neurons (e.g. GABAergic) were not influenced. This degeneration was also observed even when alpha-Syn was specifically expressed in DA neurons, demonstrating alpha-Syn toxicity is DA cell-autonomous. In all experiments, cultures 5 days or older showed clear degeneration of DA neurons whereas this degeneration was not significant in 3-day-old cultures. In addition, there were intracellular aggregations in 5-day or older alpha-Syn neurons that were recognized by anti-alpha-Syn or ubiquitin antibodies, demonstrating the formation of LB-like inclusions. By contrast, no such aggregations were found in 3-day-old neurons. The results demonstrate that mutated human alpha-Syn expressed in Drosophila primary neuronal cultures causes the selective loss of DA neurons and the formation of cellular aggregations. Therefore, this is one of the first in vitro models recapitulating two important cellular features of PD and will be useful in examining mechanisms underlying selective neurodegeneration mediated by alpha-Syn.
The 2004 EJN Lecture was an attempt to lay out further aspects of a developing neurobiological theory of hippocampal function [Morris, R.G.M., Moser, E.I., Riedel, G., Martin, S.J., Sandin, J., Day, M. &amp; O'Carroll, C. (2003) Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci., 358, 773-786.] These are that (i) activity-dependent synaptic plasticity plays a key role in the automatic encoding and initial storage of attended experience; (ii) the persistence of hippocampal synaptic potentiation over time can be influenced by other independent neural events happening closely in time, an idea with behavioural implications for memory; and (iii) that systems-level consolidation of memory traces within neocortex is guided both by hippocampal traces that have been subject to cellular consolidation and by the presence of organized schema in neocortex into which relevant newly encoded information might be stored. Hippocampal memory is associative and, to study it more effectively than with previous paradigms, a new learning task is described which is unusual in requiring the incidental encoding of flavour-place paired associates, with the readout of successful storage being successful recall of a place given the flavour with which it was paired. NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity is shown to be critical for the encoding and intermediate storage of memory traces in this task, while AMPA receptor-mediated fast synaptic transmission is necessary for memory retrieval. Typically, these rapidly encoded traces decay quite rapidly over time. Synaptic potentiation also decays rapidly, but can be rendered more persistent by a process of cellular consolidation in which synaptic tagging and capture play a key part in determining whether or not it will be persistent. Synaptic tags set at the time of an event, even many trivial events, can capture the products of the synthesis of plasticity proteins set in train by events before, during or even after an event to be remembered. Tag-protein interactions stabilize synaptic potentiation and, by implication, memory. The behavioural implications of tagging are explored. Finally, using a different protocol for flavour-place paired associate learning, it is shown that rats can develop a spatial schema which represents the relative locations of several different flavours of food hidden at places within a familiar space. This schema is learned gradually but, once acquired, enables new paired associates to be encoded and stored in one trial. Their incorporation into the schema prevents rapid forgetting and suggests that schema play a key and hitherto unappreciated role in systems-level memory consolidation. The elements of what may eventually mature into a more formal neurobiological theory of hippocampal memory are laid out as specific propositions with detailed conceptual discussion and reference to recent data.

Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a vasoconstrictor peptide that acts on ET(A) and ET(B) receptors on smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Because vascular SMCs can express both receptors, it is difficult to study the localization and properties of each subtype. Therefore, we investigated the localization and function of ET(A) and ET(B) receptors transfected into HEK 293 cells. Immunocytochemistry was used to examine colocalization of ET receptors with the plasma membrane marker, pan cadherin. In cells transfected with ET(A) receptors, 83 +/- 2% of these receptors colocalized with pan cadherin. In ET(B) receptor-transfected cells, 54 +/- 2% of the receptor colocalized with pan cadherin. When ET(A) and ET(B) receptors were cotransfected, 97 +/- 1% of ET(B) receptors colocalized with ET(A) receptors and 84 +/- 2% of ET(B) receptors colocalized with pan cadherin. ET-1 and sarafotoxin 6c (S6c, ET(B) receptor agonist) increased [Ca2+]i in cells transfected with ET(A) or ET(B) receptors; 100 nM of ET-1 and S6c caused maximal responses. When stimulated with ET-1, ET(B) receptors desensitized faster (t(1/2) = 21 +/- 1 sec) than ET(A) receptors (t(1/2) = 48 +/- 1 sec). S6c-induced increases in [Ca2+]i desensitized in cells expressing ET(B) receptors only (t(1/2) = 17 +/- 1 s). Desensitization was eliminated in cells cotransfected with ET receptors. We conclude that ET(A) receptors localize to the cell membrane, whereas ET(B) receptors are in the membrane and intracellular compartments. Coexpressed ET receptors are in the membrane. ET(B) receptors desensitize faster than ET(A) receptors, but receptor coexpression eliminates desensitization. Finally, ET(A) and ET(B) receptors interact to change receptor trafficking which may modify ET receptor function in vascular SMCs coexpressing these receptors.
The purpose of this study was to determine differences in the timing of postural reflexes and changes in kinematics between those who fell (fallers) in response to standing platform translations and those who did not (non-fallers). Forty-four persons with stroke were exposed to unexpected forward and backward platform translations while standing. Surface electromyography from bilateral tibialis anterior, gastrocnemius, rectus femoris, and biceps femoris were recorded along with kinematic data. Those that fell in response to the translations were compared to those who did not fall in terms of (1) postural reflex onset latency, (2) the time interval between the activation of distal and proximal muscles (i.e. intralimb coupling), and (3) changes in joint angles and trunk motion. Approximately 85% of falls occurred in response to the forward translations. Postural reflex onset latencies were delayed and intralimb coupling durations were longer in the faller versus non-faller group. At the time that the platform completed the translating motion (300 ms), the faller group demonstrated higher trunk velocity, greater change in paretic ankle angle, and the trunk was further behind the ankle compared to the non-faller group. This study suggests that following platform translations, delays in the timing of postural reflexes and disturbed intralimb coupling result in changes in kinematics, which contribute to falls in persons with stroke.
The possible neuroprotective effects of two GABAergic drugs, tiagabine (TGB) and vigabatrin (VGB), against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced excitotoxicity have been investigated in the isolated chick embryo retina model. Retina segments were incubated either with NMDA alone (100 microM) or with NMDA and TGB or VGB (10-1,000 microM, added 5 min before NMDA). Retina damage was assessed after 24 h by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity present in the medium and by histological analysis. Both drugs reduced LDH release in a dose-dependent manner with comparable mean maximal values of 56.6-63.7% achieved at concentration of 1 mM. Histological analysis of retina slices was in line with the biochemical assays and showed partial preservation of drug exposed retina structure with reduced edema especially in the inner plexiform layer. The present data provide pharmacological evidence that both TGB and VGB reduce the severity of NMDA-induced excitotoxic damage. Although an increase in GABAergic transmission might play a role, this in itself is insufficient to explain the neuroprotective effect of the two drugs and the exact mechanism remains to be elucidated.
Smooth pursuit tracking of targets moving linearly (in one dimension) is well characterized by a model where retinal image motion drives eye acceleration. However, previous findings suggest that this model cannot be simply extended to two-dimensional (2D) tracking. To examine 2D pursuit, in the present study, human subjects tracked a target that moved linearly and then followed the arc of a circle. The subjects' gaze angular velocity accurately matched target angular velocity, but the direction of smooth pursuit always lagged behind the current target direction. Pursuit speed slowly declined after the onset of the curve (for about 500 ms), even though the target speed was constant. In a second experiment, brief perturbations were presented immediately prior to the beginning of the change in direction. The subjects' responses to these perturbations consisted of two components: (1) a response specific to the parameters of the perturbation and (2) a nonspecific response that always consisted of a transient decrease in gaze velocity. With the exception of this nonspecific response, pursuit behavior in response to the gradual changes in direction and to the perturbations could be explained by using retinal slip (image velocity) as the input signal. The retinal slip was parallel and perpendicular to the instantaneous direction of pursuit ultimately resulted in changes in gaze velocity (via gaze acceleration). Perhaps due to the subjects' expectations that the target will curve, the sensitivity to the image motion in the direction of pursuit was not as strong as the sensitivity to image motion perpendicular to gaze velocity.
The brain keeps track of the changing positions of body parts in space using a spatial body schema. When subjects localise a tactile stimulus on the skin, they might either use a somatotopic body map, or use a body schema to identify the location of the stimulation in external space. Healthy subjects were touched on the fingertips, with the hands in one of two postures: either the right hand was vertically above the left, or the fingers of both hands were interwoven. Subjects made speeded verbal responses to identify either the finger or the hand that was touched. Interweaving the fingers significantly impaired hand identification across several experiments, but had no effect on finger identification. Our results suggest that identification of fingers occurs in a somatotopic representation or finger schema. Identification of hands uses a general body schema, and is influenced by external spatial location. This dissociation implies that touches on the finger can only be identified with a particular hand after a process of assigning fingers to hands. This assignment is based on external spatial location. Our results suggest a role of the body schema in the identification of structural body parts from touch.
Wild-type TIGR/MYOC is a secreted protein implicated in the development of steroid glaucoma. Mutations in TIGR/MYOC have been linked to some patients who develop elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and glaucoma. Because there is evidence of some other factors contributing to the TIGR/MYOC causative role in glaucoma, and because substantial increased levels of a particular cellular mRNA and protein might alter expression of other host genes, we began to investigate the effect of TIGR/MYOC overexpression on the transcriptome of human trabecular meshwork cells. We used a recombinant adenovirus carrying wild-type TIGR/MYOC cDNA, primary HTM cells, 300 viral particles per cell and U133 Affymetrix GeneChips. Our results indicate that 2361 out of the 22,284 genes (10.6%) were altered more than two-fold (p&lt;or=0.005) by the overexpression of TIGR/MYOC. A higher proportion of the altered genes were downregulated (1412 vs. 949). Potentially relevant upregulated genes include angiopoietin 2, matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1) and thrombomodulin; among those downregulated we observed growth arrest specific 1, proteins involved in the ubiquitination pathway and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1. In addition, collagen type 1, one of the MMP1 substrates, was also downregulated. Genes affected by wild-type TIGR/MYOC might prove to be candidate mediators for future studies of the mechanisms of glaucoma.

Neural stem cells have emerged as a promising therapeutic tool in CNS disease and injuries. In the clinical setting, cultured human neural stem/progenitor cells (hNSC) are an attractive possibility for transplantation to the damaged brain. However, transplantation of hNSC requires toxic immunosuppressive treatment to avoid rejection. The aim of the current study was to evaluate if shortening the duration of immunosuppression by cyclosporin A would affect hNSC survival and differentiation after transplantation to the site of a focal brain injury in the rat. hNSC were xenografted to the hippocampus and the medial limit of an experimentally induced cortical contusion. The animals received immunosuppression for either 6 or 3 weeks or no immunosuppression. The status of the grafted human cells was analysed by immunohistochemistry. No statistically significant differences were observed between the two immunosuppressed groups regarding graft survival, migration or proliferation at 6 weeks post-transplantation. In contrast, the graft survival was extremely poor in the non-immunosuppressed group. Furthermore, the expression of the differentiation markers nestin, neuronal nuclei (NeuN) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the transplanted cells did not differ significantly between the two immunosuppressed groups. Moreover, a fourth group of eight animals that were immunosuppressed for 3 weeks were allowed to survive for 6 months. Five of these rats demonstrated robust graft survival in the hippocampus and scattered cells in the cortex. This study demonstrates the importance of immunosuppression but also the possibility of shortening immunosuppression without impacting on the phenotype of the grafted hNSC.
Rats given moderate spinal cord injury (SCI) display increases in the expression of the activated form of the transcription factor cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) in spinal segments of dermatomes corresponding to permanent mechanical allodynia, a model of chronic central neuropathic pain (CNP; (Crown, E.D., Ye, Z., Johnson, K.M., Xu, G.Y., McAdoo, D.J., Westlund, K.N., Hulsebosch, C.E., 2005. Upregulation of the phosphorylated form of CREB in spinothalamic tract cells following spinal cord injury: relation to central neuropathic pain. Neurosci. Lett. 384, 139-144)). Given that not all rats that receive moderate SCI develop CNP, the current study was designed to further analyze changes in persistent CREB activation and in the activation state of upstream intracellular signaling cascades (e.g., mitogen-activated protein kinases [MAPKs]) in populations of rats that receive SCI and weeks later develop CNP and rats that receive SCI but do not develop CNP. The results indicate that activated kinases such as pERK 1/2, p-p38 MAPK, but not pJNK, are upregulated in injured rats that develop CNP as compared to injured rats that fail to develop CNP. In addition, the current results replicated our previous finding that activated CREB is upregulated following SCI, however, only in SCI rats that developed CNP. Taken together, these results indicate that activation of intracellular signaling cascades traditionally associated with long-term potentiation and memory is associated with the expression of chronic CNP following SCI.
TrkB receptors mediate the effects of BDNF on striatal medium spiny neurons and mesencephalic dopamine neurons. The effect of partial BDNF gene deletion on locomotor activity and the gene expression of these neurons was evaluated at 3, 12, and 24 months of age in BDNF heterozygous (BDNF(LacZ/neo+)) and wildtype mice. BDNF(LacZ/neo+) mice displayed less spontaneous horizontal activity than wildtypes at 3 and 24 months of age. Whereas striatal preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin mRNA and mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels were significantly lower at all ages in BDNF(LacZ/neo+) mice, GAD67 mRNA was only lower at 24 months. In contrast, BDNF(LacZ/neo+) mice expressed more trkB mRNA in the striatum at 3 months and less at 24 months of age than wildtypes. Total striatal cell number in the two genotypes was not different at 12 months of age, whereas Golgi staining revealed that the spine density on distal dendrites of medium spiny neurons was less in BDNF(LacZ/neo+) mice than in wildtypes at 24 months of age. These data indicate that endogenous BDNF is required to maintain the normal phenotype and functioning of striatal projection neurons and mesencephalic dopamine neurons and that exaggerated dysfunction of these neurons and a concomitant decline in locomotor behavior occurs during aging.
The use of stimulation electrodes implanted in the brain to control severely disabling neurological and psychiatric conditions is an exciting and fast emerging area of neuroscience. An excellent example is Parkinson's disease (PD), in which tens of thousands of patients have now been implanted with stimulation electrodes. Patients with PD underwent deep brain stimulation (DBS) at the level of the thalamus, globus pallidus internus, subthalamic nucleus, pedunculopontine nucleus and prelemniscal radiation. The results of these interventions revealed that each target has its own specific stimulation-related positive and negative effects. Clinicians can choose their DBS target based on the situation of their individual PD patients. In the authors' opinion, patient-specific targeting should be preferred over disease-specific targeting. In this review, the authors give an overview of the targets that have been used for DBS in PD and discuss patient-specific targeting.
Depression is one of the most frequent comorbid psychiatric disorders in Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, and is associated with poorer quality of life, greater disability in activities of daily living, a faster cognitive decline, a high rate of nursing home placement, relatively higher mortality and a higher frequency of depression and burden in caregivers. Depression in Alzheimer's disease is markedly under-diagnosed and most patients with depression are either not treated or are on subclinical doses of antidepressants. Recent randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy of sertraline and moclobemide to treat depression in Alzheimer's disease. Other psychoactive compounds may be useful as well, but careful consideration must be given to potentially serious side effects.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), consisting of abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau, are implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of tau phosphorylation are largely unknown. While the PI3K/Akt pathway has been shown to regulate multiple cellular events pertinent to AD pathogenesis, potential functions of tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) in AD pathogenesis have not been explored. Here, we examine the effects of PTEN on tau phosphorylation, its microtubule association and formation of aggregates, and consequentially neuronal morphology. In cultured cells, overexpression of wild-type (WT) PTEN alters tau phosphorylation at several sites, increases tau-microtubule association and decreases formation of tau aggregates. In addition, the phosphatase-null PTEN increases tau aggregation and impairs tau binding to microtubule and neurite outgrowth of neurons expressing the mutant PTEN. We also found a significant loss of PTEN in AD patient brains correlated with a dramatically increased concentration of phospho-tau at Ser-214 in NFTs. Together, our results demonstrate that PTEN regulates tau phosphorylation, binding to microtubules and formation of aggregates and neurite outgrowth. These findings suggest a link between malfunction of PTEN and tauopathy, and imply PTEN as a therapeutic target for tauopathy.
The proteolytic cleavage of Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and signaling receptor Notch is mediated by the PS/gamma-secretase complex, which consists of presenilins, nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2. Although the four components are known to coordinately regulate each other at the protein level, information regarding their transcription regulation is scarce. Here we characterized the 5'-flanking region of the human APH-1A gene and identified a 271-bp fragment containing the transcription initiation site for the promoter activity. Sequence analysis, mutagenesis, and gel shift studies revealed a binding of AP4 and HIF-1 to the promoter, which affects the promoter activity. Activation of HIF-1 by short-term NiCl2 treatments (a condition of chemical hypoxia) dramatically increased APH-1A mRNA and protein expression, accompanied by increased secretion of Abeta and decreased APP CTFs formation, indicative of an increase in gamma-secretase activity. NiCl2 treatments had little effect on APP and the other three components of the gamma-secretase complex. The cellular concentration of Notch intracellular domain (NICD) was also increased by the hypoxic treatment. Our results demonstrate that APH-1A expression and the gamma-secretase mediated Abeta and Notch NICD generation are regulated by HIF-1, and the specific control of APH-1A expression may imply physiological functions uniquely assigned to APH-1A.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is postulated to play a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We recently proposed a pathway of Abeta-induced toxicity that is APP dependent and involves the facilitation of APP complex formation by Abeta. The APP-dependent component requires cleavage of APP at position 664 in the cytoplasmic domain, presumably by caspases or caspase-like proteases, with release of a potentially cytotoxic C31 peptide. In this study we show that Abeta interacted directly and specifically with membrane-bound APP to facilitate APP homo-oligomerization. Using chimeric APP molecules, this interaction was shown to take place between Abeta and its homologous sequence on APP. Consistent with this finding, we demonstrated that Abeta also facilitated the oligomerization of beta-secretase cleaved APP C-terminal fragment (C99). We found that the YENPTY domain in the APP cytoplasmic tail and contained within C31 is critical for this cell death pathway. Deletion or alanine- scanning mutagenesis through this domain significantly attenuated cell death apparently without affecting either APP dimerization or cleavage at position 664. This indicated that sequences within C31 are required after its release from APP. As the YENPTY domain has been shown to interact with a number of cytosolic adaptor molecules, it is possible that the interaction of APP, especially dimeric forms of APP, with these molecules contribute to cell death.
Accumulating evidence indicates that G protein signaling plays an active role in the regulation of cell survival. Our previous study demonstrated the regulatory effects of G(i/o) proteins in nerve growth factor-induced activation of pro-survival Akt kinase. In the present study we explored the role of various members of the G(s), G(q/11) and G(12/13) subfamilies in the regulation of Akt in cultured mammalian cells. In human embryonic kidney 293 cells transiently expressing constitutively active mutants of G alpha11, G alpha14, G alpha16, G alpha12, or G alpha13 (G alpha11QL, G alpha14QL, G alpha16QL, G alpha12QL and G alpha13QL, respectively), basal phosphorylation of Akt was attenuated, as revealed by western blotting analysis using a phosphospecific anti-Akt immunoglobulin. In contrast, basal Akt phosphorylation was unaffected by the overexpression of a constitutively active G alpha(s) mutant (G alpha(s)QL). Additional experiments showed that G alpha11QL, G alpha14QL, G alpha16QL, G alpha12QL and G alpha13QL, but not G alpha(s)QL, attenuated phosphorylation of the Akt-regulated translation regulator tuberin. Moreover, they were able to inhibit the epidermal growth factor-induced Akt activation and tuberin phosphorylation. The inhibitory mechanism of Gq family members was independent of phospholipase Cbeta activation and calcium signaling because G alpha11QL, G alpha14QL and G alpha16QL remained capable of inhibiting epidermal growth factor-induced Akt activation in cells pretreated with U73122 and the intracellular calcium chelator, BAPTA/AM. Finally, overexpression of the dominant negative mutant of RhoA blocked G alpha12QL- and G alpha13QL-mediated inhibition, suggesting that activated G alpha12 and G alpha13 inhibit Akt signaling via RhoA. Collectively, this study demonstrated the inhibitory effect of activated G alpha11, G alpha14, G alpha16, G alpha12 and G alpha13 on pro-survival Akt signaling.
A balance between production and elimination of reactive oxygen species such as superoxide anion (O2*-) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) tightly regulates the homeostasis of cellular oxidative stress, which contributes to a variety of cardiovascular diseases, including hypertension. The present study assessed the hypothesis that O2*- or H2O2 levels augmented by the reduced molecular synthesis or enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), or glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), where sympathetic premotor neurons that generate tonic vasomotor tone are located, contribute to the pathogenesis of hypertension. We found that copper/zinc SOD (SOD1), manganese SOD (SOD2), or CAT, but not GPx, mRNA or protein expression and enzyme activity in the RVLM of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were significantly lower than those in normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, along with a significantly higher level of O2*- or H2O2. A causative relationship between these biochemical correlates of oxidative stress and neurogenic hypertension was established when gene transfer by microinjection of adenovirus encoding SOD1, SOD2, or CAT into the bilateral RVLM promoted a long-lasting reduction in arterial pressure in SHR, but not WKY rats, accompanied by an enhanced SOD1, SOD2, or CAT protein expression or enzyme activity and reduced O2*- or H2O2 level in the RVLM. These results together suggest that downregulation of gene expression and enzyme activity of the antioxidant SOD1, SOD2, or CAT may underlie the augmented levels of O2*- and H2O2 in the RVLM, leading to oxidative stress and hypertension in SHR.

Cortical midline glia are critical to the formation of the corpus callosum during development. The glial wedge is a population of midline glia that is located at the corticoseptal boundary and expresses repulsive/growth-inhibitory molecules that guide callosal axons as they cross the midline. The glial wedge are the first cells within the cortex to express GFAP and thus may express molecules specific for glial maturation. The corticoseptal boundary is a genetically defined boundary between the cingulate cortex (dorsal telencephalon) and the septum (ventral telencephalon). The correct dorso-ventral position of this boundary is vital to the formation of both the glial wedge and the corpus callosum. Our aim was to identify genes expressed specifically within the glial wedge that might be involved in either glial differentiation, formation of the corticoseptal boundary or development of the corpus callosum. To identify such genes we have performed a differential display PCR screen comparing RNA isolated from the glial wedge with RNA isolated from control tissues such as the neocortex and septum, of embryonic day 17 mouse brains. Using 200 different combinations of primers, we identified and cloned 67 distinct gene fragments. In situ hybridization analysis confirmed the differential expression of many of the genes, and showed that clones G24F3, G39F8 and transcription factor LZIP have specific expression patterns in the telencephalon of embryonic and postnatal brains. An RNase Protection Assay (RPA) revealed that the expression of G39F8, G24F3 and LZIP increase markedly in the telencephalon at E16 and continue to be expressed until at least P0, during the period when the corpus callosum is forming.
Retinoic acid signaling is important for patterning the central nervous system, paired appendages, digestive tract, and other organs. To begin to investigate retinoic acid signaling in zebrafish, we determined orthologies between zebrafish and tetrapod retinoic acid receptors (Rars) and examined the expression patterns of rar genes during embryonic development. Analysis of phylogenies and conserved syntenies showed that the three cloned zebrafish rar genes include raraa and rarab, which are co-orthologs of tetrapod Rara, and rarg, which is the zebrafish ortholog of tetrapod Rarg. We did not, however, find an ortholog of Rarb. RNA in situ hybridization experiments showed that rarab and rarg, are maternally expressed. Zygotic expression of raraa occurs predominantly in the hindbrain, lateral mesoderm, and tailbud. Zygotic expression of rarab largely overlaps that of raraa, except that in later stages rarab is expressed more broadly in the brain and in the pectoral fin bud and pharyngeal arches. Zygotic expression of zebrafish rarg also overlaps the other two genes, but it is expressed more strongly in the posterior hindbrain beginning in late somitogenesis as well as in neural crest cells in the pharyngeal arches. Thus, these three genes have largely overlapping expression patterns and a few gene-specific expression domains. Knowledge of these expression patterns will guide the interpretation of the roles these genes play in development.
Zic transcription factors regulate the expression of neural and neural crest-specific genes and are expressed in the cells of the dorsal neural tube and the premigratory neural crest. Here we characterize zic1 expression in the chick embryo during somite formation and neural crest migration. zic1 is expressed in the dorsomedial portion of epithelial somites and subsequently in the dorsomedial lip of the dermomyotome. Although zic1 is expressed in cells of the nascent myotome, it is absent from differentiated myotome cells that express myosin. As the dorsal root ganglia form, zic1 is expressed at high levels in the dorsal sclerotome and zic1 expression is more pronounced in the caudal regions of the somites. Double-label experiments showed that cells expressing zic1 are not labeled by the HNK-1 antibody specific for migratory neural crest cells. Thus, migrating neural crest cells do not express zic1.
During development of vertebrate embryos, retinoic acid plays a variety of roles that are mediated by binding to retinoic acid receptors (Rars) and their heterodimerization partners, the retinoid receptors (Rxrs). Here, we characterize the expression patterns of four zebrafish rxr genes during development and provide an analysis of the phylogenetic relationships between zebrafish and tetrapod Rxr genes based on sequence similarities and conserved syntenies. This analysis prompted the renaming of several of the zebrafish rxr genes to match their tetrapod orthologs. Understanding phylogenetic relationships among Rxr genes and their expression patterns during development provides a foundation for future studies of Rxr functions.
Lentiviral vectors are promising tools for CNS gene transfer since they efficiently transduce the cells of the nervous system in vivo. In this study, we have investigated the transduction efficiency of lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with Ross River virus glycoprotein (RRV-G) (RRV-G-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors (RRV-LV)). The RRV is an alphavirus with an extremely broad host range, including the cells of the central nervous system. Previous studies have shown that lentiviral vectors can be efficiently pseudotyped with this envelope protein and have demonstrated promising features of such vectors, including the possibility to establish stable producer cell lines. After injection of RRV-LV expressing green fluorescent protein into different structures in the rat brain we found efficient transduction of both neurons and glial cells. By using two cell-type-specific promoters, neuron-specific enolase and human glial fibrillary acidic protein, we demonstrated cell-specific transgene expression in the desired cell type. Ross River virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors also transduced human neural progenitor cells in vitro, showing that receptors for the RRV-G are present on human neural cells.
The gene for the Light Chain fragment of Tetanus Toxin (LC) induces synaptic inhibition by preventing the release of synaptic vesicles. The present experiment applied this approach within the rat midbrain in order to demonstrate that LC gene expression can achieve functionally and anatomically discrete effects within a sensitive brain structure. The deep layers of the superior colliculus/deep mesencephalic nucleus (dSC/DpMe) that are located in the rostral midbrain has been implicated in fear-induced increase of the acoustic startle reflex (fear potentiated startle) but exists in close proximity to neural structures important for a variety of critical functions. The dSC/DpMe of adult rats was injected bilaterally with adenoviral vectors for LC, green fluorescent protein, or vehicle. Synaptobrevin was depleted in brain regions of adenoviral LC expression. LC gene expression in the dSC/DpMe inhibited the increase in startle amplitude seen with the control viral infection, and blocked context-dependent potentiation of startle induced by fear conditioning. Although LC gene expression reduced the absolute amount of cue-specific fear potentiated startle, it did not decrease percent potentiated startle to a cue, nor did it reduce fear-induced contextual freezing, nonspecific locomotor activity, or general health, indicating that its effects were functionally and anatomically specific. Thus, vector-driven LC expression inhibits the function of deep brain nuclei without altering the function of surrounding structures supporting its application to therapeutic neuromodulation.
We have adapted to mice a holeboard-learning task, which allows simultaneous assessment of spatial working and reference-memory performance. The holeboard apparatus consists of an open-field chamber with a 16-hole floor insert. Across trials, animals have to learn that the same four holes of 16 are always baited. Here, we show that C57BL/6 mice readily acquire this task within 4 days when submitted to six trials per day or within 8 days when submitted to only four trials per day. We also show that C57BL/6, Swiss-Webster, CD-1 and DBA/2 mice acquire this task similarly, despite the fact that some differences could be observed in measures of exploratory activity during habituation and training. Moreover, the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine disrupts learning at doses of 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg, although the highest dose appeared to have side-effects. Lastly, we found that amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice have a selective disruption in their working-memory performance only during reversal training (i.e. after a change in the configuration of the baited holes). Overall, our data indicate that this spatial learning task is well adapted to mice and will be useful to characterize spatial memory in various genetic or pharmacological mouse models.
A growing body of research implicates genetic factors and childhood trauma in the etiology of neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia. However, there remains little understanding of how genetic variation influences early life stress to affect later disease susceptibility. Studies in rats have shown that postnatal maternal separation (MS) results in later deficits in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response (PPI), an impairment in sensorimotor gating found in schizophrenic patients. In the present study, genetic differences in the effects of repeated MS on PPI were examined in eight inbred strains of mice (129S1/SvImJ, 129P3/J, A/J, BALB/cJ, BALB/cByJ C57BL/6J, DBA/2J and FVB/NJ). Mice were assigned to either MS (180 min/day on postnatal days P0-P13), 'handling' (15 min/day, P0-P13) or facility-reared conditions and tested for PPI at 12 weeks of age. Results demonstrated major strain differences in the production of viable offspring irrespective of MS, leading to the exclusion of 129P3/J, A/J and BALB/cJ from the study. Pups from the five remaining strains exhibited marked differences in the acoustic startle response and PPI, confirming previous strain comparisons. However, MS produced no significant effects on PPI in any of the strains tested. A second form of postnatal stress (repeated footshock) also failed to alter PPI in the one strain studied, C57BL/6J. Present results demonstrate that the form of MS studied herein does not provide a robust model of early life stress effects on PPI in the mouse strains tested. The development and validation of a reliable mouse model of early life stress remains an important research goal.
Consecutive cleavages of Alzheimer's amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) generate intracellular domain fragment (AICD). Interaction of APP and/or AICD with the adaptor protein FE65 is thought to modulate the metabolism of APP and the function of AICD. Phosphorylation or amino acid substitution of APP and AICD at threonine 668 (Thr668) suppresses their association with FE65. Here, we analyzed the function of APP and AICD phosphorylation in the nuclear translocation of FE65. In brain, AICD was present as phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms with non-phosphorylated AICD being dominantly detected in the nucleus. However, a mutant AICD (AICDa), in which Thr668 of AICD was replaced with Ala, was also mostly localized to the nucleus. These observations indicate that phosphorylation of AICD does not regulate the translocation of FE65 and that FE65 does not accompany AICD into the nucleus. APP was known to tether FE65 to the membrane. We found that phosphorylation of APP liberated membrane-bound FE65, which was then translocated into the nucleus where it up-regulated gene transactivation mediated by AICD, which was translocated into the nucleus independently of FE65. Therefore, phosphorylation of APP but not AICD modulates FE65-dependent gene transactivation mediated by AICD through the regulation of FE65 intracellular localization.
The tetracycline derivatives minocycline (MINO) and doxycycline (DOXY) have been shown to be neuroprotective in in vivo and in vitro models of stroke. This neuroprotection is thought to be due to the suppression of microglial activation. However, the specific molecular parameters in microglia of the tetracyclines' effect are not understood. We subjected cultured rat microglial and neuronal cells to in vitro hypoxia and examined the effects of MINO and DOXY pre-treatments. Our data showed that MINO and DOXY protect against hypoxia-induced neuronal death by a mechanism dependent on regulation of microglial factors, but likely unrelated to regulation of microglial proliferation/viability. Both MINO and DOXY suppressed the hypoxic activation of ED-1, a marker for microglial activation. Morphological analyses of hypoxic microglia using the microglial marker Iba1 revealed that treatment with MINO and DOXY caused a higher percentage of microglia to remain in a non-activated state. MINO suppressed the hypoxic upregulation of pro-inflammatory agents nitric oxide (NO), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), while DOXY down-regulated only NO and IL-1beta. In contrast, the hypoxic activation of pro-survival/neuroprotective microglial proteins, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), were unaffected by tetracycline treatments. Taken together, these results suggest that MINO and DOXY may provide neuroprotection against stroke by selectively down-regulating microglial toxic factors while maintaining functional pro-survival factors.

The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has long been postulated to play an integral role in the pathophysiology of migraine. While clinical findings are consistent with such a role, the specific pathogenic mechanisms of CGRP in migraine have remained speculative until recently. Through advances in molecular neuroscience, the pathogenic mechanisms of CGRP in migraine have begun to be elucidated. This paper discusses the hypothesized role of CGRP in migraine and reviews recent findings on the molecular mechanisms of this neuropeptide in migraine pathophysiology. Studies in cultured trigeminal neurons demonstrate that CGRP is released from trigeminal ganglia cells, that CGRP transcription is increased under conditions mimicking neurogenic inflammation, that migraine pharmacotherapies can both reduce CGRP release and inhibit CGRP transcription, and that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), an endogenous inflammatory mediator implicated in migraine, can stimulate CGRP transcription. Together, the results suggest that, in migraine, activation of trigeminal nerves release CGRP and other peptides that cause the release of proinflammatory mediators. These mediators further increase CGRP synthesis and release over hours to days in correspondence with the 4- to 72-hour duration of a typical migraine episode. The increased CGRP synthesis and release might be mediated by activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways, which, in turn, can be modulated by endogenous inflammatory substances such as TNF-alpha and affected by drugs such as sumatriptan.


The behavior of an individual within a social aggregation profoundly influences behavior and physiology of other animals within the aggregation in such a way that these social interactions can enhance reproductive success, survival and fitness. This phenomenon is particularly important during the breeding season when males and female must synchronize their reproductive efforts. We examined whether exposure to conspecific social cues can elevate sex steroid levels, specifically estradiol and androgens, in female tngara frogs (Physalaemus pustulosus). We compared plasma estradiol and androgen concentrations in wild-caught females before and after exposure to either natural mate choruses or random tones. After exposure to mate choruses for 10 consecutive nights, estradiol concentrations were significantly elevated whereas there was no significant elevation in estradiol concentrations in the group of females exposed to random tones for 10 nights. Plasma androgen concentrations were not significantly changed after exposure to either natural mate choruses or random tones for 10 consecutive nights. Social modulation of estradiol concentrations may be important in maintaining a female's reproductive state while males are chorusing. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate social regulation of estradiol concentration in female anurans.
Hormonal and emotional responses to stress are diminished during pregnancy and the postpartum period. However, the effects of stress on learning during these stages of the female life span have not been examined. In previous studies, we have reported that exposure to an acute stressful event reduces classical eyeblink conditioning 24 h later in adult virgin female rats that are experiencing an ovarian cycle. Here we show that conditioning during late pregnancy was similarly reduced by stressful experience. However, conditioning in postpartum females was unaffected by stressor exposure. The resistance to stress during the postpartum period was evident as early as 2 days after parturition and persisted until the late postpartum period, just prior to weaning. Postpartum conditioning was unresponsive to numerous types of stressors, including brief inescapable tailshocks, swim stress, and exposure to a male intruder. The resistance to stress appears to be dependent on the presence of the offspring, because the impairment in conditioning returned when postpartum females were separated from their pups. Moreover, the resistance to stress occurred in virgin females that behaved maternally after being exposed to young pups for several days. Together, these data suggest that the presence of offspring and the nurturing and care-giving activities that they elicit protect females from the adverse effect of stress on processes involved in learning and memory.
The aim of the present review, which highlights some relationships between sex hormones, the CNS and pain, is to provide reference points for discussion on one of the most intriguing aspects of pain pathophysiology: the presence of sex differences in the response threshold to phasic painful stimuli and in the incidence of chronic pain syndromes. The first part of the review deals with sex steroids and their mechanisms of action. In the second part, the connections between sex steroids, the CNS and pain are illustrated to introduce possible areas of discussion in the study of sex differences in experimental and clinical pain.
High blood pressure (BP) is common in acute stroke and is independently associated with a poor outcome. Lowering BP might improve outcome if it did not adversely affect cerebral blood flow (CBF) or cerebral perfusion pressure. We investigated the effect of glyceryl trinitrate ([GTN] an NO donor) on quantitative CBF, BP, and cerebral perfusion pressure in patients with recent stroke. Eighteen patients with recent (&lt;5 days) ischemic (n=16) or hemorrhagic (n=2) stroke were randomly assigned (2:1) to transdermal GTN (5 mg) or control. CBF (global, hemispheric, arterial territory, and lesion, using xenon computed tomography) and BP (peripheral and central) were measured before and 1 hour after treatment with GTN. The effects of GTN on CBF and BP were adjusted for baseline measurements (ANCOVA). GTN lowered peripheral systolic BP by (mean) 23 mm Hg (95% CI, 2 to 45; P=0.03) and central systolic BP by 22 mm Hg (95% CI, 0 to 44; P=0.048). In contrast, GTN did not alter CBF (mL/min per 100 g): global -1.2 (95% CI, -6.5 to 4.2; P=0.66) and ipsilateral hemisphere -1.4 (95% CI, -7.6 to 4.9; P=0.65) or area of stroke oligemia, penumbra, or core (as defined by critical CBF limits). Contralateral CBF did not change: hemisphere 0 (95% CI, -7 to 6; P=0.96). GTN did not alter cerebral perfusion pressure or zero-filling pressure. Significant reductions in BP after transdermal GTN are not associated with changes in CBF or cerebral perfusion pressure or cerebral steal in patients with recent stroke. Trials need to assess the effect of lowering BP on functional outcome.
San Raffaele Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy is developing an adenosine deaminase-transduced hematopoietic stem cell therapy for the potential intravenous treatment of adenosine deaminase deficiency in severe combined immunocompromised individuals.
One of the critical issues in brain-computer interface (BCI) research is how to translate a person's intention into brain signals for controlling computer programs. The motor system is currently the primary focus, where signals are obtained during imagined motor responses. However, cognitive brain systems are also attractive candidates, in that they may be more amenable to conscious control, yielding better regulation of magnitude and duration of localized brain activity. We report on a proof of principle study for the potential use of a higher cognitive system for BCI, namely the working memory (WM) system. We show that mental calculation reliably activates the WM network as measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Moreover, activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) indicates that this region is active for the duration of mental processing. This supports the notion that DLPFC can be activated, and remains active, at will. Further confirmation is obtained from a patient with an implanted electrode grid for diagnostic purposes, in that gamma power within DLPFC increases during mental calculation and remains elevated for the duration thereof. These results indicate that cortical regions involved in higher cognitive functions may serve as a readily self-controllable input for BCI applications. It also shows that fMRI is an effective tool for identifying function-specific foci in individual subjects for subsequent placement of cortical electrodes. The fact that electrocorticographic (ECoG) signal confirmed the functional localization of fMRI provides a strong argument for incorporating fMRI in BCI research.
In this paper, we examine the control signals that are required to generate stepping using two different intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) paradigms and discuss the theoretical feasibility of controlling ISMS-evoked stepping using a brain computer interface. Tonic (constant amplitude) and phasic (modulated amplitude) ISMS protocols were used to produce stepping in the hind limbs of paralyzed cats. Low-amplitude tonic ISMS activated a spinal locomotor-like network that resulted in bilateral stepping of the hind limbs. Phasic ISMS generated coordinated stepping by simultaneously activating flexor synergies in one limb coupled with extensor synergies in the other. Using these ISMS paradigms, we propose that one or two independent cortical signals will be adequate for controlling ISMS-induced stepping after SCI.
Calcium influx is crucial for T cell activation and differentiation. The detailed regulation of this process remains unclear. We report here that golli protein, an alternatively spliced product of the myelin basic protein gene, plays a critical role in regulating calcium influx in T cells. Golli-deficient T cells were hyperproliferative and showed enhanced calcium entry upon T cell receptor stimulation. We further found that golli regulates calcium influx in T cells through the inhibition of the store depletion-induced calcium influx. Mutation of the myristoylation site on golli disrupted its association with the plasma membrane and reversed its inhibitory action on Ca2+ influx, indicating that membrane association of golli was essential for its inhibitory action. These results indicate that golli functions in a unique way to regulate T cell activation through a mechanism involving the modulation of the calcium homeostasis.

The paper presents a methodology for using computational neurogenetic modelling (CNGM) to bring new original insights into how genes influence the dynamics of brain neural networks. CNGM is a novel computational approach to brain neural network modelling that integrates dynamic gene networks with artificial neural network model (ANN). Interaction of genes in neurons affects the dynamics of the whole ANN model through neuronal parameters, which are no longer constant but change as a function of gene expression. Through optimization of interactions within the internal gene regulatory network (GRN), initial gene/protein expression values and ANN parameters, particular target states of the neural network behaviour can be achieved, and statistics about gene interactions can be extracted. In such a way, we have obtained an abstract GRN that contains predictions about particular gene interactions in neurons for subunit genes of AMPA, GABAA and NMDA neuro-receptors. The extent of sequence conservation for 20 subunit proteins of all these receptors was analysed using standard bioinformatics multiple alignment procedures. We have observed abundance of conserved residues but the most interesting observation has been the consistent conservation of phenylalanine (F at position 269) and leucine (L at position 353) in all 20 proteins with no mutations. We hypothesise that these regions can be the basis for mutual interactions. Existing knowledge on evolutionary linkage of their protein families and analysis at molecular level indicate that the expression of these individual subunits should be coordinated, which provides the biological justification for our optimized GRN.
Valproate is now the most widely prescribed mood-stabilizing drug and is being used increasingly in the treatment of bipolar disorder. However, the mechanism of action for valproate remains unclear. Microarray analysis was used to identify genes and cellular pathways that are affected in the mouse brain after treatment with valproate at human therapeutic concentrations. This study has identified 11 genes that are differentially expressed by &gt;or=2-fold when compared to control untreated mice. Altered expression of four of these genes was also validated by quantitative PCR analysis. Valproate was found to significantly decrease the expression of zinc finger protein of the cerebellum 1 (ZIC1) and increase the expression of Scm-related gene containing four mbt domains (SFMBT2), structural maintenance of chromosome 4-like 1 (SCM4L1), and prostate apoptosis response-4 (PAR-4). Many of the genes identified are involved in the development and function of the brain. These results indicate that valproate regulates a large number of different functional pathways in the brain. Understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which valproate achieves its therapeutic action represents a valuable step in clarifying the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder.
This article evaluates diagnostic sensitivity of minimal F-wave latency, sural/radial amplitude ratio (SRAR), dorsal sural/radial amplitude ratio (DSRAR), sympathetic skin response (SSR), and R-R interval variability (RRIV) for detecting early polyneuropathy in patients with glucose intolerance and diabetic patients. F-wave latencies were more prolonged in diabetic patients with normal and abnormal nerve conduction studies than control subjects (p &lt; .001). SRAR was lower, SSR latency was more prolonged, and RRIV was lower in diabetic patients with abnormal nerve conduction studies than healty controls (p &lt; .001). SSR latency was more prolonged and RRIV was lower in diabetic patients with normal nerve conduction studies than healty controls (p &lt; .01, p &lt; .05, respectively). DSRAR was lower in diabetic patients with normal and abnormal nerve conduction studies than control subjects (p &lt; .001). DSRAR was also lower in patients with glucose intolerance than control subjects (p &lt; .01). DSRAR was the most sensitive and specific test in either of diabetic patients with normal nerve conduction studies (sensitivity 66%, specificity 90%) and diabetic patients with abnormal nerve conduction studies (sensitivity 100%, specificity 90%). DSRAR is the most reliable method for detection of early nerve pathology. Patients with glucose intolerance might have subclinical neuropathy that can be demonstrated with DSRAR analysis.
Due to the adaptive value of emotional situations, categorizing along the valence dimension may be supported by critical brain functions. The present study examined emotion-cognition relationships by focusing on the influence of an emotional categorization task on the cognitive processing induced by an oddball-like paradigm. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from subjects explicitly asked to categorize along the valence dimension (unpleasant, neutral or pleasant) deviant target pictures embedded in a train of standard stimuli. Late positivities evoked in response to the target pictures were decomposed into a P3a and a P3b and topographical differences were observed according to the valence content of the stimuli. P3a showed enhanced amplitudes at posterior sites in response to unpleasant pictures as compared to both neutral and pleasant pictures. This effect is interpreted as a negativity bias related to attentional processing. The P3b component was sensitive to the arousal value of the stimulation, with higher amplitudes at several posterior sites for both types of emotional pictures. Moreover, unpleasant pictures evoked smaller amplitudes than pleasant ones at fronto-central sites. Thus, the context updating process may be differentially modulated by the affective arousal and valence of the stimulus. The present study supports the assumption that, during an emotional categorization, the emotional content of the stimulus may modulate the reorientation of attention and the subsequent updating process in a specific way.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies have shown that the neural systems engaged during performance of oddball tasks are sensitive to contextual manipulations, such as the number of stimulus classes. Some ERP components (i.e., N1) are modulated by the number of stimulus types, while others (i.e., P3) are not greatly affected. However, little is known about how these contextual manipulations affect the hemodynamics underlying oddball processing. The purpose of this study was to examine the hemodynamic correlates of target stimulus processing in single-tone (targets alone) and two-tone (targets and standard tones) auditory oddball tasks. The primary hypothesis was that processing of salient stimuli in both contextual conditions would engage the same spatially distributed cortical and subcortical networks observed in previous oddball fMRI studies. Results were consistent with this hypothesis and suggest that the brain engages many potentially useful brain regions during salient stimulus processing despite the low probability that said regions are necessary for task performance, which likely reflects a form of &quot;adaptive reflexive processing&quot;. Results were also consistent with ERP data that shows that the N1 is larger for single-tone tasks by showing greater amplitude of hemodynamic response for single-tone targets, relative to two-tone targets, in bilateral temporal cortex and bilateral inferior lateral frontal cortex. The results are discussed as they relate to the understanding of neurocognitive function pertaining to contextual manipulations in general, and orienting processes in particular.
The basic rationale of P300-based tests of concealed information compares responses to critical ('probe') and non-critical ('irrelevant') items. Accuracy, both in the laboratory and the field, is the degree to which responding to probes exceeds that to irrelevants. The present laboratory study assessed the influence of two factors on accuracy. The first, varied between subjects, was whether the paradigm included probes, irrelevants, and target items (as is the case in most P300 preparations), or whether the paradigm included only probe and irrelevant items. The second, orthogonally varied, within-subject factor was whether the probe was an autobiographical item (the subject's name), or incidentally acquired (as in common field applications). Accuracy was greater with the subject's name as probe, perhaps because of the greater potency of autobiographical items than incidentally acquired ones, even when these are learned to a 100% accuracy. On the other hand, contrary to expectations from a work-load interpretation, the removal of the target did not affect accuracy, but rather decreased P300 magnitude to both probes and irrelevants in the non-target group.
Cephalopod body patterning is a most complex invertebrate behavior. Generated primarily by pigment-containing chromatophore organs, this behavior enables rapid alteration of body coloration as a result of direct innervation of chromatophores by motoneurons. This study focuses on location and arrangement of fin chromatophore motoneurons in the cuttlefish Sepia and investigates the possibility of central topography. Retrograde labeling of topographically arranged fin nerve branches in the periphery revealed the posterior subesophageal mass (PSEM) of the brain as the primary location of fin chromatophore motoneurons; within this region, most cells were located in the posterior chromatophore and fin lobes. Additionally, a small percentage of labeled motoneurons occurred in the anterior subesophageal mass and the stellate ganglia. Data from three-dimensional reconstructions of PSEMs showed the arrangement of labeled motoneurons within individual lobes; these data suggest no obvious topographic arrangement. Further, electrical stimulation of the PSEM generated chromatophore activity on the fin and mantle. These stimulation results, coupled with the retrograde labeling, suggest that chromatophore motoneurons are located across multiple PSEM lobes.
The pharynx of Caenorhabditis elegans consists of a syncytium of radially orientated muscle cells that contract synchronously and rhythmically to ingest and crush bacteria and pump them into the intestine of the animal. The action potentials that support this activity are superficially similar to vertebrate cardiac action potentials in appearance with a long, calcium-dependent plateau phase. Although the pharyngeal muscle can generate action potentials in the absence of external calcium ions, action potentials are absent when sodium is removed from the extracellullar solution (Franks et al. 2002). Here we have used whole cell patch clamp recordings from the pharynx and show low voltage-activated inward currents that are present in zero external calcium and reduced in zero external sodium ions. Whilst the lack of effect of zero calcium when sodium ions are present is not surprising in view of the known permeability of voltage-gated calcium channels to sodium ions, the reduction in current in zero sodium when calcium ions are present is harder to explain in terms of a conventional voltage-gated calcium channel. Inward currents were also recorded from egl-19 (n582) which has a loss of function mutation in the pharyngeal L-type calcium channel and these were also markedly reduced in zero external sodium. Despite this apparent dependence on external sodium ions, the current was partially blocked by the divalent cations, cadmium, barium and nickel. Using single-channel recordings we identified a cation channel for which the open-time duration was increased by depolarisation. In inside-out patches, the single-channel conductance was highest in symmetrical sodium solution. Further studies are required to determine the contribution of these channels to the pharyngeal action potential.

The paper revises the complex theory in the light of modern infant research, neurosciences and object relation theory. The author takes up Jean Knox's idea to understand complexes as analogies to the internal working models of attachment theory. The author proposes to understand complexes as dissociated sub-networks out of the network structure of the psyche; these sub-networks contain the internal working models, the characteristic affects and unconscious expectation phantasies. With this network model one can try to understand severe defensive organizations in some patients as a pathological organization of different complexes. This is illustrated by a clinical example.
An exploration into the world of the queer others of gender and sexuality moves us beyond the binary opposition of male/masculinity and female/femininity in our understanding of gender and expands the meaning of gender and sexuality for all humans. A revision of Jungian gender theory that embraces all genders and sexualities is needed not only to inform our clinical work but also to allow us to bring Jungian thought to contemporary gender theory and to cultural struggles such as gay marriage. The cognitive and developmental neurosciences are increasingly focused on the importance of body biology and embodied experience to the emergence of mind. In my exploration of gender I ask how gender comes to be experienced in a developing body and how those embodied gender feelings elaborate into a conscious category in the mind, a gender position. My understanding of emergent mind theory suggests that one's sense of gender, like other aspects of the mind, emerges very early in development from a self-organizing process involving an individual's particular body biology, the brain, and cultural environment. Gendered feeling, from this perspective, would be an emergent aspect of mind and not an archetypal inheritance, and the experiencing body would be key to gender emergence. A revised Jungian gender theory would transcend some of the limitations of Jung's anima/animus (A/A) gender thinking allowing us to contribute to contemporary gender theory in the spirit of another Jung; the Jung of the symbolic, the mythic, and the subtle body. This is the Jung who invites us to the medial place of the soul, bridging the realm of the physical body and the realm of the spirit.
Long-term exposure to intermittent hypoxia (IH), such as that occurring in association with sleep apnea, may result in systemic hypertension; however, the time course changes in arterial pressure, autonomic functions, and baroreflex sensitivity are still unclear. We investigated the changes in cardiovascular neural regulations during the development of chronic IH-induced hypertension in rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to repetitive 1.25-min cycles (30 s of N2+45 s of 21% O2) of IH or room air (RA) for 6 h/day during light phase (10 AM-4 PM) for 30 days. Arterial pressure was measured daily using the telemetry system during RA breathing. The mean arterial pressure (MAP) and interpulse interval (PPI) signals were then used to assess the autonomic functions and spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity by auto- and cross-spectral analysis, respectively. Stable MAP, low-frequency power of MAP (BLF), and low-frequency power (LF)-to-high frequency power (HF) ratio of PPI (LF/HF) were significantly higher in IH-exposed rats, compared with those of RA-exposed rats. Elevation of the MAP, BLF, LF/HF, and minute ventilation started 5 days after IH exposure and lasted until the end of the 30-day observation period. Additionally, IH-exposed rats had significant lower slope of MAP-PPI linear regression (under a successively descending and ascending) and magnitude of MAP-PPI transfer function (at frequency ranges of 0.06-0.6 Hz or 0.6-2.4 Hz) after IH exposure for 17 days. However, RA-exposed rats did not exhibit these changes. The results of this study indicate that chronic IH-induced hypertension is associated with a facilitation of cardiovascular sympathetic outflow and inhibition of baroreflex sensitivity in conscious rats.
Currently, the most popular means of assessing functional activity of Gs/olf-coupled receptors is via the measurement of intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation. An additional readout is the downstream phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB), which gives an indication of gene transcription, the ultimate response of many G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signals. Current methods of quantifying CREB phosphorylation are low throughput, and so we have designed a novel higher throughput method using the Odyssey infrared imaging system. Functional potencies of both agonists and antagonists correlate well with radioligand binding affinities determined using examples of both an endogenous (adenosine(2A) receptor in PC-12 cells) and a heterologous (human melanocortin 4 receptor in HEK-293 cells) expression system. For example, the antagonist ZM241385 demonstrates 0.23+/-0.03 nM affinity for the A(2A) receptor and has a functional potency of 0.26+/-0.04 nM determined using cAMP and 0.15+/-0.06 nM using CREB phosphorylation. These data demonstrate that this novel approach for the measurement of CREB phosphorylation is a useful tool for the assessment of GPCR activity in whole cells and is more amenable to the throughput required for the purposes of drug discovery.
Transcription of the HIV-1 genome is a complex event that requires functional and physical communication of cellular proteins that recognize the LTR sequence with viral proteins, most notably, Tat. Moreover, studies have revealed the ability of Tat to induce transcription of a variety of cellular genes whose products can affect the status of cells, thus contributing to the pathogenesis of AIDS. Recently, we demonstrated that expression of Tat in astrocytes and other neural cells leads to upregulation of Rad51, a major component of DNA repair via homologous recombination. The unscheduled upregulation of Rad51, in turn, has an impact upon the extent of chromosomal abnormalities that are seen in Tat-producing cells. Here, we asked whether an elevation in Rad51 levels influences the extent of viral gene transcription in astrocytic cells. Our results demonstrate that ectopic expression of Rad51 enhances the basal- and the Tat-induced transcription of the LTR promoter. This event requires cooperativity from the C/EBP family of transcription factors including C/EBPbeta and C/EBPbeta homologous protein (CHOP). Similar to Tat, we showed that Rad51 interacts with C/EBPbeta and augments its interaction with the DNA motif spanning nucleotides -120 to -94 of the LTR. Interestingly, Tat exhibited the capacity to augment the synergism between Rad51 and C/EBPbeta. Our results also demonstrate that the level of activation of the LTR by CHOP and Tat, either alone or together, is elevated in the presence of the SW1/SNF1 chromatin remodeling complex. These observations unravel a new pathway for Tat activation of the LTR that includes the positive feedback loop involving Rad51 and C/EBPbeta family proteins.
Hypoxic/ischemic and traumatic injury to central nervous system myelinated axons is heavily dependent on accumulation of Ca ions in the axoplasm, itself promoted by Na influx from the extracellular space. Given the high density of nodal Na channels, we hypothesized that nodes of Ranvier might be particularly vulnerable to Ca overload and subsequent damage, as this is the expected locus of maximal Na influx. Adult rat optic nerves were exposed to in vitro anoxia and analyzed immunohistochemically for the presence of spectrin breakdown. Cleavage of spectrin became detectable between 15 and 30 mins of anoxia, and increased homogeneously along the lengths of fibers; localized breakdown was not observed at nodes of Ranvier at any time point analyzed. Spectrin breakdown was also found in glial processes surrounding axons. Confocal imaging of axoplasmic Ca also revealed a gradual and nonlocalized increase as anoxia progressed, without evidence of Ca 'hot-spots' anywhere along the axons at any time between 0 and 30 mins of anoxic exposure in vitro. Calculations of Ca diffusion rates indicated that even if Ca entered or was released focally in axons, this ion would diffuse rapidly into the internodes and likely produce diffuse injury by activating Ca-dependent proteases. Western blot analysis for voltage-gated Na channel protein revealed that key functional proteins such as these are also degraded by anoxia/ischemia. Thus, proteolysis of structural and functional proteins will conspire to irreversibly injure central axons and render them nonfunctional, eventually leading to transection, degradation, and Wallerian degeneration.
NO-responsive, cGMP-producing structures are abundantly present in the cervical spinal cord. NO-mediated cGMP synthesis has been implicated in nociceptive signaling and it has been demonstrated that cGMP has a role establishing synaptic connections in the spinal cord during development. As cGMP levels are controlled by the activity of soluble guanylyl cyclase (synthesis) and the phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity (breakdown), we studied the influence of PDE activity on NO-stimulated cGMP levels in the rat cervical spinal cord. cGMP-immunoreactivity (cGMP-IR) was localized in sections prepared from slices incubated in vitro. A number of reported PDE isoform-selective PDE inhibitors was studied in combination with diethylamineNONOate (DEANO) as a NO-donor including isobutyl-methylxanthine (IBMX) as a non-selective PDE inhibitor. We studied 8-methoxy-IBMX as a selective PDE1 inhibitor, erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (EHNA) and BAY 60-7550 as selective PDE2 inhibitors, sildenafil as a selective PDE5 inhibitor, dipyridamole as a mixed type PDE5 and PDE10 inhibitor, rolipram as a PDE4 inhibitor, and SCH 81566 as a selective PDE9 inhibitor. cGMP-IR structures (nerve fibers, axons, and terminals) were characterized using the following neurochemical markers: vesicular transporter molecules for acetylcholine, GABA, and glutamate (type 1 and type 2), parvalbumin, glutamate transporter molecule EAAT3, synaptophysin, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and isolectin B4. Most intense cGMP-IR was observed in the dorsal lamina. Ventral motor neurons were devoid of cGMP-IR. cGMP-IR was observed in GABAergic, and glutamatergic terminals in all gray matter laminae. cGMP-IR was abundantly colocalized with anti-vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGLUT2), however not with the anti-vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (vGLUT1), suggesting a functional difference between structures expressing vGLUT1 or vGLUT2. cGMP-IR did not colocalize with substance P- or calcitonin-gene related peptide-IR structures, however did partially colocalize with isolectin B4 in the dorsal horn. cGMP-IR in cholinergic structures was observed in dorsal root fibers entering the spinal cord, occasionally in laminae 1-3, in laminae 8 and 9 in isolated boutons and in the C-type terminals, and in small cells and varicosities in lamina 10. This latter observation suggests that the proprioceptive interneurons arising in lamina 10 are also NO-responsive. No region-specific nor a constant co-expression of cGMP-IR with various neuronal markers was observed after incubation of the slices with one of the selected PDE inhibitors. Expression of the mRNA of PDE2, 5, and 9 was observed in all lamina. The ventral motor neurons and the ependymal cells lining the central canal expressed all three PDE isoforms. Incubation of the slices in the presence of IBMX, DEANO in combination with BAY 41-2272, a NO-independent activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase, provided evidence for endogenous NO synthesis in the slice preparations and enhanced cGMP-IR in all lamina. Under these conditions cGMP-IR colocalized with substance P in a subpopulation of substance P-IR fibers. It is concluded that NO functions as a retrograde neurotransmitter in the spinal cord but that also postsynaptic structures are NO-responsive by producing cGMP. cGMP-IR in a subpopulation of isolectin B4 positive fibers and boutons is indicative for a role of NO-cGMP signaling in nociceptive processing. cGMP levels in the spinal cord are controlled by the concerted action of a number of PDE isoforms, which can be present in the same cell.
Natriuretic peptides (NP) and the corresponding receptors are present in the rodent spinal cord. We have studied the structures which respond to atrial natriuretic peptide, brain natriuretic peptide, or C-type natriuretic peptide with an increased synthesis of cGMP. NP-responsive cGMP-producing structures were observed in laminae I-III, and X, and in addition in ependymal cells, astrocytes and a subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion cells. As the cGMP concentration is controlled by the rate of synthesis and the rate of breakdown by phosphodiesterases, we studied NP-responsive structures in spinal cord slices incubated in the presence of different phosphodiesterase inhibitors. We studied EHNA and BAY 60-7550 as selective PDE2 inhibitors, sildenafil as a selective PDE5 inhibitors, dipyridamole as a mixed type PDE5 and PDE10 inhibitor, rolipram as a PDE4 inhibitor, and SCH 81566 as a selective PDE9 inhibitor. Double immunostainings showed that cGMP-IR colocalized partial with the vesicular acetylcholine transporter molecule in lamina X, with Substance P in a subpopulation of neuronal fibers situated dorsolateral, and with a subpopulation of CGRP-IR dorsal root ganglion neurons. Colocalization of cGMP-IR was absent with parvalbumin, synaptophysin, and the vesicular transporter molecules for GABA and glutamate. It is concluded that NPs in the spinal cord are probably involved in integrating intersegmental sensory processing in the spinal cord although the greater part of the NP-responsive cGMP-producing fibers could not be characterized. PDE2, 5, and 9 are involved in regulating NP-stimulated cGMP levels in the spinal cord. NPs may have a role in regulating cerebrospinal fluid homeostasis.
The distribution of galanin was studied in the lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) and spinal cord, superior cervical ganglia (SCGs), and skin of transgenic mice overexpressing galanin under the dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) promoter (GalOE-DBH mice) and in wild type (WT) mice. The DRGs and spinal cord were analysed before and after a unilateral, complete transection (axotomy) of the sciatic nerve and after dorsal rhizotomy. Both galanin protein and transcript were studied by, respectively, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Increased galanin expression was observed in several small, medium-sized and large DRG neuron profiles (NPs) in the nave transgenic mouse, frequently in neurons lacking calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and isolectin B4-binding. This lack of coexistence was particularly evident in the medium-sized/large NPs. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, no differences were detected between GalOE-DBH and WT mice, both displaying a strong galanin-positive neuropil in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, but the transgenic mice showed a more abundant galanin-positive innervation of the ventral horn. A 12-day dorsal rhizotomy, surprisingly, failed to alter the galanin staining patterns in the dorsal (and ventral) dorsal horn. Unilateral axotomy induced upregulation of galanin in DRG NPs of all sizes in both types of mouse. In the hindpaw skin, a profuse galanin-positive fiber plexus was observed in sweat glands and around blood vessels of the transgenic mice, being much more restricted in WT mice. Finally, GalOE mice exhibited a strong galanin-like immunoreactivity in most SCG NPs. The overexpression of the peptide in DRGs and SCGs was paralleled by increased mRNA levels. The present results show that overexpression of galanin under the control of the DBH promoter does not only occur, as expected in these mice, in noradrenline/adrenaline neurons but also in DRG neurons, particularly in large and medium-sized NPs. To what extent and how this overexpression pattern is related to the previously shown elevated pain threshold under normal and lesion conditions is discussed [Grass, S., Crawley, J.N., Xu, X.J., Wiesenfeld-Hallin, Z., 2003a. Reduced spinal cord sensitization to C-fibre stimulation in mice over-expressing galanin. Eur. J. Neurosci. 17, 1829-1832; Hygge-Blakeman, K., Brumovsky, P., Hao, J.X., Xu, X.J., Hkfelt, T., Crawley, J.N., Wiesenfeld-Hallin, Z., 2004. Galanin over-expression decreases the development of neuropathic pain-like behaviour in mice after partial sciatic nerve injury. Brain Res. 1025, 152-158].
The dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN)-serotonin (5-HT) system has been implicated in acute responses to stress and stress-related psychiatric disorders such as anxiety and depression. Stress alters serotonin (5-HT) release in a regionally specific manner. For example, swim stress increases extracellular levels of 5-HT in the striatum and decreases levels in the lateral septum. This finding suggests that the 5-HT efferents to the striatum and lateral septum arise from distinct populations of DRN neurons that are differentially affected by swim stress. To further examine this, retrograde axonal transport of fluorescent RetroBeads was used to identify the distribution of DRN neurons projecting to the lateral septum and striatum in the rat brain. Retrograde labeling from the lateral septum was observed primarily within the more caudal portions of the DRN, while labeling from the striatum was observed in neurons located in the more rostral regions of the DRN. Few cell bodies were observed that were labeled from both the striatum and lateral septum suggesting that DRN neurons do not send collateralized projections to the septal region and striatum. Many septal- and striatal-projecting neurons in the DRN exhibited 5-HT, and collateralized projections, when observed, were immunoreactive for 5-HT. Taken together with previous microdialysis studies, these results support the existence of distinct DRN-5-HT-forebrain projections that are differentially regulated by stress.
This 8-week, open-label extension of a double-blind study reports on safety data for 171 adolescents with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) who received once-daily OROS methylphenidate (MPH) (18-72 mg/day). Headache, anorexia, and insomnia were the most frequently reported treatment-related adverse events. The incidence of adverse events was not related to dose. OROS MPH was safe and well tolerated at doses up to 72 mg/day.
Interstitial deletions in the terminal region of chromosome 6 are rare. The deletion most often occurs de novo. Mental retardation is always described. The most characteristic manifestations are microcephaly, micrognathia, hypotonia, typical facial appearance, strabismus, and congenital heart defects. Although this chromosomal syndrome does not appear to have a distinctive phenotype, epileptic seizures are uncommon in affected individuals. We report on a novel finding in a patient with the 46 XX karyotype and del(6)(q25-q26) who developed intractable epilepsy.

We report the case of a 19-year-old man with a drug abuse history, admitted to the intensive care unit for head and chest trauma, who experienced an acute tolerance to sedative and respiratory depression effects of remifentanil, which was given as the sole agent for sedation. He did not exhibit any signs of drug tolerance or intraoperative awareness during prolonged remifentanil-based anesthesia using propofol or sevoflurane as adjuvants. Several recent studies support the hypothesis of a possible involvement of N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptors. The clinical relevance of this report is that if a patient with a previously acute tolerance to remifentanil during sedation undergoes long-term surgery, and propofol or sevoflurane is coadministered in a remifentanil-based anesthesia, the patient will not necessarily develop opioid tolerance. It is of interest for anesthesiologists, given the high frequency of patients with drug abuse history who are admitted to intensive care units, often sedated with remifentanil, who undergo anesthesia for emergency surgery.
Failure to clear persistent viral infections results from the early loss of T cell activity. A pertinent question is whether the immune response is programmed to fail or if nonresponsive T cells can specifically be fixed to eliminate infection. Although evidence indicates that T cell expansion is permanently programmed during the initial priming events, the mechanisms that determine the acquisition of T cell function are less clear. Herein we show that in contrast to expansion, the functional programming of T cell effector and memory responses in vivo in mice is not hardwired during priming but is alterable and responsive to continuous instruction from the antigenic environment. As a direct consequence, dysfunctional T cells can be functionally reactivated during persistent infection even after an initial program of inactivation has been instituted. We also show that early therapeutic reductions in viral replication facilitate the preservation of antiviral CD4+ T cell activity, enabling the long-term control of viral replication. Thus, dysfunctional antiviral T cells can regain activity, providing a basis for future therapeutic strategies to treat persistent viral infections.


We report a 28-year-old woman who presented with a partial Brown-Sequard syndrome 18 months after a fall from a horse. Investigation revealed the cause of her symptoms to be a spinal cord herniation at the level of T6. A review of previously reported cases of posttraumatic spinal cord herniation was undertaken. Six of the cases reported have clear evidence of injury at the site of subsequent herniation; the remaining five cases may be related to trauma or may be spontaneous spinal cord herniation, with an unrelated history of trauma.
We retrospectively analysed seizure outcome and surgical results in a series of 21 patients with ganglioglioma treated with lesionectomy. The 21 patients (13 males, eight females) had a history of epilepsy longer than 1 year and post-operative follow up of at least 1 year. Information on the duration of the seizures, type and frequency was retrieved from medical records. In all patients, surgery was limited to the tumour. The interval between onset of seizures and surgery ranged from 1 to 35 years (mean 11). Patient age ranged from 6 to 61 years (mean 27.5). Fifteen patients (71.4%) had complex partial seizures and six had simple partial seizures. Secondary generalisation was present in 10 patients (47.6%). Seizure frequency varied from several per day to one per month. Sixteen tumours were temporal (76.1%; 11 temporo-mesial, five temporo-lateral), and five were extratemporal (23.8%). The mean follow-up period was 5.4 years (range: 1.25-10 years). No tumour progression was observed. No patient died during surgery or the post-operative course. Fourteen patients (66.6%) were Engel class I (five temporo-mesial, five temporo-lateral, four extratemporal) and seven (33.3%) were Engel class II. Post-operative complications were observed in six patients (28.6%), two of whom had cerebellar haemorrhage, possibly due to increased transmural venous pressure. In our patients with temporal neocortical and extratemporal ganglioglioma, lesionectomy allowed good seizure control. The unsatisfactory outcome for mesiotemporal gangliogliomas might indicate the need for extensive neurophysiological presurgical evaluation in order to perform tailored surgery. To avoid cerebellar haemorrhage, attention should be paid to those factors involved in transmural venous pressure increases.
A case of rippling muscle disease is presented and features of this rare condition, and its association with caveolin-3 are discussed.
Oligodendroglioma is a relatively uncommon primary brain tumour. The occurrence of metastatic dissemination of oligodendroglioma is rare and usually occurs in patients with anaplastic oligodendroglioma. The dissemination of WHO Grade II oligodendroglioma can occur and we report a patient with an initial diagnosis of a left temporal oligodendroglioma who presented with disseminated disease in the left temporal lobe, sellar region, medulla oblongata, both frontal lobes and ventricles more than 8 years later. Histology at dissemination showed anaplastic oligodendroglioma. Similar reports of metastatic dissemination of oligodendrogliomas reveal that the tumours may remain as WHO Grade II or may progress to anaplastic oligodendroglioma at metastasis. However, regardless of the histological grade at metastasis, the prognosis of metastatic oligodendroglioma is poor.
Anterior encephalocele is a rarely reported CNS malformation with a geographical predilection for South-East Asia. The paucity of literature prompted us to analyse our results with hemiorbital advancement and classical Tessier's operation in 103 cases over 32 years (1971-2002). In our series, the frontoethmoidal subtype was the most common (80%), followed by the orbital (8%), transethmoidal (8%), transsellar (3%) and interfrontal types (1%). All patients with classical frontoethmoidal encephalocele had swelling over the nose or inner canthus since birth, with varying degrees of hypertelorism; and those with the nasopharyngeal subtype commonly presented with nasal obstruction and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhoea. Neurofibromatosis was present in seven patients, all of whom had an orbital encephalocele. The diagnostic workup included a computerised tomography scan of the head in 96 patients and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in 16 patients. The associated findings on imaging were hydrocephalus (15%), corpus callosum agenesis (7%), arachnoid cyst (3%), porencephalic cyst (3%) and single ventricle (3%). A classical Tessier's operation was performed in the initial 30 cases. However, since 1988, we have been performing a single stage hemiorbital advancement and repair of the encephalocele. There were three deaths, one due to pneumonia and two due to fulminant meningitis. Twenty-two patients (22%) had postoperative CSF leak, of which five required lumboperitoneal shunt placement. We believe that hemiorbital advancement offers satisfactory results with less morbidity than the Tessier's operation.
The objective of this study was to prospectively evaluate sensory nerve conduction studies (NCS) in the distal lower limbs in the electrodiagnosis of peripheral neuropathy. We prospectively studied 316 consecutive patients with surface stimulation and recording, in comparison with 90 control subjects. A total of 310 patients were found to have lower limb sensory NCS abnormalities. In these patients, the rate of detection of peripheral neuropathy with superficial peroneal NCS (88.5%) was significantly higher (P&lt;0.001) compared with sural NCS (75%). The superficial peroneal NCS appeared to have a higher detection rate for peripheral neuropathy in our study, and its study can be adjunctive to sural NCS.
In a European, multicenter, double-blind study, 244 adolescents, 13 to 18 years old, with major depression were randomized to treatment with citalopram (n = 124) or placebo (n = 120). One third of the patients in both groups withdrew from the study. No significant differences in improvement of scores from baseline to week 12 between citalopram and placebo were found. The response rate was 59% to 61% in both groups according to the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for school-aged children-Present episode version (Kiddie-SADS-P) (depression and anhedonia scores &lt; or =2) and Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) (&gt; or =50% reduction). Remission (MADRS score &lt; or =12) was achieved by 51% of patients with citalopram and 53% with placebo. A post hoc analysis revealed that more than two thirds of all patients received psychotherapy during this study. For those patients not receiving psychotherapy, there was a higher percentage of Kiddie-SADS-P responders with citalopram (41%) versus placebo (25%) and a significantly higher percentage of MADRS responders and remitters with citalopram (52% and 45%, respectively) versus placebo (22% and 19%, respectively). Mild to moderate treatment-emergent adverse events were reported in 75% citalopram and 71% of placebo patients, most commonly headache, nausea, and insomnia. Serious adverse events occurred in 14% to 15% in both groups. Suicide attempts, including suicidal thoughts and tendencies, were reported by 5 patients in the placebo group and by 14 patients in the citalopram group (not significant) with no pattern with respect to duration of treatment, time of onset, or dosage. In contrast, the suicidal ideation (Kiddie-SADS-P) single item showed worsening more frequently in the placebo (18%) than in the citalopram group (8%).
The ability to use abstract rules or principles allows behavior to generalize from specific circumstances. We have previously shown that such rules are encoded in the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and premotor cortex (PMC). Here, we extend these investigations to two other areas directly connected with the PFC and the PMC, the inferior temporal cortex (ITC) and the dorsal striatum (STR). Monkeys were trained to use two abstract rules: &quot;same&quot; or &quot;different&quot;. They had to either hold or release a lever, depending on whether two successively presented pictures were the same or different, and depending on which rule was in effect. The rules and the behavioral responses were reflected most strongly and, on average, tended to be earlier in the PMC followed by the PFC and then the STR; few neurons in the ITC reflected the rules or the actions. By contrast, perceptual information (the identity of the pictures used as sample and test stimuli) was encoded more strongly and earlier in the ITC, followed by the PFC; they had weak, if any, effects on neural activity in the PMC and STR. These findings are discussed in the context of the anatomy and posited functions of these areas.
Studies of skilled reading [Price, C. J., &amp; Mechelli, A. Reading and reading disturbance. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 15, 231-238, 2005], its acquisition in children [Shaywitz, B. A., Shaywitz, S. E., Pugh, K. R., Mencl, W. E., Fulbright, R. K., Skudlarski, P., et al. Disruption of posterior brain systems for reading in children with developmental dyslexia. Biological Psychiatry, 52, 101-110, 2002; Turkeltaub, P. E., Gareau, L., Flowers, D. L., Zeffiro, T. A., &amp; Eden, G. F. Development of neural mechanisms for reading. Nature Neuroscience, 6, 767-773, 2003], and its impairment in patients with pure alexia [Leff, A. P., Crewes, H., Plant, G. T., Scott, S. K., Kennard, C., &amp; Wise, R. J. The functional anatomy of single word reading in patients with hemianopic and pure alexia. Brain, 124, 510-521, 2001] all highlight the importance of the left posterior fusiform cortex in visual word recognition. We used visual masked priming and functional magnetic resonance imaging to elucidate the specific functional contribution of this region to reading and found that (1) unlike words, repetition of pseudowords (&quot;solst-solst&quot;) did not produce a neural priming effect in this region, (2) orthographically related words such as &quot;corner-corn&quot; did produce a neural priming effect, but (3) this orthographic priming effect was reduced when prime-target pairs were semantically related (&quot;teacher-teach&quot;). These findings conflict with the notion of stored visual word forms and instead suggest that this region acts as an interface between visual form information and higher order stimulus properties such as its associated sound and meaning. More importantly, this function is not specific to reading but is also engaged when processing any meaningful visual stimulus.
The organization of pontocerebellar projections to the paravermis and hemisphere of the posterior cerebellum of the rat was studied in relation to the organization of climbing fibers. Small injections of cholera toxin subunit B were placed in the cerebellar cortex at locations predetermined by evoked climbing fiber potentials from selected body parts or based on coordinates. The injection site was characterized with respect to the zebrin pattern and by the distribution of retrogradely labeled neurons in the inferior olive. The following zones were studied: hindlimb-related zones C1 and C2 of lobule VIII; forelimb-related zones C1, C2, and D0/D1 of the paramedian lobule; and face-related zones A2 of the paramedian lobule and C2 and D0 of crus 2B. The results show that the distribution of pontine neurons is closely related to the climbing fiber somatotopy. Injections centered on face-related zones result in distribution of pontine neurons within the pontine core region. Forelimb regions surround this core, whereas hindlimb regions are mostly supplied by caudal pontine regions and by a single patch of more rostrally located neurons. This distribution fits well with published data on the somatotopy of the corticopontine projection from the rat primary somatosensory cortex. However, apart from differences in the participation of ipsilaterally projecting cells, the distribution of pontine neurons does not change significantly when the injection covers different zones of the same lobule such as C1 and C2 of lobule VIII; C1, C2, and D0/D1 of the paramedian lobule; A2 of the paramedian lobule; and C2 and D0 of crus 2B.
We recently identified large glucagon-expressing neurons that densely ramify neurites in the peripheral edge of the retina and regulate the proliferation of progenitors in the circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) of the postnatal chicken eye (Fischer et al. [2005] J Neurosci 25:10157-10166). However, nothing is known about the transmitters and proteins that are expressed by the glucagon-expressing neurons in the avian retina. We used antibodies to cell-distinguishing markers to better characterize the different types of glucagon-expressing neurons. We found that the large glucagon-expressing neurons were immunoreactive for substance P, neurofilament, Pax6, AP2alpha, HuD, calretinin, trkB, and trkC. Colocalization of glucagon and substance P in the large glucagon-expressing neurons indicates that these cells are the &quot;bullwhip cells&quot; that have been briefly described by Ehrlich et al. ([1987] J Comp Neurol 266:220-233). Similar to the bullwhip cells, the conventional glucagon-expressing amacrine cells were immunoreactive for calretinin, HuD, Pax6, and AP2alpha. Unlike bullwhip cells, the conventional glucagon-expressing amacrine cells were immunoreactive for GABA. While glucagon-immunoreactive amacrine cells were negative for substance P in central regions of the retina, a subset of this type of amacrine cell was immunoreactive for substance P in far peripheral regions of the retina. An additional type of glucagon/substance P-expressing neuron, resembling the bullwhip cells, was found in far peripheral and dorsal regions of the retina. Based on morphology, distribution within the retina, and histological markers, we conclude that there may be four different types of glucagon-expressing neurons in the avian retina.
The study of natural behavior is important for understanding the coding schemes of sensory systems. The jamming avoidance response of the weakly electric fish Eigenmannia is an excellent example of a bottom-up approach, in which behavioral analyses guided neurophysiological studies. These studies started from the electroreceptive sense organs to the motor output consisting of pacemaker neurons. Going in the opposite direction, from the central nervous system to lower centers, is the characteristic of the top-down approach. Although this approach is perhaps more difficult than the bottom-up approach, it was successfully employed in the neuroethological analysis of sound localization in the barn owl. In the latter studies, high-order neurons selective for complex natural stimuli led to the discovery of neural pathways and networks responsible for the genesis of the stimulus selectivity. Comparison of Eigenmannia and barn owls, and their neural systems, has revealed similarities in network designs, such as parallel pathways and their convergence to produce stimulus selectivity necessary for detection of natural stimuli.
Ideally detailed neuron models should make use of morphological and electrophysiological data from the same cell. However, this rarely happens. Typically a modeler will choose a cell morphology from a public database, assign standard values for Ra, Cm, and other parameters and then do the modeling study. The assumption is that the model will produce results representative of what might be obtained experimentally. To test this assumption we developed models of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons using 4 different morphologies obtained from 3 public databases. The multiple run fitter in NEURON was used to fit parameter values in each of the 4 morphological models to match experimental data recorded from 19 CA1 pyramidal cells. Fits with fixed standard parameter values produced results that were generally not representative of our experimental data. However, when parameter values were allowed to vary, excellent fits were obtained in almost all cases, but the fitted parameter values were very different among the 4 reconstructions and did not match standard values. The differences in fitted values can be explained by very different diameters, total lengths, membrane areas and volumes among the reconstructed cells, reflecting either cell heterogeneity or issues with the reconstruction data. The fitted values compensated for these differences to make the database cells and experimental cells more similar electrotonically. We conclude that models using fully reconstructed morphologies need to be calibrated with experimental data (even when morphological and electrophysiological data come from the same cell), model results should be generated with multiple reconstructions, morphological and experimental cells should come from the same strain of animal at the same age, and blind use of standard parameter values in models that use reconstruction data may not produce representative experimental results.
Over the past decade, the use of informatics to solve complex neuroscientific problems has increased dramatically. Many of these research endeavors involve examining large amounts of imaging, behavioral, genetic, neurobiological, and neuropsychiatric data. Superimposing, processing, visualizing, or interpreting such a complex cohort of datasets frequently becomes a challenge. We developed a new software environment that allows investigators to integrate multimodal imaging data, hierarchical brain ontology systems, on-line genetic and phylogenic databases, and 3D virtual data reconstruction models. The Laboratory of Neuro Imaging visualization environment (LONI Viz) consists of the following components: a sectional viewer for imaging data, an interactive 3D display for surface and volume rendering of imaging data, a brain ontology viewer, and an external database query system. The synchronization of all components according to stereotaxic coordinates, region name, hierarchical ontology, and genetic labels is achieved via a comprehensive BrainMapper functionality, which directly maps between position, structure name, database, and functional connectivity information. This environment is freely available, portable, and extensible, and may prove very useful for neurobiologists, neurogenetisists, brain mappers, and for other clinical, pedagogical, and research endeavors.
This Technical Note describes a novel modular framework for development and interlaboratory distribution and validation of 3D tractography algorithms based on in vivo diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measurements. The proposed framework allows individual MRI research centers to benefit from new tractography algorithms developed at other independent centers by &quot;plugging&quot; new tractography modules directly into their own custom DTI software tools, such as existing graphical user interfaces (GUI) for visualizing brain white matter pathways. The proposed framework is based on the Java 3D programming platform, which provides an object-oriented programming (OOP) model and independence of computer hardware configuration and operating system. To demonstrate the utility of the proposed approach, a complete GUI for interactive DTI tractography was developed, along with two separate and interchangeable modules that implement two different tractography algorithms. Although the application discussed here relates to DTI tractography, the programming concepts presented here should be of interest to anyone who wishes to develop platform-independent GUI applications for interactive 3D visualization.
Phage display is a promising tool for the screening of peptides with high affinity for specific cells. Here we describe a novel peptide with neuronal affinity isolated from a C7C library. We designed a two-tiered biopanning strategy initially selecting for ganglioside binding and subsequently selecting for binding to PC12 cells. At the completion of biopanning, 54.8% of phage clones bore the identical peptide (Tet.C7C.1). Immunofluorescence confirmed selective binding of this clone to differentiated PC12 cells. Tet.C7C.1 was synthesized and fluorescein conjugated. The synthetic peptide binds neuronal cell lines (SH-SY5Y, NSC-34 and PC12 cells) and tissue (DRG and spinal cord). The C7C structure creates a loop that minimizes the impact of peptide insertion on the confirmation of the recipient protein. Small loop peptides have the ideal characteristics for modification of viral vector capsids without undermining genome packaging. The neuronal binding properties of this peptide may be applied in the development of neurotropic viral vectors.

The coupling between synaptic activity and glucose utilization (neurometabolic coupling) is a central physiological principle of brain function that has provided the basis for 2-deoxyglucose-based functional imaging with positron emission tomography (PET). Astrocytes play a central role in neurometabolic coupling, and the basic mechanism involves glutamate-stimulated aerobic glycolysis; the sodium-coupled reuptake of glutamate by astrocytes and the ensuing activation of the Na-K-ATPase triggers glucose uptake and processing via glycolysis, resulting in the release of lactate from astrocytes. Lactate can then contribute to the activity-dependent fuelling of the neuronal energy demands associated with synaptic transmission. An operational model, the 'astrocyte-neuron lactate shuttle', is supported experimentally by a large body of evidence, which provides a molecular and cellular basis for interpreting data obtained from functional brain imaging studies. In addition, this neuron-glia metabolic coupling undergoes plastic adaptations in parallel with adaptive mechanisms that characterize synaptic plasticity. Thus, distinct subregions of the hippocampus are metabolically active at different time points during spatial learning tasks, suggesting that a type of metabolic plasticity, involving by definition neuron-glia coupling, occurs during learning. In addition, marked variations in the expression of genes involved in glial glycogen metabolism are observed during the sleep-wake cycle, with in particular a marked induction of expression of the gene encoding for protein targeting to glycogen (PTG) following sleep deprivation. These data suggest that glial metabolic plasticity is likely to be concomitant with synaptic plasticity.
One niche of experimental biology that has experienced considerable progress is the neurobiology of learning and memory. A key contributor to such progress has been the widespread use of transgenic and 'knockout' mice to elucidate the mechanisms of identifiable phenotypes of learning and memory. Inbred mouse strains are needed to generate genetically modified mice. However, genetic variations between inbred strains can confound the interpretation of cellular neurophysiological phenotypes of mutant mice. It is known that altered physiological strength of synaptic transmission ('synaptic plasticity') can modify and regulate learning and memory. Characterization of the synaptic phenotypes of inbred mouse strains is needed to identify the most appropriate strains to use for generating mutant mouse models of memory function. More importantly, comparative electrophysiological analyses of inbred mice per se can also shed light on which forms of synaptic plasticity underlie particular types of learning and memory. Many such analyses have focused on synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus because of the critical roles of this brain structure in the formation and consolidation of long-term memories. Comparative electrophysiological data obtained from several inbred mouse strains are reviewed here to highlight the following key notions: (1) synaptic plasticity is influenced by the genetic backgrounds of inbred mice; (2) the plasticity of hippocampal synapses in inbred mice is ;tuned' to particular temporal patterns of activity; (3) long-term potentiation, but not long-term depression, is a cellular correlate of behavioural memory performance in some strains; (4) synaptic phenotyping of inbred mouse strains can identify cellular models of memory impairment that can be used to elucidate mechanisms that may cause specific memory deficits.
In a sample of 77 recently married couples, within-person variance in cognitive appraisal was expected to predict corresponding within-person variance in communication behavior during conflict. Three types of appraisal were considered: expectancies of partner understanding, expectancies of partner negative communication, and attributions. Couples were observed in 4 different conflict conversations, completed during 2 assessment sessions, and appraisals were assessed prior to each conversation. Hierarchical linear modeling was used to analyze within-person effects. Changes from one conversation to the next in all 3 types of appraisal predicted corresponding within-person change in communication, and many effects were larger for wives than for husbands. Results were strongest for expectancies of partner understanding. Expectancies predicted change in one's own behavior after controlling for the accuracy of the expectancy.
The phenomenon of ligand-induced ion channel gating hinges upon the ability of a receptor channel to bind ligand molecules with conformation-specific affinities. However, our understanding of this fundamental phenomenon is notably limited, not only because the changes in binding site structure and ligand conformation that occur upon gating are largely unknown but, also, because the strength of these ligand-receptor interactions are experimentally elusive. Both high- and low-efficacy ligands pose a number of analytical and experimental challenges that can render the estimation of their conformation-specific binding affinities impossible. In this paper, we present a novel assay that overcomes some of the hurdles presented by weak agonists of the muscle nicotinic receptor and allows the estimation of their closed-state affinities. The method, which we have termed the &quot;activation-competition&quot; assay, consists of a single-channel concentration-response assay performed in the presence of a binary mixture of ligands of widely different efficacies. By plotting the channel response (i.e., the open probability) as a function of the concentration of each agonist in the mixture, interpreting the observed response in the framework of a plausible kinetic scheme, and fitting the open probability surface with the corresponding function, the affinities of the closed receptor for the two agonists can be simultaneously extracted as free parameters. Here, we applied this methodology to estimate the closed-state affinity of the muscle nicotinic receptor for choline (a very weak agonist) using acetylcholine (ACh) as the partner in the mixture. We estimated the dissociation equilibrium constant of choline (K(D)) from the wild type's closed state to be 4.1 +/- 0.5 mM (and that of ACh to be 106 +/- 6 microM). We also discuss the use of accurate estimates of affinities for low-efficacy agonists as a tool to discriminate between binding and gating effects of mutations, and in the context of the rational design of therapeutic drugs.
Ion channel block in muscle acetylcholine nicotinic receptors (AChRs) is an extensively reported phenomenon. Yet, the mechanisms underlying the interruption of ion flow or the interaction of the blocker with the channel's gates remain incompletely characterized. In this paper, we studied fast channel block by choline, a quaternary-ammonium cation that is also an endogenous weak agonist of this receptor, and a valuable tool in structure-function studies. Analysis of the single-channel current amplitude as a function of both choline concentration and voltage revealed that extracellular choline binds to the open-channel pore with millimolar apparent affinity (K(B) congruent with 12 mM in the presence of approximately 155 mM monovalent and 3.5 mM divalent, inorganic cations), and that it permeates the channel faster than acetylcholine. This, together with its relatively small size ( approximately 5.5 A along its longest axis), suggests that the pore-blocking choline binding site is the selectivity filter itself, and that current blockages simply reflect the longer-lived sojourns of choline at this site. Kinetic analysis of single-channel traces indicated that increasing occupancy of the pore-blocking site by choline (as judged from the reduction of the single-channel current amplitude) is accompanied by the lengthening of (apparent) open interval durations. Consideration of a number of possible mechanisms firmly suggests that this prolongation results from the local effect of choline interfering with the operation of the activation gate (closure of blocked receptors is slower than that of unblocked receptors by a factor of approximately 13), whereas closure of the desensitization gate remains unaffected. Thus, we suggest that these two gates act as distinct molecular entities. Also, the detailed understanding gained here on how choline distorts the observed open-time durations can be used to compensate for this artifact during activation assays. This correction is necessary if we are to understand how choline binds to and gates the AChR.
In the simplest model of channel mechanosensitivity, expanded states are favored by stretch. We showed previously that stretch accelerates voltage-dependent activation and slow inactivation in a Kv channel, but whether these transitions involve expansions is unknown. Thus, while voltage-gated channels are mechanosensitive, it is not clear whether the simplest model applies. For Kv pore opening steps, however, there is excellent evidence for concerted expansion motions. To ask how these motions respond to stretch, therefore, we have used a Kv1 mutant, Shaker ILT, in which the step immediately prior to opening is rate limiting for voltage-dependent current. Macroscopic currents were measured in oocyte patches before, during, and after stretch. Invariably, and directly counter to prediction for expansion-derived free energy, ILT current activation (which is limited by the concerted step prior to pore opening) slowed with stretch and the g(V) curve reversibly right shifted. In WTIR (wild type, inactivation removed), the g(V) (which reflects independent voltage sensor motions) is left shifted. Stretch-induced slowing of ILT activation was fully accounted for by a decreased basic forward rate, with no change of gating charge. We suggest that for the highly cooperative motions of ILT activation, stretch-induced disordering of the lipid channel interface may yield an entropy increase that dominates over any stretch facilitation of expanded states. Since tail current tau(V) reports on the opposite (closing) motions, ILT and WTIR tau(V)(tail) were determined, but the stretch responses were too complex to shed much light. Shaw is the Kv3 whose voltage sensor, introduced into Shaker, forms the chimera that ILT mimics. Since Shaw2 F335A activation was reportedly a first-order concerted transition, we thought its activation might, like ILT's, slow with stretch. However, Shaw2 F335A activation proved to be sigmoid shaped, so its rate-limiting transition was not a concerted pore-opening transition. Moreover, stretch, via an unidentified non-rate-limiting transition, augmented steady-state current in Shaw2 F335A. Since putative area expansion and compaction during ILT pore opening and closing were not the energetically consequential determinants of stretch modulation, models incorporating fine details of bilayer structural forces will probably be needed to explain how, for Kv channels, bilayer stretch slows some transitions while accelerating others.
Bestrophins are a newly discovered family of Cl(-) channels, some members of which are activated by intracellular Ca(2+). So far, all studies were carried out with whole-cell recordings from plasmid-transfected cultured cells, so it is unclear whether Ca(2+) activates bestrophin through a metabolic mechanism or in a more direct way. We report here experiments that addressed this question with excised, inside-out membrane patches. We chose human bestrophin-4 (hBest4) for heterologous expression because it gave particularly large Cl(-) currents when expressed, thus allowing detection even in excised membrane patches. hBest4 gave a negligible Cl(-) current in a Ca(2+)-free solution on the cytoplasmic (bath) side, but produced a Cl(-) current that was activated by Ca(2+) in a dose-dependent manner, with a K(1/2) of 230 nM. Thus, Ca(2+) appears to activate the bestrophin Cl(-) channel without going through a freely diffusible messenger or through protein phosphorylation. Because the activation and deactivation kinetics were very slow, however, we cannot exclude the involvement of a membrane-associated messenger.
Previous examination of the effect of TCF-4 on transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) promoter in human astrocytic cells found that TCF-4 affects the HIV-1 promoter through the GC-rich domain (nt -80 to nt -68). Here, the physical interaction and a functional consequence of TCF4-Sp1 contact were characterized. It was shown that expression of TCF-4 in U-87 MG (human astrocytic) cells decreased basal and Sp1-mediated transcription of the HIV-1 promoter. Results from a GST pull-down assay, as well as combined immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis of protein extracts from U-87 MG cells, revealed an interaction of Sp1 with TCF-4. Using in vitro protein chromatography, the region of Sp1 that contacts TCF-4 was mapped to aa 266-350. It was also found that, in cell-free extracts, TCF-4 prevented dsDNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK)-mediated Sp1 phosphorylation. Surprisingly, TCF-4 failed to decrease Sp1-mediated transcription of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR) and Sp1 phosphorylation in cells expressing HIV-1 Tat. Results from immunoprecipitation/Western blotting demonstrated that TCF-4 lost its ability to interact with Sp1, but not with Tat, in Tat-transfected cells. Taken together, these findings suggest that activity at the HIV-1 promoter is influenced by phosphorylation of Sp1, which is affected by Tat and DNA-PK. Interactions among TCF-4, Sp1 and/or Tat may determine the level of viral gene transcription in human astrocytic cells.
Polyomavirus BK (BKV) is a serious problem for immunocompromised patients, where latent virus can enter into the lytic cycle causing cytolytic destruction of host cells. BKV infects &gt;80% of the population worldwide during childhood and then remains in a latent state in the kidney. In the context of immunosuppression in kidney transplant patients, reactivation of the viral early promoter (BKV(E)) results in production of T antigen, enabling virus replication and transition from latency to the lytic phase, causing polyomavirus-associated nephropathy. Reactivation of BKV can also cause complications such as nephritis, atypical retinitis and haemorrhagic cystitis in AIDS patients. Here, the effects of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) proteins Tat and Vpr on BKV transcription were investigated and it was demonstrated that Tat dramatically stimulated BKV(E). Site-directed mutagenesis analysis of potential Tat-responsive transcriptional motifs complemented by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) showed that Tat activated BKV(E) by inducing binding of the NF-kappaB p65 subunit to a kappaB motif near the 3' end of BKV(E). In addition, a sequence within the 5' UTR of BKV(E) transcripts (BKV(E)-TAR) was identified that is identical to the HIV-1 transactivation response (TAR) element. The BKV(E)-TAR sequence bound TAT in RNA EMSA assays and deletion of the BKV(E)-TAR sequence eliminated Tat transactivation of BKV(E) transcription. Thus, Tat positively affected BKV(E) transcription by a dual mechanism and this may be important in diseases involving BKV reactivation in AIDS patients.

Neither literary critics nor historians of science have acknowledged the extent to which Bram Stoker's Dracula (1897) is indebted to late-Victorian neurologists, particularly David Ferrier, John Burdon-Sanderson, Thomas Huxley, and William Carpenter. Stoker came from a family of distinguished Irish physicians and obtained an M.A. in mathematics from Trinity College, Dublin. His personal library contained volumes on physiology, and his composition notes for Dracula include typewritten pages on somnambulism, trance states, and cranial injuries. Stoker used his knowledge of neurology extensively in Dracula. The automatic behaviors practiced by Dracula and his vampiric minions, such as somnambulism and hypnotic trance states, reflect theories about reflex action postulated by Ferrier and other physiologists. These scientists traced such automatic behaviors to the brain stem and suggested that human behavior was &quot;determined&quot; through the reflex action of the body and brain-a position that threatened to undermine entrenched beliefs in free will and the immortal soul. I suggest that Stoker's vampire protagonist dramatizes the pervasive late-nineteenth-century fear that human beings are soulless machines motivated solely by physiological factors.

The Karl Spencer Lashley Award for Distinguished Achievement in the Neurosciences has been bestowed upon 50 of the world's leading neuroscientists of the last half century but is not well known. It originated in 1953 when Lashley accumulated excess stock holdings and established a Fund for Neurobiology with 52,000 dollars to provide small grants for neurobiological research. Several years later the assets were transferred to the American Philosophical Society to administer and convert to an award for achievement in neurobiology The nature, amount, and format of the award have evolved ever since. These changes in the award and the characteristics of its recipients are described.
Most accounts of the discovery of &quot;pleasure&quot; circuits in the brain begin with the observation by James Olds and Peter Milner in 1953 that electrical brain stimulation can condition operant responses in rats. Less well-known, pleasurable brain stimulation was previously observed in schizophrenic patients by Robert Heath. However, Heath failed to recognize the significance of this observation, at least in part, because of preconceived notions he held about the etiology of schizophrenia. This episode in the history of neuroscience illustrates the importance of sagacity in serendipitous scientific discoveries. It also shows that &quot;mental preparedness&quot; can be an obstacle to progress.
While the use of MRI techniques has become a cornerstone of the neurology clinic, the application of such methods in psychiatry was rather limited until the advent of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Over the past decade fMRI has superseded radionuclide-imaging techniques and blossomed into a widely used psychiatric research tool. This review focuses on the neurobiological findings from fMRI research in three less well-documented psychiatric disorders: attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), depression, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Although there was some disparity in early findings, greater standardization of image acquisition, analysis, and paradigms, and improved clinical classification are leading to a greater convergence of observations from different laboratories. fMRI is also beginning to realize its potential as an important mediator between genes and phenotypes, and may thus contribute to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of major neuropsychiatric diseases. The role of fMRI in the objective assessment of therapeutic intervention and early prediction of response to treatment is also discussed.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has had a huge impact on understanding the healthy human brain. To date it has had much less impact in clinical neuroscience or clinical practice. The reasons for this are in part that the image acquisition, paradigm design, and data analysis strategies used presently are not sufficiently standardized. This makes the comparison of results across individuals, scanning sessions, and centers difficult. Nevertheless, there are emerging applications for clinical fMRI, and as the field matures the number of applications is likely to grow. It seems certain that fMRI has an important role to play in helping us understand the mechanisms of neuropsychiatric diseases and in helping to identify effective therapeutic strategies.
Functional neuroimaging can be used to characterize two types of abnormality in patients with neurological deficits: abnormal functional segregation and abnormal functional integration. In this paper we consider the factors that influence the experimental design, analysis, and interpretation of such studies. With respect to experimental design, we emphasize that: 1) task selection is constrained to tasks the patient is able to perform correctly, and 2) the most sensitive designs entail presenting stimuli of the same type close together. In terms of data preprocessing, prior to statistical analysis, we note that structural pathology may call for constraints on nonlinear transformations, used by spatial normalization, to prevent distortion of intact tissue. This means that one may have to increase spatial smoothing to reduce the impact of inaccurate normalization. Important issues in statistical modeling concern the first level of analysis (estimation of activation within subject), which has to distinguish correct from incorrect responses. At the second level (between subjects), inference should be based on between-subjects variance. Provided that these and other constraints are met, deficits in functional segregation are indicated when activation in one or a set of regions is higher or lower in patients relative to control subjects. In contrast, deficits in functional integration are implied when the influence of one brain region on another is stronger or weaker in patients relative to control subjects.
Functional MRI (fMRI) is increasingly being used to evaluate children and adolescents who are candidates for surgical treatment of intractable epilepsy. It has the advantage of being noninvasive and well tolerated by young people. By identifying important functional regions within the brain, including unpredictable patterns of functional reorganization, it can aid in surgical decision-making. Here we illustrate this using a number of case studies from the pediatric epilepsy surgery program at our institution. We describe how fMRI, used in conjunction with conventional investigative methods such as neuropsychological assessment, MRI, and electrophysiology, can 1) help to improve functional outcome by enabling resective surgery that spares functional cortex, 2) guide surgical intervention by revealing when reorganization of function has occurred, and 3) show when abnormal cortex is also functionally active, and hence that surgery may not be the best option. Altogether, these roles have reduced the need for invasive procedures that can be both risky and distressing for young people with epilepsy. In our experience, fMRI has significantly contributed to the decision-making process, and improved the counseling and management of young people with intractable epilepsy.
Over the past dozen years, the use of MRI techniques to map brain function (fMRI) has sparked a great deal of research. The ability of fMRI to image several different physiological processes concurrently (i.e., blood oxygenation, blood flow, metabolism) and noninvasively over large volumes make it the ideal choice for many different areas of neuroscience research in addition to countless applications in clinical settings. Furthermore, with the advent of high magnetic fields (and other hardware advancements, i.e., parallel imaging) for both human and animal research, spatial and temporal resolutions continue to be pushed to higher levels because of increases in the sensitivity as well as specificity of MR-detectable functional signals. fMRI methodology continues to grow and has the ability to cater to many different research applications. There seems to be no foreseeable end in sight to the advancement of fMRI techniques and its subsequent use in basic research as well as in clinical settings. In this work, fMRI techniques and the ongoing development of existing techniques are discussed with implications for the future of fMRI.
Functional MRI (fMRI) has become the most widely used modality for examining human brain function in basic and clinical neuroscience. As compared to the application of fMRI in basic neuroscience research, clinical fMRI presents unique challenges. A growing body of literature supports the feasibility of clinical fMRI, with the best-studied applications being localization of motor cortex and lateralization of language. While it may be tempting to assume that fMRI will supercede prior approaches, it may turn out that fMRI will be used to complement more difficult or invasive methods rather than replace them entirely. This article focuses on fMRI studies in patients and patient populations. Specific considerations for such applications include pathophysiological effects on functional physiology, brain-behavior correlations in the presence of cognitive or sensorimotor deficits, and test-retest reliability for longitudinal studies.
Pharmacological functional (phMRI) studies are making a significant contribution to our understanding of drug-effects on brain systems. Pharmacological fMRI has an additional contribution to make in the translation of disease models and candidate compounds from preclinical to clinical investigation and in the early clinical stages of drug development. Here it can demonstrate a proof-of-concept of drug action in a small human cohort and thus contribute substantially to decision-making in drug development. We review the methods underlying pharmacological fMRI studies and the links that can be made between animal and human investigations. We discuss the potential fMRI markers of drug effect, experimental designs and caveats in interpreting hemodynamic fMRI data as reflective of changes in neuronal activity. Although there are no current published examples of fMRI applied to novel compounds, we illustrate the potential of fMRI across a range of applications and with specific reference to processing of pain in the human brain and pharmacological analgesia. Pharmacological fMRI is developing to meet the neuroscientific challenges. Electrophysiological methods can be used to corroborate the drug effects measured hemodynamically with fMRI. In future, pharmacological fMRI is likely to extend to examinations of the spinal cord and into pharmacogenetics to relate genetic polymorphisms to differential responses of the brain to drugs.
A historic and critically important scientific workshop for all professions involved with manual therapies was held at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) on June 9 and 10, 2005. The conference was jointly sponsored and organized by the NIH and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and was the first ever national or international research conference to focus on the biologic mechanisms that underlie a broad range of interventions, which can be described as &quot;manual therapies.&quot; Leading scientific experts from North America and Europe presented their latest findings and theories related to 5 different areas of science relevant to manual therapies: neuroscience, biomechanics, endocrinology, imaging, and immunology. During the conference, breakout groups composed of scientists, physicians and therapists, and patient advocates were formed in the relevant disciplines. These groups developed consensus statements on key unanswered research questions, which were then submitted back to the conference for comment and approval. The outcomes of this workshop have subsequently been incorporated into a new initiative by the NIH and Canadian Institutes of Health Research for funding research on the biology of manual therapies. This editorial includes presentation summaries and 13 key consensus recommendations relating to mechanisms of action for manual therapies.
Human mesencephalic neuromelanin (NM) is characterized by an irregular, undefined structure, making its characterization by usual physico-chemical methodologies quite difficult. NM isolated from controls and from Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients was compared by high-resolution solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The pigment from PD patients appeared to be mainly composed of highly cross-linked, protease-resistant lipo-proteic material, with disappearance of melanin NMR resonances, suggesting melanin breakout due to oxidative stress conditions. Moreover, alpha-synuclein was detected in NM of PD patients and controls after cleavage of the melanin backbone under solubilizing conditions. NM stores iron ions as oxyhydroxide iron clusters containing thousands of iron atoms. Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) investigations and magnetic susceptibility measurements confirmed the occurrence of magnetic coupling among iron atoms, whereas in synthetic melanin the occurrence of isolated Fe(3+) ions was evident. NM from PD patients showed a lower total magnetization, possibly suggesting a progressive Fe migration from its storage environment (i.e., NM) to the cytosol.
In the past decade, the genetic causes underlying familial forms of many neurodegenerative disorders, such as Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Friedreich ataxia, hereditary spastic paraplegia, dominant optic atrophy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 2A, neuropathy ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa, and Leber's hereditary optic atrophy have been elucidated. However, the common pathogenic mechanisms of neuronal death are still largely unknown. Recently, mitochondrial dysfunction has emerged as a potential 'lowest common denominator' linking these disorders. In this review, we discuss the body of evidence supporting the role of mitochondria in the pathogenesis of hereditary neurodegenerative diseases. We summarize the principal features of genetic diseases caused by abnormalities of mitochondrial proteins encoded by the mitochondrial or the nuclear genomes. We then address genetic diseases where mutant proteins are localized in multiple cell compartments, including mitochondria and where mitochondrial defects are likely to be directly caused by the mutant proteins. Finally, we describe examples of neurodegenerative disorders where mitochondrial dysfunction may be 'secondary' and probably concomitant with degenerative events in other cell organelles, but may still play an important role in the neuronal decay. Understanding the contribution of mitochondrial dysfunction to neurodegeneration and its pathophysiological basis will significantly impact our ability to develop more effective therapies for neurodegenerative diseases.
Adenosine is released from the compromised brain and exerts a predominately neuroprotective influence. However, the time-course of adenosine release and its relationship to synaptic activity during metabolic stress is not fully understood. Here, we describe experiments using an enzyme-based adenosine sensor to show that adenosine potently (IC50 approximately 1 microm) inhibits excitatory synaptic transmission in area CA1 during oxygen/glucose deprivation ('ischaemia'), and that the prolonged post-ischaemic presence of extracellular adenosine sustains the depression of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP). N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonism promotes post-ischaemic recovery of the fEPSP, in parallel with reduced release of adenosine. Paradoxically, however, after ischaemia the fEPSP recovers in the face of concentrations of adenosine capable of fully eliminating synaptic transmission during ischaemia. This hysteresis is not prevented by NMDA receptor antagonism, is observed during repeated ischaemia when adenosine release is reduced, and does not reflect desensitization of adenosine A1 receptors. We conclude that adenosine exerts powerful inhibitory actions on excitatory synaptic transmission both during, and for some considerable time after, ischaemia. Therapeutic strategies designed to exploit both the continued presence of adenosine and activity of A1 receptors could provide benefits in individuals who have suffered acute injury to the CNS.
Quinolinic acid (QA) has been shown to evoke neurotoxic events via NMDA receptor (NMDAR) overactivation and oxidative stress. NMDARs are particularly vulnerable to free radicals, which can modulate protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) and phosphotyrosine phosphatase (PTP) activities. The src family of tyrosine kinases are associated with the NMDAR complex and regulate NMDA channel function. Because QA is an NMDAR agonist as well as a pro-oxidant agent, we investigated whether it may affect the activity of PTKs and PTPs in vivo and in vitro. In synaptosomes prepared from striata dissected 15 min, 30 min or 15 days after bilateral injection of QA we observed modulation of the phosphotyrosine pattern; a significant decrease in PTP activity; and a sustained increase in c-src and lyn activity at 15 and 30 min after treatment with QA, followed by a decrease 2 weeks later. Striatal synaptosomes treated in vitro with QA showed time- and dose-dependent modulation of c-src and lyn kinase activities. Moreover, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester, the NMDAR antagonist d-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and pyruvate suppressed the QA-induced modulation of c-src activity. These findings suggest a novel feature of QA in regulating src kinase activity through the formation of reactive radical species and/or NMDAR overactivation.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophin family, occurs abundantly in the brain, where it exerts a variety of neural functions. We previously demonstrated that BDNF also exists in the endocrine melanotroph cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland of the amphibian Xenopus laevis, suggesting that BDNF, in addition to its neural actions within the brain, can act as a hormone. In the present study, we tested whether BDNF, in addition to its neural and hormonal roles, can be released as a neurohormone from the neural pituitary lobe of X. laevis. By light immunocytochemistry, we show that BDNF is present in perikarya, in ventrolaterally projecting axons of the hypothalamic magnocellular nucleus and in the neural lobe of the pituitary gland, and that it coexists in these structures with the amphibian neurohormone, mesotocin. The neural lobe was studied in detail at the ultrastructural level. Two types of neurohaemal axon terminals were observed, occurring intermingled and in similar numbers. Type A is filled with round, moderately electron-dense secretory granules with a mean diameter of approximately 145 nm. Type B terminals contain electron-dense and smaller, ellipsoid granules (long and short diameter approximately 140 and 100 nm, respectively). BDNF is exclusively present in secretory granules of type A axon terminals. Double gold-immunolabelling revealed that BDNF coexists in these granules with mesotocin. Furthermore, we demonstrate in an superfusion study performed in vitro that mesotocin stimulates peptide release from the endocrine melanotroph cells. On the basis of these data, we propose that BDNF can act on these cells as a neurohormone.
Corticosteroids are an essential component of the body's homeostatic system. In common with other such systems, this implies that corticosteroid levels in blood and, more importantly, in the tissues remain within an optimal range. It also implies that this range may vary according to circumstance. Lack of corticosteroids, such as untreated Addison's disease, can be fatal in humans. In this review, we are principally concerned with excess or disturbed patterns of circulating corticosteroids in the longer or shorter term, and the effects they have on the brain.
Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are a persistent health problem worldwide. HIV-1 seems to enter the brain very soon after peripheral infection and can induce severe and debilitating neurological problems that include behavioral abnormalities, motor dysfunction, and frank dementia. Infected peripheral immune-competent cells, in particular macrophages, appear to infiltrate the CNS and provoke a neuropathological response involving all cell types in the brain. The course of HIV-1 disease is strongly influenced by viral and host factors, such as the viral strain and the response of the host's immune system. In addition, HIV-1-dependent disease processes in the periphery have a substantial effect on the pathological changes in the central nervous system (CNS), although the brain eventually harbors a distinctive viral population of its own. In the CNS, HIV-1 also incites activation of chemokine receptors, inflammatory mediators, extracellular matrix-degrading enzymes, and glutamate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, all of which can initiate numerous downstream signaling pathways and disturb neuronal and glial function. Although there have been many major improvements in the control of viral infection in the periphery, an effective therapy for HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD) is still not available. This article addresses recently uncovered pathologic neuroimmune and degenerative mechanisms contributing to neuronal damage induced by HIV-1 and discusses experimental and potentially future therapeutic approaches.
Mitoxantrone (MX) has demonstrated efficacy in multiple sclerosis (MS), but its immunologic mechanisms of action are poorly understood. Furthermore, no study has examined the immunological effects of MX in primary progressive MS (PPMS). This study investigated the immunological effects of MX therapy in PPMS patients. Lymphocyte phenotypes and chemokine receptor (CCR) expression were evaluated by flow cytometry on fresh PBMC from 20 PPMS patients enrolled in a placebo (PLC)-controlled trial of MX. Longitudinal data were collected at weeks 0, 12, 24, 36 and short-term data (pre-/post-infusion) were collected at weeks 0 and 36. CXCR3, CCR1, CCR2 and CCR5 on CD4 and CD8 T cells and CD14 monocytes were evaluated. MX therapy induced a significant increase in the proportion of CD8 T cells (CD45RO(-)) over 9 months. Expression of several CCR increased following MX treatment. Two of the eight MX-treated patients demonstrated dramatic upregulation (70-76%) of CCR2 on monocytes. These two patients were the only MX-treated patients to demonstrate active inflammation by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). PLC patients did not show significant changes in CCR expression. MX therapy was not associated with selective loss of CD4, CD8 or CD14 cells 1 month after treatment or over 9 months. These results suggest that MX therapy leads to a longitudinal increase in CD8 T cells and may increase CCR in patients with inflammation on MRI. Overall, MX did not show extensive immune changes in PPMS, although patients with active disease (gadolinium enhancing lesions) may identify a subset of PPMS subjects who respond immunologically to MX therapy. An improved understanding of MX may help identify markers of disease activity and response to therapy.
Social stress alters the acute phase of Theiler's virus infection (TMEV), a model of multiple sclerosis. Stress applied prior to infection had deleterious disease outcomes, while stress applied concurrent with infection was protective. The current study examined multiple behavioral (motor impairment, open field activity) and immunological measures (IL-6, antibodies to virus and myelin proteins) in both the acute and chronic phases of TMEV. It was found that stress applied prior to infection exacerbated disease outcomes, while concurrent application was protective in both disease phases.
CD24 is expressed on a broad range of cells in the immune and central nervous systems and appears to be required for development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice. Association of a CD24 Ala/Val coding polymorphism with susceptibility to and progression of multiple sclerosis was recently reported. We typed this coding polymorphism in a combined cohort of 1,180 cases and 1,168 unrelated and family-based controls from Belgium and the UK, but were unable to confirm either association. Since the CD24 gene is part of a segmental duplication, special care is required for the identification and genotyping of single nucleotide polymorphisms.
Biological markers would provide valuable tools for tracking disease activity, immunopathological processes or therapeutic efficacy in MS. In this study we analysed a panel of Th(1)/Th(2) cytokines and the chemokine CCL2 in serum and CSF from MS patients and healthy controls. Increased levels of IL-6 (p&lt;0.05) and decreased levels of CCL2 (p&lt;0.001), with the lowest levels during acute relapses, was found in CSF from patients with relapsing-remitting MS. CSF levels of CCL2 correlated with indices for intrathecal IgG production and the CSF level of the neurofilament light protein, a marker for axonal damage, indicating a immunopathogenic role for CCL2.
Antineural antibody activity is the implicated pathogenic mechanism in polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy. Recognition of antigen depends on immunoglobulin variable regions, encoded by V genes. We studied V(H)DJ(H) and V(L)J(L) gene use in monoclonal B cells by clonal analysis in 20 patients with polyneuropathy and IgM monoclonal gammopathy. V genes associated with bacterial responses appear over-represented and V(H)3-23 was preferentially used, without association with specific D, J(H) or V(L)J(L). V genes revealed somatic mutation and intraclonal variation was found in 9 of 20 patients. Polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy may be caused by an immune response to bacterial antigens, which recruit somatically mutated autoreactive B cells.




This study determined the prevalence of and factors associated with comorbid major depressive disorder (MDD) in patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS). How a simple self-report instrument, the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), correlates with clinical assessment of comorbid MDD in this population was assessed. In a continuous sample of 114 adult patients with GTS, assessed clinically using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV criteria, 26 (23%) patients met criteria for MDD; more severe tics as measured with the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale, conduct disorder in childhood or higher age at the time of assessment were associated with MDD. The BDI score had a high negative predictive value for diagnosis of MDD, but a low positive predictive value. Using the BDI as a screening tool for comorbid MDD in patients with GTS is suggested.

We examined the accuracy and precision with which the barn owl (Tyto alba) turns its head toward sound sources under conditions that evoke the precedence effect (PE) in humans. Stimuli consisted of 25-ms noise bursts emitted from two sources, separated horizontally by 40 degrees, and temporally by 3-50 ms. At delays from 3 to 10 ms, head turns were always directed at the leading source, and were nearly as accurate and precise as turns toward single sources, indicating that the leading source dominates perception. This lead dominance is particularly remarkable, first, because on some trials, the lagging source was significantly higher in amplitude than the lead, arising from the directionality of the owl's ears, and second, because the temporal overlap of the two sounds can degrade the binaural cues with which the owl localizes sounds. With increasing delays, the influence of the lagging source became apparent as the head saccades became increasingly biased toward the lagging source. Furthermore, on some of the trials at delays &gt; or = 20 ms, the owl turned its head, first, in the direction of one source, and then the other, suggesting that it was able to resolve two separately localizable sources. At all delays &lt;50 ms, response latencies were longer for paired sources than for single sources. With the possible exception of response latency, these findings demonstrate that the owl exhibits precedence phenomena in sound localization similar to those in humans and cats, and provide a basis for comparison with neurophysiological data.
The intermediate layers of the superior colliculus (SC) contain neurons that clearly play a major role in regulating the production of saccadic eye movements: a burst of activity from saccade neurons (SNs) is thought to provide a drive signal to set the eyes in motion, whereas the tonic activity of fixation neurons (FNs) is thought to suppress saccades during fixation. The exact contribution of these neurons to saccade control is, however, unclear because the nature of the signals sent by the SC to the brain stem saccade generation circuit has not been studied in detail. Here we tested the hypothesis that the SC output signal is sufficient to control saccades by examining whether antidromically identified tectoreticular neurons (TRNs: 33 SNs and 13 FNs) determine the end of saccades. First, TRNs had discharge properties similar to those of nonidentified SC neurons and a proportion of output SNs had visually evoked responses, which signify that the saccade generator must receive and process visual information. Second, only a minority of TRNs possessed the temporal patterns of activity sufficient to terminate saccades: Output SNs did not cease discharging at the time of saccade end, possibly continuing to drive the brain stem during postsaccadic fixations, and output FNs did not resume their activity before saccade end. These results argue against a role for SC in regulating the timing of saccade termination by a temporal code and suggest that other saccade centers act to thwart the extraneous SC drive signal, unless it controls saccade termination by a spatial code.
The kinetics of activity-dependent, extracellular alkaline transients, and the buffering of extracellular pH (pH(e)), were studied in rat hippocampal slices using a fluorescein-dextran probe. Orthodromic stimuli generated alkaline transients &lt; or = 0.05 pH units that peaked in 273 +/- 26 ms and decayed with a half-time of 508 +/- 43 ms. Inhibition of extracellular carbonic anhydrase (ECA) with benzolamide increased the rate of rise by 25%, doubled peak amplitude, and prolonged the decay three- to fourfold. The slow decay in benzolamide allowed marked temporal summation, resulting in a severalfold increase in amplitude during long stimulus trains. Addition of exogenous carbonic anhydrase reduced the rate of rise, halved the peak amplitude, but had no effect on the normalized decay. A simulation of extracellular buffering kinetics generated recoveries from a base load consistent with the observed decay of the alkaline transient in the presence of benzolamide. Under control conditions, the model approximated the observed decays with an acceleration of the CO2 hydration-dehydration reactions by a factor of 2.5. These data suggest low endogenous ECA activity, insufficient to maintain equilibrium during the alkaline transients. Disequilibrium implies a time-dependent buffering capacity, with a CO2/HCO3- contribution that is small shortly after a base load. It is suggested that within 100 ms, extracellular buffering capacity is about 1% of the value at equilibrium and is provided mainly by phosphate. Accordingly, in the time frame of synaptic transmission, small base loads would generate relatively large changes in interstitial pH.
Postembryonic developmental changes in electrophysiological properties of the AIY interneuron class were investigated using whole cell voltage clamp. AIY interneurons displayed an increase in cell capacitance during larval development, whereas steady-state current amplitude did not increase. The time course of the outward membrane current, carried at least in part by K+ ions, matured, from a slowly activating, sustained current to a rapidly activating, decaying current. We also investigated how the development of capacitance and outward current was altered by loss-of-function mutations in genes expressed in AIY. One such gene, the LIM homeobox gene ttx-3, is known to be involved in the specification of the AIY neuronal subtype. In ttx-3 mutants, capacitance and outward current matured precociously. In mutants of the gene wrk-1, an immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) member whose expression is regulated by ttx-3, capacitance matured normally, whereas outward current matured precociously. We conclude that AIY interneurons contain distinct pathways for regulating capacitance and membrane current.
Visual neurons integrate information over a finite part of the visual field with high selectivity. This classical receptive field is modulated by peripheral inputs that play a role in both neuronal response normalization and contextual modulations. However, the consequences of these properties for visuomotor transformations are yet incompletely understood. To explore those, we recorded short-latency ocular following responses in humans to large center-only and center-surround stimuli. We found that eye movements are triggered by a mechanism that integrates motion over a restricted portion of the visual field, the size of which depends on stimulus contrast and increases as a function of time after response onset. We also found evidence for a strong nonisodirectional center-surround organization, responsible for normalizing the central, driving input so that motor responses are set to their most linear contrast dynamics. Such response normalization is delayed about 20 ms relative to tracking onset, gradually builds up over time, and is partly tuned for surround orientation/direction. These results outline the spatiotemporal organization of a behavioral receptive field, which might reflect a linear integration among subpopulations of cortical visual motion detectors.
This article addresses the functional significance of the electrophysiological properties of thalamic neurons. We propose that thalamocortical activity, is the product of the intrinsic electrical properties of the thalamocortical (TC) neurons and the connectivity their axons weave. We begin with an overview of the electrophysiological properties of single neurons in different functional states, followed by a review of the phylogeny of the electrical properties of thalamic neurons, in several vertebrate species. The similarity in electrophysiological properties unambiguously indicates that the thalamocortical system must be as ancient as the vertebrate branch itself. We address the view that rather than simply relays, thalamic neurons have sui generis intrinsic electrical properties that govern their specific functional dynamics and regulate natural functional states such as sleep and vigilance. In addition, thalamocortical activity has been shown to be involved in the genesis of several neuropsychiatric conditions collectively described as thalamocortical dysrhythmia syndrome.
In nonneuronal tissues, activation of oxytocin receptors (OTRs), like other Galpha(q/11) type G-protein-coupled receptors (Galpha(q/11)/GPCRs), increase prostaglandin (PG) expression. This is not known for the OTRs expressed by central OT neurons. We examined mechanisms underlying OT's effects on supraoptic nucleus (SON) OT and vasopressin (VP) neurons in hypothalamic slices from lactating rats. OT application (10 pM, 10 min) significantly increased firing rates of OT and VP neurons, both of which expressed OTRs. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of PG synthetases, blocked these increases. OTR (but not a V1 receptor) antagonist blocked OT effects without blocking the excitatory effect of PGE2. Tetanus toxin blocked OT effects on fast synaptic inputs and firing activity of SON neurons but not OT-evoked depolarization, suggesting involvement of both pre- and postsynaptic neurons. Indomethacin also blocked the excitatory effects of phenylephrine, another Galpha(q/11)/GPCR activating agent but not those of PGE2, a non-Galpha(q/11)/GPCR activating agent in the SON. OT or phenylephrine, but not glutamate or KCl, enhanced cyclooxygenase 2 expression at cytosolic loci in SON neurons and nearby astrocytes, as revealed by immunocytochemistry. This OT effect was not blocked by TTX. Western blot analyses showed that OT significantly increased cyclooxygenase 2 but not actin expression. OT promoted the formation of filamentous actin (F-actin) networks at membrane subcortical areas of both OT and VP neurons. Indomethacin blocked enhancement of F-actin networks by OT but not by PGE2. These results indicate that PGs serve as a common mediator of Galpha(q/11)/GPCR-activating agents in neuronal function.
We recently showed that spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) at the thoracic level induces pain-related behaviors and increased spontaneous discharges, hyperresponsiveness to innocuous and noxious peripheral stimuli, and enlarged receptive fields in neurons in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus. These changes are linked to the abnormal expression of Na(v)1.3, a rapidly repriming voltage-gated sodium channel. In this study, we examined the burst firing properties of VPL neurons after SCI. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent contusion SCI at the T9 level. Four weeks later, when Na(v)1.3 protein was upregulated within VPL neurons, extracellular unit recordings were made from VPL neurons in intact animals, those with SCI, and in SCI animals after receiving lumbar intrathecal injections of Na(v)1.3 antisense or mismatch oligodeoxynucleotides for 4 days. After SCI, VPL neurons with identifiable peripheral receptive fields showed rhythmic oscillatory burst firing with changes in discrete burst properties, and alternated among single-spike, burst, silent, and spindle wave firing modes. Na(v)1.3 antisense, but not mismatch, partially reversed alterations in burst firing after SCI. These results demonstrate several newly characterized changes in spontaneous burst firing properties of VPL neurons after SCI and suggest that abnormal expression of Na(v)1.3 contributes to these phenomena.
Many academic mentoring opportunities are available to neuroscience nurses when they interact with undergraduate students, or members of minorities or when they are serving as faculty. Opportunities with undergraduate students originate in an awareness of student perceptions. During rotations on neuroscience units, students may consciously or unconsciously be seeking a mentor-someone to emulate, a contact person, someone to have a chat with, a teacher, a guide, and an assessor or supervisor. Nurses who serve as formal or informal clinical instructors should recognize that students respond to mentors who project poise, verbal and nonverbal strength, and optimism. Mentoring is an important strategy neuroscience nurses should embrace to enhance, develop, and encourage members of minority groups to enter the nursing workforce. Interested applicants can be directed toward specific programs such as the LEAD project or project IMPART. Neuroscience nurses who serve as nursing faculty should be aware that when they mentor new faculty they should be available, have regular meetings to discuss questions, help the protg learn to prevent and handle problems and prepare for first-time experiences, and help with implementation of teaching responsibilities. If a formal mentoring program is not in place, recommendations are available for establishing one.
Hypertonic saline (HTS) is an osmotic agent that can help patients in the acute phase of severe traumatic brain injury. HTS extracts fluid from swollen cerebral tissue to both control intracranial pressure and diminish the deleterious effects of secondary brain injury. Neuroscience nurses in intensive care and acute care units, who may administer HTS as resuscitation fluid, continuous infusion, or bolus dose, need to be familiar with physiologic actions, potential side effects, and appropriate HTS administration techniques. Neuroscience nurses collaborate with other members of the interdisciplinary team to ensure that HTS is administered safely.
Ca(2+) influx through L-type Ca(2+) channels regulates several different cellular processes in developing Purkinje neurons, including activation of transcription factors and expression of cellular proteins. In the current studies, we examined the age dependence of these actions of Ca(2+) during the early developmental period. Purkinje neurons acutely isolated from postnatal day 4-8 rat pups were studied. We also examined the sensitivity of the Ca(2+)-regulated processes to a toxic environmental factor (ethanol) known to show age-dependent actions on developing Purkinje neurons. Results show that Ca(2+) activation of the transcription factor cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) and Ca(2+)-induced alterations in the level of the apoptotic enzyme caspase 3 show both dose and age dependence in the early-developing Purkinje neurons. Interestingly, the age dependence was opposite for the two proteins. Ca(2+) regulation of calbindin, a Ca(2+) binding protein, was dose dependent but showed little age dependence. Exposure to ethanol altered Ca(2+) activation of pCREB in an age-dependent manner but did not alter Ca(2+) regulation of caspase 3 or calbindin levels. Taken together, these results show that the downstream effects of Ca(2+) signaling have age-dependent components during early Purkinje neuron development. This age dependence may play an important role in the normal developmental program and could contribute to the critical window of sensitivity observed for certain toxic agents during early development.

Spinal dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs), the most common of spinal vascular malformations, are AVFs in the dura mater of the nerve root and/or adjacent spinal dura. These fistulas are most often solitary and are fed by a single radicular artery that primarily supplies the dura mater. Multiple spinal DAVFs are rarely reported in the literature. Those that have been documented have been synchronous in their presentation in that they were found during the same examination or were present at the initial examination but missed and only recognized at the second examination. The authors report the case of a patient with two spinal DAVFs occurring at different spinal levels at different points in time (metachronous).

Walking ability is a measure of recovery used in many studies that test experimental strategies to treat injuries or diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) in animal models. A common measure in the rat animal model of thoracic spinal cord injury (SCI) is visual inspection and scoring of hind limb activity, which allows the documentation of movements associated with the recovery of locomotor function. In this study, we expand on previously documented visible changes in the locomotor pattern following SCI. The spontaneous recovery of locomotion in rats with thoracic SCIs of variable extent was evaluated using electromyographic (EMG) and kinematic analysis while rats walked on an elevated runway. Comparisons with pre-lesion walking sequences revealed changes in the kinematics and in the muscle activation pattern of various muscles, including enhanced fore limb extensor activity, possibly reflecting an increased contribution to propulsion, altered recruitment of back muscles inserting into the hip (possibly to support stepping movements), and elevated posture during stance, which may compensate for deficits in weight support. These changes were noted in spinal cord injured rats with varying degrees of impairment, including animals with no visually detectable deficit in open-field walking. In summary, the presented results demonstrate that spinal cord injured rats develop alternative locomotor patterns following SCI that cannot be discriminated by the use of qualitative visually based analysis, thus urging the use of quantitative outcome measures in assessing motor function after SCI.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen, which actively monitors the synthesis, folding, and modification of newly synthesized transmembrane and secretory proteins as well as lipids, is quite sensitive to homeostatic perturbations. The biochemical, molecular, and physiological events that elevate cellular ER stress levels and disrupt Ca2+ homeostasis trigger secondary reactions. These reactions are factors in the ongoing neurological pathology contributing to the continual tissue loss. However, the cells are not without defensive systems. One of the reactive mechanisms, the unfolded protein response (UPR), when evoked, provides some measure of protection, unless the stress conditions become prolonged or overwhelming. UPR activation occurs when key ER membrane-bound sensor proteins detect the excess accumulation of misfolded or unfolded proteins within the ER lumen. The activation of these sensors leads to a general protein translation shut-down, transcriptional induction, and translation of select proteins to deal with the difficult and miscreant protein or to encourage their degradation so they will do no harm. If the stress is prolonged, caspase-12, along with other apoptotic proteins, are activated, triggering programmed cell death. UPR, once considered to be a rather simple response, can now be characterized as a multifaceted labyrinth of reactions that continues expanding as research intensifies. This review will examine what has been learned to date about how this highly efficient and specific signaling pathway copes with ER stress, by centering on the basic components, their roles, and the complex interactions engendered. Finally, the UPR impact in various central nervous system injuries is summarized.
There is recent in vitro evidence that human neurons express the innate immune response receptor, Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR-3), and that expression is enhanced in viral infections. The authors examined the immunohistochemical expression of TLR-3 in the cerebellar cortex of postmortem human brains. Purkinje cells were found to express TLR-3 in all cases of rabies (4 of 4) and herpes simplex encephalitis (2 of 2) as well as in cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (1 of 2), stroke (1 of 2), and Alzheimer's disease (3 of 3). In cases of viral infection, direct viral infection was not necessary for enhanced neuronal TLR-3 expression, suggesting that soluble factors likely play an important role in inducing TLR-3 expression. In addition to neurons, occasional Bergmann glia expressed TLR-3 in some cases. This study has provided evidence that human brain neurons can express TLR-3 in vivo and suggests that neurons may play an important role in initiating an inflammatory reaction in a variety of neurological diseases.
The performance of unsupervised learning models for natural images is evaluated quantitatively by means of information theory. We estimate the gain in statistical independence (the multi-information reduction) achieved with independent component analysis (ICA), principal component analysis (PCA), zero-phase whitening, and predictive coding. Predictive coding is translated into the transform coding framework, where it can be characterized by the constraint of a triangular filter matrix. A randomly sampled whitening basis and the Haar wavelet are included in the comparison as well. The comparison of all these methods is carried out for different patch sizes, ranging from 2x2 to 16x16 pixels. In spite of large differences in the shape of the basis functions, we find only small differences in the multi-information between all decorrelation transforms (5% or less) for all patch sizes. Among the second-order methods, PCA is optimal for small patch sizes and predictive coding performs best for large patch sizes. The extra gain achieved with ICA is always less than 2%. In conclusion, the edge filters found with ICA lead to only a surprisingly small improvement in terms of its actual objective.
Arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency is a treatable inborn error of creatine synthesis, characterized by mental retardation, language impairment, and behavioral disorders. We describe a patient in whom arginine:glycine amidinotransferase was diagnosed at birth and treated at 4 months with creatine supplementation. In contrast with his 2 older sisters, he had normal psychomotor development at 18 months.
The aim of this multi-center study was to assess with reduced versions of the Total Neuropathy Score (TNS), the severity of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN), and to compare the results with those obtained with common toxicity scales. An unselected population of 428 cancer patients was evaluated at 11 different centers using a composite (clinical + neurophysiological, TNSr) or clinical (TNSc) examination and with the National Cancer Institute - Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) 2.0 and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scores. A highly significant correlation was demonstrated between the TNSr and the NCI-CTC 2.0 and ECOG scores; but the TNSr evaluation was more accurate in view of the more extended score range. Also, the simpler and faster TNSc (based only on the clinical neurological examination) allowed to grade accurately CIPN and correlated with the common toxicity scores. The correlation tended to be closer when the sensory items were considered, but also the TNSr motor items, which were not specifically investigated in any other previous study, significantly correlated with the results of the common toxicity scales. In conclusion, this study suggests that the TNSr is a reliable tool for accurately grading and reporting CIPN, with the additional and so far unique support of a formal comparison with known and widely used common toxicity scales. The TNSc is a valid alternative if neurophysiological examination is not feasible. The longer time needed to calculate the TNSr and TNSc in comparison to the ECOG or the NCI-CTC 2.0 scales is offset by the more detailed knowledge of the CIPN characteristics.
The present study tested the hypothesis that mouse and human 5-hydroxytryptamine3A (5-HT3A) receptors may be differentially modulated by benzylidene analogs of anabaseine (BA) and that these analogs may be useful in assessing residues involved in receptor gating. Mouse and human wild-type and mouse and human chimeric 5-HT3A receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes were evaluated with the two-electrode voltage clamp technique. Our previous studies demonstrated that 3-(2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene)-anabaseine (DMXBA) is an antagonist at the mouse wild-type 5-HT3A receptor, but that its metabolites 3-(2-hydroxy, 4-methoxybenzylidene)-anabaseine (2-OHMBA), 3-(2-methoxy, 4-hydroxybenzylidene)-anabaseine (4-OHMBA), and 3-(2,4-dihydroxybenzylidene)-anabaseine (2,4-DiOHBA) are partial agonists (J Pharmacol Exp Ther, 299: 1112-1117, 2001). In the human wild-type (HWT) 5-HT3A receptor, none of the BA compounds possessed partial agonist activity. BA compounds antagonized 1.5 microM 5-HT-mediated (EC50) responses in the HWT 5-HT3A receptor with a rank order of potency (IC50 in muM) of 2-OHMBA (1.5 +/- 0.1) &gt; DMXBA (3.1 +/- 0.2) &gt; 4-OHMBA (7.4 +/- 0.5) &gt; 2,4-DiOHBA (12.8 +/- 0.7). In mouse receptor chimeras containing N-terminal human receptor orthologs, 2-OHMBA inhibited 5-HT-mediated (EC50) currents with IC50 values of 2.0 +/- 0.08 and 3.0 +/- 0.13 microM, respectively. In human receptor chimeras containing N-terminal mouse receptor orthologs, 2-OHMBA displayed partial agonist activities with EC50 values of 1.3 +/- 0.15 and 5.0 +/- 0.4 microM; efficacies were 43 and 57%, respectively. Thus, amino acids present in the distal one-third of the N terminus of mouse and human 5-HT3A receptors are necessary and sufficient to confer partial agonist or antagonist properties of 2-OHMBA.
Repeated maternal separation of pups from dams is often used as an early life stressor that causes profound neurochemical and behavioral changes in the pups that persist into adulthood. The effects of maternal separation on both the dams and the treated pups as adults on cocaine self-administration were examined using four separation conditions: 15- or 180-min separation (MS15 and MS180), brief handling without separation (MS0), and a nonhandled group (NH). The separations and handling occurred daily on postnatal days 2 to 15. The acquisition of cocaine self-administration (0.0625-1.0 mg/kg/infusion) was evaluated in the treated pups as adults. The MS180 group acquired cocaine self-administration at the lowest dose tested (0.0625 mg/kg/infusion), whereas the MS15s did not respond for cocaine at rates greater than that seen with saline administration. The NH group received the greatest number of infusions and intake at the highest doses. After self-administration, no differences were observed between groups in activity of two liver carboxylesterases involved in the inactivation of cocaine, ES10 and ES4. Maternal separation affected cocaine self-administration in the dams as well. Although there was an overall significant affect of treatment on cocaine self-administration, the length of separation (15 or 180 min) did not affect cocaine self-administration on the dams. The MS0 dams averaged a greater number of infusions per session than NH group during the 1st week of acquisition. These data suggest that in addition to the profound changes that occur in pups as result of maternal separation, the dams are also susceptible to alterations in behaviors.
We have shown previously that voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs) are up-regulated in human metastatic disease (prostate, breast and small-cell lung cancers), and that VGSC activity potentiates metastatic cell behaviours. However, the mechanism(s) regulating functional VGSC expression in cancer cells remains unknown. We investigated the possibility of activity-dependent (auto)regulation of VGSC functional expression in the strongly metastatic Mat-LyLu model of rat prostate cancer. Pretreatment with tetrodotoxin (TTX) for 24-72 h subsequently suppressed peak VGSC current density without affecting voltage dependence. The hypothesis was tested that the VGSC auto-regulation occurred via VGSC-mediated Na(+) influx and subsequent activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Indeed, TTX pretreatment reduced the level of phosphorylated PKA, and the PKA inhibitor KT5720 decreased, whilst the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin and the Na(+) ionophore monensin both increased the peak VGSC current density. TTX reduced the mRNA level of Nav1.7, predominant in these cells, and VGSC protein expression at the plasma membrane, although the total VGSC protein level remained unchanged. TTX pretreatment eliminated the VGSC-dependent component of the cells' migration in Transwell assays. We concluded that the VGSC activity in Mat-LyLu rat prostate cancer cells was up-regulated in steady-state via a positive feedback mechanism involving PKA, and this enhanced the cells' migratory potential.
Stroke is a major cause of disability in all age groups. Although the value of specific rehabilitative therapies is now acknowledged, the mechanisms of impairment and recovery are not well understood. There is growing interest in the role that central nervous system reorganisation might play in the recovery process, and in particular whether this reorganisation can be manipulated to provide clinical benefits for patients. The careful use of non-invasive techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation allows the study of the working human brain, and studies in humans suggest that functionally relevant adaptive changes occur in cerebral networks following stroke. An understanding of how these changes influence the recovery process will facilitate the development of novel therapeutic techniques that are based on neurobiological principles and will allow the delivery of specific therapies to appropriately targeted patients suffering from stroke.
In this chapter brain imaging tools in neurosciences are presented. These include a brief overview on single-photon emission tomography (SPET) and a detailed focus on positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In addition, a critical discussion on the advantages and disadvantages of the three diagnostic systems is added. Furthermore, this article describes the image analysis tools from visual analysis over region-of-interest technique up to statistical parametric mapping, co-registration methods, and network analysis. It also compares the newly developed combined PET/CT scanner approach with established image fusion software approaches. There is rapid change: Better scanner qualities, new software packages and scanner concepts are on the road paved for an amply bright future in neurosciences.

In the last decade, functional MRI (fMRI) has become one of the most widely used functional imaging technique in neurosciences. However, its clinical applications remain limited. Despite methodological and practical issues, fMRI data has been validated by different techniques (magnetoencephalography, Wada test, electrical and magnetic stimulations, and surgical resections). In neurosurgical practice, fMRI can identify eloquent areas involved in motor and language functions, and may evaluate characteristics of postoperative neurological deficit including its occurrence, clinical presentation and duration. This may help to inform patients and to prepare postoperative care. fMRI may also identify epileptic foci. In neurological practice, fMRI may help to determine prognosis of recovery after stroke, appropriate medication, and rehabilitation. fMRI may help to identify patients at risk of developing Alzheimer disease. Finally, cerebrovascular reactivity imaging is an interesting approach that might provide new radiological insights of vascular function.
Brain imaging studies demonstrate that sleep deprivation reduces glucose metabolism and blood flow in the prefrontal cortex, and such reductions are associated with impairments in cognitive functioning. Although some of the greatest metabolic declines occur within the orbitofrontal cortex, little is known about the effects of sleep loss on the types of processes mediated by this region, including emotion, motivation, feeding, and olfaction. The present study tested odor identification accuracy when individuals were well rested and again following 24 h of wakefulness. Relative to rested baseline performance, sleep-deprived individuals demonstrated a significant decline in the ability to identify specific odors on the Smell Identification Test. This decrement in olfactory functioning occurred concomitantly with slowed psychomotor speed and increased ratings of self-reported sleepiness. Performance on a task that required complex mental set shifting did not change significantly following sleep deprivation, suggesting that the decrements in odor identification could not be attributed to task difficulty. Finally, while there was no relationship between subjective sleepiness and odor identification at rested baseline, greater subjective sleepiness was associated with better odor identification ability following 24 h of sleep loss. Possible implications of these findings are discussed.


Magnetic-resonance microscopy is a rapidly growing and a widely applied imaging method in translational neuroscience studies. Emphasis has been placed on anatomical, functional, and metabolic studies of genetically engineered mouse models of human disease and the need for efficient phenotyping at all levels. Magnetic-resonance microscopy is now implemented in many laboratories worldwide due to the availability of commercial high-field magnetic-resonance instruments for use in small animals, the development of accessories (including miniature radio-frequency coils), magnetic-resonance compatible physiological monitoring equipment, and access to adjustable anaesthesia techniques. Two of the major magnetic-resonance microscopy applications in the neurosciences-structural and functional magnetic-resonance microscopy-will be reviewed.
Dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-MRI is commonly used to measure cerebral perfusion in acute ischemic stroke. Quantification of perfusion parameters involves deconvolution of the tissue concentration-time curves with an arterial input function (AIF), typically with the use of singular value decomposition (SVD). To mitigate the effects of noise on the estimated cerebral blood flow (CBF), a regularization parameter or threshold is used. Often a single global threshold is applied to every voxel, and its value has a dramatic effect on the CBF values obtained. When a single global threshold was applied to simulated concentration-time curves produced using exponential, triangular, and boxcar residue functions, significant systematic errors were found in the measured perfusion parameters. We estimate the errors obtained for different sampling intervals and signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs), and discuss the source of the systematic error. We present a method that partially corrects for the systematic error in the presence of an exponential residue function by applying a linear fit, which removes underestimates of long mean transit time (MTT) and overestimates of short MTT. For example, the correction reduced the error at a temporal resolution of 2.5 s and an SNR of 30 from 29.1% to 11.7%. However, the error is largest in the presence of noise and at MTTs that are likely to be encountered in areas of hypoperfusion; furthermore, even though it is reduced, it cannot be corrected for exactly.
Applying quantitative trait analysis methods to genome-wide microarray-derived mRNA expression phenotypes in segregating populations is a valuable tool in the attempt to link high-level traits to their molecular causes. The massive multiple-testing issues involved in analyzing these data make the correct level of confidence to place in mRNA abundance quantitative trait loci (QTL) a difficult problem. We use a unique resource to directly test mRNA abundance QTL replicability in mice: paired recombinant inbred (RI) and F(2) data sets derived from C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) inbred strains and phenotyped using the same Affymetrix arrays. We have one forebrain and one striatum data set pair. We describe QTL replication at varying stringencies in these data. For instance, 78% of mRNA expression QTL (eQTL) with genome-wide adjusted p &lt; or = 0.0001 in RI data replicate at a genome-wide adjusted p &lt; 0.05 or better. Replicated QTL are disproportionately putatively cis-acting, and approximately 75% have higher apparent expression levels associated with B6 genotypes, which may be partly due to probe set generation using B6 sequence. Finally, we note that while trans-acting QTL do not replicate well between data sets in general, at least one cluster of trans-acting QTL on distal Chr 1 is notably preserved between data sets.
Ocular retardation is a recessive murine mutation whose phenotypic expression is greatly affected by genetic background effects. Mice of the inbred 129/SvJ background that are homozygous for the Chx10(or-J) mutation are blind and have a thin, poorly differentiated retina and no optic nerve. A backcross between 129/SvJ and Mus musculus castaneus (CASA/Rk) produced animals that were homozygous for the Chx10(or-J) mutation, yet showed a much milder phenotype. Such animals, when brother-sister mated and selected for mild phenotype for several generations, resulted in partial recovery of visual function, including presence of an optic nerve and pupillary response. In this article we report a genome scan of phenotypic extremes of the backcross to identify the genetic loci affecting this phenotype modification. Our scan revealed significant loci on Chromosomes 6 and 14 where the CASA/Rk alleles are maintained selectively. Markers were developed near candidate genes, but no candidate gene could be identified unequivocally.
A 28-year old Malay man with evidence of an upper motor neuron cord lesion was diagnosed to have a C7 to T2 spinal arterio-venous malformation and associated cutaneous vascular lesion. He finally agreed for treatment after 5 years of progressive spastic right lower limb weakness leading to inability to mobilize. A two staged intravascular procedure was done followed by surgery with recovery of ASIA impairment scale grade B.
Third ventricular cavernous angiomas are rare vascular malformations of the brain. We report an eight-year old boy with a rare third ventricular cavernous angioma that hemorrhaged presenting with symptoms of acute hydrocephalus. Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) showed a heterogenous ill-defined, solid and cystic intraventricular mass in the third ventricle which was mildly enhanced with contrast and there was associated hydrocephalus. The mass was removed with success and follow up after two years revealed no neurological abnormalities.

The term temporomandibular disorders (TMD) is used to indicate a heterogeneous group of painful conditions involving masticatory apparatus and its related structures whose complicated etiology involves a number of diagnostic and taxonomical matters. The prevalence of TDM has remarkably increased in the last years, such that, at present, these clinical conditions represent the most frequent cause of orofacial pain in the general population: in particular, among these disorders, pathologies affecting masticatory muscles have a considerable clinical and epidemiological relevance. Due to the high prevalence of masticatory myofascial pain, as well as the taxonomical issue that emerges from literature data, the wide range of treatment modalities proposed for this condition seems to be justifiable. Among the various therapeutic solutions employed in the management of masticatory myofascial pain, it is interesting to focus on the efficacy of the different kinds of physical therapy. In fact, due to the difficulties related with the attempt to isolate a sole etiological factor, at the beginning should be carried out reversible and noninvasive interventions: in these terms, the use of physical therapy seems to be reasonable. The aim of the present paper is to provide a critical review of the literature about the use of physical therapy approaches in relieving pain symptoms that often accompany masticatory muscles disorders. This study seems to suggest that the employ of physical therapy could be useful in the treatment of myogenous TDM, even though further studies are needed to assess the efficacy of this tool.
We hypothesize that environmental toxicants, such as polychlorinated biphenyl congeners, can activate vascular endothelial cells and thus increase formation of blood-borne metastases. This study indicates that exposure of human microvascular endothelial cells to 2,2',4,6,6'-pentachlorobiphenyl can stimulate transendothelial migration of tumor cells through up-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3. In a series of experiments with specific small interfering RNA and pharmacologic inhibitors, we provide evidence that 2,2',4,6,6'-pentachlorobiphenyl can activate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) in a closely coordinated and cross-dependent fashion. Activated EGFR and JAK3 stimulate in concert c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 as well as increase DNA-binding activity of transcription factors activator protein-1 and polyomavirus enhancer activator protein 3, leading to transcriptional up-regulation of MMP-3 expression. These results indicate that the interplay among EGFR, JAK3, and mitogen-activated protein kinases, such as c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, is critical for polychlorinated biphenyl-induced MMP-3 expression and accelerated transendothelial migration of tumor cells.
Cannabinoids, in the form of marijuana plant extracts, have been used for thousands of years for a wide variety of medical conditions, ranging from general malaise and mood disorders to more specific ailments, such as pain, nausea, and muscle spasms. The discovery of tetrahydrocannabinol, the active principal in marijuana, and the identification and cloning of two cannabinoid receptors (i.e., CB1 and CB2) has subsequently led to biomedical appreciation for a family of endocannabinoid lipid transmitters. The biosynthesis and catabolism of the endocannabinoids and growing knowledge of their broad physiological roles are providing insight into potentially novel therapeutic targets. Compounds directed at one or more of these targets may allow for cannabinoid-based therapeutics with limited side effects and abuse liability.
The focus of our study was to determine the role of G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) and beta-arrestins in agonist-induced CB1 receptor modulation during cannabinoid tolerance and their dependence from the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade. In wild-type mice, chronic Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) exposure significantly activated specific GRK and beta- arrestin subunits in all the considered brain areas (striatum, cerebellum, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex), suggesting their involvement in the adaptive processes underlying CB1 receptor downregulation and desensitization. These events were ERK-dependent in the striatum and cerebellum, because they were prevented in the genetic (Ras-GRF1 knockout mice) and pharmacological (SL327-pretreated mice) models of ERK activation inhibition, whereas in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, they appeared to be mostly ERK-independent. In the latter areas, ERK activation after chronic THC increased the transcription factors cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein and Fos B as well as a downstream protein known as brainderived neurotrophic factor. As a whole, our data suggest that in the striatum and cerebellum, THC-induced ERK activation could represent a key signaling event to initiate homologous desensitization of CB1 receptor, accounting for the development of tolerance to THC-induced hypolocomotion. In the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, THC-induced alteration in GRKs and beta-arrestins primarily depends on other kinases, whereas ERK activation could be part of the molecular adaptations that underlie the complex behavioral phenotype that defines the addicted state.
Central to surgical management of movement disorders is an understanding of the anatomy and physiology of the basal ganglia. The basal ganglia have been a target for neuromodulation surgery since Russell Meyers' pioneering works in the late 1930s. With the development of deep brain stimulation as the gold standard of surgical intervention for movement disorders, there has been a concomitant evolution in the understanding of the role the basal ganglia plays in the genesis of normal and abnormal motor behaviors. The fundamental concept of the cortico-striato-pallido-thalamocortical loop will be explored in the context of deep brain stimulation. The current targets for deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease, the subthalamic nucleus, the globus pallidus internus, and the ventral intermediate nucleus, will be discussed in the framework of the current physiological and anatomical models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Finally, the current understandings of the mechanisms underpinning the beneficial effects of deep brain stimulation for PD will be discussed.
Hemidystonia is a clinical presentation of many pathological conditions that can affect the basal ganglia. It is usually a refractory condition to current medical treatment. Recently, stereotactic procedures such as radiofrequency lesioning or deep brain stimulation provided hope for patients with dystonia; we are reporting the clinical outcome of a patient with hemidystonia treated with unilateral pallidotomy. A 15-year-old boy with no family history of movement disorders and normal perinatal history is presented. He started to have progressive dystonic contractions in the right hand and extended to involve both the upper and lower extremities in the right side over a period of 3 years. He was subjected to a left-sided posteroventral pallidotomy. Postoperatively, his hemidystonia improved over a period of a few weeks. The Unified Dystonia Rating Scale improved by 84%. He maintained the improvements for the 2-year postoperative follow-up period. No complications were encountered. Clinical presentation, surgical techniques, and surgical results are presented. In conclusion, hemidystonia may significantly respond to a contralateral posteroventral pallidotomy.
Medicated patients with Parkinsonism and parkin gene mutations have been reported to show a significant decrease in striatal dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) in comparison to medicated idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients with similar age and disease severity. The aim of this study was to verify whether the genetic defect per se is responsible for this decrease. We have studied with [11C]raclopride (RAC) positron emission tomography (PET) in a group of 14 sporadic patients with parkin-linked Parkinsonism, 6 of whom had never received levodopa or dopamine agonists. The remaining 8 patients had been treated with levodopa for at least 5 years. Presynaptic striatal [18F]dopa storage was not significantly different between these two groups of patients. In untreated parkin-positive patients, significant putaminal increases in RAC-binding potential (BP) were found in comparison to an age-matched healthy control group by using a classical region of interest approach and statistical parametric mapping. In contrast, levodopa-treated parkin-positive patients showed significant decreases in RAC-BP in the caudate and putamen when compared to an age-matched healthy control group. The RAC PET findings revealed that striatal D2R upregulation occurs in dopaminergic drug-naive parkin-positive patients, in a similar fashion to the upregulation reported in drug-naive IPD. D2R downregulation observed in medicated parkin-positive patients, therefore, is not caused primarily by the genetic defect itself. Parkin-positive patients appear to have a greater susceptibility to the exposure to dopaminergic medication than IPD patients, which in turn might be an indirect effect of their genetic mutation.
Although multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder leading to progressive disability and decreased life expectancy, little is known about patients' own evaluation of their illness and factors associated with poor health-related quality of life (Hr-QoL). We, therefore, assessed Hr-QoL and its determinants in MSA. The following scales were applied to 115 patients in the European MSA-Study Group (EMSA-SG) Natural History Study: Medical Outcome Study Short Form (SF-36), EQ-5D, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Mini-Mental state examination (MMSE), Unified MSA Rating Scale (UMSARS), Hoehn &amp; Yahr (H&amp;Y) Parkinson's disease staging scale, Composite Autonomic Symptom Scale (COMPASS), and Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS). Forty-six percent of patients had moderate to severe depression (BDI &gt; or = 17); Hr-QoL scores on the SF-36 and EQ-5D were significantly impaired. Pain, the only domain with similar scores in MSA and published PD patients, was reported more frequently in patients with MSA-P (predominantly parkinsonian motor subtype) than MSA-C (predominantly cerebellar motor subtype; 76% vs. 50%; P = 0.005). Hr-QoL scores correlated most strongly with UMSARS motor, COMPASS, and BDI scores but not with MMSE scores, age at onset, or disease duration. The COMPASS and UMSARS activities of daily living scores were moderate-to-strong predictors for the SF-36 physical summary score and the BDI and UMSARS motor scores for the SF-36 mental summary score. This report is the first study to show that Hr-QoL is significantly impaired in MSA. Although not all possible factors related to impaired Hr-QoL in MSA could be assessed, autonomic dysfunction, motor impairment, and depression were most closely associated with poor Hr-QoL, and therapeutic management, therefore, should concentrate upon these aspects of the disease.
The lower extremity is affected infrequently in adult-onset primary dystonia in contrast to childhood-onset dystonia, which typically begins in the foot. When dystonia affects the foot in an adult, it is usually on a secondary basis. We present findings on 17 patients (11 women, 6 men; average age of onset 48.4 years; average time to diagnosis 2.7 years) with adult-onset primary foot dystonia. Prior to diagnosis, most patients underwent extensive testing and treatment, including unnecessary surgeries. Only the left lower extremity was involved in 8 patients, only the right in 7, and both in 2. The most common patterns were plantar flexion of all toes and inversion of the foot, typically activated with standing or walking. Only 2 patients had dystonia elsewhere. There was a family history of possible dystonia in 2 patients. One of five tested for DYT1 was positive, in the absence of a family history. One of eight patients treated with levodopa experienced mild improvement. Six of eight treated with botulinum toxin improved. No patient has been observed to have a secondary cause of dystonia. The prognosis, with regard to progression or spread to other body parts, has been favorable. Although uncommon, foot dystonia on a primary basis, not due to DYT1, can begin in adulthood. In this series of patients, the diagnosis was often not recognized, leading to extensive and unnecessary testing and treatment and emphasizing the need for wider recognition.
We studied the relationship between epidermal innervation and age, gender, height, and weight. Intraepidermal nerve fiber density (IENFD) of skin biopsies obtained from the proximal thigh and ankle of 84 normal individuals was quantified. A linear regression model was performed using IENFD at the thigh, IENFD at the ankle, and the thigh IENFD/ankle IENFD ratio, with age, gender, and height-weight interaction as predictors. An independent, negative correlation was found between age and IENFD at the ankle. No correlation was found between age and IENFD at the thigh. With increasing age the thigh IENFD/ankle IENFD ratio, a measure of the length-dependent distal-to-proximal gradient of epidermal nerve density, increased significantly. Gender, height, and body weight did not independently influence IENFD at either site. In normal individuals, distal epidermal innervation decreases in a length-dependent manner with advancing age. This must be considered when interpreting IENFD in disease states.
Transmembrane adhesion receptors, such as integrins, mediate cell adhesion by interacting with intracellular proteins that connect to the cytoskeleton. Talin, one such linker protein, is thought to have two roles: mediating inside-out activation of integrins, and connecting extracellular matrix (ECM)-bound integrins to the cytoskeleton. Talin's amino-terminal head, which consists of a FERM domain, binds an NPxY motif within the cytoplasmic tail of most integrin beta subunits. This is consistent with the role of FERM domains in recruiting other proteins to the plasma membrane. We tested the role of the talin-head-NPxY interaction in integrin function in Drosophila. We found that introduction of a mutation that perturbs this binding in vitro into the isolated talin head disrupts its recruitment by integrins in vivo. Surprisingly, when engineered into the full-length talin, this mutation did not disrupt talin recruitment by integrins nor its ability to connect integrins to the cytoskeleton. However, it reduced the ability of talin to strengthen integrin adhesion to the ECM, indicating that the function of the talin-head-NPxY interaction is solely to regulate integrin adhesion.
Asymmetric cell division generates cell diversity during development and regulates stem-cell self-renewal in Drosophila and mammals. In Drosophila, neuroblasts align their spindle with a cortical Partner of Inscuteable (Pins)-G alpha i crescent to divide asymmetrically, but the link between cortical polarity and the mitotic spindle is poorly understood. Here, we show that Pins directly binds, and coimmunoprecipitates with, the NuMA-related Mushroom body defect (Mud) protein. Pins recruits Mud to the neuroblast apical cortex, and Mud is also strongly localized to centrosome/spindle poles, in a similar way to NuMA. In mud mutants, cortical polarity is normal, but the metaphase spindle frequently fails to align with the cortical polarity axis. When spindle orientation is orthogonal to cell polarity, symmetric division occurs. We propose that Mud is a functional orthologue of mammalian NuMA and Caenorhabditis elegans Lin-5, and that Mud coordinates spindle orientation with cortical polarity to promote asymmetric cell division.
Mice transgenic for antisense Notch and normal mice treated with inhibitors of the Notch-activating enzyme gamma-secretase showed reduced damage to brain cells and improved functional outcome in a model of focal ischemic stroke. Notch endangers neurons by modulating pathways that increase their vulnerability to apoptosis, and by activating microglial cells and stimulating the infiltration of proinflammatory leukocytes. These findings suggest that Notch signaling may be a therapeutic target for treatment of stroke and related neurodegenerative conditions.
Multiple nuclear transcription factors including E-26-like protein 1 (Elk-1) have been found in neuronal dendrites, yet the functional significance of such localization has not yet been explained. Here we use a focal transfection procedure, 'phototransfection', to introduce Elk1 mRNA into specific regions of live, intact primary rat neurons. Introduction and translation of Elk1 mRNA in dendrites produced cell death, whereas introduction and translation of Elk1 mRNA in cell bodies did not produce cell death. Elk-1 translated in dendrites was transported to the nucleus, and cell death depended upon transcription, supporting the dendritic imprinting hypothesis and highlighting the importance of the dendritic environment on protein function. Our demonstration of the utility of phototransfection for spatially controlled introduction of mRNAs opens the broader opportunity to use this method to introduce selected quantities of small molecules into discrete regions of live cells to assess their biological functions.
Parkinson disease is a neurodegenerative disorder whose symptoms are caused by the loss of dopaminergic neurons innervating the striatum. As striatal dopamine levels fall, striatal acetylcholine release rises, exacerbating motor symptoms. This adaptation is commonly attributed to the loss of interneuronal regulation by inhibitory D(2) dopamine receptors. Our results point to a completely different, new mechanism. After striatal dopamine depletion, D(2) dopamine receptor modulation of calcium (Ca(2+)) channels controlling vesicular acetylcholine release in interneurons was unchanged, but M(4) muscarinic autoreceptor coupling to these same channels was markedly attenuated. This adaptation was attributable to the upregulation of RGS4-an autoreceptor-associated, GTPase-accelerating protein. This specific signaling adaptation extended to a broader loss of autoreceptor control of interneuron spiking. These observations suggest that RGS4-dependent attenuation of interneuronal autoreceptor signaling is a major factor in the elevation of striatal acetylcholine release in Parkinson disease.
The ability of the mature mammalian nervous system to continually produce neuronal precursors is of considerable importance, as manipulation of this process might one day permit the replacement of cells lost as a result of injury or disease. In mammals, the anterior subventricular zone (SVZa) region is one of the primary sites of adult neurogenesis. Here we show that doublecortin (DCX), a widely used marker for newly generated neurons, when deleted in mice results in a severe morphological defect in the rostral migratory stream and delayed neuronal migration that is independent of direction or responsiveness to Slit chemorepulsion. DCX is required for nuclear translocation and maintenance of bipolar morphology during migration of these cells. Our data identifies a critical function for DCX in the movement of newly generated neurons in the adult brain.
In the developing cerebral cortex, neurons are born on a predictable schedule. Here we show in mice that the essential timing mechanism is programmed within individual progenitor cells, and its expression depends solely on cell-intrinsic and environmental factors generated within the clonal lineage. Multipotent progenitor cells undergo repeated asymmetric divisions, sequentially generating neurons in their normal in vivo order: first preplate cells, including Cajal-Retzius neurons, then deep and finally superficial cortical plate neurons. As each cortical layer arises, stem cells and neuroblasts become restricted from generating earlier-born neuron types. Growth as neurospheres or in co-culture with younger cells did not restore their plasticity. Using short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) to reduce Foxg1 expression reset the timing of mid- but not late-gestation progenitors, allowing them to remake preplate neurons and then cortical-plate neurons. Our data demonstrate that neural stem cells change neuropotency during development and have a window of plasticity when restrictions can be reversed.
Cannabinoids are powerful modulators of inhibition, yet the precise spike timing of cannabinoid receptor (CB1R)-expressing inhibitory neurons in relation to other neurons in the circuit is poorly understood. Here we found that the spike timing of CB1R-expressing basket cells, a major target for cannabinoids in the rat hippocampus, was distinct from the other main group of basket cells, the CB1R-negative. Despite receiving the same afferent inputs, the synaptic and biophysical properties of the two cell types were tuned to detect different features of activity. CB1R-negative basket cells responded reliably and immediately to subtle and repetitive excitation. In contrast, CB1R-positive basket cells responded later and did not follow repetitive activity, but were better suited to integrate the consecutive excitation of independent afferents. This temporal separation in the activity of the two basket cell types generated distinct epochs of somatic inhibition that were differentially affected by endocannabinoids.
Many organisms, especially humans, are characterized by their capacity for intentional, goal-directed actions. However, similar behaviours often proceed automatically, as habitual responses to antecedent stimuli. How are goal-directed actions transformed into habitual responses? Recent work combining modern behavioural assays and neurobiological analysis of the basal ganglia has begun to yield insights into the neural basis of habit formation.
A rapidly burgeoning literature documents copious sex influences on brain anatomy, chemistry and function. This article highlights some of the more intriguing recent discoveries and their implications. Consideration of the effects of sex can help to explain seemingly contradictory findings. Research into sex influences is mandatory to fully understand a host of brain disorders with sex differences in their incidence and/or nature. The striking quantity and diversity of sex-related influences on brain function indicate that the still widespread assumption that sex influences are negligible cannot be justified, and probably retards progress in our field.

Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep consists of a dreaming state in which there is activation of the cortical and hippocampal electroencephalogram (EEG), rapid eye movements, and loss of muscle tone. Although REM sleep was discovered more than 50 years ago, the neuronal circuits responsible for switching between REM and non-REM (NREM) sleep remain poorly understood. Here we propose a brainstem flip-flop switch, consisting of mutually inhibitory REM-off and REM-on areas in the mesopontine tegmentum. Each side contains GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid)-ergic neurons that heavily innervate the other. The REM-on area also contains two populations of glutamatergic neurons. One set projects to the basal forebrain and regulates EEG components of REM sleep, whereas the other projects to the medulla and spinal cord and regulates atonia during REM sleep. The mutually inhibitory interactions of the REM-on and REM-off areas may form a flip-flop switch that sharpens state transitions and makes them vulnerable to sudden, unwanted transitions-for example, in narcolepsy.
In timing-based neural codes, neurons have to emit action potentials at precise moments in time. We use a supervised learning paradigm to derive a synaptic update rule that optimizes by gradient ascent the likelihood of postsynaptic firing at one or several desired firing times. We find that the optimal strategy of up- and downregulating synaptic efficacies depends on the relative timing between presynaptic spike arrival and desired postsynaptic firing. If the presynaptic spike arrives before the desired postsynaptic spike timing, our optimal learning rule predicts that the synapse should become potentiated. The dependence of the potentiation on spike timing directly reflects the time course of an excitatory postsynaptic potential. However, our approach gives no unique reason for synaptic depression under reversed spike timing. In fact, the presence and amplitude of depression of synaptic efficacies for reversed spike timing depend on how constraints are implemented in the optimization problem. Two different constraints, control of postsynaptic rates and control of temporal locality, are studied. The relation of our results to spike-timing-dependent plasticity and reinforcement learning is discussed.
The medial temporal lobe may play a critical role in binding successive events into memory while encoding contextual information in implicit and explicit memory tasks. Information theory provides a quantitative basis to model contextual information engendered by conditional dependence between, or conditional uncertainty about, consecutive events in a sequence. We show that information theoretic indices characterizing contextual dependence within a sequential reaction time task (SRTT) predict regional responses, measured by fMRI, in areas associated with sequence learning and navigation. Specifically, activity of a distributed paralimbic system, centered on the left hippocampus, correlated selectively with predictability as measured with mutual information. This is clear evidence that the brain is sensitive to the probabilistic context in which events are encountered. This is potentially important for theories about how the brain represents uncertainty and makes perceptual inferences, particularly those based on predictive coding and hierarchical Bayes.
In the past few decades, neural networks have been extensively adopted in various applications ranging from simple synaptic memory coding to sophisticated pattern recognition problems such as scene analysis and robot vision. Moreover, current studies on neuroscience and physiology have reported that in a typical scene segmentation problem our major senses of perception (e.g. vision, olfaction, etc.) are highly chaotic and involved non-linear neural dynamics and oscillations. In this paper, the author proposes an innovative chaotic neural oscillator-namely the Lee-oscillator (Lee's Chaotic Neural Oscillator) to provide a chaotic neural coding and information processing scheme. To illustrate the capability of Lee-oscillators upon pattern association, a chaotic auto-associative network, namely Lee-Associator (Lee's Chaotic Auto-associator) is constructed. Different from classical auto-associators such as the celebrated Hopfield network, which provides time-independent and static pattern association scheme, the Lee-Associator provides a remarkable progressive memory association scheme (what the author called 'Progressive Memory Recalling Scheme, PMRS') during the chaotic memory association. This is exactly consistent with the latest research in psychiatry and perception psychology on dynamic memory recalling schemes, as well as the implications and analogues to human perception as illustrated by the remarkable Rubin-vase experiment on visual psychology.
Overproduction of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-amyloid likely contribute to neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In an effort to understand neuronal APP gene regulation, we identified a 52 base element (52sce) immediately downstream from the stop codon that stabilizes APP mRNA. Deletion of this domain drastically destabilized APP mRNAs and reduced APP synthesis in vitro. Chimeric globin-APP mRNAs containing the globin coding sequence fused to the entire APP 3'-UTR, showed regulation similar to full-length APP mRNA. A variety of cytoplasmic lysates contain 52sce RNA binding activity, suggesting cis-trans interactions regulate the element's functionality. Finally, the overexpression of chimeric mRNAs, containing the GFP coding sequence and APP 3'-UTR, dramatically reduced endogenous APP steady-state levels in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and suggests a novel approach to reduce the amyloid burden in AD patients.
We compared plasma levels of beta-amyloid 1-42 (pg/ml) found for 146 sporadic Alzheimer (AD) patients, 89 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 89 age-matched controls (CT). AD patients had significantly lower levels (38, 54, 52; p&lt;0.01), unrelated to severity of the disease as assessed by MMSE score, age, sex or APOE4 status. Twenty cases investigated at two time points 18 months apart did not demonstrate further decreases. Thus, the reduction in beta-amyloid 1-42 may be a marker for AD status, specifically, a transition from normal status or MCI to AD, rather than a marker for neurodegenerative processes occurring in the disease.
APOE affects the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and course of several other neurologic diseases. Experimental studies suggest that APOE influences synaptogenesis. We measured the concentration of two presynaptic proteins, synaptophysin and syntaxin 1, and also postsynaptic density-95 (PSD95), in superior temporal cortex from 42 AD and 160 normal brains, and determined the APOE genotypes. The concentration of both presynaptic proteins was approximately two-thirds lower in AD than normal brains and that of PSD95 one-third lower. No effect of APOE on synaptic proteins was found in advanced AD. However, in normal brain, epsilon4 was associated with lower concentrations of all three synaptic proteins and epsilon2 with significantly elevated PSD95 (p=0.03). A combined measure of synaptic proteins showed a significant linear decrease from epsilon2 through epsilon3 to varepsilon4 (p=0.01). APOE influences the concentration of synaptic proteins in normal superior temporal cortex and may thereby affect the response to injury, and the risk and outcome of a range of neurologic diseases.
Accumulating evidence suggests an important role of oxidation in pathologies such as Parkinson's disease. Here, we investigated the effects of cystamine, which has shown neuroprotection in animal models of Huntington's disease, in a parkinsonian mouse generated by the toxin MPTP. Aged mice (16 months of age) were assigned to either a 10 or 50 mg/kg/day cystamine treatment administered (1) 2 days prior, during and 14 days after MPTP lesioning or (2) beginning on the day of the MPTP lesion and for the subsequent 14 days. Pre-treatment with lower doses of cystamine (10 mg/kg) revealed increased levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive striatal fiber (p&lt;0.01), increased density of TH-immunoreactive cells (p&lt;0.01), increased substantia nigra Nurr1 mRNA levels (p&lt;0.001), and increased density of substantia nigra cells expressing the dopamine transporter (p&lt;0.001) as compared to MPTP treated mice. These results provide strong evidence for neuroprotective properties of cystamine in this animal model of Parkinson's disease.
Multiple cell death pathways are implicated in the etiology of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but the cause of the characteristic motor neuron degeneration remains unknown. To determine whether CNS metabolic defects are critical for ALS pathogenesis, we examined the temporal evolution of energetic defects in the G93A SOD1 mouse model of familial ALS. [14C]-2-deoxyglucose in vivo autoradiography in G93A mice showed that glucose utilization is impaired in components of the corticospinal and bulbospinal motor tracts prior to either pathologic or bioenergetic changes in the spinal cord. This was accompanied by significant depletions in cortical ATP content in presymptomatic mice, which was partially ameliorated by creatine administration. Findings suggest that bioenergetic defects are involved in the initial stages of mSOD1-induced toxicity in G93A mice and imply that the selective dysfunction and degeneration of spinal cord motor neurons in this model may be secondary to dysfunction within cerebral motor pathways.
Recent epidemiological and clinical data suggest that elevated serum homocysteine levels may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that high serum homocysteine concentration may increase amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) levels in the brain and could therefore accelerate AD neuropathology. For this purpose, we mated a hyperhomocysteinemic CBS(tm1Unc) mouse carrying a heterozygous dominant mutation in cystathionine-beta-synthase (CBS*) with the APP*/PS1* mouse model of brain amyloidosis. The APP*/PS1*/CBS* mice showed significant elevations of serum homocysteine levels compared to the double transgenic APP*/PS1* model of amyloidosis. Results showed that female (but not male) APP*/PS1*/CBS* mice exhibited significant elevations of Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels in the brain. Correlations between homocysteine levels in serum and brain Abeta levels were statistically significant. No increases in beta secretase activity or evidence of neuronal cell loss in the hyperhomocysteinemic mice were found. The causes of neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in AD are not fully understood, but increased production of Abeta seems to be of major importance. By unveiling a link between homocysteine and Abeta levels, these findings advance our understanding on the mechanisms involved in hyperhomocysteinemia as a risk factor for AD.
The ME7 model of murine prion disease shows an atypical inflammatory response characterized by morphologically activated microglia and an anti-inflammatory cytokine profile with a marked expression of TGFbeta1. The investigation of the role of TGFbeta1 during a time course disease shows that its expression is correlated with (i) the onset of behavioral abnormalities, (ii) increased activated microglia, (iii) thickening of the basement membrane, and (iv) is associated with increased PrP(sc) deposition. Increasing TGFbeta1 using an adenoviral vector has no significant impact on prion-associated behavioral impairments or on neuropathology. In contrast, inhibition of TGFbeta1 activity using an adenovirus expressing decorin induces severe cerebral inflammation, expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and acute neuronal death in prion-diseased animals only. These data suggest that TGFbeta1 plays a critical role in the downregulation of microglial responses minimizing brain inflammation and thus avoiding exacerbation of brain damage.
A series of studies in schizophrenic patients report a decrease of glutathione (GSH) in prefrontal cortex (PFC) and cerebrospinal fluid, a decrease in mRNA levels for two GSH synthesizing enzymes and a deficit in parvalbumin (PV) expression in a subclass of GABA neurons in PFC. GSH is an important redox regulator, and its deficit could be responsible for cortical anomalies, particularly in regions rich in dopamine innervation. We tested in an animal model if redox imbalance (GSH deficit and excess extracellular dopamine) during postnatal development would affect PV-expressing neurons. Three populations of interneurons immunolabeled for calcium-binding proteins were analyzed quantitatively in 16-day-old rat brain sections. Treated rats showed specific reduction in parvalbumin immunoreactivity in the anterior cingulate cortex, but not for calbindin and calretinin. These results provide experimental evidence for the critical role of redox regulation in cortical development and validate this animal model used in schizophrenia research.
Among the various phenotypes seen in Down syndrome (DS), mental retardation is the most common and most debilitating condition suffered by individuals with DS. The DYRK1A gene on human chromosome 21q22.2 encodes a subfamily of protein kinases that displays dual substrate specificities and is known to play a critical role in neurodevelopment. To study DS mental retardation, we have generated transgenic mice that contain only one copy of the complete human DYRK1A gene in a bacterial artificial chromosome. The transgenic mice showed significant impairment in hippocampal-dependent memory tasks in a Morris water maze. Interestingly, we observed shifts in both long-term potentiation and long-term depression, which suggests a role for DYRK1A in bidirectional synaptic plasticity. These mice represent the most clinically relevant DYRK1A mouse model to date and provide us a valuable tool for the in vivo study of mechanisms that underlie the learning and memory deficit in DS.
This study investigates the processing of quantifiers in a patient (AM) with semantic dementia. Quantifiers are verbal expressions such as &quot;many&quot; or &quot;a few&quot;, which refer semantically to quantity concepts although lexically they are like non-quantity words. Patient AM presented with preserved understanding of quantifier words and impaired understanding of non-quantifier words of the same frequency. In parallel to this, he showed preserved numerical knowledge and impaired comprehension of the meaning of words, objects, and of linguistic concepts. These results suggest that the neural organization of quantifiers is within the numerical domain as they pattern with numerical concepts rather than linguistic concepts. These data reinforce the evidence that numerical knowledge is functionally distinct from non-numerical knowledge in the semantic system and indicate that the semantic referent rather than the stimulus format is more relevant for semantic processing.
Prism adaptation can ameliorate some symptoms of left spatial neglect after right-hemisphere stroke. The mechanisms behind this remain unclear. Prism therapy may increase exploration towards the contralesional side, yet without improving perceptual awareness, as apparently for the left side of chimeric face stimuli (Ferber et al. 2003). However, other prism studies suggest that perceptual awareness might be improved (e.g., Maravita et al., 2003). We tested the impact of prism therapy on visual awareness for the left side of chimeric objects as well as chimeric faces, in three neglect patients. Prism therapy dramatically improved awareness for the identity of the left side of chimeric non-face objects, but had no effect on judging expressions for chimeric faces. The latter may thus be unique in showing no prism benefit.
Clusterin is suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Clusterin expression is increased in brain tissue in affected regions of Alzheimer patients, and intense clusterin staining is found in both senile plaques and in neuronal and glia cells. In contrast, the cerebrospinal fluid level of clusterin in Alzheimer patients has, thus far, been found unchanged. Clusterin is a glycosylated protein, and an alteration of its glycosylation in Alzheimer's disease might influence accurate quantification in cerebrospinal fluid through interference of antibody binding to the protein. Using enzymatic deglycosylation of clusterin isolated from cerebrospinal fluid, we found that the carbohydrates attached to clusterin were of the N-linked type and sialic acids. Based on this finding, cerebrospinal fluid samples from Alzheimer patients (n=99) and controls (n=39) were analysed. The samples were treated with peptide: N-glycanase F, cleaving off N-linked carbohydrates, and clusterin was quantified before and after deglycosylation using a new sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Clusterin was significantly increased in Alzheimer patients, in both native (7.17+/-2.43 AU versus 5.73+/-2.09 AU; p=0.002), and deglycosylated samples (12.19+/-5.00 AU versus 9.68+/-4.38 AU; p=0.004). Deglycosylation led to increased measured levels of clusterin by 70% (p&lt;0.001) in Alzheimer patients and 67% (p&lt;0.001) in controls. These findings indicate that glycosylation of proteins may interfere with their quantification. The results show that clusterin is significantly increased in cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer patients as a group, supporting that clusterin might be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. However, the individual clusterin levels overlap between the two groups, and thus cerebrospinal fluid clusterin measurement is not suitable as a biochemical marker in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Neurosteroids are modulators of several receptors and ion channels and are implicated in the pathophysiology of several neuropsychiatric diseases including hepatic encephalopathy (HE). The neurosteroid, allopregnanolone, a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors, accumulates in the brains of HE patients where it can potentiate GABA(A) receptor-mediated responses. Attenuation of the effects of neurosteroids on GABA-ergic neurotransmission is therefore of interest for the management of HE. In the present study, we determined the effect of the benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist, Ro15-4513, and the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil on modulation of the GABA(A) mediated chloride currents by allopregnanolone and on spontaneous synaptic activity in cultured hippocampal neurons using the patch-clamp technique. Allopregnanolone (0.03-0.3 microM), dose-dependently potentiated GABA-induced currents, an action significantly reduced by Ro15-4513 (10 microM). In contrast, flumazenil (10 microM) had no effect on the ability of allopregnanolone to potentiate GABA(A) currents but it blocked the effects of Ro15-4513. The frequency of spontaneous synaptic activity was significantly reduced in the presence of allopregnanolone (0.1 microM) from 1.5+/-0.7 to 0.1+/-0.04Hz. This action was partially reversed by Ro15-4513 (10 microM) but was not significantly influenced by flumazenil (10 microM). These findings suggest that the beneficial affects of Ro15-4513 in experimental HE result from attenuation of the effects of neurosteroids at GABA(A) receptors. Our results may provide a rational basis for the use of benzodiazepine inverse agonists in the management and treatment of hepatic encephalopathy in patients with liver failure.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of brain alpha1-adrenergic receptor binding in the rat model of pancreatic regeneration using 60-70% pancreatectomy. The alpha1-adrenergic receptors kinetics was studied in the cerebral cortex and brain stem of sham operated, 72 h pancreatectomised and 7 days pancreatectomised rats. Scatchard analysis with [3H]prazosin in cerebral cortex and brain stem showed a significant decrease (P &lt; 0.01), (P &lt; 0.05) in maximal binding (Bmax) with a significant decrease (P &lt; 0.001), (P &lt; 0.01) in the Kd in 72 h pancreatectomised rats compared with sham respectively. Competition analysis in cerebral cortex and brain stem showed a shift in affinity during pancreatic regeneration. The sympathetic activity was decreased as indicated by the significantly decreased norepinephrine level in the plasma (P &lt; 0.001), cerebral cortex (P &lt; 0.01) and brain stem (P &lt; 0.001) of 72 h pancreatectomised rats compared to sham. Thus, from our results it is suggested that the central alpha1-adrenergic receptors have a functional role in the pancreatic regeneration mediated through the sympathetic pathway.
Aplysia feeding behavior is highly variable from cycle to cycle. In some cycles, when the variability causes a mismatch between the animal's movements and the requirements of the feeding task, the variability makes the behavior unsuccessful. We propose that the behavior is variable nevertheless because the variability serves a higher-order functional purpose. When the animal is faced with a new and only imperfectly known feeding task in each cycle, the variability implements a trial-and-error search through the space of possible feeding movements. Over many cycles, this may be the animal's optimal strategy in an uncertain and changing feeding environment.
Brain activations underlying cognitive processes are subject to modulation as a result of increasing cognitive demands, individual differences, and practice. The present study investigated these modulatory effects in a cognitive control task which required inhibition of prepotent responses based on the contents of working memory (WM) and which enabled a novel dissociation of item-specific and task-skill effects resulting from brief practice. Distinct responses in areas underlying WM and inhibitory control in the absence of behavioral changes reflected different effects of item repetition and general task practice on tonic working memory and phasic inhibitory processes. Item repetition was associated with decreases in both unique and common areas subserving WM and inhibitory control. In contrast, general task practice was reflected in decreases in the level of tonic WM activity required to maintain a consistently high level of task performance but increased activity in a number of core inhibitory regions including dorsolateral and inferior PFC and inferior parietal cortex. Furthermore, both practice and individual differences in task performance were associated with the ability to modulate and maintain activity in frontostriatal areas mediating attentional control, suggesting that the areas that differ between individuals can be modulated by practice within an individual. These results raise the possibility that a fundamental human ability, reflexive cognitive control, is amenable to practice.
Music is experienced and understood on the basis of foreground/background relationships created between actual music and the underlying meter. In contemporary styles of music so-called polyrhythmic, structures hence create tension between a counter pulse and the main pulse. This exerts a marked influence on the listener, particularly when the experience of the original meter is maintained during the counter pulse. We here demonstrate that Brodmann area 47, an area associated with higher processing of language, is activated bilaterally when musicians tap the main pulse in a polymetric context where the music emphasizes a counter meter. This suggests that the processing of metric elements of music relies on brain areas also involved in language comprehension. We propose that BA47 is involved in general neuronal processing of temporal coherence subserving both language and music.
Global gray matter brain tissue volume decreases in schizophrenia have been associated to disease-related (possibly nongenetic) factors. Global white matter brain tissue volume decreases were related to genetic risk factors for the disease. However, which focal gray and white matter brain regions best reflect the genetic and environmental risk factors in the brains of patients with schizophrenia remains unresolved. 1.5-T MRI brain scans of 11 monozygotic and 11 same-sex dizygotic twin-pairs discordant for schizophrenia were compared to 11 monozygotic and 11 same-sex dizygotic healthy control twin-pairs using voxel-based morphometry. Linear regression analysis was done in each voxel for the average and difference in gray and white matter density separately, in each twin-pair, with group (discordant, healthy) and zygosity (monozygotic, dizygotic) as between subject variables, and age, sex and handedness as covariates. The t-maps (critical threshold value mid R:tmid R: &gt; 6.0, P &lt; 0.05) revealed a focal decrease in gray matter density accompanied by a focal increase in white matter density in the left medial orbitofrontal gyrus and a focal decrease in white matter density in the left sensory motor gyrus in twin-pairs discordant for schizophrenia as compared to healthy twin-pairs. Focal changes in left medial (orbito)frontal and left sensory motor gyri may reflect the increased genetic risk to develop schizophrenia. Focal changes in the left anterior hemisphere may therefore be particularly relevant as endophenotype in genetic studies of schizophrenia.
Neuroimaging studies investigating emotion have commonly used two different visual stimulus formats, facial expressions of emotion or emotionally evocative scenes. However, it remains an important unanswered question whether or not these different stimulus formats entail the same processes. Facial expressions of emotion may elicit more emotion recognition/perception, and evocative pictures may elicit more direct experience of emotion. In spite of these differences, common areas of activation have been reported across different studies, but little work has investigated activations in response to the two stimulus formats in the same subjects. In this fMRI study, we compared BOLD activation patterns to facial expression of emotions and to complex emotional pictures from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) to determine if these stimuli would activate similar or distinct brain regions. Healthy volunteers passively viewed blocks of expressive faces and IAPS pictures balanced for specific emotion (happy, sad, anger, fear, neutral), interleaved with blocks of fixation. Eye movement, reaction times, and off-line subjective ratings including discrete emotion, valence, and arousal were also recorded. Both faces and IAPS pictures activated similar structures, including the amygdala, posterior hippocampus, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and visual cortex. In addition, expressive faces uniquely activated the superior temporal gyrus, insula, and anterior cingulate more than IAPS pictures, despite the faces being less arousing. For the most part, these regions were activated in response to all specific emotions; however, some regions responded only to a subset.
Attention may reflexively shift towards the location of perceived threats, but it is still unclear how these spatial biases recruit the distributed fronto-parietal cortical networks involved in other aspects of selective attention. We used event-related fMRI to determine how brain responses to a neutral visual target are influenced by the emotional expression of faces appearing at the same location during a covert orienting task. On each trial, two faces were briefly presented, one in each upper visual field (one neutral and one emotional, fearful or happy), followed by a unilateral target (a small horizontal or vertical bar) replacing one of the faces. Participants had to discriminate the target orientation, shown on the same (valid) or opposite (invalid) side as the emotional face. Trials with faces but no subsequent target (cue-only trials) were included to disentangle activation due to emotional cues from their effects on target detection. We found increased responses in bilateral temporo-parietal areas and right occipito-parietal cortex for fearful faces relative to happy faces, unrelated to the subsequent target and cueing validity. More critically, we found a selective modulation of intraparietal and orbitofrontal cortex for targets following an invalid fearful face, as well as an increased visual response in right lateral occipital cortex for targets following a valid fearful face. No such effects were observed with happy faces. These results demonstrate that fearful faces can act as exogenous cues by increasing sensory processing in extrastriate cortex for a subsequent target presented at the same location, but also produce a cost in disengaging towards another location by altering the response of IPS to invalidly cued targets. Neural mechanisms responsible for orienting attention towards emotional vs. non-emotional stimuli are thus partly shared in parietal and visual areas, but also partly distinct.
Measures of brain change can be computed from sequential MRI scans, providing valuable information on disease progression, e.g., for patient monitoring and drug trials. Tensor-based morphometry (TBM) creates maps of these brain changes, visualizing the 3D profile and rates of tissue growth or atrophy, but its sensitivity depends on the contrast and geometric stability of the images. As part of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), 17 normal elderly subjects were scanned twice (at a 2-week interval) with several 3D 1.5 T MRI pulse sequences: high and low flip angle SPGR/FLASH (from which Synthetic T1 images were generated), MP-RAGE, IR-SPGR (N = 10) and MEDIC (N = 7) scans. For each subject and scan type, a 3D deformation map aligned baseline and follow-up scans, computed with a nonlinear, inverse-consistent elastic registration algorithm. Voxelwise statistics, in ICBM stereotaxic space, visualized the profile of mean absolute change and its cross-subject variance; these maps were then compared using permutation testing. Image stability depended on: (1) the pulse sequence; (2) the transmit/receive coil type (birdcage versus phased array); (3) spatial distortion corrections (using MEDIC sequence information); (4) B1-field intensity inhomogeneity correction (using N3). SPGR/FLASH images acquired using a birdcage coil had least overall deviation. N3 correction reduced coil type and pulse sequence differences and improved scan reproducibility, except for Synthetic T1 images (which were intrinsically corrected for B1-inhomogeneity). No strong evidence favored B0 correction. Although SPGR/FLASH images showed least deviation here, pulse sequence selection for the ADNI project was based on multiple additional image analyses, to be reported elsewhere.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is a non-invasive brain imaging technique with the potential for very high temporal and spatial resolution of neuronal activity. The main stumbling block for the technique has been that the estimation of a neuronal current distribution, based on sensor data outside the head, is an inverse problem with an infinity of possible solutions. Many inversion techniques exist, all using different a-priori assumptions in order to reduce the number of possible solutions. Although all techniques can be thoroughly tested in simulation, implicit in the simulations are the experimenter's own assumptions about realistic brain function. To date, the only way to test the validity of inversions based on real MEG data has been through direct surgical validation, or through comparison with invasive primate data. In this work, we constructed a null hypothesis that the reconstruction of neuronal activity contains no information on the distribution of the cortical grey matter. To test this, we repeatedly compared rotated sections of grey matter with a beamformer estimate of neuronal activity to generate a distribution of mutual information values. The significance of the comparison between the un-rotated anatomical information and the electrical estimate was subsequently assessed against this distribution. We found that there was significant (P &lt; 0.05) anatomical information contained in the beamformer images across a number of frequency bands. Based on the limited data presented here, we can say that the assumptions behind the beamformer algorithm are not unreasonable for the visual-motor task investigated.
Somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) are attenuated by movement. This phenomenon of 'gating' reflects sensorimotor integration for motor control. The frontal N30 component after median nerve stimulation was shown to be reduced in amplitude prior to hand movement. To investigate the mechanism of this sensory gating, we recorded median SEPs immediately before and after application of monophasic very low-frequency (0.2 Hz) repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of 250 stimuli over motor cortex (MC), premotor cortex (PMC), or supplementary motor area (SMA) in 9 healthy volunteers. The stimulus intensity for MC or PMC was set 85% of the resting motor threshold for the hand muscle, and that for SMA was at the active motor threshold for the leg muscle. SEPs showed significant increases in amplitudes of the frontal N30 component after PMC stimulation, but not after SMA or MC stimulation. Low-frequency (1 Hz) biphasic stimulation over PMC showed no significant N30 changes in 6 out of 9 subjects tested, indicating the effect being specific for 0.2 Hz monophasic stimulation. To examine the functional anatomy of the N30 change, single photon emission computed tomography was performed immediately before and after monophasic 0.2 Hz rTMS over PMC in all the 9 subjects. Regional cerebral blood flow showed significant increases mainly in PMC and prefrontal cortex, indicating the involvement of these cortical areas in sensory input gating for motor control.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD) is a rare and genetically heterogeneous disorder. We report two patients with emerin deficient X-linked EDMD and two probable patients with EDMD with typical early contractures, progressive muscle weakness and cardiac involvement. Family history was noted in one case. Muscle biopsy revealed features of dystrophy in all.

Diagnostic evaluation of two sisters affected by ataxia, with similar age of onset, revealed a characteristic trinucleotide expansion in the Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) locus and two different phenotypic presentations. At onset the elder sister had retained deep tendon reflexes (FARR), while the younger sister presented classic FRDA. The GAA expansion in the patients' alleles proved to be similar in both siblings, ruling out that age at onset and clinical heterogeneity could be due to different FRDA mutations. On the whole, clinical and genetic data on these patients confirmed that FARR is a variant phenotype of FRDA.
Autosomal recessive limb girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMD) type 2A are a group of disorders characterised by progressive involvement of proximal limb girdle muscles and caused by changes in the CAPN3 gene. Involvement of tissues other than the skeletal muscle has not been reported so far. Here we describe the unusual association of LGMD2A and idiopathic generalised epilepsy in a 14-year-old girl.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) can occasionally present with a clinical picture resembling a corticobasal degeneration (CBD). Transcallosal inhibition, as tested by focal transcranial magnetic stimulation, is frequently absent or highly disrupted in CBD patients. We report a case of CJD presenting at the beginning of the disease as a CBD in which the ipsilateral silent period (iSP) was present and well detectable. This brief report shows that study of the iSP may be a useful diagnostic tool in order to differentiate CBD from syndromes presenting with similar clinical features.

The ERK/MAP kinase cascade is important for long-term memory formation and synaptic plasticity, with a myriad of upstream signals converging upon ERK activation. Despite this convergence of signaling, neurons routinely activate appropriate biological responses to different stimuli. Scaffolding proteins represent a mechanism to achieve compartmentalization of signaling and the appropriate targeting of ERK-dependent processes. We report that kinase suppressor of Ras (KSR1) functions biochemically in the hippocampus to scaffold the components of the ERK cascade, specifically regulating the cascade when a membrane fraction of ERK is activated via a PKC-dependent pathway but not via a cAMP/PKA-dependent pathway. Specificity of KSR1-dependent signaling also extends to specific downstream targets of ERK. Behaviorally and physiologically, we found that the absence of KSR1 leads to deficits in associative learning and theta burst stimulation-induced LTP. Our report provides novel insight into the endogenous scaffolding role of KSR1 in controlling kinase activation within the nervous system.
The sizes and contents of transmitter-filled vesicles have been shown to vary depending on experimental manipulations resulting in altered quantal sizes. However, whether such a presynaptic regulation of quantal size can be induced under physiological conditions as a potential alternative mechanism to alter the strength of synaptic transmission is unknown. Here we show that presynaptic vesicles of glutamatergic synapses of Drosophila neuromuscular junctions increase in size as a result of high natural crawling activities of larvae, leading to larger quantal sizes and enhanced evoked synaptic transmission. We further show that these larger vesicles are formed during a period of enhanced replenishment of the reserve pool of vesicles, from which they are recruited via a PKA- and actin-dependent mechanism. Our results demonstrate that natural behavior can induce the formation, recruitment, and release of larger vesicles in an experience-dependent manner and hence provide evidence for an additional mechanism of synaptic potentiation.
The relationship between degree of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and the amount of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and deposition of collagen IV fibres (COL IV) was investigated in the frontal and occipital cortex of 70 patients with autopsy confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD). The extent of CAA was significantly greater in occipital than in frontal cortex, although SMC loss was greater in frontal than in occipital cortex. COL IV staining was significantly higher in occipital than in frontal cortex. The degree of SMC loss correlated with CAA, as Abeta40 but not as Abeta42 or total Abeta, in frontal cortex, but not in occipital cortex. Leptomeningeal arteries within occipital cortex showed significantly greater external diameter, greater wall thickness and greater luminal area than those in frontal cortex. The degree of CAA correlated with thickness of blood vessel wall and external diameter in frontal cortex, whereas extent of SMC loss correlated with thickness of blood vessel wall in occipital cortex. There were significant negative correlations between duration of disease and thickness of vessel wall, external diameter and luminal area. In patients with disease durations exceeding 10 years, external vessel diameter and thickness of the vessel wall were both halved compared with patients with durations less than 5 years; luminal area was reduced by about 75%. Blood vessels in AD undergo degenerative changes involving deposition of Abeta and COL IV with loss of SMC. SMC loss may relate to increasing Abeta deposition in early stages of disease, but this relationship may be lost with disease progression.
Hereditary autophagic vacuolar myopathy (AVM) may occur in several diseases including the rimmed vacuolar myopathies, acid maltase deficiency, Danon disease, infantile autophagic vacuolar myopathy and X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy (XMEA). In the latter three conditions the vacuoles are lined by membranes with sarcolemmal features. We present two unusual cases of autophagic vacuolar myopathy in twin girls born at term with no family history of neurological disease. After initial normal developmental milestones they developed progressive leg weakness and wasting with contractures from the age of 12 years. Investigations showed raised CK, normal female karyotype, normal acid maltase activity, normal nerve conduction and myopathic EMG features. Frozen sections of skeletal muscle were stained using routine tinctorial and histochemical methods. Immunohistochemical staining for spectrin, merosin, dystrophin, complement membrane attack complex and sarcoglycans was performed and ultrastructural examination undertaken. Direct sequence analysis of the lamp-2 gene using genomic DNA extracted from lymphocytes was performed. Histological analysis of the muscle biopsies demonstrated myofibres with vacuoles lacking glycogen and lipid many of which were delineated using immunohistochemistry for merosin, dystrophin and sarcoglycans. Ultrastructural examination showed duplication of the myofibre basal lamina with associated autophagic material. Vacuoles within myofibres were either membrane bound containing autophagic material or lined by plasma membrane and basal lamina. Intermyofibrillar glycogen was increased. Sequence analysis of the coding region and intron/exon boundaries of the lamp-2 gene was normal. This is the first report of female cases of AVM with sarcolemmal features. We suggest that these patients may represent manifesting carriers of XMEA, or alternatively, a new form of disease with a similar phenotype having autosomal recessive inheritance.
It has been suggested that antagonists at serotonin 5-HT1A receptors may exert a procognitive effect by facilitating glutamatergic neurotransmission. Here we further explored this issue by looking for the ability of a 5-HT1A antagonist to prevent the learning deficit induced by AMPA receptor blockade in two behavioural procedures in rats, and for concomitant molecular changes presumably involved in memory formation in the hippocampus. Pretraining administration of the competitive AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX, produced a dose-related retention impairment in a passive avoidance task 24h later, and also impaired retention in a novel object recognition test when an intertrial interval of 3h was selected. Pretreatment with the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY-100635, prevented the learning deficit induced by NBQX in the two behavioural procedures. In biochemical studies performed on rat hippocampus after the retention tests, we found that learning increased the membrane levels of AMPA receptor GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits, as well as the phosphorylated forms of GluR1, effects that were abolished by NBQX administration before the training session. Pretreatment with WAY-100635 counteracted the NBQX effects and restored the initial learning-specific increase in Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) function and the later increase in GluR2/3 and phosphorylated GluR1 surface expression. Moreover, administration of WAY-100635 before object recognition training improved recognition memory 24h later and potentiated the learning-associated increase in AMPA receptor subunits. The results support the proposed utility of 5-HT1A antagonists in the treatment of cognitive disorders.
We used an intracranial self-administration (ICSA) procedure to assess the involvement of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) nicotinic receptors in the rewarding effects of nicotine. We then challenged intra-VTA nicotine self-administration via systemic or local injections of dopamine (DA)-D1 and nicotinic receptor antagonists. C57BL/6J mice were stereotaxically implanted unilaterally with a guide cannula above the VTA. After 1 week of recovery, mice were allowed to discriminate between two arms of a Y-maze over seven daily sessions, one arm being reinforced by intracranial nicotine microinjection. Mice exhibited nicotine self-administration at both doses tested, i.e. 10 ng (21.6 pmol) and 100 ng (216 pmol)/50-nl injection. In contrast, mice receiving a 216-pmol nicotine dose 0.8 mm above VTA performed at chance level. Once the ICSA response was acquired, systemic pretreatment with the DA-D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (25 microg/kg i.p.) or co-infusion of the nAChR antagonist DHbetaE with nicotine disrupted ICSA. Replacement of SCH 23390 by vehicle, or withdrawal of DHbetaE from nicotine/DHbetaE mixed solutions led to recovery of intra-VTA nicotine self-administration. We conclude that nicotinic receptors in the VTA, presumably alpha4beta2 nAChRs are critically to mediate the rewarding effects of nicotine and that DA-D1 receptors are also directly implicated.
Topiramate (TPM) is an anticonvulsant of novel chemical structure whose mechanism of action remains elusive. Reports of TPM modulation of ligand- and voltage-gated ion channel functions are variable and often inconsistent. In fact, TPM has been found to produce enhancement, inhibition, and no effect on GABA-currents of cultured neurons and GABA(A) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. To identify possible causes for the variable effects of TPM on GABA(A) receptors, multiple combinations of recombinant GABA(A) receptor subunits were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. TPM modulation of GABA-currents was sensitive to GABA concentrations and the beta subunit isoform co-expressed in heteromeric GABA(A) receptors. TPM potentiated and directly activated heteromeric receptors containing either beta(2) or beta(3) subunit. TPM's direct activation was most effective on receptors comprised of alpha(4)beta(3)gamma(2S) subunits and activated approximately 74% of the peak GABA-current. TPM modulation of beta(1)-containing heteromeric receptors depended on the co-expressed alpha subunit isoform (i.e., either TPM enhancement or inhibition). Depolarized potentials decreased TPM enhancement and increased TPM inhibition depending on the beta subunit present. These results suggest that the effects of TPM on GABA(A) receptor function will depend on the expression of specific subunits that can be regionally and temporally distributed, and altered by neurological disorders.
The current study examines the effects of chronic administration of nicotine on motor behavior after focal stroke in rats. Animals were trained in a tray-reaching task for 2weeks and then they were divided into: (1) control+saline (2) control+nicotine (3) stroke+saline, and (4) stroke+nicotine groups. Lesions were produced by devascularization of the surface blood vessels of the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the forepaw used for reaching. Forty-eight hours after the lesions, and for a total of 12days, animals received two daily injections of either nicotine (0.3mg/kg) or saline (0.9%). Animals were tested in a motor battery 1week after the lesions and every other week for a total of 7weeks. Pyramidal cells in forelimb and cingulate areas were then examined for dendritic length and branching using a Golgi-Cox procedure. Behavioral results demonstrated that by the end of the testing stroke+nicotine animals showed significant behavioral improvement relative to stroke+saline animals. Stroke+nicotine animals showed an increase in dendritic length and branching in pyramidal cells of the forelimb and cingulate areas. The results suggest that the behavioral enhancement in the stroke+nicotine group might be attributable to the enhanced dendritic growth in residual cortical motor regions.
Assessments and clinical understanding of late-onset delusions in the elderly are inconsistent and often incomplete. In this review, we consider the prevalence, neurobehavioral features, and neuroanatomic correlations of delusions in elderly persons - those with documented cognitive decline and those with no evidence of cognitive decline. Both groups exhibit a common phenotype: delusions are either of persecution or of misidentification. Late-onset delusions show a nearly complete absence of the grandiose, mystical, or erotomanic content typical of early onset psychoses. Absent also from both elderly populations are formal thought disorders, thought insertions, and delusions of external control. Neuroimaging and behavioral studies suggest a frontotemporal localization of delusions in the elderly, with right hemispheric lateralization in delusional misidentification and left lateralization in delusions of persecution. We propose that delusions in the elderly reflect a common neuroanatomic and functional phenotype, and we discuss applications of our proposal to diagnosis and treatment.
Regulation of neurotransmission via group-III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR4, -6, -7, and -8) has recently been implicated in the pathophysiology of affective disorders, such as major depression and anxiety. For instance, mice with a targeted deletion of the gene for mGluR7 (mGluR7-/-) showed antidepressant and anxiolytic-like effects in a variety of stress-related paradigms, including the forced swim stress and the stress-induced hyperthermia tests. Deletion of mGluR7 reduces also amygdala- and hippocampus-dependent conditioned fear and aversion responses. Since the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulates the stress response we investigate whether parameters of the HPA axis at the levels of selected mRNA transcripts and endocrine hormones are altered in mGluR7-deficient mice. Over all, mGluR7-/- mice showed only moderately lower serum levels of corticosterone and ACTH compared with mGluR7+/+ mice. More strikingly however, we found strong evidence for upregulated glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-dependent feedback suppression of the HPA axis in mice with mGluR7 deficiency: (i) mRNA transcripts of GR were significantly upregulated in the hippocampus of mGluR7-/- animals, (ii) similar increases were seen with 5-HT1A receptor transcripts, which are thought to be directly controlled by the transcription factor GR and finally (iii) mGluR7-/- mice showed elevated sensitivity to dexamethasone-induced suppression of serum corticosterone when compared with mGluR7+/+ animals. These results indicate that mGluR7 deficiency causes dysregulation of HPA axis parameters, which may account, at least in part, for the phenotype of mGluR7-/- mice in animal models for anxiety and depression. In addition, we present evidence that protein levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor are also elevated in the hippocampus of mGluR7-/- mice, which we discuss in the context of the antidepressant-like phenotype found in those animals. We conclude that genetic ablation of mGluR7 in mice interferes at multiple sites in the neuronal circuitry and molecular pathways implicated in affective disorders.
Repeated exposure to stressful conditions is linked to the etiology of affective disorders. The melanin-concentrating hormone-1 receptor (MCHR1) may be a novel mechanism that is involved in the modulation of stress responses and affective states. The role of MCHR1 in neuroendocrine, behavioral, and neurochemical stress, and anxiety-related responses was examined by monitoring the effects of melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and the selective MCHR1 antagonist, GW3430, in inbred C57Bl/6NTac and MCHR1-knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice. Intracerebroventricular injection of MCH increased plasma corticosterone, and produced anxiety-related responses in the elevated plus maze. The selective MCHR1 antagonist, GW3430, blocked the neuroendocrine and behavioral effects of MCH and produced anxiolytic-like effects by itself in animal models of anxiety. Moreover, KO mice had an anxiolytic-like phenotype in behavioral models of anxiety, and GW3430 had anxiolytic-like effects in WT, but not KO mice. Lastly, stressor-evoked acetylcholine release within the prefrontal cortex of inbred and WT mice, but not KO mice, was blocked by GW3430. We show that MCH elicits anxiety-like responses and that the effects of a selective MCHR1 antagonist and the phenotype of KO mice are consistent with anxiolytic-like action. Distinct behavioral, physiological, and neurochemical stress, and anxiety-related responses were selectively modulated by the MCHR1, and these actions may involve corticolimbic regulation of stress responsivity and anxiety.
The amygdala is involved in behavioral and physiological responses to fear, and the anxiolytic properties of several drugs are localized to this region. Activation of endogenous opioid systems is known to occur in response to stress and a growing body of literature suggests that opioid systems regulate the properties of anxiolytic drugs. These experiments sought to elucidate the role of opioid receptors in the central (CeA) and basolateral (BLA) nuclei of the amygdala in regulating the anxiolytic properties of ethanol and diazepam. Male rats fitted with cannula received bilateral microinjections of the nonselective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (NAL) immediately followed by systemic delivery of either ethanol (1 g/kg) or diazepam (2 mg/kg) in the elevated plus maze. Both diazepam and ethanol decreased anxiety-like behavior. Delivery of NAL into the CeA blocked the anxiolytic properties of diazepam. Delivery of NAL into the BLA slightly increased open arm avoidance, but had no effect on the anxiolytic properties of diazepam. Microinjection of NAL into either nucleus failed to block the effects of ethanol. These results were specific to the anxiolytic properties of diazepam, since baseline behaviors were unaffected by microinjection of NAL. Microinjection of lidocaine produced results distinct from NAL and failed to block the anxiolytic actions of diazepam. These studies indicate distinct roles for opioid receptor systems in the CeA and BLA in regulating the anxiolytic properties of diazepam in the elevated plus maze. Further, opioid receptor systems in the CeA and BLA do not regulate the anxiolytic properties of ethanol in this test.
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor mediated responses were investigated in rat hippocampal slices under 4h of long-term potentiation (LTP) expression. A modified medium containing the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5 and low concentration of Mg(2+) was used to monitor isolated AMPA responses. NMDA components were determined from composite excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) under brief (15-20 min) wash-out of AP5. LTP was induced in a medium with low concentration of AP5, resulting in an about two-fold larger increase of the AMPA component than of the NMDA component at both 1h and 4h after induction. Similar results were obtained if LTP was induced in &quot;normal Mg(2+)&quot; and the NMDA components were assessed at the end of experiment, from either composite or isolated NMDA EPSPs, with or without blockade of GABAergic inhibition. It is generally believed that LTP undergoes biochemical and/or structural conversions during the first few hours. Our study, however, shows constant expression of LTP, at least in terms of AMPA versus NMDA components, during this time. The data support the notion that LTP initiates as a predominant amplification of AMPA receptors and remains so for at least 4h.
We examined the effects of the gravitational vertical on the perception of reversible figures. Each reversible figure had two interpretations depending on whether it was viewed vertically in one orientation or upside down. When it was presented horizontally, the two interpretations alternated. Subjects were required to indicate which interpretation was perceived after briefly viewing the horizontal presentation on a head-mounted display. When the subject was upright, each interpretation occurred by chance. When the subject was lying on one side, the horizontal figure was generally perceived as if it was presented vertically with the side down. The results suggest that the perception of reversible figures is influenced by the gravitational vertical, which might be reconstructed by multimodal integration of vestibular, proprioceptive, and tactile inputs.
The nature of cerebral cortical circuitry has been increasingly clarified by markers for the identification of precise cell types with specific morphology, connectivity and distinct physiological properties. Molecular markers are not only helpful in dissecting cortical circuitry, but also give insight into the mechanisms of cortical neuronal specification and differentiation. The two principal neuronal types of the cerebral cortex are the pyramidal and GABAergic cells. Pyramidal cells are excitatory and project to distant targets, while GABAergic neurons are mostly inhibitory non-pyramidal interneurons. Reliable markers for specific subtypes of interneurons are available and have been employed in the classification and functional analysis of cortical circuitry. Until recently, cortical pyramidal neurons have been considered a homogeneous class of cells. This concept is now changing as the powerful tools of molecular biology and genetics identify molecular tags for subtypes of pyramidal cells such as: Otx-1 [Frantz, G.D., Bohner, A.P., Akers, R.M., McConnell, S.K., 1994. Regulation of the POU domain gene SCIP during cerebral cortical development. J. Neurosci. 14, 472-485; Weimann, J.M., Zhang, Y.A., Levin, M.E., Devine, W.P., Brulet, P., McConnell, S.K., 1999. Cortical neurons require Otx1 for the refinement of exuberant axonal projections to subcortical targets. Neuron 24, 819-831]; SMI-32, N200 and FNP-7 [Voelker, C.C., Garin, N., Taylor, J.S., Gahwiler, B.H., Hornung, J.P., Molnr, Z., 2004. Selective neurofilament (SMI-32, FNP-7 and N200) expression in subpopulations of layer V pyramidal neurons in vivo and in vitro. Cereb. Cortex 14, 1276-1286]; ER81 [Hevner, R.F., Daza, R.A., Rubenstein, J.L., Stunnenberg, H., Olavarria, J.F., Englund, C., 2003. Beyond laminar fate: toward a molecular classification of cortical projection/pyramidal neurons. Dev. Neurosci. 25 (2-4), 139-151; Yoneshima, H., Yamasaki, S., Voelker, C., Molnr, Z., Christophe, E., Audinat, E., Takemoto, M., Tsuji, S., Fujita, I., Yamamoto, N., 2006. ER81 is expressed in a subpopulation of layer 5 projection neurons in rodent cerebral cortices. Neuroscience, 137, 401-412]; Lmo4 [Bulchand, S., Subramanian, L., Tole, S., 2003. Dynamic spatiotemporal expression of LIM genes and cofactors in the embryonic and postnatal cerebral cortex. Dev. Dyn. 226, 460-469; Arlotta, P., Molyneaux, B.J., Chen, J., Inoue, J., Kominami, R., Macklis, J.D., 2005. Neuronal subtype-specific genes that control corticospinal motor neuron development in vivo. Neuron 45 (2), 207-221]; CTIP2 [Arlotta, P., Molyneaux, B.J., Chen, J., Inoue, J., Kominami, R., Macklis, J.D., 2005. Neuronal subtype-specific genes that control corticospinal motor neuron development in vivo. Neuron 45 (2), 207-221]; Fez1 [Molyneaux, B.J., Arlotta, P., Hirata, T., Hibi, M., Macklis, J.D., 2005. Fez1 is required for the birth and specification of corticospinal motor neurons. Neuron 47 (6), 817-831; Chen, B., Schaevitz, L.R., McConnell, S.K., 2005. Fez1 regulates the differentiation and axon targeting of layer 5 subcortical projection neurons in cerebral cortex. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 102 (47), 17184-17189]. These genes outline the numerous subtypes of pyramidal cells and are increasingly refining our previous classifications. They also indicate specific developmental programs operate in cell fate decisions. This review will describe the progress made on the correlation of these markers to each other within a specific subtype of layer V neurons with identified, stereotypic projections. Further work is needed to link these data with observations on somatodendritic morphology and physiological properties. The integrated molecular, anatomical and physiological characterisation of pyramidal neurons will lead to a much better appreciation of functional cortical circuits.
Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. The cellular regulation of glutamate receptor (GluR) ion channel function and expression is important for maintaining or adjusting target cell excitability to meet ever-changing demands, for example, in relation to developmental or use-dependent synaptic plasticity. Dysregulation of GluR function or expression may be a contributing factor in certain forms of epilepsy, stroke/ischemia, head trauma, cognitive impairments, and neurodegenerative disease. Recent years have seen substantial progress in understanding how GluRs operate in terms of their structural and functional properties, their synaptic targeting and membrane anchoring by PDZ-domain proteins, and their activity-dependent cycling at the plasma membrane. Yet precious little is known about the earliest events in GluR biogenesis or the mechanisms in place to ensure the GluRs that reach the cell surface are processed, folded, and oligomerized in an appropriate manner. Indeed, only a minor fraction of the GluR content of cells is expressed at any given time on the cell surface, whereas most of the remaining receptors exist in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The functional competence and significance of the ER fraction of receptors are presently unknown, but they are generally thought to represent immature, unassembled, or improperly assembled subunits. Some are ultimately destined for insertion in the plasma membrane. Others may be targeted for proteosomal degradation. Still others might provide a latent pool of fully functional receptors that can be recruited to enhance cell excitability in response to specific signals or under pathological conditions. This review will explore the structural and functional elements that regulate GluR assembly and export from the ER.
C57/BL6 mice were administered either 7.5 mg Fe (II)/ kg or vehicle (saline) postnatally on Days 10-12 after birth. From 64 days of age onwards for 24 days, groups of mice were administered either haloperidol (0.25 or 1 or 2 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (Tween-80). Twenty-four hours after the final injection of either neuroleptic compound or vehicle, spontaneous motor activity was measured over a 60-min interval. Postnatal Fe (II)-treatment (7.5 mg/kg, postnatally) reduced motor activity parameters during the initial 20-min periods (0-20 and 20-40 min) and then induced hyperactivity during the final 20-min period over all three parameters of activity, confirming previous observations. Subchronic administration of haloperidol, at the 1 and 2 mg/kg doses, and to a lesser extent the 0.25 mg/kg dose, increased the levels of activity in all three motor activity parameters in postnatal iron-treated mice: locomotion (1st and 2nd 20 min periods), rearing (1st and 2nd 20 min periods) and total activity (1st 20 min period). All three doses of haloperidol abolished the later hyperactivity in iron-treated mice, with the exception of the 0.25 mg/kg dose with regard to rearing behaviour. Apomorphine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) -induced activity was elevated by postnatal iron administration and by subchronic administration of apomorphine at the higher dose levels. In the context of these and other observations, it is suggested that subchronic administration of haloperidol interacting with postnatal iron induces different expressions of dopamine neuron comorbidity underlying movement disorder.
Selective motor nerve injury by lumbar 5 ventral root transection (L5 VRT) induces neuropathic pain, but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Previously, increased expression and secretion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) had been implicated in injury-induced neuropathic pain in the sensory system. In this study, as a step to examine potential roles of BDNF in L5 VRT-induced neuropathic pain, we investigated BDNF gene and protein expression in adult rats with L5 VRT. L5 VRT induced a dramatic upregulation of BDNF mRNA in intact sensory neurons in the ipsilateral L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG), in non-neuronal cells in the ipsilateral sciatic nerve, and in motoneurons in the ipsilateral spinal cord. L5 VRT also induced de novo synthesis of BDNF mRNA in spinal dorsal horn neurons and in glial cells in the white matter of the ipsilateral spinal cord. Consistent with the mRNA expression pattern, BDNF protein was also mainly upregulated in all populations of sensory neurons in the ipsilateral L5 DRG and in spinal neurons and glia. Quantitative analysis by ELISA showed that the BDNF content in the DRG and sciatic nerve peaked on day 1 and remained elevated 14 days after L5 VRT. These results suggest that increased BDNF expression in intact primary sensory neurons and spinal cord may be an important factor in the induction of neuropathic pain without axotomy of sensory neurons.



The history of measurements of ocular aberration is briefly reviewed and recent work using much-improved aberrometers and large samples of eyes is summarized. When on-axis, higher-order, monochromatic aberrations are averaged, undercorrected, positive, fourth-order spherical aberration dominates; other Zernike wavefront aberration coefficients have average values near zero. Individually, however, many eyes show substantial amounts of third-order and other fourth-order aberrations; the value of these varies idiosyncratically about zero. Most normal eyes show only small amounts of axial monochromatic aberration for photopic pupils up to around 3 mm; the limits to retinal image quality are then usually set by diffraction, uncorrected or imperfectly corrected spherocylindrical refractive error, accommodation error, and chromatic aberration. Longitudinal chromatic aberration varies very little across the population. With larger mesopic and scotopic pupils, monochromatic aberration plays a more important optical role, but overall visual performance is increasingly dominated by neural factors. Some remaining problems in measuring and modeling the eye's optical performance are discussed.
In this article, I attempt to untangle some of the cultural, philosophical, and ethical currents that informed the Schiavo case. My objective is to better apprehend what the Schiavo case means for end-of-life care in general and to assert that our discourse about the ethical issues attendant to brain injury will be impoverished if we limit our discussions about disorders of consciousness solely to the vegetative state. If we ignore emerging developments in neuroscience that are helping to elucidate the nature of these disorders and fail to broaden the conversation about brain injury, beyond the unmitigated futility of the permanent vegetative state, we will imperil others who might improve and be helped. Through such efforts we can help mitigate the tragedy of the Schiavo case and overcome the rhetoric that marked the national discourse in March 2005. Once the complexity of disorders of consciousness is appreciated, rhetorical statements about a right to die or a right to life are exposed as being incompatible with the challenge of providing care to such patients. This is especially true as neuroscience brings greater diagnostic refinement to their assessment and management, a topic addressed in this article, which specifically focuses on the clinical and ethical implications of the recently described minimally conscious state. Instead of staking out ideological positions that do not meet the needs of patients or families, we should strive to both preserve the right to die for those who are beyond hope while affirming the right to care to those who might benefit from coming advances in neuroscience. If we can achieve that delicate balance, we will be able to transcend the partisan debate that shrouded the life and death of Theresa Marie Schiavo and begin to articulate a palliative neuroethics of care for those touched by severe brain injury and disorders of consciousness.
A decline in verbal fluency is the most consistent neuropsychological sequela of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease. We assessed clinical correlates and switching and clustering subcomponents in 26 parkinsonians undergoing subthalamic DBS. Post-surgical motor improvement was accompanied by worsening at both letter and category fluency tasks. Total number of words and switches decreased, while average cluster size was unchanged. Worsening tended to be prominent in patients with baseline poorer cognitive status and more depressed mood. Impairment of shifting suggests prefrontal dysfunction, possibly due to disruption of fronto-striatal circuits along the surgical trajectory and/or to high frequency stimulation itself.

We report the cloning and pharmacological characterization of two neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor subtypes, Y2 and Y7, in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). These subtypes are approximately 50% identical to each other and belong to the Y2 subfamily of NPY receptors. The binding properties of the receptors were investigated after expression in human HEK-293 EBNA cells. Both receptors bound the three zebrafish peptides NPY, PYYa, and PYYb, as well as porcine NPY and PYY, with affinities in the nanomolar range that are similar to mammalian Y2. The affinity of the truncated porcine NPY fragments, NPY 13-36 and NPY 18-36 was markedly lower compared to mammalian and chicken Y2. This suggests that mammalian and chicken Y2 are unique among NPY receptors in their ability to bind truncated peptide fragments. The antagonist BIIE0246, developed for mammalian Y2, did not bind either of the two rainbow trout receptors. Our results support the proposed expansion of this gene family by duplications before the gnathostome radiation. They also reveal appreciable differences in the repertoire and characteristics of NPY receptors between fish and tetrapods stressing the importance of lineage-specific gene loss as well as sequence divergence after duplication.
Several convergent lines of evidence point to the amygdala as a key site of plasticity underlying most forms of fear conditioning. Studies have shown that chronic physical activity, such as wheel running, can alter learning in a variety of contexts, including aversive conditioning. The ability of chronic wheel running (WR) to alter both behavioral correlates of fear conditioning and indices of amygdalar activation, however, has not been simultaneously assessed. Here, rats were given constant access to either free-turning or--as a control--locked (LC) running wheels in their home cages. After 8 weeks of housing under these conditions, animals were exposed to a series of shocks in a separate testing chamber. Twenty-four hours later, the animals were returned to the shock chamber and freezing behavior was measured as an indicator of contextual fear conditioning. The animals were then sacrificed and their brains processed for immunohistochemical detection of Fos to assess patterns of putative neuronal activation. WR rats spent significantly more time freezing than their LC counterparts upon return to the shock-paired context. The enhanced conditioned freezing response was most pronounced in animals showing high levels of nightly wheel running activity. WR animals also had significantly higher levels of neuronal activation, as indicated by Fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala, but less activation in the basolateral nucleus, compared to sedentary controls. These data demonstrate the ability of chronic physical activity to alter contextual fear conditioning and implicate the amygdala as a potential site of plasticity underlying this phenomenon.
Rotenone and 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP+) are two mitochondrial neurotoxins known to produce Parkinson's disease (PD) in experimental animals. In the present study, we compared drug-induced rotational asymmetry in rats lesioned using these neurotoxins at three distinct basal ganglia sites, the striatum, substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and median forebrain bundle (MFB). The levels of dopamine (DA) in the ipsilateral striata of these hemiparkinsonian animals were assayed employing an HPLC-electrochemical procedure 2 days after the final rotational study. Rats infused with rotenone or MPP+ into the SNpc, but not into the striatum or MFB, exhibited contralateral rotations immediately after recovery from anesthesia. Irrespective of the lesion site or the toxin used, all the animals exhibited ipsilateral rotations when challenged with D-amphetamine. Apomorphine administration caused contralateral circling behavior in MFB-lesioned animals, but ipsilateral rotations in rats that received rotenone or MPP+ in the striatum or SNpc. Stereotaxic administration of rotenone into the MFB, SNpc or striatum caused a significant loss of DA in the ipsilateral striatum to varying degrees (96%, 62% and 30%, respectively, as compared to the contralateral side). However, unilateral MPP+ administration into the MFB, SNpc or striatum caused respectively about 98%, 74% and 59% loss of striatal DA. Behavioural observations and the neurochemical results indicate that, among the three anatomically distinct loci-lesioned, MFB-lesioned animals mimicked behavioral aberrations similar to nigral lesions caused by 6-hydroxydopamine, a classical parkinsonian neurotoxin. Moreover, the results point out that while both d-amphetamine and apomorphine-induced rotations could be considered as valuable behavioral indices to test novel drugs against PD, yet apomorphine-induced contralateral bias proves to be a more reliable indicator of specific destruction in the nigrostriatal pathway and development of post-synaptic DA receptor supersensitivity.
Squirrel monkeys self-administered cocaine under a variable-dose schedule, with the dose varied from injection to injection. As in earlier studies with rats, post-injection pauses varied as a monotonic function of dose, allowing a cocaine dose-effect curve to be obtained during each session. These curves were shifted by pretreatment with dopamine antagonists, demonstrating that this procedure may provide an efficient means of evaluating treatments that affect drug self-administration. However, drug intake eventually became &quot;dysregulated&quot; after extensive training (100-300 sessions), with relatively short pauses following all doses. Dose-sensitivity was restored by adding a 60-s timeout period after each injection, suggesting that dysregulation occurred because the monkeys developed a tendency to self-administer another injection before the previous injection had been adequately distributed. Finally, when the response requirement under the variable-dose schedule was increased from 1 to 10, both the post-injection pause and the rate of responding following the pause (&quot;run rates&quot;) were found to vary with dose. The dose-dependency of run rates suggests that post-injection pauses reflect not only motivational factors, such as satiety, but also the direct effects of cocaine on leverpressing.
The neural mechanisms underlying anxiety states are believed to involve interactions among forebrain limbic circuits and brainstem serotonergic systems. Consistent with this hypothesis, FG-7142, a partial inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine allosteric site of the GABAA receptor, increases c-Fos expression within a subpopulation of brainstem serotonergic neurons. Paradoxically, FG-7142 has no effect on extracellular serotonin concentrations, as measured using in vivo microdialysis, in certain anxiety-related brain structures. This study tested the hypothesis that FG-7142 alters serotonin metabolism within one or more nodes of a defined anxiety-related forebrain circuit. Rats received one of four treatments (vehicle, 1.9, 3.8, or 7.5 mg/kg FG-7142, i.p.) and brains were collected 1 h following treatment. Thirteen forebrain regions were microdissected and analyzed for l-tryptophan, serotonin, and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations using high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. FG-7142 (7.5 mg/kg) increased l-tryptophan, serotonin, and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations in the prelimbic cortex but not in several other regions studied including subdivisions of the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. These data demonstrate that FG-7142 alters brain tryptophan concentrations and serotonin metabolism in specific components of an anxiety-related forebrain circuit including the medial prefrontal cortex, an important structure involved in executive function and the regulation of emotional behavior.
Following hints in the early literature about adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) injections producing pain, an ion-channel nucleotide receptor was cloned in 1995, P2X3 subtype, which was shown to be localized predominantly on small nociceptive sensory nerves. Since then, there has been an increasing number of papers exploring the role of P2X3 homomultimer and P2X2/3 heteromultimer receptors on sensory nerves in a wide range of organs, including skin, tongue, tooth pulp, intestine, bladder, and ureter that mediate the initiation of pain. Purinergic mechanosensory transduction has been proposed for visceral pain, where ATP released from epithelial cells lining the bladder, ureter, and intestine during distension acts on P2X3 and P2X2/3, and possibly P2Y, receptors on subepithelial sensory nerve fibers to send messages to the pain centers in the brain as well as initiating local reflexes. P1, P2X, and P2Y receptors also appear to be involved in nociceptive neural pathways in the spinal cord. P2X4 receptors on spinal microglia have been implicated in allodynia. The involvement of purinergic signaling in long-term neuropathic pain and inflammation as well as acute pain is discussed as well as the development of P2 receptor antagonists as novel analgesics.
The body posture during standing and walking is maintained due to the activity of a closed-loop control system. In the review, we consider different aspects of postural control: its functional organization, the distribution of postural functions in different parts of the central nervous system, and the activity of neuronal networks controlling posture.
Although neurons are essential for brain function, an emerging alternative view holds that astrocytes, the dominant glial cell type, coordinate synaptic networks. Through the release of glutamate, astrocytes locally excite neurons, and via adenosine, which accumulates due to the hydrolysis of released ATP, astrocytes suppress distant synapses.


Based on the neuromodulatory and homeostatic actions of adenosine, adenosine dysfunction may contribute to the neurobiological and clinical features of schizophrenia. The present model of adenosine dysfunction in schizophrenia takes into consideration the dopamine and glutamate hypotheses, since adenosine exerts neuromodulatory roles on these systems, and proposes that adenosine plays a role in the inhibitory deficit found in schizophrenia. Given the role of adenosine activation of adenosine A1 receptor (A1R) in mediating neurotoxicity in early stages of brain development, pre- and peri-natal complications leading to excessive adenosine release could induce primary brain changes (i.e., first hit). These events would lead to an adenosine inhibitory deficit through a partial loss of A1R that may emerge as reduced control of dopamine activity and increased vulnerability to excitotoxic glutamate action in the mature brain (i.e., second hit). Adenosine dysfunction is reasonably compatible with symptoms, gray and white matter abnormalities, progressive brain loss, pre- and peri-natal risk factors, age of onset, response to current treatments, impaired sensory gating and increased smoking in schizophrenia. Pharmacological treatments enhancing adenosine activity could be effective for symptom control and for alleviating deterioration in the course of the illness. Accordingly, allopurinol, which may indirectly increase adenosine, has been effective and well tolerated in the treatment of schizophrenia. Since much of the evidence for the adenosine hypothesis is preliminary and theoretical, further investigation in the field is warranted.
Throughout history most societies have assumed a link between mental disorders and violence. Although the majority of users of mental health services are not violent, it is clear that a small yet significant minority are violent in inpatient settings and in the community. The assessment of a violent patient may be very difficult due to the lack of a full medical and psychiatric history and the non-cooperativeness of the patient. Thus a full assessment is important for the early decisions that the clinician has to take in a very quick and effective way. The primary task and the short term outcome in a behavioral emergency is to act as soon as possible to stop the violence from escalating and to find the quickest way to keep the patient's agitation and violence under control with the maximum of safety for everybody and using the less severe effective intervention. The pharmacological treatment of acute, persisting and repetitive aggression is a serious problem for other patients and staff members. Currently, there is no medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of aggression. Based on rather limited evidence, a wide variety of medications for the pharmacological treatment of acute aggression has been recommended: typical and atypical antipsychotics and benzodiazepines.
Recognition that one of the essential prerequisites of successful neuro-psychopharmacological research is a continuous dialogue between clinicians and basic scientists led to the founding of the Collegium Internationale Neuro-Psychopharmacologicum (CINP) in Zurich on September 2, 1957. At the time, CINP was the only association in neuro-psychopharmacology. It was hoped that by organizing biennial congresses, it would facilitate the interaction among the many disciplines involved in the new field. It was also envisaged that discussion of findings in translational research would provide guidance for developing more selective and thereby more effective psychotropic drugs. These expectations were not fulfilled. In the years that followed, major developments in neuropharmacology without parallel development in the methodology of clinical investigations, created a widening gap between neuro- and psychopharmacology. Clinical interpretations of neuropharmacological findings filled in the missing information from translational research. In the 1980s, to facilitate the dissemination of these interpretations, CINP established Travel Awards for Young Investigators to assist them in attending the biennial meetings. In the 1990s, the college extended its activities by organizing other meetings, including president's workshops, regional meetings, educational seminars and other programs. By the end of the 20th century CINP was a legal entity that was registered in Switzerland with domicile in Zurich. It had also become a financially secure organization with sufficient funds to support administration and coordination. In the early years of the 21st century CINP established a central office and a congress-organizing group. To meet the needs of its steadily growing membership from Asia, Australia and the Latin Americas, CINP has been regionalized. In order to regain its relevance to all its members it is hoped that CINP will return to its roots.

Monoaminergic neurons located in the central nervous system (CNS) are organized into complex circuits which include noradrenergic (NA), adrenergic (Ad), dopaminergic (DA), serotonergic (5-HT), histaminergic (H), GABA-ergic and glutamatergic systems. Most of these circuits are composed of more than one and often several types of the above neurons. Such physiologically flexible circuits respond appropriately to both external and internal stimuli which, if not modulated adequately, can trigger pathophysiologic responses. A great deal of research has been devoted to mapping the multiple functions of the CNS circuitry, thereby forming the basis for effective neuropharmacological therapeutic approaches. Such lineal strategies that seek to normalize complex and mixed physiological disorders, however, meet only partial therapeutic success and are often followed by undesirable side effects and/or total failure. In light of these, we have worked to develop possible models of CNS circuitry that are less affected by physiological interaction using the models to design more effective therapeutic approaches. In the present review, we cite and present evidence supporting the dorsal raphe versus median raphe serotonergic circuitry as one model of a reliable paradigm, necessary to the clear understanding and therapy of many psychiatric and even non-psychiatric disturbances.
This article reviews new developments of pharmacotherapy in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and OC spectrum disorders of the past five years. New developments primarily involved the ex-tension of evidence of efficacy of serotonin reuptake inhibitors(SRIs), the use of atypical antipsychotics in addition to SRIs for treatment refractory patients, the combination of pharmacotherapy with behavior therapy, and studies assessing predictors of response. Today, frontline pharmacological treatment of OCD still consists of drugs with potent serotonin reuptake inhibition proper-ties. In case of non-response, treatment options comprise adding another drug, increasing the dose, switching drugs, or changing the mode of delivery.
One advantage of conceptualizing two disorders as related lies in the possibility that a similar treatment is effective for both conditions. The approach taken in this paper is somewhat different, however. The authors have argued that although a particular psychobiologic process may be relevant to OCD and obsessive-compulsive conditions, it may be disrupted indifferent ways in various conditions that fall along a spectrum. If so, differ-ent obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders may well require different treatments. Thus, although OCD and trichotillomania can be conceptualized in terms of the pathologic release of motor programs, they may require rather different treatment approaches. Furthermore, in the absence of a detailed understanding of the psycho-biology of OCD and related disorders, conceptualizations of obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders can remain only preliminary in nature. The involvement of cortico-striatal circuitry in OCD suggests that obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders may be characterized by involvement of these paths. Striatal circuits mediate many different functions (including reward processes), however, and are involved in many disorders. Similarly, the involvement of serotonergic neurotransmitters in OCD suggests that these neurotransmitters are central to defining spectrum disorders.Again, however, serotonin plays a role in many functions (including impulse control) and mediates many different disorders. Much work remains to be done to delineate optimally the obsessive-compulsive spectrum of disorders. Nevertheless, significant progress has been made. Empiric data demonstrate involvement of cortico-striatal circuitry in a number of putative obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders [43]. Similarly, data demonstrate that a selective response to serotonin-reuptake inhibitors is seen in a range of these different spectrum disorders. As further progress is made in understanding the cognitive-affective neuroscience of OCD and related conditions, constructs about obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders will become increasingly sharp.
Working memory performance has been inconsistently reported in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Several studies in ASD have found normal performance in digit span and poor performance in digit symbol task although these are closely related with working memory. It is assumed that poor performance in digit symbol could be explained by confirmatory behavior, which is induced due to the vague memory representation of number-symbol association. Therefore it was hypothesized that the performance of working memory task, in which vagueness did not cause confirmatory behavior, would be normal in ASD. For this purpose, the Advanced Trail Making Test (ATMT) was used. The performance of digit span, digit symbol and ATMT was compared between ASD and normal control. The digit span, digit symbol and ATMT was given to 16 ASD subjects and 28 IQ-, age- and sex-matched control subjects. The scores of these tasks were compared. A significantly lower score for ASD was found only in digit symbol compared with control subjects. There were no significant difference in digit span and working memory estimated by ATMT. Discrepancy of scores among working memory-related tasks was demonstrated in ASD. Poor digit symbol performance, normal digit span and normal working memory in ATMT implied that ASD subjects would be intact in working memory itself, and that superficial working memory dysfunction might be observed due to confirmatory behavior in digit symbol. Therefore, to evaluate working memory in ASD, tasks that could stimulate psychopathology specific to ASD should be avoided.

The hallucinogenic &quot;designer drug&quot; known as Foxy or Methoxy Foxy and formally know as 5-Methoxy-N,N-di(iso)propyltryptamine hydrochloride (5-MeO-DIPT) is rapidly gaining popularity among recreational users. However, little is known about the consequences of its use on neuropsychological development or behavior. During one of two adolescent periods, the rats were given repeated injections of either saline or 5 mg/kg of 5-MeO-DIPT. Once the animals reached 80 days of age, they were trained and tested on a number of tasks designed to assess the effects of 5-MeO-DIPT, if any, on memory tasks with spatial components that presumably involve declarative memory systems and on a nonspatial task that is considered sensitive to disruptions in nondeclarative memory. With one exception, both the 5-MeO-DIPT- and saline-treated rats were able to master the spatial navigation tests at comparable rates. However, the performance of the drug-treated rats was markedly inferior to that of the control animals on a response-learning task, suggesting a lack of flexibility in adapting their responses to changing task demands. This could indicate reductions in serotonin activity in the forebrain similar to the effects of studied drugs such as methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), suggesting 5-MeO-DIPT may act as a toxin compromising serotoninergic systems in the brain.
Although following another person's gaze is essential in fluent social interactions, the reflexive nature of this gaze-cuing effect means that gaze can be used to deceive. In a gaze-cuing procedure, participants were presented with several faces that looked to the left or right. Some faces always looked to the target (predictive-valid), some never looked to the target (predictive-invalid), and others looked toward and away from the target in equal proportions (nonpredictive). The standard gaze-cuing effects appeared to be unaffected by these contingencies. Nevertheless, participants tended to choose the predictive-valid faces as appearing more trustworthy than the predictive-invalid faces. This effect was negatively related to scores on a scale assessing autistic-like traits. Further, we present tentative evidence that the &quot;deceptive&quot; faces were encoded more strongly in memory than the &quot;cooperative&quot; faces. These data demonstrate the important interactions among attention, gaze perception, facial identity recognition, and personality judgments.
When a person views an object, the action the object evokes appears to be activated independently of the person's intention to act. We demonstrate two further properties of this vision-to-action process. First, it is not completely automatic, but is determined by the stimulus properties of the object that are attended. Thus, when a person discriminates the shape of an object, action affordance effects are observed; but when a person discriminates an object's color, no affordance effects are observed. The former, shape property is associated with action, such as how an object might be grasped; the latter, color property is irrelevant to action. Second, we also show that the action state of an object influences evoked action. Thus, active objects, with which current action is implied, produce larger affordance effects than passive objects, with which no action is implied. We suggest that the active object activates action simulation processes similar to those proposed in mirror systems.
We examined how people use their knowledge of events to recover thematic role structure during the interpretation of noun-noun phrases. All phrases included one noun that was a good-agent/ poor-patient (prosecutor) in a particular event (accuse), and the other noun was a good-patient/poor-agent (defendant) for the same event If people interpret the noun-noun phrases by inverting the nouns and applying a thematic relation (see Downing, 1977; Levi, 1978), phrases should be interpreted more easily when the head nouns typically are good agents and the modifiers are good patients for specific events. Two experiments supported these predictions. Furthermore, the results indicated that in the less preferred thematic order (agent-patient), people often generated interpretations in which the modifiers became the focus of the interpretations. This finding suggests that violating thematic role preferences is one constraint on when the inversion process occurs during noun-noun interpretation.
Stress has been associated with changes in eating behaviour and food preferences. Moreover, psychosocial and socio-economical challenges have been related with neuroendocrine-autonomic dysregulation followed by visceral obesity and associated risk factors for disease. In the current study, we provide a model of body weight development, food intake, energy expenditure of subordinate and dominant mice under psychosocial stress either in the presence of a standard diet or of a high palatable diet. When only standard chow was available stressed animals consumed more food in comparison to the control counterpart. Moreover, subordinate mice, at the end of the stress period were heavier in comparison to dominant animals. This last result was due to a decrease in the caloric efficiency of dominant animals in comparison to subordinates. Confirming this, the results of the experiment 2 showed that dominant mice significantly increase their energy expenditure at the end of the chronic psychosocial stress procedure in comparison to subordinate mice, as measured by indirect calorimetry. When a palatable high fat diet was available subordinate animals became heavier in comparison with both dominant and control animals. No differences in the caloric intake were found between groups. Subordinate mice ingested more calories from fat than controls, while dominant animals ingested more calories from carbohydrates. These results suggest that psychosocial stress can be a risk factor for overeating and weight gain in mice. However, social status influences the extent to which an individual keeps up with adverse environment, influencing the vulnerability toward stress related disorders.
Exposure to stressors can impact on the responsiveness to drugs of abuse, and glucocorticoid hormones (CORT) may interact with dopamine (DA) within the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcs) to mediate these responses. We have previously shown that the CORT response to morphine, but not to a previous uncontrollable stressor, is necessary for the stress-induced potentiation of morphine's rewarding effects. Here, we test (1) the necessity of CORT during inescapable stress (IS) and/or morphine for IS potentiation of morphine-induced NAcs DA and (2) the sufficiency of enhanced CORT, in the absence of prior IS, to potentiate morphine-induced NAcs DA as well as morphine conditioned place preference (CPP) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In the first experiment, we administered the CORT synthesis inhibitors metyrapone and aminoglutethimide (100mg/kg each, sc) to suppress the CORT response to either IS (100 1 mA tailshocks) or subsequent morphine (3 mg/kg, sc) treatment. Twenty-four hour after IS, microdialysis was performed and morphine was administered. In the next experiments, CORT (1 mg/kg, sc) was injected 20 or 30 min before morphine during either microdialysis or CPP testing, respectively, in non-stressed rats. We found that IS potentiated subsequent morphine-induced NAcs DA and this was completely blocked by CORT suppression before morphine, but not before IS. However, elevated levels of CORT concurrent with morphine, but in the absence of a stressor, failed to potentiate NAcs DA or CPP. These results suggest that the CORT response to morphine is necessary, but not sufficient in the absence of prior IS, for sensitized NAcs DA and CPP responding to morphine, and provide further evidence that CORT is involved in the expression, but not the induction, of this sensitization.





The naturally occurring 3alpha-reduced neurosteroids allopregnanolone and its isomer pregnanolone are among the most potent positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors. They play a critical role in the maintenance of physiological GABAergic tone and display a broad spectrum of neuropsychopharmacological properties. We have reviewed existing evidence implicating the relevance of endogenous 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids to depression and to the mechanism of action of antidepressants. A wide range of preclinical and clinical evidence suggesting the antidepressant potential of 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids and a possible involvement of a deficiency and a disequilibrium of neuroactive steroid levels in pathomechanisms underlying the etiology of major depressive disorder have emerged in recent years. Antidepressants elevate 3alpha-reduced neurosteroid levels in rodent brain, and clinically effective antidepressant pharmacotherapy is associated with normalization of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of endogenous neuroactive steroids in depressed patients, unveiling a possible contribution of neuroactive steroids to the mechanism of action of antidepressants. In contrast, recent studies using nonpharmacological antidepressant therapy suggest that changes in plasma neuroactive steroid levels may not be a general mandatory component of clinically effective antidepressant treatment per se, but may reflect distinct properties of pharmacotherapy only. While preclinical studies offer convincing evidence in support of an antidepressant-like effect of 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids in rodent models of depression, current clinical investigations are inconclusive of an involvement of neuroactive steroid deficiency in the pathophysiology of depression. Moreover, clinical evidence is merely suggestive of a role of neuroactive steroids in the mechanism of action of clinically effective antidepressant therapy. Additional clinical studies evaluating the impact of successful pharmacological and nonpharmacological antidepressant therapies on changes in neuroactive steroid levels in both plasma and CSF samples of the same patients are necessary in order to more accurately address the relevance of 3alpha-reduced neuroactive steroids to major depressive disorder. Finally, proof-of-concept studies with drugs that are known to selectively elevate brain neurosteroid levels may offer a direct assessment of an involvement of neurosteroids in the treatment of depressive symptomatology.
Activity of protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes plays a critical role in various types of learning and memory. In addition, abnormal functions of PKC signal cascades in neurons represent one of the earliest changes in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia related to ischemic/stroke events. In preclinical studies, inhibition or impairment of PKC activity leads to compromised learning and memory, whereas an appropriate activation of PKC isozymes has been found to enhance learning and memory and/or to produce antidementic effects. The PKC activators not only increase activity of PKC isozymes and thereby restore PKC signaling activity but also reduce the accumulation of neurotoxic amyloid and tau protein hyperphosphorylation in the brain. These observations strongly suggest that PKC pharmacology may represent an attractive area for the development of cognitive therapeutics and agents against dementia in the future.



In recent years, there has been a notable growth in the use of focus groups within occupational therapy. It is important to understand what kind of knowledge focus-group methodology is meant to acquire. The purpose of this article is to create an understanding of the basic assumptions within focus-group methodology from a theory of science perspective in order to elucidate and encourage reflection on the paradigm. This will be done based on a study of contemporary literature. To further the knowledge of basic assumptions the article will focus on the following themes: the focus-group research arena, the foundation and its core components; subjects, the role of the researcher and the participants; activities, the specific tasks and procedures. Focus-group methodology can be regarded as a specific research method within qualitative methodology with its own form of methodological criteria, as well as its own research procedures. Participants construct a framework to make sense of their experiences, and in interaction with others these experiences will be modified, leading to the construction of new knowledge. The role of the group leader is to facilitate a fruitful environment for the meaning to emerge and to ensure that the understanding of the meaning emerges independently of the interpreter. Focus-group methodology thus shares, in the authors' view, some basic assumptions with social constructivism.
Over the last few years, the integration of biological and psychological models has become increasingly important in clinical psychology. This paper presents a neurobiological framework for exploring how neuroscience research may be valuable in the context of new developments in behavior therapy. The importance of the cortical-subcortical circuitry of emotion processing for investigating the working mechanisms of exposure therapy is illustrated by current neuroimaging research. The implication is that during exposure therapy the focus of attention must be fully directed towards the emotional content of the threatening situation to facilitate prefrontal control over the amygdala and that new contextual information, of emotional salience, must be added to create inhibitory projections from the hippocampus. In addition, some possible mechanisms of action for different therapeutic approaches to both anxiety and depression and the role of neuroimaging techniques in predicting treatment outcome are discussed.
Neurodevelopmental changes may underlie the brain dysfunction seen in schizophrenia. While advances have been made in our understanding of the genetics of schizophrenia, little is known about how non-genetic factors interact with genes for schizophrenia. The present analysis of genes potentially associated with schizophrenia is based on the observation that hypoxia prevails in the embryonic and fetal brain, and that interactions between neuronal genes, molecular regulators of hypoxia, such as hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), and intrinsic hypoxia occur in the developing brain and may create the conditions for complex changes in neurodevelopment. Consequently, we searched the literature for currently hypothesized candidate genes for susceptibility to schizophrenia that may be subject to ischemia-hypoxia regulation and/or associated with vascular expression. Genes were considered when at least two independent reports of a significant association with schizophrenia had appeared in the literature. The analysis showed that more than 50% of these genes, particularly AKT1, BDNF, CAPON, CCKAR, CHRNA7, CNR1, COMT, DNTBP1, GAD1, GRM3, IL10, MLC1, NOTCH4, NRG1, NR4A2/NURR1, PRODH, RELN, RGS4, RTN4/NOGO and TNF, are subject to regulation by hypoxia and/or are expressed in the vasculature. Future studies of genes proposed as candidates for susceptibility to schizophrenia should include their possible regulation by physiological or pathological hypoxia during development as well as their potential role in cerebral vascular function.
Hypofrontality has been a major finding obtained from functional neuroimaging studies on schizophrenia, although there have also been contradictory results that have questioned the reality of hypofrontality. In our previous study, we confirmed the existence of activation hypofrontality by using a 2-channel continuous-wave-type (CW-type) near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) instrument. In this study, we employed a single-channel time-resolved spectroscopy (TRS) instrument, which can quantify hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations based on the photon diffusion theory, to investigate resting hypofrontality. A pair of incident and detecting light guides was placed on either side of the forehead at approximately Fp2-F8 or Fp1-F7 alternately in 14 male schizophrenic patients and 16 age-matched male control subjects to measure Hb concentrations at rest. The patients were also measured with a 2-channel CW-type NIRS instrument during the performance of a random number generation (RNG) task. A reduced total hemoglobin concentration (t-Hb) less than 60 microM (the mean value of the control subjects-1.5 SD) was observed bilaterally in 4 patients and only in the left side in 3 patients. Activation hypofrontality was more manifest in these patients than in the remaining 7 patients despite the same task performance. This decreased t-Hb was related to the duration of illness, and it was not observed in patients whose duration of illness was less than 10 years. These results indicate that resting hypofrontality is a chronically developed feature of schizophrenia. This does not necessarily represent frontal dysfunction, but may reflect anatomical and/or functional changes in frontal microcirculation.
Studying Klinefelter syndrome (47,XXY), a genetically defined disorder characterized by the presence of an additional X chromosome, can reveal insights into genotype-phenotype associations. Increased vulnerability to psychiatric disorders characterized by difficulties in social interactions, such as schizophrenia and autism, has been reported for this population. The reported social difficulties in 47,XXY men may arise as a consequence of impairments in the processing of social and emotional information. The present study is the first investigation of social-emotional information processing in this X chromosomal disorder. 32 Klinefelter men and 26 men from the general population, with the groups matched for age, educational level and I.Q., participated in the study. Several tasks were included, reflecting aspects of social-emotional information processing on levels of perception, experience and expression: labeling of facial expressions of emotion, emotion-cognition interactions in decision making and emotion regulation, that refers to subjective experience and identification of emotional arousal as well as verbal expression of emotions. A discrepancy between cognitive appraisal of emotions and emotional arousal was observed in Klinefelter syndrome. Taken together, Klinefelter men seem less accurate in perception of socio-emotional cues such as angry facial expressions, they are less able to identify and verbalize their emotions, but experience increased levels of emotional arousal, in comparison to the general population. Besides describing the social-emotional phenotype of this X chromosomal disorder, the present data may prove to be an important contribution to the development of more general models describing pathways to neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by social cognitive disturbances.

An intact blood-brain barrier and normal production, circulation, and absorption of cerebrospinal fluid are critical for normal brain function. Minor disruptions of barrier function are without clinical consequences. Major disruptions accompany most significant acute brain injuries. The anatomic location of the blood-brain barrier is the endothelial cells of arterioles, capillaries, veins, and the epithelial cell surface of the choroid plexus. However, endothelial cells require the presence of glial cells to maintain barrier function. During cardiopulmonary bypass, several factors may result in a temporary disruption of the barrier; the most important are systemic inflammatory response and focal ischemia due to emboli. Lacking a lymphatic system, the brain depends on the circulation of cerebrospinal fluid to remove the products of metabolism, and the circulation of cerebrospinal fluid depends on a vascular systolic pulse wave to drive this fluid antegrade along the brain paravascular spaces. Although it is not possible to identify this paravascular space histologically, its presence is confirmed by tracer methods.
Autophagic vacuoles are a frequent feature in numerous neuromuscular disorders. However, they are also pathognomonic morphologic hallmarks in a slowly emerging new group of conditions called autophagic vacuolar myopathies (AVMs), of which Danon disease, originally called &quot;lysosomal glycogen storage disease with normal acid maltase,&quot; is the best known entity. Other such conditions, often although not always described from Japan, are X-linked myopathy with excessive authophagy, infantile autophagic vacuolar myopathy, adult-onset autophagic vacuolar myopathy with multiorgan involvement, and X-linked congenital autophagic vacuolar myopathy. Although only 1 protein, the transmembranous lysosomal protein LAMP-2, has been found mutated in Danon disease, the remaining AVMs are genetically still incompletely identified. Several of these conditions not only share autophagic vacuoles, but such autophagic vacuoles also have morphologic properties of the sarcolemma, thus rendering them autophagic vacuoles with sarcolemmal features, an almost pathognomonic phenomenon of this group of disorders.
Oxidative stress results from an oxidant/antioxidant imbalance, an excess of oxidants, and/or a depletion of antioxidants. A considerable body of recent evidence suggests that oxidative stress and exaggerated production of reactive oxygen species play a major role in several aspects of inflammation. Hypericum perforatum is a medicinal plant species containing many polyphenolic compounds, namely, flavonoids and phenolic acids. Because polyphenolic compounds have high antioxidant potential, in this study, we evaluated the effect of H. perforatum (given at 30 mg . kg (-1)) in an experimental animal model of spinal cord injury, which was induced by the application of vascular clips to the dura via a four-level T5 through T8 laminectomy. The degree of (a) spinal cord inflammation and tissue injury (histological score), (b) nitrotyrosine, (c) poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose), (d) neutrophils infiltration, and (e) the activation of signal transducer and activator transcription 3 was markedly reduced in spinal cord tissue obtained from H. perforatum extract-treated mice. We have also demonstrated that H. perforatum extract significantly ameliorated the recovery of limb function.



We present a case of episodic stupor associated with a myriad of neuropyschiatric manifestations that baffled doctors until they were recognized as sleep attacks. Continuous monitoring and recognition of a cyclical pattern of symptoms and signs helped to uncover the underlying cause of a rapidly cycling bipolar disorder. The symptoms abated quickly and persistently when treated by olanzapine and lithium.

A key question in psychology and neuroscience is the extent to which the neural representation of others is incorporated with, or is distinct from, our concept of self. Recent neuroimaging research has emphasized the importance of a region in the medial prefrontal cortex [MPFC; Brodmann's area (BA) 10] when performing self-referent tasks. Specifically, previous studies have reported selective MPFC recruitment when making judgments about the self relative to a familiar but personally unknown other. The present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study extends these findings to judgments about personally known others. Subjects were imaged while making trait adjective judgments in one of the three conditions: (i) whether the adjective described the self; (ii) whether the adjective described an intimate other (i.e., a best friend); or (iii) whether the adjective was presented in uppercase letters. Making judgments about the self relative to an intimate other selectively activated the MPFC region previously implicated in the self-processing literature. These results suggest that while we may incorporate intimate others into our self-concept, the neural correlates of the self remain distinct from intimate and non-intimate others.
Empathic responses underlie our ability to share emotions and sensations with others. We investigated whether observed pupil size modulates our perception of other's emotional expressions and examined the central mechanisms modulated by incidental perception of pupil size in emotional facial expressions. We show that diminishing pupil size enhances ratings of emotional intensity and valence for sad, but not happy, angry or neutral facial expressions. This effect was associated with modulation of neural activity within cortical and subcortical regions implicated in social cognition. In an identical context, we show that the observed pupil size was mirrored by the observers' own pupil size. This empathetic contagion engaged the brainstem pupillary control nuclei (Edinger-Westphal) in proportion to individual subject's sensitivity to this effect. These findings provide evidence that perception-action mechanisms extend to non-volitional operations of the autonomic nervous system.
This paper examines the ways in which the acupuncture phenomenon is translated into scientific language through the mobilization of functional magnetic resonance imaging. In doing so, it explores how differences between science and traditional medicine are bridged and negotiated through an open-ended tuning process among heterogeneous elements. By showing the constructive interaction between traditional medicine and science, I aim to refute a conception of East Asian medicines as culturally bounded and to provide an interpretation of transculturalism that emphasizes its diverse and hybrid formations. Particularly, in order to explain the scientific translation of acupuncture, I refer to Andrew Pickering's &quot;mangle of practice&quot; as an alternative to Thomas Kuhn's paradigm. Adopting a performative perspective rather than a representational one with regard to science, I read the scientific interpretation of acupuncture as an interactive stabilization between the acupuncture phenomenon, neurological theory, and the material procedure of the MRI machine.

Previous studies of bone marrow-derived stem cell transdifferentiation into neurons have not involved purified cell populations and determined their exact phenotype prior to differentiation. The present study investigates whether highly purified mouse adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), characterized by lineage marker depletion and expression of the cell surface markers Sca1 and c-Kit (Lin(-) Sca1(+) c-Kit(+) [LSK]), can be stimulated to adopt a neuronal fate. When the HSC(LSK) cells were cultured in vitro in neuronal differentiation medium supplemented with retinoic acid, 50% of the cells expressed the neural progenitor marker nestin and no cells had become postmitotic. Electrophysiological recordings on neuron-like cells showed that these cells were incapable of generating action potentials. When the HSC(LSK) cells either were grown in vitro together with neural precursor cells or were transplanted into the striatum or cerebellum of wild-type mouse, they either differentiated into Iba1-immunopositive macrophage/microglia or died. In conclusion, we demonstrate that adult HSC(LSK) cells do not have the capacity to leave the hematopoietic lineage and differentiate into neurons.
The use of neural precursor cells (NPCs) represents a promising repair strategy for many neurological disorders. This requires an understanding of the molecular events and biological features that regulate the self-renewal of NPCs and their differentiation into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendendrocytes. In this study, we have characterized the proteomic changes that occur upon differentiation of these cells using the novel iTRAQ labeling chemistry for quantitative mass spectrometry. In total, 55 distinct proteins underwent expression changes during NPC differentiation. This included 14 proteins that were identified by our previous two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) analysis of differentiating mouse neurospheres. The importance of the iTRAQ approach was demonstrated by the identification of additional proteins that were not resolved by the 2D-DIGE technology. The proteins identified by the iTRAQ approach included growth factors, signaling molecules, proliferating cell-specific proteins, heat shock proteins, and other proteins involved in the regulation of metabolism and the transcriptional and translational machinery. Further characterization of the identified proteins should provide greater insight into the mechanisms involved in regulation of neurogenesis in the adult central nervous system and potentially that of other proliferating cell types, including peripheral stem cells or cancer cells.
The mammalian inner ear is vulnerable to genetic disorders and aging, as well as to injuries caused by overstimulation, ototoxic drugs, and viral infections. Due to the poor regeneration of the sensory epithelium and the spiral ganglion neurons in the adult mammalian inner ear, cell replacement therapy strategies have been proposed to compensate for degeneration and loss of sensory and neuronal cells. Transplantation of stem cells and embryonic neurons into the inner ear has revealed that exogenous cells can survive, migrate, differentiate, and extend neuritic projections in the auditory system of adult mammals. These results suggest that cell replacement therapy could provide an effective future treatment alternative for hearing loss and other inner ear disorders.
Multipotent neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) can be isolated from many regions of the adult central nervous system (CNS), yet neurogenesis is restricted to the hippocampus and subventricular zone in vivo. Identification of the molecular cues that modulate NSPC fate choice is a prerequisite for their therapeutic applications. Previously, we demonstrated that primary astrocytes isolated from regions with higher neuroplasticity, such as newborn and adult hippocampus and newborn spinal cord, promoted neuronal differentiation of adult NSPCs, whereas astrocytes isolated from the nonneurogenic region of the adult spinal cord inhibited neural differentiation. To identify the factors expressed by these astrocytes that could modulate NSPC differentiation, we performed gene expression profiling analysis using Affymetrix rat genome arrays. Our results demonstrated that these astrocytes had distinct gene expression profiles. We further tested the functional effects of candidate factors that were differentially expressed in neurogenesis-promoting and -inhibiting astrocytes using in vitro NSPC differentiation assays. Our results indicated that two interleukins, IL-1beta and IL-6, and a combination of factors that included these two interleukins could promote NSPC neuronal differentiation, whereas insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) and decorin inhibited neuronal differentiation of adult NSPCs. Our results have provided further evidence to support the ongoing hypothesis that, in adult mammalian brains, astrocytes play critical roles in modulating NSPC differentiation. The finding that cytokines and chemokines expressed by astrocytes could promote NSPC neuronal differentiation may help us to understand how injuries induce neurogenesis in adult brains.

After the Second World War, a renaissance in field primatology took place in the United States under the aegis of the 'new physical anthropology'. Its leader, Sherwood Washburn, envisioned a science uniting studies of hominid fossils with Darwinian population genetics, experimental functional anatomy, and field observation of non-human primates and human hunter-gatherers. Thanks to Washburn's stimulus, his colleague at Berkeley, the bird ethologist Peter Marler, took up the study of the natural communicative behaviour of apes and monkeys. When Marler's first primatological student, Thomas Struhsaker, reported in the mid-1960s that the vervet monkeys of Amboseli, Kenya, give acoustically distinct alarm calls to different predators, and respond to alarm calls as if to the sight of those predators, a debate broke out over whether the vervet calls thus function as names, translating as 'leopard', 'eagle' and 'python'. Washburn and his students argued that no matter what the behavioural evidence, vervet calls could not be predator names, since monkeys had been shown to lack the neuroanatomical basis of naming. This controversy thus reveals, first, the persistence of older patterns of disciplinary allegiance within the new, synthetic physical anthropology; and second, the impotence of adaptationist Darwinism--common to both sides of the debate--as a force for unity.
Major changes took place during the last quarter of the nineteenth century in the ways that the brain tissue was maintained, manipulated and studied, and, consequently, in the ways that its structure, functions and pathologies were seen and represented in neurological literature. The paper exemplifies these changes by comparing German neuroanatomy in the 1860s and early 1870s (represented above all by Theodor Meynert) with the turn-of-the-century view of the brain (represented by Constantin von Monakow and others). It argues for the crucial importance of a method--serial sectioning--to the emergence of the new view of the brain. Serial sectioning in turn owes its existence to the new techniques in staining and sectioning that were introduced in the 1870s and 1880s. In particular, the paper highlights the role of a cutting device, the microtome, in enabling serial sectioning and in thereby contributing to the emergence of a new view of the brain.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is often characterized by multiple low lethality suicide attempts triggered by seemingly minor incidents, and less commonly by high lethality attempts that are attributed to impulsiveness or comorbid major depression. The relationships among life events, impulsiveness, and type of suicidal behavior has hardly been studied in BPD and mood disorders. This study compared depressed attempters with and without BPD to identify specific suicide precipitants and risk factors in BPD and their relationship to severity of suicidal behavior. Attempters with comorbid BPD and major depressive disorder (MDD) had a higher number of lifetime suicide attempts; made their first attempt at a younger age; reported more interpersonal triggers; and had higher levels of lifetime aggression, hostility, and impulsivity, compared with attempters with major depression only. Environmental triggers of attempts in BPD are more likely to be interpersonal stressors. Lethality of attempts in BPD plus MDD is equal to that in MDD only, indicating that the seriousness of precipitants is unrelated to the lethality of the suicidal behavior. The differences between groups suggest that risk assessment and treatment should target both depression and personality disorder in those with combined illness.

The cerebral distribution of peripheral-type benzodiazepine binding sites (PBBS) in human brain has been investigated by positron emission tomography (PET) with the specific radioligand [11C]PK11195 in diverse neuropathological conditions. However, little is known about the pattern of PK11195 binding sites in healthy brain. Therefore, we used quantitative autoradiography to measure the saturation binding parameters for [3H]PK11195 in cryostat sections from young Landrace pigs. Specific binding was lowest in the cerebellar white matter (85 fmol mg(-1)) and highest in the caudate nucleus (370 fmol mg(-1)), superior colliculus (400 fmol mg(-1)), and anterior thalamic nucleus (588 fmol mg(-1)). The apparent affinity was in the range of 2-6 nM in vitro, predicting high specific binding in PET studies of living brain. However, the distribution volume (V(d), ml g(-1)) of high specific activity [11C]PK11195 was nearly homogeneous (3 ml g(-1)) throughout brain of healthy Landrace pigs, and was nearly identical in studies with lower specific activity, suggesting that factors in vivo disfavor the detection of PBBS in Landrace pigs with this radioligand. In young, adult Gttingen minipig brain, the magnitude of V(d) for [11C]PK11195 was in the range 5-10 ml g(-1), and had a heterogeneous distribution resembling the in vitro findings in Landrace pigs. There was a trend toward globally increased V(d) in a group of minipigs with acute MPTP-induced parkinsonism, but no increase in V(d) was evident in the same pigs rescanned at 2 weeks after grafting of fetal mesencephalon to the partially denervated striatum. Thus, [11C]PK11195 binding was not highly sensitive to constituitively expressed PBBS in brain of young Landrace pigs, and did not clearly demonstrate the expected microglial activation in the MPTP/xenograft model of minipigs.
Prefrontal cortical (PFC) pyramidal neurons (PN) and fast spiking interneurons (FSI) receive dopaminergic (DA) and non-DA inputs from the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Although the responses of PN to VTA stimulation and DA administration have been extensively studied, little is known about the response of FSI to mesocortical activation. We explored this issue using single and double in vivo juxtacellular recordings of medial PFC PN and FSI with chemical VTA stimulation. Electrophysiological characteristics combined with Neurobiotin staining and parvalbumin immunohistochemistry allowed identification of recorded cells as FSI or PN. NMDA injection into the VTA increased firing in all FSI tested (n = 7), whereas most PN (7/11) responded with an inhibition. Furthermore, FSI excitation matching the temporal course of PN inhibition was observed with FSI-PN paired recordings (n = 5). These divergent electrophysiological responses to mesocortical activation could reflect PFC GABAergic interneurons contributing to silencing PN. Thus, the mesocortical system could provide a critical control of PFC circuits by simultaneously affecting FSI and PN firing.
The excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) are a family of plasma membrane proteins that maintain synaptic glutamate concentration by removing glutamate from the synaptic cleft. EAATs are expressed by glia (EAAT1 and EAAT2) and neurons (EAAT3 and EAAT4) throughout the brain. Glutamate reuptake is regulated, in part, by EAAT-interacting proteins that modulate subcellular localization and glutamate transport activity of the EAATs. Several lines of investigation support the hypothesis of glutamatergic abnormalities in schizophrenia. Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated increased expression of EAAT1 and EAAT2 transcripts in the thalamus, suggesting that alterations in synaptic glutamate levels may contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Since EAAT-interacting proteins regulate EAAT function, directly impacting glutamatergic neurotransmission, we hypothesized that expression of EAAT-interacting proteins may also be altered in schizophrenia. Using in situ hybridization in subjects with schizophrenia and a comparison group, we detected increased expression of JWA and KIAA0302, molecules that regulate EAAT3 and EAAT4, respectively, in the thalamus in schizophrenia. In contrast, we did not find changes in the expression of transcripts for the EAAT2 and EAAT4 regulatory proteins GPS-1 and ARHGEF11. To address prior antipsychotic treatment in our schizophrenic subjects, we treated rats with haloperidol and clozapine for 4 weeks, and found changes in transcript expression of the EAAT-interacting proteins in clozapine-, but not haloperidol-, treated rats. These findings suggest that proteins associated with the regulation of glutamate reuptake may be abnormal in this illness, supporting the hypothesis of altered thalamic glutamatergic neurotransmission in schizophrenia.
Although sensory perception and neurobiology are traditionally investigated one modality at a time, real world behaviour and perception are driven by the integration of information from multiple sensory sources. Mounting evidence suggests that the neural underpinnings of multisensory integration extend into early sensory processing. This article examines the notion that neocortical operations are essentially multisensory. We first review what is known about multisensory processing in higher-order association cortices and then discuss recent anatomical and physiological findings in presumptive unimodal sensory areas. The pervasiveness of multisensory influences on all levels of cortical processing compels us to reconsider thinking about neural processing in unisensory terms. Indeed, the multisensory nature of most, possibly all, of the neocortex forces us to abandon the notion that the senses ever operate independently during real-world cognition.
It is increasingly accepted that the imprecision of categorical psychiatric diagnoses can be a limiting factor in understanding the genetic basis of human behavioral abnormalities. Genetic investigation of endophenotypes--more precisely defined quantitative traits hypothesized to underlie disease syndromes--offers great promise as an alternative or complement to studies of categorical disease phenotypes. However, there is not yet standardization of the methods by which candidate endophenotypes should be chosen and applied. Fruitful endophenotype studies depend on the selection of heritable, quantitative traits that can be objectively and reliably measured. In this article, we propose guidelines for such investigations for psychiatric disorders, using endophenotypes previously proposed for bipolar disorder as particular examples. Gene expression studies and non-human primate models are recent developments in which an endophenotype approach might prove particularly valuable.
Although once regarded as a simple sensory relay on the way to the cortex, it is increasingly apparent that the thalamus has a role in the ongoing moment-by-moment processing of sensory input and in cognition. This involves extensive corticofugal feedback connections and the interplay of these with the local thalamic circuitry and the other converging inputs. Here, using the feline visual system as the primary model, some of the latest developments in this field are reviewed and placed in the perspective of an integrated view of system function. Cortical feedback mediated by ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors, and effects mediated by the neuromodulator nitric oxide, all have a role in integrating the thalamic mechanism into the cortical circuit. The essential point is that the perspective of higher-level sensory mechanisms shifts and modulates the thalamic circuitry in ways that optimize abstraction of a meaningful representation of the external world. This review is part of the TINS special issue on The Neural Substrates of Cognition.
Although most studies of visual attention have examined the effects of shifting attention between different locations in the visual field, attention can also be directed to particular visual features, such as a color, orientation or a direction of motion. Single-unit studies have shown that attention to a feature modulates neuronal signals in a range of areas in monkey visual cortex. The location-independent property of feature-based attention makes it particularly well suited to modify selectively the neural representations of stimuli or parts within complex visual scenes that match the currently attended feature. This review is part of the TINS special issue on The Neural Substrates of Cognition.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a non-invasive technology of nuclear medicine that has sensitivity for tracing low picomolar concentrations of radiolabeled molecules in the human body. Radiolabeling a new drug to high specific radioactivity facilitates a detailed mapping of its distribution to crucial organs in humans after the administration of a &quot;microdose&quot; (&lt; 1 microg), for which limited toxicology documentation is required. For drugs directed at the CNS, this method is particularly useful for confirming exposure to the brain. A different approach is to develop suitable radioligands for quantitative PET studies of drug binding to target proteins and subsequently to correlate receptor occupancy with pharmacodynamic responses. To follow disease progression and to monitor the outcome of new treatments, PEt also facilitates longitudinal studies of biomarkers of pathophysiology such as amyloid plaque load in Alzheimer's disease. Finally, combining genomic knowledge with PET neuroreceptor imaging is expected to facilitate the search for genetic predictors of drug response.
Changes in the number of receptors on the cell surface lead to modulations of physiological functions and pharmacological responses of neurons. Recent studies show that delta-opioid peptide (DOP) and mu-opioid peptide (MOP) receptors have distinct subcellular localizations in neurons. In nociceptive small neurons in the dorsal root ganglia, DOP receptors are sorted into neuropeptide-containing secretory vesicles, enabling the stimulus-induced cell surface expression of these receptors. MOP receptors are constitutively expressed on the cell surface. The physical interaction between DOP receptors and MOP receptors seems to be an important mechanism for the modulation of receptor functions. Experiments in animals show that MOP-receptor-mediated spinal analgesia is enhanced and morphine tolerance does not develop when DOP receptor functions are pharmacologically or genetically attenuated. Thus, the delivery and trafficking of DOP receptors are crucial processes that modulate opioid analgesia and tolerance.
Do women experience orgasm because this trait was shaped by natural selection to augment female fitness? Or are women merely the lucky recipients of developmental patterns favored by selection to produce orgasm in males? A recent and widely publicized book by Elisabeth Lloyd (2005a) contends that there is insufficient evidence to validate any of the adaptive explanations yet proposed for female orgasm. We agree. But our reading of the data differs from Lloyd's. In this essay, we outline why, unlike Caton (2006), whose review of Lloyd's book appeared previously in this journal, we are not persuaded by Lloyd's argument that female orgasm is a nonadaptive byproduct of orgasm in men. We hold this view because we disagree with the criteria Lloyd uses to evaluate evolutionary hypotheses, and because we believe Lloyd defines female orgasm too narrowly, ignoring critical information about its affective aspects.
Poliovirus is the causative agent of poliomyelitis. It replicates efficiently in the neurons in the central nervous system and produces severe pathological lesions. It cannot replicate well in the non-neural tissues. In spite of this strict neurotropism in vivo, however, it can replicate in cells of monolayer cultures derived from almost any tissues of primates as Enders and colleagues initially shown. It was supposed that cellular changes during the process of cultivation were required for acquisition of susceptibility. This question remained unsolved for a long time. We have recently shown that cells in culture acquire poliovirus susceptibility by loosing rapid and robust interferon response that has been normally maintained in tissues in vivo.
In two experiments, we investigated the effects of exogenous cueing on visual motion processing. The first experiment shows that the typical pattern of reaction time (RT) effects, namely early facilitation and later inhibition of return (IOR), can be obtained using a color change as exogenous cue and a direction change as target. In the second experiment, we manipulated the validity of the cue independently with respect to location and feature using transparent motion stimuli. Facilitation of RTs with short cue-target interstimulus-intervals (ISIs) was only evident for targets with both the valid location and the valid feature. Furthermore, at longer cue-target intervals, RTs were prolonged for targets at the cued location, irrespective of the cued feature. These results demonstrate spatial and feature-based components of early facilitation and purely spatial IOR.
We examined the spatiotemporal characteristics of metacontrast using sinusoidal grating stimuli as the target and mask for quantitative comparison with the functional properties of the visual cortex. The magnitude of metacontrast effects depended on the stimulus features such as the orientation and spatial frequency of the target and mask. The characteristics of metacontrast dynamically changed depending on the stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA). At short SOAs (0 to approximately 40 ms), metacontrast exhibited a high stimulus feature specificity and a low contrast sensitivity, whereas at long SOAs ( approximately 40 to 80 ms), metacontrast exhibited a low stimulus feature specificity and a high contrast sensitivity. We suggest that metacontrast is explained by the interaction between two parallel visual pathways: one with a low contrast sensitivity and a high feature specificity, and the other with a high contrast sensitivity and a low feature specificity.
Previous research has shown that magnesium chloride (MgCl(2)) and riboflavin (B(2)) both significantly improve functional recovery when administered shortly after frontal cortical contusion injury (CCI). The purpose of the present study was to examine the ability of combination treatments of MgCl(2) and B(2) to improve functional outcome following unilateral CCI. One hour post-injury, rats were administered MgCl(2) (1.0 mmol/kg), B(2) (7.5mg/kg), MgCl(2)+B(2) (1 mmol/kg+7.5mg/kg), 1/2 MgCl(2)+1/2 B(2) (0.5 mmol/kg and 3.75 mg/kg), or saline. Two days following CCI rats were tested on a battery of sensorimotor (vibrissae--&gt;forelimb placing and tactile removal test) and motor (staircase test). A regimen of MgCl(2)+B(2) significantly reduced the initial impairment and facilitated the rate of recovery on the tactile removal test and facilitated the rate of recovery on the forelimb placing test. The half-dose combination did not significantly improve functional recovery on the tactile removal test compared to the individual treatments; however, it did improve performance on the forelimb placing test compared to saline treatment. Administration of MgCl(2) improved performance on the placing and tactile removal tests on 2 post-operative days, as did treatment with B(2) on the tactile removal test. The results indicate that the full combination of MgCl(2)+B(2) significantly improved functional recovery to a greater extent than the individual treatments or the low dose combination group on forelimb placing but not on tactile removal. These findings suggest that administration of MgCl(2)+B(2) may provide better therapeutic action than individual treatments.
Convincing evidence suggests that long-latency reflexes (LLRs) are capable of testing the transcortical sensorimotor reflex arch. By subtracting the sum of the latencies of N20 (afferent branch) and transcranially elicited motor evoked potentials (MEP; efferent branch) from the LLR II latency, the cortical relay time (CRT) can also be obtained, which is alleged to represent the time required for the cortical sensorimotor integration. The aim of the present study was to investigate if a cortical dysfunction occurs in multiple sclerosis (MS). Median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs), MEPs and LLRs were recorded from the upper limbs of 23, not severely disabled MS patients in acute phases of the disease. Eighteen age and sex matched healthy volunteers served as controls. N20, MEP, LLR II latencies were measured, and the CRT was calculated for each limb. The statistical comparison between patients and controls was only weakly significant by taking into account conduction times along either the afferent (N20) or the efferent (MEP) pathways. On the contrary, it turned out to be considerably significant if both branches of the transcortical sensorimotor reflex arch, together with the intracortical pathway, were simultaneously tested by means of the LLRs. Moreover, the patients showed a significantly higher CRT compared with that found in the control subjects. These findings are consistent with a prolonged intracortical delay of LLRs in the MS group and suggest the occurrence of conduction velocity slowing and/or synaptic transmission impairment along the sensorimotor intracortical pathway in MS.
Whisker deflection conditioned stimuli (CS) were demonstrated to activate physiologically and anatomically defined barrels in the contralateral somatosensory cortex and to support trace-eyeblink conditioned responses when paired with corneal airpuff unconditioned stimuli in rabbits. Analysis of cytochrome-oxidase-stained somatosensory whisker-associated cortical barrels revealed a row-specific expansion of the conditioned compared with the nontrained hemisphere. This expansion was not evident in pseudo-conditioned rabbits, suggesting that this expansion of conditioned cortical barrels in response to a hippocampal- and forebrain-dependent learning task (trace conditioning) is associative rather than activity dependent. Using whisker stimulation as a CS in the well studied eyeblink conditioning paradigm will facilitate characterizing sensory cortical involvement in controlling and modulating an associatively learned response at the neural systems and cellular level.
Aspects of drug withdrawal may become conditioned to previously neutral environmental stimuli via classical conditioning processes. Nevertheless, the significance of conditioned withdrawal effects in motivating drug intake remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated the effects of conditioned withdrawal in modulating heroin consumption and brain reward sensitivity in rats. Rats intravenously self-administered heroin (20 microg/infusion) during 0 h (control), 1 h (nondependent), or 23 h (dependent) sessions and had daily intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) thresholds assessed. ICSS thresholds remained stable and unaltered in control rats. In nondependent rats, heroin self-administration induced a transient activation of reward systems, reflected in lowering of ICSS thresholds. In dependent rats, heroin intake escalated across sessions and was associated with a gradual decrease in reward sensitivity, reflected in progressively elevated ICSS thresholds. Thus, as dependence develops, heroin may be consumed not only for its acute reward-facilitating effects, but also to counter persistent deficits in reward sensitivity. In nondependent rats, the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (30 microg/kg) increased heroin consumption and reversed heroin-induced lowering of ICSS thresholds, effects resistant to classical conditioning. In contrast, in dependent rats naloxone (30 microg/kg) increased heroin consumption and also elevated ICSS thresholds above their already elevated baseline levels (i.e., precipitated withdrawal). Most importantly, stimuli repeatedly paired with naloxone-precipitated withdrawal provoked heroin consumption and elevated ICSS thresholds in dependent rats. Thus, conditioned stimuli predicting the onset of heroin withdrawal, and hence the reward deficits coupled with this state, may play a critical role in provoking craving and relapse in human opiate addicts.
The striatum, which receives projections from the entire cortical mantle, is highly responsive to sensorimotor activity. Because either systemic or intra-striatal injections of ascorbate (AA) influence behavior known to involve striatal circuits, it is possible that the level of striatal AA, which is known to fluctuate with behavioral activation, directly alters striatal neuronal processing. To test this hypothesis, we recorded the activity of 94 presumed medium spiny striatal neurons in behaving rats treated with AA or vehicle and examined firing rate during periods of quiescence and sensorimotor stimulation (e.g., stroking of the whiskers, mid-back, and rump). Slow-scan voltammetry was used in separate rats to determine the extent to which AA treatment elevated striatal AA. Vehicle-treated rats had relatively slow basal firing rates at rest that routinely increased during sensorimotor stimulation. Comparable results were obtained in rats treated with 100 mg/kg AA, which failed to alter AA levels in striatum. Dose-dependent increases in striatal AA, however, occurred after injection of 500 and 1000 mg/kg AA, and at these doses, there was a significant decrease in the number of sensorimotor-related excitations. In fact, treatment with 1000 mg/kg AA reversed a significant proportion of excitations to inhibitions. Our results substantiate the role of the striatum in sensorimotor processing and emphasize extracellular AA as a modulator of striatal neuronal function.
Recent reviews of a substantial number of studies have partially resolved questions concerning the brain regions used by working memory for manipulation and representation. We report a large single experiment in middle-aged to older adults (n = 89), classified by hypertensive status. Our design addresses the question of regions related to manipulation and representation, most particularly comparing spatial and verbal working memory. A control, memory search, and 2-back running memory task were performed with identical stimuli and responses during whole-brain 15O water positron emission tomography (PET) scans. Letter or spatial position instructions created verbal or spatial working memory versions of the tasks. We assessed agreement with the literature using regions of interest that were defined by clusters of activation empirically derived from the literature by Wager and Smith (Wager, T.D. and Smith, E.E., Neuroimaging studies of working memory: a meta-analysis, Cognitive, Affective and Behavioral Neuroscience, 3 (2003) 255-274). Our results largely confirmed conclusions from the review on the organization of working memory into dorsal prefrontal manipulation and ventrolateral prefrontal maintenance areas and representation in dorsal and ventral paths. Specific verbal versus spatial comparisons were also concordant with prior work establishing posterior lateralized representation for different contents by working memory. The similarity of results between this older sample and results derived by others from younger participants is notable.
Maternal licking of pups' perineal regions affects the development of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), a sexually dimorphic motor nucleus in the lumbar spinal cord that controls penile reflexes involved with copulation. Maternal licking influences SNB motoneuron number, with reductions in licking resulting in fewer motoneurons. Reduced maternal licking also has functional consequences in adulthood, resulting in increased latency to ejaculation and postejaculatory intromission and longer interintromission intervals. In this experiment, we assessed the potential effect of maternal licking on the development of SNB dendritic morphology. To reduce maternal licking, dams were treated with intranasal application of zinc sulfate during the first two postnatal weeks, which interferes with their ability to detect the pup odors that drive the licking behavior. At either postnatal day (P) 28 (when SNB dendritic length is normally maximal) or P49 (when SNB dendritic morphology is normally mature), SNB motoneurons were retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin-conjugated HRP, and dendritic arbor was reconstructed in three dimensions. At P28, the dendritic arbor of reduced maternal licking pups was not different from controls; however at P49, reduced licking pups showed a 23% reduction in dendritic arbor in the SNB, an effect that was especially pronounced in the rostral end of the nucleus, where reductions reached 48%. These results suggest that reductions in perineal stimulation provided by maternal licking could affect adult male copulatory behavior via alterations in SNB motoneuron morphology, and thus support maternal licking as an important factor in normal neural and behavioral development.
We measured interleukin-6 (IL-6) mRNA in whole blood, using an immunometric reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (IRT-PCR) method and 'real-time' RT-PCR using the Roche LightCycler. Both methods showed similar precision, in terms of inter- and intra-assay variation, where a lower total RNA concentration was used at a relatively high ratio of (IL-6) mRNA to total RNA. However, the 'real-time' RT-PCR method showed a greater loss of accuracy at higher concentrations of total RNA.
The PAR-3/PAR-6/atypical PKC (aPKC) complex is required for axon-dendrite specification of hippocampal neurons. However, the downstream effectors of this complex are not well defined. In this article, we report a role for microtubule affinity-regulating kinase (MARK)/PAR-1 in axon-dendrite specification. Knocking down MARK2 expression with small interfering RNAs induced formation of multiple axon-like neurites and promoted axon outgrowth. Ectopic expression of MARK2 caused phosphorylation of tau (S262) and led to loss of axons, and this phenotype was rescued by expression of PAR-3, PAR-6, and aPKC. In contrast, the polarity defects caused by an MARK2 mutant (T595A), which is not responsive to aPKC, were not rescued by the PAR-3/PAR-6/aPKC complex. Moreover, polarity was abrogated in neurons overexpressing a mutant of MARK2 with a deleted kinase domain but an intact aPKC-binding domain. Finally, suppression of MARK2 rescued the polarity defects induced by a dominant-negative aPKC mutant. These results suggest that MARK2 is involved in neuronal polarization and functions downstream of the PAR-3/PAR-6/aPKC complex. We propose that aPKC in complex with PAR-3/PAR-6 negatively regulates MARK(s), which in turn causes dephosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins, such as tau, leading to the assembly of microtubules and elongation of axons.

Approximately 70% of tobacco smokers wish to quit, but attempts are often unsuccessful partly due to the aversive nicotine withdrawal syndrome. We investigated the possible involvement of nicotinic and dopaminergic signalling in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and dorsolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (dlBNST) in the anhedonic depression-like effect of precipitated nicotine withdrawal in rats. Nicotine-dependent rats exhibit elevations in intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) thresholds compared to control rats after cessation of chronic nicotine administration (spontaneous withdrawal) or systemic or intra-ventral tegmental area (VTA), but not intra-nucleus accumbens (NAcc), administration of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) antagonists while exposed to nicotine (precipitated withdrawal). We examined whether intracerebral administration of the nAChR antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE; 0.6-20 microg total bilateral dose) or the dopamine D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (2-16 microg total bilateral dose) into the CeA and dlBNST results in withdrawal-like threshold elevations in nicotine-treated rats. Nicotinic acetylcholine and D1-like receptor blockade in the CeA or the dlBNST did not induce differential threshold elevations in nicotine- and saline-treated rats. Further, the highest SCH 23390 dose (16 microg bilateral dose) injected into the dlBNST, but not the CeA, elevated thresholds similarly in both saline- and nicotine-treated rats, suggesting that dopaminergic signalling in the dlBNST may regulate brain reward function under baseline conditions. These results suggest that nACh and D1-like signalling in the CeA and the dlBNST does not develop neuroadaptations with the development of nicotine dependence that may be involved in the depression-like aspects of nicotine withdrawal.
Neuronal nAChRs are pentameric transmembrane proteins which function as ligand-gated ion channels and are composed of multiple alpha and beta subunits. Nine neuronal nAChR alpha subunit genes (alpha2-alpha10) and three nAChR beta subunit genes (beta2-beta4) have been identified. nAChR subtypes are heteromers, composed of various combinations of nAChR subunits or homomers composed of alpha7, alpha8, or alpha9 subunits. nAChR subtypes are widely expressed in the nervous system, yet each subunit has a distinct and unique pattern of expression. This report focuses on the expression of the nAChR alpha7 gene since homomeric nAChRs can be formed from this one subunit, simplifying a study of the expression of a specific nAChR subtype. Alpha7 nAChRs are involved in several important biological activities in addition to synaptic transmission including mediating neurite outgrowth, neuronal development and cell death, and in presynaptic control of neurotransmitter release. Transcriptional regulation of alpha7 gene expression may be important to control the location and timing of these events. We previously isolated a rat alpha7 nAChR promoter and studied expression in PC12 cells. In this study we examined the expression of the alpha7 promoter in PC12, HEK293, L6, SN17 and Neuro-2A cells in order to define elements necessary for cell-specific expression. Elements promoting expression of alpha7 in muscle and fibroblasts were identified. We also demonstrated that several other nAChR genes are also expressed in SN 17 and Neuro-2A cells, supporting use of these cell lines as models to study transcriptional control of nAChR genes.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a treatment given to patients with drug-resistant neuropathic pain, in particular pain resulting from peripheral nerve injury. However, the reasons why some patients develop neuropathic pain and why SCS is not effective in all patients with this chronic pain are not fully understood. The present study compares the response to SCS and the yield of neuropathic animals in variants of the spared nerve injury (SNI) model introduced by Decosterd and Woolf (I. Decosterd, C.J. Woolf, Spared nerve injury: an animal model of persistent peripheral neuropathic pain, Pain 87 (2000) 149-158). Sprague-Dawley rats were prepared with various types of lesions of different branches of the sciatic nerve and then tested for paw mechanical hypersensitivity. A miniature electrode system for SCS was implanted at the T10-T11 vertebral level. Stimulation was applied in awake, freely moving animals with parameters comparable to those employed clinically. Suppression of paw hypersensitivity was considered a positive response to SCS. The incidence of mechanical hypersensitivity (&quot;allodynia&quot;) in the different models was: SNI 53%; peroneal axotomy 45%; tibial axotomy 68%; tibial tight ligation 73% and partial tibial tight ligation 50%. &quot;Mirror phenomena&quot; with contralateral paw hypersensitivity was present in about 20% of the animals. The response to SCS differed between models with the lowest response rate in the original SNI model (8%) while the others demonstrated rates in the order of 40-50%. There was a tendency that the efficacy of SCS in suppressing allodynia was inversely related to the severity of hypersensitivity. In conclusion, modifications of the SNI model provide a reproducible incidence of neuropathic hypersensitivity and an increased responsiveness to SCS. These variants may prove suitable for future research on the mechanisms involved in pain relief with SCS.
In the field of neuroscience, low-invasive in vivo imaging would be a very useful method of monitoring the morphological dynamics of intact neurons in living animals. At present, there are two widely used in vivo imaging methods; one is the two-photon microscope method, and the other is the fiber optics method. However, these methods are not suitable for the in vivo imaging of deeper subcortical structures. In our study, we have developed a novel method for the in vivo imaging of pyramidal neurons in layer V of the cerebral cortex, utilizing a MicroLSM system and a stick-type objective lens that can be directly inserted into the target tissue. By using this method, we succeeded in obtaining clear images of pyramidal neurons in layer V of the cerebral cortex under a low-invasive condition. The MicroLSM system is a useful and versatile in vivo imaging system that will be applicable not only to the brain but also to other organs.
We searched for genes differentially expressed in the frontal cortices of Alzheimer-type dementia (ATD) patients compared with those of non-ATD controls using DNA microarray and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses. Here we show that the expression level of the autotaxin (also called lysophospholipase D or ecto-nucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 2) gene was significantly greater in ATD cortices than in non-ATD cortices. In both ATD and non-ATD groups, the expression levels were greater in patients with the apoE epsilon3/epsilon4 genotype than in patients with the apoE epsilon3/epsilon3 genotype, although the differences were not statistically significant. These observations suggest that expression of the autotaxin gene and cell signaling by lysophosphatidic acid may be involved in the pathology of ATD, and that this cell signaling pathway may be a potential target of treatments for ATD.
This paper describes a method for achieving a peripheral vestibular blockade in rats by instillation of local anaesthetics over the round window membrane through a permanently implanted cannula. Being rapidly reversible, the effect of the anaesthetic drug is easily controlled by a single continuous infusion, which can be repeated at any time. The method offers a unique opportunity to study the consequence of single or repeated transient vestibular loss without any use of general anaesthetics, which may be a severe confounding factor. Such studies might shed light on balance disorders related to permanent vestibular loss or episodic vestibular dysfunction. To evaluate the method, spontaneous horizontal eye movements were recorded during the first 4 h of continuous infusion. Unilateral infusion of ropivacaine gave rise to a high-frequency spontaneous nystagmus, reaching levels that have not been documented after a surgical labyrinthectomy under general anaesthesia. This vestibulo-oculomotor behaviour is consistent with a previous report using a single intratympanic instillation of lidocaine to achieve a short-lasting vestibular blockade. In the present study, it was demonstrated that the initial high-frequency nystagmus decreased during the first 100 min of infusion before stabilizing at the same level as recorded when the effect of general anaesthesia has worn off after a surgical ablation. When the transient vestibular blockade was repeated by a second infusion during the following day, the nystagmus frequency saturated on a significantly lower level than during the first blockade. Also, serial single infusions, with recovery between each functional vestibular loss, gave rise to a less severe nystagmus. It is suggested that this phenomenon is an expression of the behavioural concept of 'vestibular habituation', the neural substrate of which is rather unknown.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a fatal demyelinating disease that results from an oligodendrocyte infection caused by the JC virus. Therefore, inhibiting the expression of JC virus is important for preventing and/or treating PML. This study found that irisolidone, an isoflavone metabolite, significantly inhibited the JC virus expression in primary cultured human astrocytes and glial cell lines. Studies examining the underlying mechanism revealed that a mutation of the Sp1 binding site downstream of the TATA box (Sp1-II) dramatically diminished the inhibitory activity of irisolidone. In addition, an irisolidone treatment repressed Sp1 binding to Sp1-II site, which is important for the basal JC virus promoter activity. The results suggest that the inhibitory effect of irisolidone against the JC virus may be attributed at least in part to the suppression of Sp1 binding to the JC virus promoter region. Therefore, the inhibition of the JC virus expression by irisolidone might provide therapeutic potential for PML caused by the JC virus.
The perceptions of sound, balance and acceleration are mediated through the vibration of stereociliary bundles located on the lumenal surfaces of mechanosensory hair cells located within the inner ear. In mammals, virtually all hair cells are generated during a relatively brief period in embryogenesis with any subsequent hair cell loss leading to a progressive and permanent loss of sensitivity. In light of the importance of these cells, considerable effort has been focused on understanding the molecular genetic pathways that regulate their development. The results of these studies have begun to elucidate the signaling molecules that regulate several key events in hair cell development. In particular, significant progress has been made in the understanding of hair cell commitment, survival and differentiation. In addition, several aspects of the development of the stereociliary bundle, including its elongation and orientation, have recently been examined. This review will summarize results from each of these developmental events and describe the molecular signaling pathways involved.
The realization that the adult nervous system develops from multipotential stem cells and that cells with stem-like properties are retained in the adult CNS has provoked an intense search for ways to utilize their potential for therapeutic treatments of multiple neurological disorders. Transplantation of neural stem cells or more restricted progenitors to replace cells lost to injury or disease may facilitate functional recovery in a spectrum of neurological disorders. Alternatively, expansion and recruitment of endogenous progenitors may be effective in treating widespread cell loss in the adult CNS. A major challenge to the development of effective stem cell therapies is to direct the fate of the newly generated cells to specifically replace those lost to disease. Insights from developmental research are providing molecular targets for regulating the differentiation of neural stem cells and their progeny in areas of injury to the adult CNS. Given the commonality of processes mediating the assembly of multicellular systems, the approaches developed in the CNS will likely be applicable for selective cell replacement in the auditory system.
This article reviews our studies of the effect of monaural middle ear destruction on midbrain auditory response properties of the laboratory mouse, Mus musculus. Monaural middle ear destruction was performed on juvenile and adult mice and the auditory sensitivity of neurons in the midbrain inferior colliculus (IC) ipsilateral and contralateral to the intact ear was examined 4 weeks later. When stimulated with sound pulses, IC neurons of the control mice typically had lower minimum threshold, larger dynamic range, and sharper frequency tuning curve than IC neurons of the experimental juvenile and adult mice. In the experimental mice, neurons in the ipsilateral IC had significantly longer latency, higher minimum threshold, and smaller dynamic range than neurons in the contralateral IC. When determined at two sound directions (ipsilateral 40 degrees and contralateral 40 degrees to the recording site), IC neurons of the control mice had higher minimum threshold, sharper frequency tuning curve but smaller dynamic range at I-40 degrees than at C-40 degrees . However, these direction-dependent response properties were not observed for IC neurons of the experimental juvenile and adult mice. Clear tonotopic organization was only observed in the IC of the control mice and experimental adult mice but not in the IC of experimental juvenile mice. These different response properties are discussed in relation to the effect of monaural middle ear destruction.
Gamma-secretase is a multimeric membrane protein complex composed of presenilin (PS), nicastrin, Aph-1 and, Pen-2 that is responsible for the intramembrane proteolysis of various type I transmembrane proteins, including amyloid beta-precursor protein and Notch. The direct labeling of PS polypeptides by transition-state analogue gamma-secretase inhibitors suggested that PS represents the catalytic center of gamma-secretase. Here we show that one of the major gamma-secretase inhibitors of dipeptidic type, N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-l-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT), targets the C-terminal fragment of PS, especially the transmembrane domain 7 or more C-terminal region, by designing and synthesizing DAP-BpB (N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-l-alanyl]-(S)-phenylglycine-4-(4-(8-biotinamido)octylamino)benzoyl)benzyl)methylamide), a photoactivable DAPT derivative. We also found that DAP-BpB selectively binds to the high molecular weight gamma-secretase complex in an activity-dependent manner. Photolabeling of PS by DAP-BpB is completely blocked by DAPT or its structural relatives (e.g. Compound E) as well as by arylsulfonamides. In contrast, transition-state analogue inhibitor L-685,458 or alpha-helical peptidic inhibitor attenuated the photolabeling of PS1 only at higher concentrations. These data illustrate the DAPT binding site as a novel functional domain within the PS C-terminal fragment that is distinct from the catalytic site or the substrate binding site.
Increased expression of CD11b, the beta-integrin marker of microglia, represents microglial activation during neurodegenerative inflammation. However, the molecular mechanism behind increased microglial CD11b expression is poorly understood. The present study was undertaken to explore the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the expression of CD11b in microglial cells. Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced the production of NO and increased the expression of CD11b in mouse BV-2 microglial cells and primary microglia. Either a scavenger of NO (PTIO) or an inhibitor of inducible nitric-oxide synthase (L-NIL) blocked this increase in microglial CD11b expression. Furthermore, co-microinjection of PTIO with LPS was also able to suppress LPS-mediated expression of CD11b and loss of dopaminergic neuronal fibers and neurotransmitters in striatum in vivo. Similarly, other inducers of NO production such as interferon-gamma, interleukin-1beta, human immunodeficiency virus type-1 gp120, and double-stranded RNA (poly(IC)) also increased the expression of CD11b in microglia through NO. The role of NO in the expression of CD11b was corroborated further by the expression of microglial CD11b by GSNO, an NO donor. Because NO transduces many intracellular signals via guanylate cyclase (GC), we investigated the role of GC, cyclic GMP (cGMP), and cGMP-activated protein kinase (PKG) in microglial expression of CD11b. Inhibition of LPS- and GSNO-mediated up-regulation of CD11b either by NS2028 (a specific inhibitor of GC) or by KT5823 and Rp-8-bromo-cGMP (specific inhibitors of PKG), and increase in CD11b expression either by 8-bromo-cGMP or by MY-5445 (a specific inhibitor of cGMP phosphodiesterase) alone suggest that NO increases microglial expression of CD11b via GC-cGMP-PKG. In addition, GSNO induced the activation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) via PKG that was involved in the up-regulation of CD11b. This study illustrates a novel biological role of NO in regulating the expression of CD11b in microglia through GC-cGMP-PKG-CREB pathway that may participate in the pathogenesis of devastating neurodegenerative disorders.
Stress proteins located in the cytosol or endoplasmic reticulum (ER) maintain cell homeostasis and afford tolerance to severe insults. In neurodegenerative diseases, several chaperones ameliorate the accumulation of misfolded proteins triggered by oxidative or nitrosative stress, or of mutated gene products. Although severe ER stress can induce apoptosis, the ER withstands relatively mild insults through the expression of stress proteins or chaperones such as glucose-regulated protein (GRP) and protein-disulphide isomerase (PDI), which assist in the maturation and transport of unfolded secretory proteins. PDI catalyses thiol-disulphide exchange, thus facilitating disulphide bond formation and rearrangement reactions. PDI has two domains that function as independent active sites with homology to the small, redox-active protein thioredoxin. During neurodegenerative disorders and cerebral ischaemia, the accumulation of immature and denatured proteins results in ER dysfunction, but the upregulation of PDI represents an adaptive response to protect neuronal cells. Here we show, in brains manifesting sporadic Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease, that PDI is S-nitrosylated, a reaction transferring a nitric oxide (NO) group to a critical cysteine thiol to affect protein function. NO-induced S-nitrosylation of PDI inhibits its enzymatic activity, leads to the accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins, and activates the unfolded protein response. S-nitrosylation also abrogates PDI-mediated attenuation of neuronal cell death triggered by ER stress, misfolded proteins or proteasome inhibition. Thus, PDI prevents neurotoxicity associated with ER stress and protein misfolding, but NO blocks this protective effect in neurodegenerative disorders through the S-nitrosylation of PDI.
Dynamin, a crucial factor in endocytosis, is a member of a family of GTPases that participates in membrane fission. It was initially proposed to act as a machine that constricts and cuts the neck of nascent vesicles in a GTP-hydrolysis-dependent reaction, but subsequent studies suggested alternative models. Here we monitored the effect of nucleotides on dynamin-coated lipid tubules in real time. Addition of GTP, but not of GDP or GTP-gammaS, resulted in twisting of the tubules and supercoiling, suggesting a rotatory movement of the helix turns relative to each other during GTP hydrolysis. Rotation was confirmed by the movement of beads attached to the tubules. Twisting activity produced a longitudinal tension that was released by tubule breakage when both ends of the tubule were anchored. Fission also occurred when dynamin and GTP were added to lipid tubules that had been generated from liposomes by the motor activity of kinesin on microtubules. No fission events were observed in the absence of longitudinal tension. These findings demonstrate a mechanoenzyme activity of dynamin in endocytosis, but also imply that constriction is not sufficient for fission. At the short necks of endocytic vesicles, other factors leading to tension may cooperate with the constricting activity of dynamin to induce fission.

Transcription is a complex process that relies on the cooperative interaction between sequence-specific factors and the basal transcription machinery. The strength of a promoter depends on upstream or downstream cis-acting DNA elements, which bind transcription factors. In this study, we investigated whether DNA elements located downstream of the JCV late promoter, encompassing the late leader peptide region, which encodes agnoprotein, play regulatory roles in the JCV lytic cycle. For this purpose, the entire coding region of the leader peptide was deleted and the functional consequences of this deletion were analyzed. We found that viral gene expression and replication were drastically reduced. Gene expression also decreased from a leader peptide point mutant but to a lesser extent. This suggested that the leader peptide region of JCV might contain critical cis-acting DNA elements to which transcription factors bind and regulate viral gene expression and replication. We analyzed the entire coding region of the late leader peptide by a footprinting assay and identified three major regions (region I, II and III) that were protected by nuclear proteins. Further investigation of the first two protected regions by band shift assays revealed a new band that appeared in new infection cycles, suggesting that viral infection induces new factors that interact with the late leader peptide region of JCV. Analysis of the effect of the leader peptide region on the promoter activity of JCV by transfection assays demonstrated that this region has a positive and negative effect on the large T antigen (LT-Ag)-mediated activation of the viral early and late promoters, respectively. Furthermore, a partial deletion analysis of the leader peptide region encompassing the protected regions I and II demonstrated a significant down-regulation of viral gene expression and replication. More importantly, these results were similar to that obtained from a complete deletion of the late leader peptide region, indicating the critical importance of these two protected regions in JCV regulation. Altogether, these findings suggest that the late leader peptide region contains important regulatory elements to which transcription factors bind and contribute to the JCV gene regulation and replication.
Inflammatory mediators produced in the injured nerve have been proposed as contributing factors in the development of neuropathic pain. In this regard an important role is assigned to interleukin-6. The present study, evaluated the effect of pretreatment with minocycline, on pain behavior (hyperalgesia and allodynia) and serum level of interleukin-6 in chronic constriction injury (CCI) model of neuropathic pain in rat. Minocycline (5, 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected 1 h before surgery and continued daily to day 14 post-ligation. Behavioral tests were recorded before surgery and on postoperative days 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10, 14, and the serum concentration of interleukin-6 was determined at day 14. We observed that minocycline which was reported to have a neuroprotective effect in some neurodegenerative diseases, reversed hyperalgesia and allodynia due to sciatic nerve ligation and inhibited the interleukin-6 production. It seems that minocycline could have an anti-inflammatory and analgesic effect in some chronic pain states.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterised by loss of motor neurons. The cause of disease is unknown other than in the rare cases of familial disease arising from mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 gene. Many theories for pathogenesis have been proposed - including oxidative stress, excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal protein aggregation - based on studies of human post mortem tissue, research on animal models, and in vitro work. Here we review the evidence for the main pathogenic mechanisms and outline how they might interact to cause motor neuron death. Clinical trials have as yet failed to identify any truly effective therapies in ALS, with only riluzole providing a modest improvement in survival. Ongoing trials are exploring the value of antiglutamatergic agents, including the cephalosporin antibiotic ceftriaxone, as well as antioxidants, mitochondrial enhancers and anti-apoptotic drugs. It is likely that effective therapy will involve combinations of agents acting on different mechanisms. Gene therapy with neurotrophic factors will soon be in clinical trials, while work on stem cell therapy remains preclinical. In addition to finding effective therapies, research also needs to identify early disease markers because therapy is likely to be of most benefit when given early in the course of disease.
Bradykinin acts through two receptor subtypes in mammals and generates a variety of responses including pain, inflammation and hypotension. The evolutionary history of the bradykinin system has been unclear due to shortage of information outside mammals. We describe here two receptor subtypes and the bradykinin precursor in three species of bony fish (the zebrafish Danio rerio, the Japanese pufferfish Takifugu rubripes, and the green spotted pufferfish Tetraodon nigroviridis) and chicken and analyze the relationships to mammals by a combination of phylogeny, conserved synteny and exon-intron organization. All of these species have two receptor genes located close to each other in a tandem formation, with the B2 gene 5' to the B1 gene, in chromosomal regions displaying conserved synteny between the species (albeit conservation of synteny in zebrafish is still unclear due to poor genome assembly). The evolutionary rate differs between the two genes as well as between lineages leading to differing pharmacological properties for both B1 and B2 across vertebrate classes. Also the bradykinin precursor gene was identified in all of these species in a chromosome region with conserved synteny. The tissue distribution of mRNA in T. rubripes is similar for B1 and B2, suggesting more similar regulation for the two genes than in mammals. In conclusion, the receptor tandem duplication predates the divergence of ray-finned fish and tetrapods and no additional duplicates of the receptors or bradykinin seem to have survived the ray-finned fish tetraploidization.
NMDA receptor activity is important for many physiological functions, including synapse formation and alterations in synaptic strength. NMDA receptors are composed most commonly of NR1 and NR2 subunits. There are four NR2 subunits (NR2A-NR2D). NR2 subunit expression varies across both brain regions and developmental stages. The identity of the NR2 subunit within a functional NMDA receptor helps to determine many pharmacological and biophysical receptor properties, including strength of block by external Mg2+ (Mg(o)2+). Mg(o)2+ block confers strong voltage dependence to NMDA receptor-mediated responses and is critically important for many of the functions that the NMDA receptor plays within the CNS. Here we describe the NR2 subunit dependence of the kinetics of Mg(o)2+ unblock after rapid depolarizations. We find that Mg(o)2+ unblocks from NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors with a prominent slow component similar to that previously described in native hippocampal and cortical NMDA receptors. Strikingly, this slow component of Mg(o)2+ unblock is completely absent from NR1/2C and NR1/2D receptors. Thus currents from NR1/2C and NR1/2D receptors respond more rapidly to fast depolarizations than currents from NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors. In addition, the slow component of Mg(o)2+ unblock from NR1/2B receptors is consistently slower than from NR1/2A receptors. This makes rapid depolarizations, such as action potential waveforms, more efficacious at stimulating Mg(o)2+ unblock from NR1/2A than from NR1/2B receptors. These NR2 subunit differences in the kinetics of Mg(o)2+ unblock are likely to help determine the contribution of each NMDA receptor subtype to current flow during synaptic activity.
Extinction of conditioned fear responses is an active learning process resulting from the repeated presentation of a conditioned stimulus in the absence of the unconditioned aversive stimulus. Recent research implicates the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in the mediation of fear extinction in rodents and the pathophysiology of posttraumatic stress disorder. However, there is currently little understanding of precisely how stress can impact fear extinction and the neural circuitry subserving this behavior. The present study examined the effects of brief exposure to an uncontrollable stressor on (1) fear conditioning and fear extinction, and (2) dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons in the infralimbic (IL) and prelimbic (PL) regions of the mPFC in mice. Exposure to three episodes of stress ending 24 h before fear conditioning significantly attenuated the rate of cued fear extinction relative to nonstressed controls, but did not affect fear conditioning or cue or context recall. Analysis of Golgi-stained neurons showed that one or three exposures to daily swim stress caused significant retraction of terminal branches of apical, but not basilar, dendrites of IL neurons. In contrast, PL neuronal morphology was unaltered by stress. These data demonstrate that IL, but not PL, neurons are highly sensitive to even brief exposure to stress, and that this same form of stress impairs fear extinction. Present findings suggest that trauma may compromise the functional integrity of the mPFC with implications for the pathophysiology of certain neuropsychiatric disorders.
A common problem in tasks involving the integration of spatial information from multiple senses, or in sensorimotor coordination, is that different modalities represent space in different frames of reference. Coordinate transformations between different reference frames are therefore required. One way to achieve this relies on the encoding of spatial information with population codes. The set of network responses to stimuli in different locations (tuning curves) constitutes a set of basis functions that can be combined linearly through weighted synaptic connections to approximate nonlinear transformations of the input variables. The question then arises: how is the appropriate synaptic connectivity obtained? Here we show that a network of spiking neurons can learn the coordinate transformation from one frame of reference to another, with connectivity that develops continuously in an unsupervised manner, based only on the correlations available in the environment and with a biologically realistic plasticity mechanism (spike timing-dependent plasticity).
The enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS) which is necessary for the production of nitric oxide from L-arginine exists in three isoforms: neuronal NOS (nNOS), endothelial NOS (eNOS), and inducible NOS (iNOS). Our previous studies have demonstrated the roles of nNOS and eNOS within the rostral (RVLM) and caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM) in modulating cardiovascular responses during static skeletal muscle contraction via altering localized glutamate and GABA levels (Brain Res. 977 (2003) 80-89; Neuroscience Res. 52 (2005) 21-30). In this study, we investigated the role of iNOS within the RVLM and CVLM on cardiovascular responses and glutamatergic/GABAergic neurotransmission during the exercise pressor reflex. Bilateral microdialysis of a selective iNOS antagonist, aminoguanidine (AGN; 1.0 microM), for 60 min into the RVLM attenuated increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and extracellular glutamate levels during a static muscle contraction. Levels of GABA within the RVLM were increased. After 120 min of discontinuation of the drug, MAP and HR responses and glutamate/GABA concentrations recovered to baseline values during a subsequent muscle contraction. In contrast, bilateral application of AGN (1.0 microM) into CVLM potentiated cardiovascular responses and glutamate concentration while attenuating levels of GABA during a static muscle contraction. All values recovered after 120 min of discontinuation of the drug. These results demonstrate that iNOS within the ventrolateral medulla plays an important role in modulating cardiovascular responses and glutamatergic/GABAergic neurotransmission that regulates the exercise pressor reflex.
The etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) has long been thought to involve both genetic and environmental factors, but until recently there has been no direct evidence to support either one as a causative factor. However, in the past 8 years six different genes have been identified as causing familial PD. Together, they support the notion that common pathogenetic mechanisms exist across the etiologic spectrum of PD. Specifically, mutations in alpha-synuclein, parkin, UCHL1, DJ1, PINK1, and LRRK2 cause PD, with a Mendelian pattern of inheritance. DJ1 and PINK1 are mitochondrial proteins and overexpression of alpha-synuclein and parkin induce mitochondrial defects. These same proteins are involved in the response to oxidative stress and affect proteasomal function. In contrast, few environmental factors have been characterized. Nevertheless, those toxins that have been demonstrated to have the ability to cause nigrostriatal cell death appear to interact by interfering with mitochondrial function, inducing oxidative stress, and modifying proteasomal function. Therefore, common themes are beginning to emerge in the etiopathogenesis of PD. This bodes well for research focused on the development of treatments that will modify the course of PD.

The authors describe long-term follow-up (mean, 5 years) in patients with anterior (AN) (n = 6) or centromedian (n = 2) thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) for epilepsy. Five patients (all AN) had &gt; or = 50% seizure reduction, although benefit was delayed in two until years 5 to 6, after changes in antiepileptic drugs. DBS electrode implantation in AN patients was followed by seizure reduction 1 to 3 months before active stimulation, raising the possibility of a beneficial microthalamotomy effect.
Disease-producing mutations of ion channels are usually characterized as producing hyperexcitability or hypoexcitability. We show here that a single mutation can produce hyperexcitability in one neuronal cell type and hypoexcitability in another neuronal cell type. We studied the functional effects of a mutation of sodium channel Nav1.7 associated with a neuropathic pain syndrome, erythermalgia, within sensory and sympathetic ganglion neurons, two cell types where Nav1.7 is normally expressed. Although this mutation depolarizes resting membrane potential in both types of neurons, it renders sensory neurons hyperexcitable and sympathetic neurons hypoexcitable. The selective presence, in sensory but not sympathetic neurons, of the Nav1.8 channel, which remains available for activation at depolarized membrane potentials, is a major determinant of these opposing effects. These results provide a molecular basis for the sympathetic dysfunction that has been observed in erythermalgia. Moreover, these findings show that a single ion channel mutation can produce opposing phenotypes (hyperexcitability or hypoexcitability) in the different cell types in which the channel is expressed.
Knowledge of objects in the world is stored in our brains as rich, multimodal representations. Because the neural pathways that process this diverse sensory information are largely anatomically distinct, a fundamental challenge to cognitive neuroscience is to explain how the brain binds the different sensory features that comprise an object to form meaningful, multimodal object representations. Studies with nonhuman primates suggest that a structure at the culmination of the object recognition system (the perirhinal cortex) performs this critical function. In contrast, human neuroimaging studies implicate the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS). The results of the functional MRI study reported here resolve this apparent discrepancy by demonstrating that both pSTS and the perirhinal cortex contribute to crossmodal binding in humans, but in different ways. Significantly, only perirhinal cortex activity is modulated by meaning variables (e.g., semantic congruency and semantic category), suggesting that these two regions play complementary functional roles, with pSTS acting as a presemantic, heteromodal region for crossmodal perceptual features, and perirhinal cortex integrating these features into higher-level conceptual representations. This interpretation is supported by the results of our behavioral study: Patients with lesions, including the perirhinal cortex, but not patients with damage restricted to frontal cortex, were impaired on the same crossmodal integration task, and their performance was significantly influenced by the same semantic factors, mirroring the functional MRI findings. These results integrate nonhuman and human primate research by providing converging evidence that human perirhinal cortex is also critically involved in processing meaningful aspects of multimodal object representations.
Several regions of the brain (including medial prefrontal cortex, rostral anterior cingulate, posterior cingulate, and precuneus) are known to have high metabolic activity during rest, which is suppressed during cognitively demanding tasks. With functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), this suppression of activity is observed as &quot;deactivations,&quot; which are thought to be indicative of an interruption of the mental activity that persists during rest. Thus, measuring deactivation provides a means by which rest-associated functional activity can be quantitatively examined. Applying this approach to autism, we found that the autism group failed to demonstrate this deactivation effect. Furthermore, there was a strong correlation between a clinical measure of social impairment and functional activity within the ventral medial prefrontal cortex. We speculate that the lack of deactivation in the autism group is indicative of abnormal internally directed processes at rest, which may be an important contribution to the social and emotional deficits of autism.
The mechanisms underlying modulation of corticostriatal synaptic transmission by D2-like receptors (D2Rs) have been controversial. A recent study suggested that D2Rs inhibit glutamate release at this synapse, but only during high-frequency synaptic activation. Because the release of postsynaptic endocannabinoids (eCBs), which act as retrograde messengers to inhibit presynaptic glutamate release, can be triggered by D2R activation and intense synaptic activation, such a mechanism could mediate dopaminergic modulation of corticostriatal transmission. Here, we show that D2R activation reduces excitatory transmission onto striatal medium spiny neurons at a stimulation frequency of 20 Hz but not at 1 Hz. This form of inhibition requires CB1 receptor activation, as evidenced by the fact that it is blocked by AM251 [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], a CB1 antagonist, and is absent in CB1 knockout mice. It is also blocked by postsynaptic intracellular calcium chelation, by group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonism, and by inhibition of postsynaptic phospholipase C. These results demonstrate a previously unrecognized role for retrograde eCB signaling in reversible and frequency-specific inhibition of glutamate release by the activation of striatal D2Rs.
Cocaine's enhancement of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the mesolimbic pathway plays a critical role in the initial reinforcing properties of this drug. However, other neurotransmitter systems are also integral to the addiction process. A large body of data indicates that opioids and dopamine together mediate emotional and reinforced behaviors. In support of this, cocaine-mediated increases in activation of dopamine D1 receptors (D1R) results in a desensitization of delta-opioid receptor (DOR) signaling through adenylyl cyclase (AC) in striatal neurons. To further define cellular mechanisms underlying this effect, the subcellular distribution of DOR and D1R was examined in the rat dorsolateral striatum. Dual immunoperoxidase/gold-silver detection combined with electron microscopy was used to identify DOR and D1R immunoreactivities in the same section of tissue. Semi-quantitative analysis revealed that a subset of dendritic cellular profiles exhibited both DOR and D1R immunoreactivities. Of 198 randomly sampled D1R immunoreactive profiles, 43% contained DOR. Similarly of 165 DOR-labeled cellular profiles, 52% contained D1R. The present data provide ultrastructural evidence for co-existence between DOR and D1R in striatal neurons, suggesting a possible mechanism whereby D1R modulation may alter DOR function.
This study examined the effectiveness of training community mental health therapists in motivational interviewing (MI) adapted to treat clients with co-occurring disorders. Ten therapists with high caseloads of culturally diverse clients in two different community mental health settings fulfilled all study requirements. MI training consisted of a two-day didactic and experiential workshop followed by eight biweekly small group supervision (coaching) sessions. Using an interrupted time series design, 156 randomly selected therapy sessions involving 28 clients were coded for assessment of therapist fidelity to MI at multiple points in time, both pre- and post-training. Employing hierarchical linear modeling analysis, significant improvement in MI skill was observed after training on five of six key therapist ratings, and on the sole client rating (client change talk) that was examined. Importantly, the present study demonstrates training-related proficiency in motivational interviewing using: (a) a representative sample of mental health therapists from the community; (b) a protocol emphasizing adherence to a mental health treatment regimen as well as management of substance use behavior for clients with co-occurring disorders; (c) repeated random observations of therapy sessions; (d) measurement of training-related changes in clinician skills and self motivational statements by clients. Findings of this effectiveness study compared favorably with efficacy literature on MI training.
Sleep disturbance has been implicated in cocaine use; however, the nature of the disturbance and its potential effects on cognition and learning are largely unknown. Twelve chronic cocaine users completed a 23-day inpatient study that included randomized, placebo-controlled, cocaine self-administration sessions. Six subjects received cocaine on each of days 4-6 and placebo on days 18-20, the other six received cocaine on each of days 18-20 and placebo on days 4-6. Sleep was measured by polysomnography, the Nightcap sleep monitor, and self-reported measures. Simple and vigilance reaction times were measured daily; a motor-sequence test of procedural learning was administered four times. Electrophysiological measures of sleep showed a different pattern than self-reported sleep across cocaine administration and abstinence: total sleep time and sleep latency were at their worst by 14-17 days of abstinence while self-reported sleep was at its best. Vigilance correlated positively with electrophysiologically measured sleep and negatively with self-reported measures. Similarly, sleep-dependent procedural learning correlated with total sleep time and was impaired at 17 days abstinence relative to 2- and 3-days abstinence. Slow-wave activity was lowest at days 4-9 of abstinence and highest during use and days 10-17 of abstinence. With sustained abstinence, chronic cocaine users exhibit decreased sleep, impaired vigilance and sleep-dependent procedural learning, and spectral activity suggestive of chronic insomnia. However, they report subjectively improving sleep, indicating they are unaware of this &quot;occult&quot; insomnia. These results suggest the possibility of homeostatic sleep drive dysregulation in chronic cocaine users.
The hippocampal formation and amygdala are responsible for regulating emotion, learning, and behavior. The hippocampal projection to the amygdala has been demonstrated to originate in the subiculum and adjacent portion of field CA1 of the Ammon's horn (Sub/CA1) in the rat; however, the topographical organization of this pathway is still understudied. To make it clear, we performed anterograde and retrograde tracing with biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and cholera toxin B subunit (CTb), respectively, in the rat. A series of BDA experiments revealed that the temporal-to-septal axis of origin determined a medial-to-lateral axis of termination in the amygdala. Briefly, the temporal region of the Sub/CA1 projects preferentially to the medial amygdaloid region including the medial, intercalated, and basomedial nuclei and the amygdalohippocampal transition area, and progressively more septal portions of the Sub/CA1 distribute their efferents in more lateral regions of the amygdala. Sub/CA1 fibers distributed in the central amygdaloid nucleus were relatively few. Retrograde tracing with CTb confirmed this topography and revealed little hippocampal innervation of the central nucleus of the amygdala. These observations suggest that distinct Sub/CA1 regions arranged along the longitudinal hippocampal axis may influence distinct modalities of the amygdala function.
An intensive search is underway to identify candidates to replace the cells that degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD). To date, no suitable substitute has been found. We have recently found that adult rat bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) can be induced to assume a neuronal phenotype in vitro. These findings may have particular relevance to the treatment of PD. We now report that adult MSCs express multiple dopaminergic genes, suggesting that they are potential candidates for cell therapy. Using RT-PCR, we have examined families of genes that are associated with the development and/or survival of dopaminergic neurons. MSCs transcribe a variety of dopaminergic genes including patched and smoothened (components of the Shh receptor), Gli-1 (downstream mediator of Shh), and Otx-1, a gene associated with formation of the mesencephalon during development. Furthermore, Shh treatment elicits a 1.5-fold increase in DNA synthesis in cultured MSCs, suggesting the presence of a functional Shh receptor complex. We have also found that MSCs transcribe and translate Nurr-1, a nuclear receptor essential for the development of dopamine neurons. In addition, MSCs express a variety of growth factor receptors including the glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-anchored ligand-binding subunit of the GDNF receptor, GFRalpha1, as well as fibroblast growth factor receptors one and four. The expression of genes that are associated with the development and survival of dopamine neurons suggests a potential role for these cells in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Despite the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), neuronal cell death remains a problem that is frequently found in the brains of HIV-1-infected patients. HAART has successfully prevented many of the former end-stage complications of AIDS, however, with increased survival times, the prevalence of minor HIV-1 associated cognitive impairment appears to be rising among AIDS patients. Further, HIV-1 associated dementia (HAD) is still prevalent in treated patients as well as attenuated forms of HAD and CNS opportunistic disorders. HIV-associated cognitive impairment correlates with the increased presence in the CNS of activated, though not necessarily HIV-1-infected, microglia and CNS macrophages. This suggests that indirect mechanisms of neuronal injury and loss/death occur in HIV/AIDS as a basis for dementia since neurons are not themselves productively infected by HIV-1. In this review, we discussed the symptoms and causes leading to HAD. Outcome from this review will provide new information regarding mechanisms of neuronal loss in AIDS patients.
Interactions with other responsive agents lie at the core of all social exchange. During a social exchange with a partner, one fundamental variable that must be computed correctly is who gets credit for a shared outcome; this assignment is crucial for deciding on an optimal level of cooperation that avoids simple exploitation. We carried out an iterated, two-person economic exchange and made simultaneous hemodynamic measurements from each player's brain. These joint measurements revealed agent-specific responses in the social domain (&quot;me&quot; and &quot;not me&quot;) arranged in a systematic spatial pattern along the cingulate cortex. This systematic response pattern did not depend on metrical aspects of the exchange, and it disappeared completely in the absence of a responding partner.

The molecular organization of presynaptic active zones during calcium influx-triggered neurotransmitter release is the focus of intense investigation. The Drosophila coiled-coil domain protein Bruchpilot (BRP) was observed in donut-shaped structures centered at active zones of neuromuscular synapses by using subdiffraction resolution STED (stimulated emission depletion) fluorescence microscopy. At brp mutant active zones, electron-dense projections (T-bars) were entirely lost, Ca2+ channels were reduced in density, evoked vesicle release was depressed, and short-term plasticity was altered. BRP-like proteins seem to establish proximity between Ca2+ channels and vesicles to allow efficient transmitter release and patterned synaptic plasticity.

Specificity of neurotrophin factor signaling is dictated through the action of Trk receptor tyrosine kinases. Once activated, Trk receptors are internalized and targeted for degradation. However, the mechanisms implicated in this process are incompletely understood. Here we report that the Trk receptors are multimonoubiquitinated in response to neurotrophins. We have identified an E3 ubiquitin ligase, Nedd4-2, that associates with the TrkA receptor and is phosphorylated upon NGF binding. The binding of Nedd4-2 to TrkA through a PPXY motif leads to the ubiquitination and downregulation of TrkA. Activated TrkA receptor levels and the survival of NGF-dependent sensory neurons, but not BDNF-dependent sensory neurons, are directly influenced by Nedd4-2 expression. Unexpectedly, Nedd4-2 does not bind or ubiquitinate related TrkB receptors, due to the lack of a consensus PPXY motif. Our results indicate that Trk neurotrophin receptors are differentially regulated by ubiquitination to modulate the survival of neurons.
Mentalizing refers to our ability to read the mental states of other agents and engages many neural processes. The brain's mirror system allows us to share the emotions of others. Through perspective taking, we can infer what a person currently believes about the world given their point of view. Finally, the human brain has the unique ability to represent the mental states of the self and the other and the relationship between these mental states, making possible the communication of ideas.
The behavioral state of an animal is accompanied by ongoing brain activity that primes neuronal circuitry to sensory inputs. While it should come as no surprise that the pattern of cortical activation is tied to behavioral states, only now has this dependence been imaged. In this issue of Neuron, Ferezou, Bolea, and Petersen show that the level and spatial extent of activation of vibrissa sensory cortex critically depend on behavioral context and mode of stimulation, i.e., passive versus active contact.
We constructed tissue microarray (TMA) blocks containing post-mortem human brain tissue from subjects with clinically and neuropathologically verified Alzheimer's disease (AD), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), progressive supranuclear palsy, Lewy body disease, multisystem atrophy (MSA) as well as an age matched control. Fifteen donor blocks were merged into two TMA blocks containing 72, 2-mm punch core samples with representative brain regions generally affected in degenerative disorders. Hyperphosphorylated-gamma, alpha-synuclein and beta-amyloid-related pathologies were estimated. The diseases were easily recognized by evaluating the two TMA sections and the results assessing TMA sections were comparable with the assessment of the whole brain sections. The assessment of TMA sections revealed concomitant multifocal alpha-synuclein pathology in AD, mild tau-involvement in the case of MSA and a slight AD-type pathology in the case of CBD. These findings emphasize the importance of searching for a variety of pathologies in &quot;the whole brain&quot; rather than restricting the examination to a few vulnerable regions. Furthermore, the TMA methodology clearly reduced the number of sections needed for evaluating the whole brain, it increased the amount of research material generated and furthermore no detailed neuroanatomical knowledge was required for assessment of data.
Two novel granin-like polypeptides, VGF and pro-SAAS, which are stored in and released from secretory vesicles and are expressed widely in nervous, endocrine, and neuroendocrine tissues, play roles in the regulation of body weight, feeding, and energy expenditure. Both VGF and pro-SAAS are cleaved into peptide fragments, several of which are biologically active. We utilized a highly sensitive and specific radioimmunoassay (RIA) to immunoreactive, pro-SAAS-derived PEN peptides, developed another against immunoreactive, VGF-derived AQEE30 peptides, and quantified these peptides in various mouse tissues and brain regions. Immunoreactive AQEE30 was most abundant in the pituitary, while brain levels were highest in hypothalamus, striatum, and frontal cortex. Immunoreactive PEN levels were highest in the pancreas and spinal cord, and in brain, PEN was most abundant in striatum, hippocampus, pons and medulla, and cortex. Since both peptides were expressed in hypothalamus, a region of the brain that controls feeding and energy expenditure, double label immunofluorescence studies were employed. These demonstrated that 42% of hypothalamic arcuate neurons coexpress VGF and SAAS peptides, and that the intracellular distributions of these peptides in arcuate neurons differed. By RIA, cold stress increased immunoreactive AQEE30 and PEN peptide levels in female but not male hypothalamus, while a high fat diet increased AQEE30 and PEN peptide levels in female but not male hippocampus. VGF and SAAS-derived peptides are therefore widely expressed in endocrine, neuroendocrine, and neural tissues, can be accurately quantified by RIA, and are differentially regulated in the brain by diet and cold stress.
Binge-like ethanol treatment of septal neurons blunts GABAAR-mediated miniature postsynaptic currents (mPSCs), suggesting it arrests synaptic development. Ethanol may disrupt postsynaptic maturation by blunting feedback signaling through immature GABAARs. Here, the impact of ethanol on the sensitivity of mPSCs to zolpidem, zinc and 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha-OH-DHP) was tested. The decay phase of mPSCs showed concentration-dependent potentiation by zolpidem (0.03-100 microM), which was substantially blunted after ethanol exposure. Since zolpidem potentiation exhibited a substantial age-dependent increase in untreated neurons, this finding supported the idea that ethanol arrests synaptic development. GABAAR alpha1 subunit protein also increased with age in untreated neurons, paralleling enhanced sensitivity to zolpidem. Surprisingly, alpha1 levels were not reduced by binge ethanol even though mPSCs were relatively zolpidem-insensitive. Zinc (3-30 microM) decreased mPSC parameters in a concentration- and age-related manner with older untreated cells showing less inhibition. However, there was no increase in mPSC zinc sensitivity after binge ethanol as would be expected if a general arrest of synaptic maturation had occurred. 3alpha-OH-DHP (3-1000 nM) induced concentration-dependent potentiation of mPSC decay. Although potentiation was age-independent, binge ethanol treatment exaggerated sensitivity to this neurosteroid. Finally, chronic picrotoxin pretreatment (100 microM) intended to mimic GABAAR inhibition from ethanol pretreatment did not significantly change mPSC modulation by zolpidem, zinc or 3alpha-OH-DHP. These results suggest that binge ethanol treatment selectively arrests a subset of processes important for maturation of postsynaptic GABAA Rs. However, it is unlikely that ethanol causes a broad arrest of postsynaptic development through a direct inhibition of GABAAR signaling.
Synaptotagmin 2 resembles synaptotagmin 1, the Ca2+ sensor for fast neurotransmitter release in forebrain synapses, but little is known about synaptotagmin 2 function. Here, we describe a severely ataxic mouse strain that harbors a single, destabilizing amino-acid substitution (I377N) in synaptotagmin 2. In Calyx of Held synapses, this mutation causes a delay and a decrease in Ca2+-induced but not in hypertonic sucrose-induced release, suggesting that synaptotagmin 2 mediates Ca2+ triggering of evoked release in brainstem synapses. Unexpectedly, we additionally observed in synaptotagmin 2 mutant synapses a dramatic increase in spontaneous release. Synaptotagmin 1-deficient excitatory and inhibitory cortical synapses also displayed a large increase in spontaneous release, demonstrating that this effect was shared among synaptotagmins 1 and 2. Our data suggest that synaptotagmin 1 and 2 perform equivalent functions in the Ca2+ triggering of action potential-induced release and in the restriction of spontaneous release, consistent with a general role of synaptotagmins in controlling 'release slots' for synaptic vesicles at the active zone.
Two human homologs of the Escherichia coli AlkB protein, denoted hABH2 and hABH3, were recently shown to directly reverse 1-methyladenine (1meA) and 3-methylcytosine (3meC) damages in DNA. We demonstrate that mice lacking functional mABH2 or mABH3 genes, or both, are viable and without overt phenotypes. Neither were histopathological changes observed in the gene-targeted mice. However, in the absence of any exogenous exposure to methylating agents, mice lacking mABH2, but not mABH3 defective mice, accumulate significant levels of 1meA in the genome, suggesting the presence of a biologically relevant endogenous source of methylating agent. Furthermore, embryonal fibroblasts from mABH2-deficient mice are unable to remove methyl methane sulfate (MMS)-induced 1meA from genomic DNA and display increased cytotoxicity after MMS exposure. In agreement with these results, we found that in vitro repair of 1meA and 3meC in double-stranded DNA by nuclear extracts depended primarily, if not solely, on mABH2. Our data suggest that mABH2 and mABH3 have different roles in the defense against alkylating agents.
Synaptogenesis during early development is thought to follow a canonical program whereby synapses increase rapidly in number and individual axons multiply-innervate nearby targets. Typically, a subset of inputs then out-competes all others through experience-driven processes to establish stable, long-lasting contacts. We investigated the formation of the calyx of Held, probably the largest nerve terminal in the mammalian CNS. Many basic functional and morphological features of calyx growth have not been studied previously, including whether mono-innervation, a hallmark of this system in adult animals, is established early in development. Evoked postsynaptic currents, recorded from neonatal mice between postnatal day 1 (P1) and P4, increased dramatically from -0.14 +/- 0.04 nA at P1 to -6.71 +/- 0.65 nA at P4 with sharp jumps between P2 and P4. These are the first functional assays of these nascent synapses for ages less than P3. AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated currents were prominent across this age range. Electron microscopy (EM) revealed a concomitant increase, beginning at P2, in the prevalence of postsynaptic densities (16-fold) and adhering contacts (73-fold) by P4. Therefore, both functional and structural data showed that young calyces could form within 2 d, well before the onset of hearing around P8. Convergence of developing calyces onto postsynaptic targets, indicative of competitive processes that precede mono-innervation, was rare (4 of 29) at P4 as assessed using minimal stimulation electrophysiology protocols. Serial EM sectioning through 19 P4 cells further established the paucity (2 of 19) of convergence. These data indicate that calyces of Held follow a noncanonical program to establish targeted innervation that occurs over a rapid time course and precedes auditory experience.
We have characterized a mechanism by which the amplitudes of miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal organotypic slice cultures are potentiated by approximately twofold after a series of depolarizing voltage pulses from -80 to +20 mV. The increase in mEPSC amplitudes is triggered by the activation of L-type calcium channels and is independent of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation but also requires calcium release from intracellular stores. The potentiation induced by depolarizing pulses does not alter the kinetic parameters of mEPSCs. The induction phase of this potentiation involves phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3 kinase) activation because it is blocked completely in the presence of the PI3 kinase inhibitors wortmannin and 2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (LY294002). Furthermore, we show that the maintenance phase of depolarizing pulse potentiation requires continued PI3 kinase activity because the application of either wortmannin or LY294002 results in a reversal to control levels of the amplitudes of mEPSCs. Finally, we demonstrate that the increase in mEPSC amplitudes is mediated by the increased expression of functional AMPA receptors (AMPARs) because the potentiation is blocked by N-ethylmaleimide, botulinum toxin A, and a variety of short-sequence peptides that disrupt the interaction of AMPAR subunits with proteins involved with the trafficking of these to the cell membrane. Our data are consistent with the notion that PI3 kinase and membrane fusion/trafficking events play a pivotal role in coordinating changes in synaptic strength, mediated by AMPA receptors, which are triggered by alterations in postsynaptic calcium concentrations whether these changes are initiated via NMDAR-dependent or NMDAR-independent routes.
In the present study, we examine the activity patterns of and synaptic inputs to Renshaw cells (RCs) during fictive locomotion in the newborn mouse using visually guided recordings from GABAergic cells expressing glutamic acid decarboxylase 67-green fluorescent protein (GFP). Among the GFP-positive neurons in the lumbar ventral horn, RCs were uniquely identified as receiving ventral root-evoked short-latency EPSPs that were markedly reduced in amplitude by nicotinic receptor blockers mecamylamine or tubocurarine. During locomotor-like rhythmic activity evoked by bath application of 5-HT and NMDA, 50% of the recorded RCs fired in-phase with the ipsilateral L2 flexor-related rhythm, whereas the rest fired in the extensor phase. Each population of RCs fired throughout the corresponding locomotor phase. All RCs received both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs during the locomotor-like rhythmic activity. Blocking nicotinic receptors with mecamylamine markedly reduced the rhythmic excitatory drive, indicating that these rhythmic inputs originate mainly from motor neurons (MNs). Inhibitory synaptic inputs persisted in the presence of the nicotinic blocker. Part of this inhibitory drive and remaining excitatory drive could be from commissural interneurons because the present study also shows that RCs receive direct crossed inhibitory and excitatory synaptic inputs. However, rhythmic synaptic inputs in RCs were also observed in hemicord preparations in the presence of mecamylamine. These results show that, during locomotor activity, RC firing properties are modulated not only by MNs but also by the ipsilateral and contralateral locomotor networks.
The response of visual cells is a nonlinear function of their stimuli. In addition, an increasing amount of evidence shows that visual cells are optimized to process natural images. Hence, finding good nonlinear models to characterize visual cells using natural stimuli is important. The Volterra model is an appealing nonlinear model for visual cells. However, their large number of parameters and the limited size of physiological recordings have hindered its application. Recently, a substantiated hypothesis stating that the responses of each visual cell could depend on an especially low-dimensional subspace of the image space has been proposed. We use this low-dimensional subspace in the Volterra relevant-space technique to allow the estimation of high-order Volterra models. Most laboratories characterize the response of visual cells as a nonlinear function on the low-dimensional subspace. They estimate this nonlinear function using histograms and by fitting parametric functions to them. Here, we compare the Volterra model with these histogram-based techniques. We use simulated data from cortical simple cells as well as simulated and physiological data from cortical complex cells. Volterra models yield equal or superior predictive power in all conditions studied. Several methods have been proposed to estimate the low-dimensional subspace. In this article, we test projection pursuit regression (PPR), a nonlinear regression algorithm. We compare PPR with two popular models used in vision: spike-triggered average (STA) and spike-triggered covariance (STC). We observe that PPR has advantages over these alternative algorithms. Hence, we conclude that PPR is a viable algorithm to recover the relevant subspace from natural images and that the Volterra model, estimated through the Volterra relevant-space technique, is a compelling alternative to histogram-based techniques.
Since their discovery in 1991, members of the odorant receptor (OR) family have been found in various ectopic tissues, including testis and sperm. It took, however, more than a decade for the first mammalian testicular ORs to be functionally characterized and implicated in a reproductively relevant scenario. Activation of hOR17-4 and mOR23 in human and mouse sperm, respectively, mediates distinct flagellar motion patterns and chemotactic behavior in various bioassays. For hOR17-4, receptor function and downstream signal transduction events are shown to be subject to pharmacological manipulation. Further insight into the basic principles that govern sperm OR operation as well as into the molecular logic that underlies OR-mediated signaling could set the stage for pioneering future applications in procreation and/or contraception.
Mu opioid receptors are critical for heroin dependence, and A118G SNP of the mu opioid receptor gene (OPRM1) has been linked with heroin abuse. In our population of European Caucasians (n = 118), approximately 90% of 118G allelic carriers were heroin users. Postmortem brain analyses showed the OPRM1 genotype associated with transcription, translation, and processing of the human striatal opioid neuropeptide system. Whereas down-regulation of preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin genes was evident in all heroin users, the effects were exaggerated in 118G subjects and were most prominent for preproenkephalin in the nucleus accumbens shell. Reduced opioid neuropeptide transcription was accompanied by increased dynorphin and enkephalin peptide concentrations exclusively in 118G heroin subjects, suggesting that the peptide processing is associated with the OPRM1 genotype. Abnormal gene expression related to peptide convertase and ubiquitin/proteosome regulation was also evident in heroin users. Taken together, alterations in opioid neuropeptide systems might underlie enhanced opiate abuse vulnerability apparent in 118G individuals.


Cortical local field potentials (LFPs) are modulated in parallel with single neuron discharge, but the information they carry is often unclear. Multi-electrode recordings of both LFPs and single neuron activities were made in motor cortex as monkeys performed a delayed pointing task in which the probability of the moment of signal occurrence, and thus movement execution, was manipulated. A large positive LFP component (P1) appeared immediately preceding movement onset only under conditions of low probability, that is, when a response signal was weakly expected. The amplitude of P1 was much smaller when probability of signal occurrence was high, or when the same movement was self-paced. Although P1 has been described as being linked to the descending motor signal, we found that it was more closely associated with the processing of movement-related information than with the ultimate motor command. Its timing did not bear a fixed relationship with movement onset and its frequency of occurrence in each monkey varied in parallel with each animal's overall performance and the percentage of context-related &quot;pre-processing&quot; neurons encountered.
Neuropeptide (NPY) Y2 receptors play an important role in some anxiety-related and stress-related behaviours in mice. Changes in the level of anxiety can affect some cognitive functions such as memory, attention and inhibitory response control. We investigated the effects of NPY Y2 receptor deletion (Y2(-/-)) in mice on visual attention and response control using the five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task in which accuracy of detection of a brief visual stimulus across five spatial locations may serve as a valid behavioural index of attentional functioning. Anticipatory and perseverative responses provide a measure of inhibitory response control. During training, the Y2(-/-) mice had lower accuracy (% correct), and made more anticipatory responses. At stimulus durations of 2 and 4s the Y2(-/-) were as accurate as the Y2(+/+) mice but still more impulsive than Y(+/+). At stimulus durations of 0.25 and 0.5s both groups performed worse but the Y2(-/-) mice made significantly fewer correct responses than the Y2(+/+) controls. The anxiolytic drug diazepam at 2mg/kg IP greatly increased the anticipatory responding of Y2(-/-) mice compared to Y2(+/+). The anxiogenic inverse benzodiazepine agonist, FG 7142, at 10mg/kg IP reduced the anticipatory responding of Y2(-/-) but not Y2(+/+) mice. These data suggest that NPY Y2 receptors make an important contribution to mechanisms controlling attentional functioning and &quot;impulsivity&quot;. They also show that &quot;impulsivity&quot; of NPY Y2(-/-) mice may depend on their level of anxiety. These findings may help in understanding the pathophysiology of stress disorders and depression.
A central premise of a number of theories of addiction is that discrete environmental stimuli repeatedly paired with drugs of abuse acquire incentive salience as a result of Pavlovian learning. There is, however, no unequivocal evidence supporting this assumption. Thus, we employed a Pavlovian conditioning procedure known to imbue non-drug reinforcers with incentive salience and extended it to study the effects of intravenous cocaine. Specifically, we examined whether a cue paired with intravenous cocaine administration would come to elicit approach towards it (sign-tracking), even if no behavioral response were required to receive the cue or drug. We found that when a cue was paired with intravenous cocaine delivery (but not when it was unpaired) rats came to approach and investigate the cue, and did so with increasing rapidity. We conclude that Pavlovian learning can imbue drug-paired cues with incentive salience, making them attractive and &quot;wanted&quot; stimuli. Delineating the neurobiological mechanisms responsible for this process will be important for understanding and treating drug addiction.
The cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.1, 0.5 and 1 microg) induces penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats. The pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A occurs concomitantly with an increase in the concentration of glutamic acid in the paraventricular dialysate obtained by means of intra-cerebral microdialysis. Glutamic acid increase and penile erection did not occur when SR 141716A was given after tetrodotoxin, a voltage-dependent Na(+) channel blocker. Both penile erection and glutamic acid increases were also reduced by the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonists WIN 55,212-2 or HU 210 given into the paraventricular nucleus before SR 141716A at doses unable to induce penile erection or to modify glutamic acid. In contrast, dizocilpine ((+)MK-801), an antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors of the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) subtype, given into the paraventricular nucleus reduced penile erection, but was ineffective on the glutamic acid increase induced by the CB1 receptor antagonist. 6-Cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and (+/-)-2-amino-4-phosphono-butanoic acid (AP(4)), antagonists of the excitatory amino acid receptors of the AMPA subtype and of the metabotropic subtype, respectively, were ineffective on both penile erection and glutamic acid increase. SR 141716A responses were also reduced by muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, but not by baclofen, a GABA(B) receptor agonist, given into the paraventricular nucleus before SR 141716A. The present results show that SR 141716A induces penile erection by activating glutamic acid neurotransmission, which causes in turn the activation of paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection.
This study aimed at investigating the effects of environmental enrichment on various aspects of contextual processing in adult female rats. In experiment 1, simple conditioning was studied using either a training procedure allowing overshadowing of the contextual cues by signalling footshock with a discrete tone or a training procedure allowing a reduction of this overshadowing by explicitly unpairing the footshock and the tone. In experiment 2, contextual discrimination and contextual occasion-setting were assessed. Rats were daily exposed to two different contexts. In one context, a footshock was delivered 30s after the offset of a tone, whereas in the other context the same tone was presented alone. Experiment 3 examined familiarization to a new context. Experiment 1 showed that environmental enrichment reduced the overshadowing of contextual cues by the tone and also reduced freezing to the more predictive cue according to the training procedure used. Experiment 2 showed that environmental enrichment increased the ability of rats to discriminate two contexts. Experiment 3 showed that enriched rats familiarized faster to a new context than standard rats. Taken together, these results suggest that environmental enrichment in adult rats enhances learning about contextual cues and reduces overall fear associated with aversive events.
Molecular imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) has recently been used to examine dopamine (DA) function and its relationship with cognition in human subjects. This article will review PET and SPECT studies that have explored the relationship between cognitive processes and components of the DA system (pre-, intra-, and postsynaptic) in healthy and patient populations such as Parkinson's disease (PD), schizophrenia, Huntington's disease, and aging. It is demonstrated that DA activity modulates a range of frontal executive-type cognitive processes such as working memory, attentional functioning, and sequential organization, and alterations of DA within the fronto-striato-thalamic circuits might contribute to the cognitive impairments observed in PD, schizophrenia, and normal aging. Although associations between DA and cognitive measures need to be considered within the context of fronto-striato-thalamic circuitry, it is suggested that striatal (especially caudate) DA activity, particularly via D2 receptors, might be important for response inhibition, temporal organization of material, and motor performance, whereas cortical DA transmission via D1 receptors might be important for maintaining and representing on-going behavior.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) can measure striatal dopamine (DA) terminal function in vivo as reflected by DA storage capacity and transporter binding. In Parkinson's disease (PD) posterior dorsal putamen DA terminals are initially targeted, the anterior putamen and head of caudate subsequently becoming affected. In contrast, dopaminergic function in pallidal, amygdala, and cingulate regions is upregulated in early PD and only later becomes reduced. Rigidity and bradykinesia in PD have been shown to correlate with loss of putamen dopaminergic function, whereas performance on executive and working memory tasks correlates with integrity of caudate dopaminergic terminals. 11C-RTI32 PET, a marker of noradrenergic and dopaminergic transporter binding, can be used to assess noradrenergic along with dopaminergic terminal function. Serotonergic transporter binding can be assessed with 11C-DASB PET and 123I-beta CIT SPECT, whereas HT1A binding can be measured with 11C-WAY100635 PET. With these modalities, the relationship between mood, noradrenergic and serotonergic function can be examined in PD. The functional effects of focal DA replacement on DA storage capacity and patterns of brain activation via implantation of fetal midbrain cells or glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) infusion into putamen of PD patients has been examined with PET. Both approaches lead to consistently increased levels of putamen 18F-dopa uptake, and cell implantation can restore levels of frontal activation. Clinical outcome, however, has proved to be variable and off-medication dyskinesias are an unwanted side effect in transplanted cases. Dopamine release after pharmacological challenges or during behavioral tasks can be assessed indirectly by studying changes in receptor availability to PET radioligands. Stereotyped sequential movements are associated with striatal DA release, and this increases with more complex behaviors and the presence of financial incentives, which also increase frontal DA levels. Parkinson patients release less putamen DA than healthy control subjects during stereotyped finger movements. Interestingly, those PD patients who develop a dopa dependency syndrome, craving their medication, generate significantly greater levels of ventral striatal DA compared with similarly disabled patients without such a psychological dependency. In the future, functional imaging is likely to throw light on the roles of peptide transmission in regulating mood and behavior as non-peptide analogue ligands become available. Novel markers of amyloid plaque load will also help clarify the etiology of dementia in PD.
Current pathophysiological theories of schizophrenia highlight the role of altered brain connectivity. This dysconnectivity could manifest 1) anatomically, through structural changes of association fibers at the cellular level, and/or 2) functionally, through aberrant control of synaptic plasticity at the synaptic level. In this article, we review the evidence for these theories, focusing on the modulation of synaptic plasticity. In particular, we discuss how dysconnectivity, observed between brain regions in schizophrenic patients, could result from abnormal modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-dependent plasticity by other neurotransmitter systems. We focus on the implication of the dysconnection hypothesis for functional imaging at the systems level. In particular, we review recent advances in measuring plasticity in the human brain using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography (EEG) that can be used to address dysconnectivity in schizophrenia. Promising experimental paradigms include perceptual and reinforcement learning. We describe how theoretical and causal models of brain responses might contribute to a mechanistic understanding of synaptic plasticity in schizophrenia.
Exposure to altered gravitational environment, especially during critical ontogenetic phases, may induce persistent nervous system modifications and behavioural anomalies. This study evaluated the effects of hypergravity exposure on the development of the nervous system and assessed the relevance of parity in the mother's responses to altered gravitational stimuli. CD-1 mouse pups of both sexes delivered by primiparous and biparous dams were exposed to 1h of 2 G rotationally induced hypergravity from PND2 to PND9. Sensorimotor responses and somatic growth were daily measured (PND2-PND15), ultrasonic vocalisations recorded on PNDs 2, 5 and 9, and homing behaviour evaluated on PND12. In addition, spatial orientation ability was assessed in a T-maze on PND18, while mice exploratory behaviour and locomotor activity were evaluated in an open-field test (PND21). Long-term effects of hypergravity exposure on both spatial learning (Morris water-maze test) and brain levels of NGF and BDNF were also investigated at adulthood. Rotation per se induced a delay in somatic growth, sensorimotor responses and ultrasonic vocalisation profile, while hypergravity highlighted sex differences in open-field behaviour. Strategies to solve a spatial learning task, rather than learning per se, were affected by early exposure to rotation, while hypergravity selectively altered behavioural profile in the reversal phase of the test. Early exposure to rotation per se also decreased hypothalamic BDNF levels, while hypergravity reduced NGF levels in the frontal cortex. Previous maternal experience did not interact with hypergravity exposure, while differences between offspring of primiparous and biparous dams were observed in sensorimotor development and exploratory behaviour.
Mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is a well-established fact of fundamental importance to aging and etiology of many pathologies with serious public health implications. The ROS production is an innate property of mitochondrial biochemistry inseparable from the oxidative metabolism. Recent discoveries indicate that in addition to several ROS-detoxifying enzyme systems, which remove ROS, mitochondria may also be able to limit their ROS production by the mechanism comprising several protein-mediated energy-dissipating (&quot;uncoupling&quot;) pathways. Although the physiological significance and in vivo modus operandi of these pathways remain to be elucidated, several proteins potentially capable of energy dissipation are known. This mini-review addresses the identity of mitochondrial protein-mediated energy-dissipating pathways and the experimental evidence to their role in controlling ROS production.

Growth and Differentiation Factor 1 (GDF-1) has been implicated in left-right patterning of the mouse embryo but has no other known function. Here, we demonstrate a genetic interaction between Gdf1 and Nodal during anterior axis development. Gdf1-/-;Nodal+/- mutants displayed several abnormalities that were not present in either Gdf1-/- or Nodal+/- single mutants, including absence of notochord and prechordal plate, and malformation of the foregut; organizing centers implicated in the development of the anterior head and branchial arches, respectively. Consistent with these deficits, Gdf1-/-;Nodal+/- mutant embryos displayed a number of axial midline abnormalities, including holoprosencephaly, anterior head truncation, cleft lip, fused nasal cavity, and lack of jaws and tongue. The absence of these defects in single mutants indicated a synergistic interaction between Nodal and GDF-1 in the node, from which the axial mesendoderm that gives rise to the notochord, prechordal plate, and foregut endoderm originates, and where the two factors are co-expressed. This notion was supported by a severe downregulation of FoxA2 and goosecoid in the anterior primitive streak of double mutant embryos. Unlike that in the lateral plate mesoderm, Nodal expression in the node was independent of GDF-1, indicating that both factors act in parallel to control the development of mesendodermal precursors. Receptor reconstitution experiments indicated that GDF-1, like Nodal, can signal through the type I receptors ALK4 and ALK7. However, analysis of compound mutants indicated that ALK4, but not ALK7, was responsible for the effects of GDF-1 and Nodal during anterior axis development. These results indicate that GDF-1 and Nodal converge on ALK4 in the anterior primitive streak to control the formation of organizing centers that are necessary for normal forebrain and branchial arch development.
Transendothelial leukocyte migration is a major aspect of the innate immune response. It is essential in repair and regeneration of damaged tissues and is regulated by multiple cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) including members of the immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily. Activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM/CD166) is an Ig CAM expressed by activated monocytes and endothelial cells. Hitherto, the functional relevance of ALCAM expression by endothelial cells and activated monocytes remained unknown. In this report, we demonstrate soluble recombinant human ALCAM significantly inhibited the rate of transendothelial migration of monocyte cell lines. Direct involvement of ALCAM in transendothelial migration was evident from the robust inhibition of this process by ALCAM blocking antibodies. However, soluble recombinant ALCAM had no impact on monocyte migration or adhesion to endothelium. Localization of ALCAM specifically at cell-cell junctions in endothelial cells supported its role in transendothelial migration. This study is the first to localize ALCAM to endothelial cell junctions and demonstrate a functional relevance for co-expression of ALCAM by activated monocytes and endothelial cells.
Huntington's disease (HD) is characterized by a triad of motor, psychiatric and cognitive symptoms. Although many of these symptoms are likely to be related to central nervous system pathology, others may be due to changes in peripheral tissues. The R6/2 mouse, a transgenic model of HD expressing exon 1 of the human HD gene, develops progressive alterations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, reminiscent of a Cushing-like syndrome. We observed muscular atrophy, reduced bone mineral density, abdominal fat accumulation and insulin resistance in the mice. All these changes could be consequences of increased glucocorticoid levels. Indeed, hypertrophy of the adrenal cortex and a progressive increase in serum and urine corticosterone levels were found in R6/2 mice. In addition, the intermediate pituitary lobe was markedly enlarged and circulating adreno-corticotrophic hormone (ACTH) increased. Under normal conditions dopamine represses the ACTH expression. In the R6/2 mice, however, the expression of pituitary dopamine D2 receptors was reduced by half, possibly explaining the increase in ACTH. Urinary samples from 82 HD patients and 68 control subjects were analysed for cortisol: in accord with the observations in the R6/2 mice, urinary cortisol increased in parallel with disease progression. This progressive increase in cortisol may contribute to the clinical symptoms, such as muscular wasting, mood changes and some of the cognitive deficits that occur in HD.
P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels are regulated, in part, through the cytoplasmic C-terminus of their alpha1A subunit. Genetic absence or alteration of the C-terminus leads to abnormal channel function and neurological disease. Here, we show that the terminal 60-75 kDa of the endogenous alpha1A C-terminus is cleaved from the full-length protein and is present in cell nuclei. Antiserum to the C-terminus (CT-2) labels both wild-type mouse and human Purkinje cell nuclei, but not leaner mouse cerebellum. Human embryonic kidney cells stably expressing beta3 and alpha2delta subunits and transiently transfected with full-length human alpha1A contain a 75 kDa CT-2 reactive peptide in their nuclear fraction. Primary granule cells transfected with C-terminally Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged alpha1A exhibit GFP nuclear labeling. Nuclear translocation depends partly on the presence of three nuclear localization signals within the C-terminus. The C-terminal fragment bears a polyglutamine tract which, when expanded (Q33) as in spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6), is toxic to cells. Moreover, polyglutamine-mediated toxicity is dependent on nuclear localization. Finally, in the absence of flanking sequence, the Q33 expansion alone does not kill cells. These results suggest a novel processing of the P/Q-type calcium channel and a potential mechanism for the pathogenesis of SCA6.
Although there is good experimental data that utrophin, the autosomal analog of dystrophin, can ameliorate the phenotype in dystrophinopathies, there is scant evidence from human data to support this hypothesis. We investigated in diagnostic muscle biopsies from 16 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) the level of utrophin expression using quantitative immunoblot analysis. In 13 of 16 patients, in whom there was adequate follow-up data, utrophin expression was correlated to two clinical endpoints: age at reaching Hammersmith score of 30/40 and age at becoming wheelchair-bound. We found that utrophin expression increases with age in DMD and that there is a significant positive correlation between the quantity of utrophin at initial biopsy and time to becoming wheelchair-bound.
The microtubule-associated tau protein participates in the organization and integrity of the neuronal cytoskeleton. A nuclear form of tau has been described in neuronal and non-neuronal cells, which displays a nucleolar localization during interphase but is associated with nucleolar-organizing regions in mitotic cells. In the present study, based on immunofluorescence, immuno-FISH and confocal microscopy, we show that nuclear tau is mainly present at the internal periphery of nucleoli, partially colocalizing with the nucleolar protein nucleolin and human AT-rich alpha-satellite DNA sequences organized as constitutive heterochromatin. By using gel retardation, we demonstrate that tau not only colocalizes with, but also specifically binds to, AT-rich satellite DNA sequences apparently through the recognition of AT-rich DNA stretches. Here we propose a functional role for nuclear tau in relation to the nucleolar organization and/or heterochromatinization of a portion of RNA genes. Since nuclear tau has also been found in neurons from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), aberrant nuclear tau could affect the nucleolar organization during the course of AD. We discuss nucleolar tau associated with AT-rich alpha-satellite DNA sequences as a potential molecular link between trisomy 21 and AD.
Eae5 in rats was originally identified in two F(2) intercrosses, (DA x BN) and (E3 x DA), displaying linkage to CNS inflammation and disease severity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), respectively. This region overlaps with an arthritis locus, Pia4, which was also identified in the (E3 x DA) cross. Two congenic strains, BN.DA-Eae5 and BN.DA-Eae5.R1, encompassing the previously described Eae5 and Pia4, were established. DA alleles within the chromosome 12 fragment conferred an increase in disease susceptibility as well as increased inflammation and demyelination in the CNS as compared with BN alleles. To enable a more precise fine mapping of EAE regulatory genes, we used a rat advanced intercross line between the EAE-susceptible DA strain and the EAE-resistant PVG.1AV1 strain. Linkage analysis performed in the advanced intercross line considerably narrowed down the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-EAE regulatory locus (Eae5) to a approximately 1.3-megabase region with a defined number of candidate genes. In this study we demonstrate a regulatory effect of Eae5 on MOG-EAE by using both congenic strains as well as fine mapping these effects to a region containing Ncf-1, a gene associated with arthritis. In addition to structural polymorphisms in Ncf-1, both sequence polymorphisms and expression differences were identified in CLDN4. CLDN4 is a tight junction protein involved in blood-brain barrier integrity. In conclusion, our data strongly suggests Ncf-1 to be a gene shared between two organ-specific inflammatory diseases with a possible contribution by CLDN4 in encephalomyelitis.
Type I IFNs induce differentiation of dendritic cells (DCs) with potent Ag-presenting capacity, termed IFN-alpha DCs, that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus. In this study, we found that IFN-alpha DCs exhibit enhanced migration across the extracellular matrix (ECM) in response to chemokines CCL3 and CCL5 that recruit DCs to inflammatory sites, but not the lymphoid-homing chemokine CCL21. IFN-alpha DCs expressed elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), which mediated increased migration across ECM. Unexpectedly, MMP-9 and its cell surface receptors CD11b and CD44 were required for enhanced CCL5-induced chemotaxis even in the absence of a matrix barrier. MMP-9, CD11b, and CD44 selectively modulated CCL5-dependent activation of JNK that was required for enhanced chemotactic responses. These results establish the migratory phenotype of IFN-alpha DCs and identify an important role for costimulation of chemotactic responses by synergistic activation of JNK. Thus, cell motility is regulated by integrating signaling inputs from chemokine receptors and molecules such as MMP-9, CD11b, and CD44 that also mediate cell interactions with inflammatory factors and ECM.


The cytopathology and loss of neurons was studied in 7670 neurons from the ventral horn of the third lumbar segment of the spinal cord of six sporadic motor neuron disease (MND) patients compared with 7568 neurons in seven age matched control subjects. A modified Tomlinson et al. [Tomlinson BE, Irving D, Rebeiz JJ. Total numbers of limb motor neurones in the human lumbosacral cord and an analysis of the accuracy of various sampling procedures. J Neurol Sci 1973;20:313-27] sampling procedure was used for neuronal counts. The ventral horn was divided in quadrants. Neuronal populations were also classified by the maximum cell diameter through the nucleolus. There was widespread loss of neurons in all quadrants of the ventral horn in MND. Size distribution histograms showed similar neuron loss across all populations of neurons. The dorsomedial quadrant contains almost exclusively interneurons and the ventrolateral quadrant mostly motor neurons. The cytopathology of neurons in the dorsomedial quadrant and of large motorneurons in the ventrolateral quadrant MND was similar. In the dorsomedial quadrant, neuron loss (56.7%) was similar to the loss of large motor neurons in the ventrolateral quadrant (64.4%). The loss of presumed motor neurons and interneurons increased with increased disease duration. There was no evidence that loss of presumed interneurons occurred prior, or subsequent, to loss of motor neurons. We conclude that, in sporadic MND, all neuronal populations in the ventral horn are affected and that interneurons are involved to a similar extent and in parallel with motor neurons, as reported in the G86R transgenic mouse model of familial MND. The increasing evidence of loss of neurons other than motor neurons in MND suggests the need for revising the concept of selective motor neuron vulnerability.

The microdialysis method was adapted to obtain long-term hemolymph dialysates from the pericardial cavity of freely moving Procambarus clarkii crayfish, to measure fluctuations of non-essential amino acids, GABA and histamine by high-performance liquid chromatography using off-line fluorometric derivatization. Asp, Ala, Tau, GABA and histamine (HA) reached its maximal concentrations at the daybreak, whereas glutamate (Glu), Gln and Gly peaked at the end of the light period. The minimum and maximal detected amounts for each substance along the 24h cycle were (in microM): 20-300Asp, 100-200Glu, 400-700Gln, 400-600Gly, 100-200Tau, 150-300Ala, 2-10 GABA and 25-250HA. Cocktails containing the relative concentration of each amino acid, GABA and histamine resulted in a hyperpolarization that reduced the spontaneous firing of cultured peptidergic X organ neurons. Glu, GABA and histamine evoked a long-lasting hyperpolarization that suppressed the spontaneous firing, whereas Asp, Gly and Tau evoked a depolarization accompanied with neuronal firing. Finally, neither Ala nor Gln modified the resting membrane potential.
Laser capture microdissection (LCM) is increasingly being used in quantitative gene expression studies of the nervous system. The current study aimed at determining the impact of various tissue manipulations on the integrity of extracted RNA in LCM studies. Our data indicate that various tissue preparation strategies prior to microdissection may decrease RNA quality by as much as 25%, thus affecting expression profiles of some genes. To circumvent this problem, we developed a strategy for reverse transcriptase real-time PCR that has considerable sensitivity and can be used to calculate relative changes in gene expression. This approach was validated in subregions of the rat cerebellum. Accordingly, expression of glial gene markers - myelin-associated glycoprotein and proteolipid protein 1 - was found 70-160-fold higher in the white matter layer of the cerebellar cortex as compared to the neuron-enriched granular layer. In contrast, expression of a specific neuronal maker, neuron-specific enolase, was found seven-fold higher in the granular layer, as compared to the white matter layer. Furthermore, this approach had high sensitivity and specificity as we were able to detect a 38% decrease in the expression of neuron-specific enolase without a change in the expression of glial markers following administration of the neurotoxin, ibotenic acid. These results demonstrate feasibility of performing accurate semi-quantitative gene expression analyses in LCM samples.
Most current techniques for multielectrode recording involve chronically implanting planar or staggered arrays of electrodes. Such chronic implants are suited for studying a stable population of neurons over long periods of time but exploratory studies of the physiological properties of cortical subdivisions require the ability to sample multiple neural populations. This makes it necessary to penetrate frequently with small multielectrode assemblies. Some commercial systems allow daily penetrations with multiple electrodes, but they tend to be bulky, complex and expensive, and some make no provision for piercing the barrier of fibrous tissue that often covers the brain surface. We describe an apparatus for inserting bundles of 3-16 electrodes on a daily basis, thus allowing different neural populations to be sampled. The system is designed to allow penetration through a thick dura mater into deep brain structures. We discuss a simple method for performing multielectrode recording from cortical areas buried inside sulci using acute implantations of a bundle of electrodes. Our results show that it is possible to obtain stable recordings for at least 4h and that repeated implantations yield an average of two neurons per electrode with every electrode in the bundle picking up at least one single neuron in 70% of the implantations.
Mice are becoming increasingly popular to model neurological disease and motor system dysfunction. For evaluation of discrete, chronic motor impairments, skilled limb movements represent a valuable extension of standard mouse test batteries. This study introduces an efficient and sensitive test strategy for comprehensive assessment of skilled fore- and hind-limb stepping in mice. Adult C57BL/6 mice were trained and video-recorded in two walking tasks, the widely used rotorod test and a new ladder rung task. The animals then received a unilateral ischemic lesion in the motor cortex forelimb and hind limb area and were video-recorded on days 12 and 26 post-lesion. Forelimb and hind limb stepping movements were rated using a combination of endpoint measures and qualitative assessment. The results showed that while animals maintained a weight-supported gait, posture and stepping movements were abnormal at both post-operative intervals. The rotorod analysis revealed stepping deficits in both forelimbs that led to adoption of compensatory movement strategies. The ladder rung task revealed stepping errors in ipsi- and contralateral fore- and hind-limbs. The findings demonstrate that this test strategy provides comprehensive assessment of motor impairments in mice and that qualitative movement analysis is a valuable tool for elaborating subtle motor disturbances.
The biophysical and pharmacological properties of ion channels and transporters are often studied in exogenous expression systems using either the two-electrode voltage clamp (TEVC) in Xenopus oocytes or the patch clamp techniques. Cells machinery is trusted to produce active proteins that are correctly phosphorylated and glycosylated. However, native physiological cellular processes that might be altered during the course of the experiment are often ignored. Here, we detected and quantified the effects of various electrophysiological recording conditions on the phosphorylation levels of Xenopus oocytes proteins, including membrane proteins, as phosphorylation/dephosphorylation events modulate ion channels gating and cell surface expression. Two strategies were chosen to determine relative protein phosphorylation levels: a direct detection with a phospho-Ser/Thr PKA substrate antibody, and a functional method employing two different leak potassium channels as indicators, chosen based on their opposite responses to protein kinase phosphorylation. We report that holding potential, and bath solution properties such as pH, osmolarity, temperature and ion composition, dramatically affect protein phosphorylation levels in Xenopus oocytes. Our results might explain some of the fluctuations in the biophysical properties of expressed channels, often observed during electrophysiological measurements. Minimizing possible misinterpretations could be achieved using either mutated, kinase insensitive, channels or kinases/phosphatases modulators.
The pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative disorders, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 associated dementia, is exacerbated by an imbalance between matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their inhibitors, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs). In the context of disease, TIMP-1 has emerged as an important multifunctional protein capable of regulating inflammation. We previously reported differential TIMP-1 expression in acute versus chronic activation of astrocytes. This study investigates possible mechanisms underlying TIMP-1 downregulation in chronic neuroinflammation. We used interleukin (IL)-1beta as a model pro-inflammatory stimulus and measured TIMP-1 binding to extracellular matrix, cell death, receptor downregulation, TIMP-1 mRNA stability and transcriptional regulation in activated astrocytes. TIMP-1 remained localized to the cell body or was secreted into the cell supernatant. DNA fragmentation ELISA and MTT assay showed that prolonged IL-1beta activation of astrocytes induced significant astrocyte death. In acute and chronic IL-1beta-activated astrocytes, IL-1 receptor levels were not significantly different. TIMP-1 mRNA stability was measured in astrocytes and U87 astroglioma cells by real-time PCR, and TIMP-1 promoter activation was studied using TIMP-1-luciferase reporter constructs in transfected astrocytes. Our results indicated that TIMP-1 expression is regulated through multiple mechanisms. Transcriptional control and loss of mRNA stabilization are, however, the most likely primary contributors to chronic downregulation of TIMP-1. These data are important for unraveling the mechanisms underlying astrocyte responses during chronic neuroinflammation and have broader implications in other inflammatory diseases that involve MMP/TIMP imbalance.
Cells from human amniotic fluid derived from the fetus are considered a source of multipotent cells. Their properties have not been fully exploited, partially because unlike other embryonic sources such as embryonic stem (ES) cells, cell lines from amniocentesis samples have not been generated. We have established and characterized the properties of eight individual cell lines. Flow cytometry using several cell surface markers showed that all cell lines generated consisted of homogeneous populations that lack HLAII antigenicity. Using a combination of immunocytochemistry, Western blotting, and RT-PCR, we found weak expression of Oct4 and nestin and strong expression of tubulin-betaIII, MAP2, and tau. Specific markers for cholinergic, (nor)adrenergic, and GABAergic neurons or glia were weakly expressed or absent, whereas expression of factors implicated in early induction of dopaminergic neurons, TGF-beta3 and beta-catenin were present. Further analysis showed strong expression of EN-1, c-RET, PTX3, and NURR1 essential for induction and survival of midbrain dopaminergic neurons, TH, AADC, and VMAT2 components of dopamine synthesis and secretion, and syntaxin1A and SNAP-25 necessary for neurotransmitter exocytosis. This phenotype was retained throughout passages and up to the current passage 36. Expression of neuronal and dopaminergic markers in individual AF cell lines was comparable to expression in neurons induced from ES cells and in IMR-32 and SH-SY5Y neuroblastomas. Our data show that cell lines can be derived from subcultures of amniocentesis, and are primarily composed of a population of progenitors with a phenotype similar to that of committed mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons.
After left unilateral cochlear ablation (UCA) in young adult guinea pigs, the appearance of plasticities in auditory pathways suggested altered gene expression and modified phenotypic behaviors of auditory neurons. Because phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein (CREB-P) is a transcription factor that binds to certain genes to facilitate their expression, CREB-P levels were measured after UCA and correlated with postablation plasticities. After UCA, Western blotting was employed to quantify CREB-P levels and illustrate CREB levels in the anteroventral (AVCN), posteroventral (PVCN), and dorsal (DCN) cochlear nucleus; the lateral (LSO) and medial superior olive (MSO); the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB); and the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICc) for up to 145 days. We also quantified the levels of several protein synthesis regulators and synaptic markers in the AVCN at 60 days. Sucrose-based extraction buffer improved CREB-P recovery. CREB-P levels became depressed at 3 and 7 postablation days, except in the PVCN, where they were elevated at 7 days, and in the ICc, where they were elevated at both times. At 60 days, CREB-P levels in all the nuclei were elevated. In the AVCN, levels of the protein synthesis regulators and synaptic markers were also elevated at 60 days. By 145 days, CREB-P levels again declined, except in the AVCN, where elevations persisted and increased on the ablated side, and in the ICc, where CREB-P elevations remained. The changes in CREB-P levels coincided with several plasticities in glutamatergic and glycinergic transmitter release and receptor activities, and alterations in neurotrophic support, that developed after UCA. These findings suggest that UCA altered CREB-P levels, which in turn might have contributed to plasticities that appear after UCA.
Cerebrolysin is a peptide mixture with neurotrophic effects that might reduce the neurodegenerative pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously shown in an amyloid protein precursor (APP) transgenic (tg) mouse model of AD-like neuropathology that Cerebrolysin ameliorates behavioral deficits, is neuroprotective, and decreases amyloid burden; however, the mechanisms involved are not completely clear. Cerebrolysin might reduce amyloid deposition by regulating amyloid-beta (Abeta) degradation or by modulating APP expression, maturation, or processing. To investigate these possibilities, APP tg mice were treated for 6 months with Cerebrolysin and analyzed in the water maze, followed by RNA, immunoblot, and confocal microscopy analysis of full-length (FL) APP and its fragments, beta-secretase (BACE1), and Abeta-degrading enzymes [neprilysin (Nep) and insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE)]. Consistent with previous studies, Cerebrolysin ameliorated the performance deficits in the spatial learning portion of the water maze and reduced the synaptic pathology and amyloid burden in the brains of APP tg mice. These effects were associated with reduced levels of FL APP and APP C-terminal fragments, but levels of BACE1, Notch1, Nep, and IDE were unchanged. In contrast, levels of active cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (CDK5) and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta [GSK-3beta; but not stress-activated protein kinase-1 (SAPK1)], kinases that phosphorylate APP, were reduced. Furthermore, Cerebrolysin reduced the levels of phosphorylated APP and the accumulation of APP in the neuritic processes. Taken together, these results suggest that Cerebrolysin might reduce AD-like pathology in the APP tg mice by regulating APP maturation and transport to sites where Abeta protein is generated. This study clarifies the mechanisms through which Cerebrolysin might reduce Abeta production and deposition in AD and further supports the importance of this compound in the potential treatment of early AD.
We investigated the mechanosensitivity of voltage-gated K+ channel (VGPC) currents by using whole-cell patch clamp recording in rat trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons. On the basis of biophysical and pharmacological properties, two types of VGPC currents were isolated. One was transient (I(K,A)), the other sustained (I(K,V)). Hypotonic stimulation (200 mOsm) markedly increased both I(K,A) and I(K,V) without affecting their activation and inactivation kinetics. Gadolinium, a well-known blocker of mechanosensitive channels, failed to block the enhancement of I(K,A) and I(K,V) induced by hypotonic stimulation. During hypotonic stimulation, cytochalasin D, an actin-based cytoskeletal disruptor, further increased I(K,A) and I(K,V), whereas phalloidin, an actin-based cytoskeletal stabilizer, reduced I(K,A) and I(K,V). Confocal imaging with Texas red-phalloidin showed that actin-based cytoskeleton was disrupted by hypotonic stimulation, which was similar to the effect of cytochalasin D. Our results suggest that both I(K,A) and I(K,V) are mechanosensitive and that actin-based cytoskeleton is likely to regulate the mechanosensitivity of VGPC currents in TG neurons.
Studies from our laboratory and others show that oestrogen reduces angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced water intake by ovariectomized rats. Elimination of endogenous oestrogen by ovariectomy causes weight gain that can be reversed or prevented by oestrogen replacement. Changes in body weight modify cardiovascular responses to Ang II but whether such changes have similar effects on central and behavioural responses to Ang II is unknown. The goal of this study was to evaluate the contributions of oestrogen and weight loss to isoproterenol (isoprenaline; Iso)-induced Fos immunoreactivity (IR) and to angiotensin type 1 (AT1) receptor mRNA in forebrain regions implicated in the control of fluid balance. Isoproterenol significantly increased Fos IR in the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, the subfornical organ (SFO), and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, but had no effect on AT1 mRNA expression. However, both Iso-induced Fos IR and the AT1 mRNA were attenuated in the SFO of the oestrogen and weight loss groups compared with that of the control group. Consequently, we examined the effect of weight loss on Iso-induced water intake and plasma renin activity (PRA) and found that weight loss decreased water intake after Iso, but had no effect on PRA. Thus, we propose that weight loss decreases Ang II-elicited water intake in the female rat by down-regulating the expression of the AT1 receptor.
The dorsal-side-up body posture in standing quadrupeds is maintained by coordinated activity of four limbs. We studied this coordination in the cat standing on the platform periodically tilted in the frontal plane. By suspending different body parts, we unloaded one, two, or three limbs. The activity of selected extensor muscles and the contact forces under the limbs were recorded. With all four limbs on the platform, extensors of the fore- and hindlimbs increased their activity in parallel during ipsilateral downward tilt. With two forelimbs on the platform, this muscular pattern persisted in the forelimbs and in the suspended hindlimbs. With two hindlimbs on the platform, the muscular pattern persisted only in the hindlimbs, but not in the suspended forelimbs. These results suggest that coordination between the two girdles is based primarily on the influences of the forelimbs upon the hindlimbs. However, these influences do not necessarily determine the responses to tilt in the hindlimbs. This was demonstrated by antiphase tilting of the fore- and hindquarters. Under these conditions, the extensors of the fore- and hindlimbs appeared uncoupled and modulated in antiphase, suggesting an independent control of posture in the fore- and hindquarters. With only one limb supporting the shoulder or hip girdle, a muscular pattern with normal phasing was observed in both limbs of that girdle. This finding suggests that reflex mechanisms of an individual limb generate only a part of postural corrections; another part is produced on the basis of crossed influences.
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN DBS) has become an accepted tool for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the precise mechanism of action of this intervention is unknown, its effectiveness has been attributed to the modulation of pathological network activity. We examined this notion using positron emission tomography (PET) to quantify stimulation-induced changes in the expression of a PD-related covariance pattern (PDRP) of regional metabolism. These metabolic changes were also compared with those observed in a similar cohort of patients undergoing STN lesioning. We found that PDRP activity declined significantly (P &lt; 0.02) with STN stimulation. The degree of network modulation with DBS did not differ from that measured following lesioning (P = 0.58). Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) revealed that metabolic reductions in the internal globus pallidus (GPi) and caudal midbrain were common to both STN interventions (P &lt; 0.01), although declines in GPi were more pronounced with lesion. By contrast, elevations in posterior parietal metabolism were common to the two procedures, albeit more pronounced with stimulation. These findings indicate that suppression of abnormal network activity is a feature of both STN stimulation and lesioning. Nonetheless, these two interventions may differ metabolically at a regional level.
The question of the self has intrigued philosophers and psychologists for a long time. More recently, distinct concepts of self have also been suggested in neuroscience. However, the exact relationship between these concepts and neural processing across different brain regions remains unclear. This article reviews neuroimaging studies comparing neural correlates during processing of stimuli related to the self with those of non-self-referential stimuli. All studies revealed activation in the medial regions of our brains' cortex during self-related stimuli. The activation in these so-called cortical midline structures (CMS) occurred across all functional domains (e.g., verbal, spatial, emotional, and facial). Cluster and factor analyses indicate functional specialization into ventral, dorsal, and posterior CMS remaining independent of domains. Taken together, our results suggest that self-referential processing is mediated by cortical midline structures. Since the CMS are densely and reciprocally connected to subcortical midline regions, we advocate an integrated cortical-subcortical midline system underlying human self. We conclude that self-referential processing in CMS constitutes the core of our self and is critical for elaborating experiential feelings of self, uniting several distinct concepts evident in current neuroscience.
We used functional magnetic resonance adaptation (fMRA) to examine whether intra-voxel functional specificity may be present for first (L1)- and second (L2)-language processing. We examined within- and across-language adaptation for spoken words in English-French bilinguals who had acquired their L2 after the age of 4 years. Subjects listened to words presented binaurally through earphones. In two control conditions (one for each language), six identical words were presented to obtain maximal adaptation. The remaining six conditions each consisted of five words that were identical followed by a sixth word that differed. There were thus a total of eight experimental conditions: no-change (sixth word identical to first five); a change in meaning (different final word in L1); a change in language (final item translated into L2); a change in meaning and language (different final word in L2). The same four conditions were presented in L2. The study also included a silent baseline. At the neural level, within- and across-language word changes resulted in release from adaptation. This was true for separate analyses of L1 and L2. We saw no evidence for greater recovery from adaptation in across-language relative to within-language conditions. While many brain regions were common to L1 and L2, we did observe differences in adaptation for forward translation (L1 to L2) as compared to backward translation (L2 to L1). The results support the idea that, at the lexical level, the neural substrates for L1 and L2 in bilinguals are shared, but with some populations of neurons within these shared regions showing language-specific responses.
Working memory was evaluated after normal sleep, and at 24 and 35 h of sleep deprivation (SD) in 26 healthy young adults to examine the neural correlates of inter-individual differences in performance. The extent of performance decline was not significantly different between the two SD test periods although there was greater variability in performance at SD35. In both SD sessions, there was reduced task-related activation (relative to normal sleep) in both superior parietal regions and the left thalamus. Activation of the left parietal and left frontal regions after normal sleep was negatively correlated with performance accuracy decline from normal sleep to SD24 thus differentiating persons who maintained working memory performance following SD from those who were vulnerable to its effects.
Common theories of emotion emphasize valence and arousal dimensions or alternatively, specific emotions, and the search for the underlying neurocircuitry is underway. However, it is likely that other important dimensions for emotional neurocircuitry exist, and one of them is sociality. A social dimension may code whether emotions are addressing an individual's biological/visceral need versus more remote social goals involving semantic meaning or intentionality. Thus, for practical purposes, social emotions may be distinguished from nonsocial emotions based in part on the presence of human forms. In the current fMRI study, we aimed to compare regional coding of the sociality dimension of emotion (nonsocial versus social) versus the valence dimension of emotion (positive versus negative). Using a novel fMRI paradigm, film and picture stimuli were combined to induce and maintain four emotions varying along social and valence dimensions. Nonsocial emotions of positively valenced appetite and negatively valenced disgust and social emotions of positively valenced joy/amusement and negatively valenced sadness were studied. All conditions activated the thalamus. Appetite and disgust activated posterior insula and visual cortex, whereas joy/amusement and sadness activated extended amygdala, superior temporal gyrus, hippocampus, and posterior cingulate. Activations within the anterior cingulate, nucleus accumbens, orbitofrontal cortex, and amygdala were modulated by both social and valence dimensions. Overall, these findings highlight that sociality has a key role in processing emotional valence, which may have implications for patient populations with social and emotional deficits.
Is it important to adopt the perspective of the model when learning a new skill? Is the &quot;mirror system&quot; equally involved when the teacher is facing or side-by-side with students? In this functional MRI study, we measured the cerebral hemodynamic changes in participants who watched video-clips depicting simple hand or foot actions. The participants either watched passively or imitated these actions. Half the video-clips depicted actions filmed from the perspective of the participant (1st-person perspective) and half from a frontal view as if watching someone else (3rd-person perspective). Behavioral results showed that latency to imitate was significantly shorter for the 1st-person perspective than the 3rd-person perspective. Functional imaging results demonstrate that the observation of intransitive actions engaged primary visual and extrastriate visual areas, but not the premotor cortex. Imitation vs. observation of actions yielded enhanced signal in the contralateral somatosensory and motor cortices, cerebellum, left inferior parietal lobule and superior parietal cortex, and left ventral premotor cortex. Activity in the lateral occipital cortex around the extrastriate body area was significantly enhanced during imitation, as compared to observation of actions confirming that this region involvement reaches beyond the perception of body parts. Moreover, comparisons of the two visual perspectives showed more activity in the left sensory-motor cortex for 1st-person, even during observation alone, and in the lingual gyrus for 3rd-person perspective. These findings suggest that the 1st-person perspective is more tightly coupled to the sensory-motor system than the 3rd-person perspective, which requires additional visuospatial transformation.
Recent research has suggested that cortical long-term potentiation can be induced non-invasively in humans by using rapid visual stimulation. The present study extends these findings by investigating the specificity of this long-term potentiation effect to the inducing stimulus. One group of study participants were tetanized using a one cycle-per-degree sine grating, while a second group was tetanized using a five cycles-per-degree sine grating. Using electroencephalography, we found that an increase in the N1b potential was specific to sine gratings of the same frequency as the tetanus. No effect was observed in the N1b for sine gratings of a different spatial frequency. These results suggest that the long-term potentiation effect induced by the sensory tetanus is isolated to a discrete neural population in the visual cortex.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multifactorial disease caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Alpha-synuclein is of particular interest in PD since it is a major component of Lewy bodies and mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene were identified in familial PD. Oxidative stress and proteasomal dysfunction are implicated in the pathogenesis of PD but their interactions as well as their effect on aggregates formation are not yet clear. We therefore examined the roles of oxidative stress and proteasomal inhibition on protein aggregates induction in nave and neuronally differentiated neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Neuroblastoma cells were stably transfected with wild type (WT) and A53T mutant alpha-synuclein. Nave and transfected cells were exposed to oxidative stress induced by rotenone, SIN-I, FeCl(2,) and to proteasomal inhibition by lactacystin. Proteasomal inhibition caused a dose-dependent decrease in viability and induced protein aggregates formation containing alpha-synuclein and ubiquitin. Proteasomal inhibition induced significantly increased alpha-synuclein aggregation in cells expressing mutant alpha-synuclein. Exposure to reactive oxygen species (ROS) combined with proteasomal inhibition increased aggregates formation. Inclusion body formation and cell death of differentiated neuroblastoma cells overexpressing alpha-synuclein can serve as a valuable model for elucidating the molecular components that cause neurodegeneration in PD as well as evaluating pharmacological interventions.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from ICC neurons in brain slices of 9-16 day old rats. Postsynaptic currents were evoked by electrical stimulation of the lemniscal inputs. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were isolated pharmacologically by blocking GABA(A) and glycine receptors. EPSCs were further dissected into AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated responses by adding the receptor antagonists, APV and CNQX, respectively. The internal solution in the recording electrodes contained CsF and TEA to block K(+) channels that might be activated by postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors. The modulatory effects of GABA(B) receptors on EPSCs in ICC neurons were examined by bath application of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, and the antagonist, CGP 35348. The amplitudes of EPSCs in ICC neurons were reduced to 34.4+/-3.2% of the control by baclofen (5-10 microM). The suppressive effect by baclofen was concentration-dependent. The reduction of the EPSC amplitude was reversed by CGP35348. The ratio of the 2nd to 1st EPSCs evoked by paired-pulse stimulation was significantly increased after application of baclofen. These results suggest that glutamatergic excitation in the ICC can be modulated by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. In addition, baclofen reduced NMDA EPSCs more than AMPA EPSCs. The GABA(B) receptor-mediated modulation of glutamatergic excitation in the ICC provides a likely mechanism for preventing overstimulation and/or regulating the balance of excitation and inhibition involved in processing auditory information.
Substantial evidence has established that activation of the NMDA receptor in the spinal dorsal horn is essential for central sensitization-a phenomenon which comprises various pathophysiological mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain-like signs in animal models. In the present study, a partial sciatic nerve ligation in the rat was used to produce a model of nerve injury-induced pain represented by hypersensitivity to innocuous stimuli (&quot;allodynia&quot;). The aim was to assess whether alteration of NMDA receptor expression correlates with the presence of neuropathic signs. Our approach was to compare spinal NMDA receptor subunit expression and especially subunit 1 phosphorylation, assessed with immunohistochemistry and Western blot at late postoperative times, between nerve-injured rats with marked signs of neuropathy in terms of mechanical and cold hypersensitivity and nerve-injured rats that lacked robust behavioral signs of neuropathy. Quantification of receptor expression was based on comparisons between the dorsal horns ispi- and contralateral to the nerve lesion. The phosphorylated NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor was found to be significantly increased in the ipsilateral dorsal horn in hypersensitive, but not in non-hypersensitive nerve-injured rats. We did not detect any differences in immunoreactivity in any of the non-phosphorylated NR1, NR2A, NR2B, NR2C or the NR2D subunits. These data suggest that phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor 1 subunit is correlated to the presence of signs of neuropathy (stimulus evoked pain-like behavior) and possibly also to persistent pain following nerve injury. This may represent a mechanism involved in spinal sensitization.

Insulin peptide, acting through tyrosine kinase receptor pathways, contributes to nerve development or repair. In this work, we examined the direction, impact and repertoire of insulin signaling in vivo during peripheral nerve regeneration in rats. First, we demonstrated that insulin receptor is expressed on lumbar dorsal root ganglia neuronal perikarya using immunohistochemistry. Immunoblots and polymerase chain reactions confirmed the presence of both alpha and beta insulin receptor subunits in dorsal root ganglia. In vivo and in vitro assessment of dorsal root ganglion neurons showed preferential localization of insulin receptor to perikaryal sites. In vivo, intrathecal delivery of fluorescein isothiocyanate-labeled insulin identified localization around dorsal root ganglia neurons. The direction and impact of potential insulin signaling was evaluated by concurrently delivering insulin or carrier over a 2 week period using mini-osmotic pumps, either intrathecally, near nerve, or with both deliveries, following a selective sural nerve crush injury. Only intrathecal insulin increased the number and maturity of regenerating sensory sural nerve axons distal to the crush site. As well, only intrathecal insulin rescued retrograde loss of sural axons after crush. In a separate experiment, insulin also rescued retrograde loss and atrophy of deep peroneal, largely motor, axons post-injury. Intrathecal insulin increased the expression of calcitonin-gene-related peptide in regenerating sprouts, increased the number of visualized regenerating fiber clusters, and reduced downregulation of calcitonin-gene-related peptide in dorsal root ganglia neurons. Insulin delivered intrathecally does not appear to influence expression of insulin-like growth factor-1 at dorsal root ganglion neurons or near peripheral nerve injury, but was associated with upregulation of insulin receptor alpha subunit in dorsal root ganglia. Intrathecal insulin delivery was associated with greater recovery of thermal sensation and longer distances to stimulus response with the pinch test following sural nerve crush. Insulin signaling at neuron perikarya can drive distal sensory axon regrowth, rescue retrograde alterations of axons and alter axon peptide expression. Moreover, such actions are associated with upregulation of its own receptor.
A local elevation of H+-ion concentrations often occurs in inflammation and usually evokes pain by excitation of primary nociceptive neurons. Expression patterns and functional properties of the capsaicin receptor and acid-sensing ion channels suggest that they may be the main molecular substrates underlying this proton sensitivity. Here, we asked how the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 and acid-sensing ion channels (ASICS) contribute to the proton response in subpopulations of nociceptive neurons from adult rats and mice (wildtype C57/Bl6, Balb/C and TRPV1-null). In cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons, whole cell patch clamp recordings showed that the majority of capsaicin-sensitive rat dorsal root ganglion neurons displayed large proton-evoked inward currents with transient ASIC-like properties. In contrast, the prevalence of ASIC-like currents was smaller in both mouse wildtype strains and more frequent in capsaicin-insensitive neurons. Transient ASIC-like currents were more frequent in both species among isolectin B4-negative neurons. A significantly reduced proton response was observed for dissociated dorsal root ganglion neurons in TRPV1 deficient mice. Unmyelinated, but not thin myelinated nociceptors recorded extracellularly from TRPV1-null mutants showed a profound reduction of proton sensitivity. Together these findings indicate that there are significant differences between rat and mouse in the contribution of TRPV1 and ASIC subunits to proton sensitivity of sensory neurons. In both species ASIC subunits are more prevalent in the isolectin B4-negative neurons, some of which may represent thin myelinated nociceptors. However, the main acid-sensor in isolectin B4-positive and isolectin B4-negative unmyelinated nociceptors in mice is TRPV1.
Our previous studies and the others have strongly suggested that c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling pathway plays a critical role in ischemic brain injury. Here we reported that Tat-JNK binding domain (JBD) of JNK-interacting protein-1 (JIP-1), a smaller 11-mer peptide corresponding to residues 153-163 of murine JIP-1 conjugated to Tat peptide, perturbed the assembly of JIP-1-JNK3 complexes, thus inhibiting the activation of JNK3 induced by ischemia/reperfusion in the vulnerable hippocampal CA1 subregion. As a result, Tat-JBD diminished the increased phosphorylation of c-Jun (a nuclear substrate of JNK) and the increased expression of Fas ligand induced by ischemia/reperfusion in the vulnerable hippocampal CA1 subregion. At the same time, through inhibiting phosphorylation of Bcl-2 (a cytosolic target of JNK) and the release of Bax from Bcl-2/Bax dimers, Tat-JBD attenuated Bax translocation to mitochondria and the release of cytochrome c induced by ischemia/reperfusion. Furthermore, the activation of caspase3 and hydrolyzation of poly-ADP-ribose-polymerase induced by brain ischemia/reperfusion were also significantly suppressed by preinfusion of the peptide Tat-JBD. Importantly, Tat-JBD showed neuroprotective effects on ischemic brain damage in vivo, and administration of the peptide after ischemia also achieved the same effects as preinfusion of the peptide did. Thus, our findings imply that Tat-JBD induced neuroprotection against ischemia/reperfusion in rat hippocampal CA1 region via inhibiting nuclear and non-nuclear pathways of JNK signaling. Taken together, these results indicate that Tat-JBD peptide provides a promising therapeutic approach for ischemic brain injury.
Glutamate toxicity in traumatic brain injury, ischemia, and Huntington's disease causes cortical neuron death and dysfunction. We tested the efficacy of calpain and caspase-3 inhibitors alone and in combination to prevent neuronal death and preserve electrophysiological functions in rat primary cortical neurons following glutamate exposure. Cortical neurons exposed to 0.5 microM glutamate for 24 h committed mostly apoptotic death as determined by Wright staining and ApopTag assay. Levels of expression, formation of active forms, and activities of calpain and caspase-3 were increased following glutamate exposure. Also, in situ double labeling identified conformationally active caspase-3-p20 fragment and chromatin condensation in apoptotic neurons. Pretreatment of cortical neurons with 0.2 microM N-benzyloxylcarbonyl-Leu-Nle-aldehyde (calpain-specific inhibitor) and 100 microM N-benzyloxylcarbonyl-Asp(OCH3)-Glu(OCH3)-Val-Asp(OCH3)-fluoromethyl ketone (caspase-3-specific inhibitor) provided strong neuroprotection. Standard patch-clamp techniques were used to measure the whole-cell currents associated with Na+ channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and kainate receptors. The lack of a change in capacitance indicated that neurons treated with inhibitor(s) plus glutamate did not undergo apoptotic shrinkage and maintained the same size as the control neurons. Whole-cell currents associated with Na+ channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and kainate receptors were similar in amplitude and activation/inactivation kinetics for cells untreated and treated with inhibitor(s) and glutamate. Spontaneous synaptic activity as observed by miniature end-plate currents was also similar. Prevention of glutamate-induced apoptosis by calpain and caspase-3 inhibitors preserved normal activities of crucial ion channels such as Na+ channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and kainate receptors in neurons. Our studies strongly imply that calpain and caspase-3 inhibitors may also provide functional neuroprotection in the animal models of traumatic brain injury and neurodegenerative diseases.
Neurons and oligodendrocyte progenitors are highly sensitive to perinatal hypoxic-ischemic injury. As accumulating evidence suggests that many insults to the human infant occur in utero, and preventing brain damage to infants in utero will prove difficult, there is strong rationale to pursue regenerative strategies to reduce the morbidity associated with developmental brain injuries. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a hypoxic-ischemic insult stimulates the neural stem/progenitor cells in the subventricular zone to generate new neurons and oligodendrocytes. Hypoxia-ischemia was induced using the Vannucci rat model on postnatal day-6 pups. Injections of 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine to label cells undergoing DNA synthesis after hypoxia-ischemia revealed that there is a robust proliferative response within the subventricular zone of the injured hemisphere that continues for at least 1 week after the hypoxic-ischemic episode. Using the neurosphere assay to quantify the number of neural stem/progenitor cells in the subventricular zone, we find that there are twice as many neural stem/progenitor cells in the affected dorsolateral subventricular zone at 1 week of recovery and that these cells generate larger spheres in response to growth factors compared with controls. Precursors from the injured hemisphere generate three times as many neurons in vitro and more than twice as many oligodendroglia compared with controls. Hypoxia-ischemia also increases neurogenesis in vivo. Doublecortin positive cells with migratory profiles were observed streaming from the ipsilateral subventricular zone to the striatum and neocortex, whereas, few doublecortin positive cells were found in the contralateral hemisphere after hypoxia-ischemia. These observations provide evidence that the somatic neural progenitors of the subventricular zone participate in the production of new brain cells lost after hypoxia-ischemia.
Botulinum neurotoxins cause the disease botulism, which is characterized by prolonged muscle paralysis. In contrast, injections of low doses of purified botulinum neurotoxins do not cause systemic illness but produce localized muscle paralysis that is beneficial for treating several human medical disorders involving uncontrollable muscle contraction. Optimizing the therapeutic efficacy while diminishing adverse reactions requires precise knowledge of toxin potency as well as a clear understanding of how each toxin causes disease. A novel in vivo mouse assay has been used to correlate toxin dosage with the duration of muscle paralysis. Voluntary running activity performed by mice was proportional to the amount of toxin injected into the hind limbs and the subsequent rate of recovery over the ensuing days or weeks was a function of botulinum neurotoxin serotype A or B concentration. Botulinum neurotoxin A produced longer paralysis than botulinum neurotoxin B consistent with human observations. A third serotype, botulinum neurotoxin E, had the shortest duration of action, but unlike the other two toxins, dosage did not influence recovery time. Botulinum neurotoxin A recovery appeared biphasic with the initial phase about two-fold faster than the final phase. Over four weeks, muscle activity had gradually improved following the highest botulinum neurotoxin A dose, reaching about half of the normal running activity. Lower botulinum neurotoxin A doses led to incrementally faster and complete recovery. Persistence of maximum paralysis was exponentially related to botulinum neurotoxin A dosage, with a doubling of the paralysis time occurring with every 25% increase of the toxin concentration. In contrast, the rate of recovery from botulinum neurotoxin B was monophasic relative to toxin dosage and the duration of maximum paralysis was linear relative to dosage. Combinations of botulinum neurotoxin A and B and botulinum neurotoxin A and E were tested and shown to exacerbate paralysis compared with individually administered serotypes.
PDE10A is a recently identified phosphodiesterase that is highly expressed by the GABAergic medium spiny projection neurons of the mammalian striatum. Inhibition of PDE10A results in striatal activation and behavioral suppression, suggesting that PDE10A inhibitors represent a novel class of antipsychotic agents. In the present studies we further elucidate the localization of this enzyme in striatum of rat and cynomolgus monkey. We find by confocal microscopy that PDE10A-like immunoreactivity is excluded from each class of striatal interneuron. Thus, the enzyme is restricted to the medium spiny neurons. Subcellular fractionation indicates that PDE10A is primarily membrane bound. The protein is present in the synaptosomal fraction but is separated from the postsynaptic density upon solubilization with 0.4% Triton X-100. Immuno-electron microscopy of striatum confirms that PDE10A is most often associated with membranes in dendrites and spines. Immuno-gold particles are observed on the edge of the postsynaptic density but not within this structure. Our studies indicate that PDE10A is associated with post-synaptic membranes of the medium spiny neurons, suggesting that the specialized compartmentation of PDE10A enables the regulation of intracellular signaling from glutamatergic and dopaminergic inputs to these neurons.
Dopamine in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) plays a significant role in regulation of male copulation. One mediator of the MPOA dopamine level is nitric oxide. In the current study, we investigated the role of the nitric oxide-guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) pathway in the regulation of MPOA dopamine and copulation in male rats. The reverse-dialysis of a membrane-permeable analog, 8-Br-cGMP, increased, while a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), significantly reduced basal dopamine and its metabolite levels. ODQ successfully blocked a nitric oxide donor-induced increase in dopamine levels, while a neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor was ineffective in blocking an 8-Br-cGMP-induced increase in dopamine, indicating that cGMP is &quot;downstream&quot; of nitric oxide. Furthermore, 8-Br-cGMP facilitated, while ODQ inhibited copulation. Given the steroid-sensitive nature of nNOS functions and the multiple roles nitric oxide plays in the MPOA, we propose that nitric oxide provides important integration of various neurochemical and neuroendocrine signals. The involvement of the central nitric oxide-cGMP pathway in the regulation of copulation also raises an interesting therapeutic possibility, as the manipulation of the same pathway in peripheral tissue is already utilized in treatment of male sexual dysfunction.
Dopamine and adenosine receptors are known to share a considerable overlap in their regional distribution, being especially rich in the basal ganglia. Dopamine and adenosine receptors have been demonstrated to exhibit a parallel distribution on certain neuronal populations, and even when not directly co-localized, relationships (both antagonistic and synergistic) have been described. This study was designed to investigate dopaminergic and purinergic systems in mice with ablations of individual dopamine or adenosine receptors. In situ hybridization histochemistry and autoradiography was used to examine the level of mRNA and protein expression of specific receptors and transporters in dopaminergic pathways. Expression of the mRNA encoding the dopamine D2 receptor was elevated in the caudate putamen of D1, D3 and A2A receptor knockout mice; this was mirrored by an increase in D2 receptor protein in D1 and D3 receptor knockout mice, but not in A2A knockout mice. Dopamine D1 receptor binding was decreased in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and ventral pallidum of D2 receptor knockout mice. In substantia nigra pars compacta, dopamine transporter mRNA expression was dramatically decreased in D3 receptor knockout mice, but elevated in A2A receptor knockout mice. All dopamine receptor knockout mice examined exhibited increased A2A receptor binding in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. These data are consistent with the existence of functional interactions between dopaminergic and purinergic systems in these reward and motor-related brain regions.
The present study investigates the effect of the glucocorticoid corticosterone on microglial glutamate transporters in vitro. Microglial cultures obtained from rat cerebral cortex were found to express the excitatory amino acid transporter GLT-1, but not GLAST, and this expression was increased by 1 ng/ml lipopolysaccharide after 12 h of stimulation. This increase has previously been shown to be mediated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha, a cytokine released by microglia during pathological conditions. Furthermore, lipopolysaccharide increased the microglial release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and 1 microM corticosterone inhibited this effect. Corticosterone also inhibited the lipopolysaccharide-induced increase of the GLT-1 expression as well as the expression in non-activated cells. The effect of corticosterone on the GLT-1 expression was dose dependent and accompanied by similar effects on the microglial glutamate uptake capacity. Additionally, exogenous tumor necrosis factor-alpha was found to counteract the effect of corticosterone on microglial GLT-1 expression. The effect of corticosterone appeared to be glucocorticoid receptor specific since 10 microM of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone inhibited the effect. Thus, corticosterone decreased the microglial uptake of glutamate by decreasing the expression of glutamate transporters, probably due to the inhibited microglial tumor necrosis factor-alpha release. These results provide insights into the mechanisms behind microglial glutamate transporter expression during pathological conditions, and contribute to the debate about the beneficial or harmful effects of glucocorticoids.
Heparin-binding growth-associated molecule is a developmentally regulated extracellular matrix protein promoting neurite outgrowth, axonal guidance and synaptogenesis. In the hippocampus, heparin-binding growth-associated molecule is expressed in an activity-dependent manner, and has been shown to suppress long-term potentiation of glutamatergic synapses in the area CA1, but the mechanisms underlying this action are unknown. One of the mechanisms by which extracellular matrix proteins might modulate fast synaptic transmission is by altering GABAergic function. Therefore, we have studied the properties of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition in hippocampus of mutant mice overexpressing heparin-binding growth-associated molecule (heparin-binding growth-associated molecule transgenics). Under control conditions the wild-type mice have much higher level of long-term potentiation than the transgenics. However, in the absence of the GABAA receptor-mediated-inhibition a similar level of long-term potentiation is seen in both strains. In field potential recordings blockade of GABAA receptors by picrotoxin resulted in more accentuated increase in the CA1 population spike in the transgenics than in the wild-type animals. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings revealed that when compared with the wild-type animals the transgenic mice had higher frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons. However, the frequency of action potential-independent miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was similar in both strains. Further, the transgenics had reduced paired-pulse depression of inhibitory postsynaptic currents, which was insensitive to the blockade of GABAB receptors in contrast to wild-type mice. The results demonstrate that the mice overexpressing heparin-binding growth-associated molecule have accentuated hippocampal GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition, which in turn may explain the lowered predisposition of glutamatergic synapses to undergo plastic changes in these animals. Thus, our findings suggest a mechanism by which heparin-binding growth-associated molecule can regulate synaptic plasticity.
Food-anticipatory activity that animals express before a daily timed meal is considered as the behavioral output of a feeding-entrainable oscillator whose functional neuroanatomy is still unknown. In order to identify the possible brain areas involved in that timing mechanism, we investigated local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose during food-anticipatory activity produced either by a 4-h daily access to food starting 4 h after light onset or by a hypocaloric feeding provided at the same time. Local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose measured by the labeled 2-[(14)C]-deoxyglucose technique was quantified in 40 structures. In both groups of food-restricted rats, three brain regions (the nucleus of the solitary tract, the cerebellar cortex and the medial preoptic area) showed a decrease in local cerebral metabolic rate for glucose, compared with control ad libitum animals. In addition, only one structure, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, was affected by temporal restricted feeding, and not by hypocaloric feeding, compared with ad libitum rats. By contrast, three brain regions, i.e. the intergeniculate leaflets, the paraventricular hypothalamic and the arcuate nuclei, showed specifically metabolic decreases during anticipation of hypocaloric feeding, and not during anticipation of temporal restricted feeding, compared with the ad libitum group. Expression of food-anticipatory activity appears to be regulated by an integrated neural circuit of brainstem and hypothalamic pathways, with hypocaloric feeding involving more extensive forebrain areas than temporal restricted feeding.
Local inhibition within the spinal cord dorsal horn is mediated by the neurotransmitters GABA and glycine and strongly influences nociceptive and temperature signaling. Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors are expressed by inhibitory interneurons and have been shown to modulate GABA release in other regions of the CNS. In the spinal cord, there is morphological evidence for presynaptic AMPA receptor subunits in GABAergic dorsal horn neurons, but functional data are lacking. To determine if AMPA receptors are indeed functional at presynaptic terminals of inhibitory neurons, we recorded evoked and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSPs) in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. We show that AMPA receptor activation enhances spontaneous release of inhibitory amino acids in the presence of tetrodotoxin onto both lamina II neurons and NK1 receptor-expressing (NK1R+) lamina I neurons. This effect is sensitive to the concentration of extracellular Ca2+, yet is not fully blocked in most neurons in the presence of Cd2+, suggesting possible Ca2+ entry through AMPA receptors. Postsynaptic Ca2+ elevation is not required for these changes. AMPA-induced increases in mIPSP frequency are also seen in more mature dorsal horn neurons, indicating that these receptors may play a role in nociceptive processing in the adult. In addition, we have observed AMPA-induced depression of evoked release of GABA and glycine onto lamina I NK1R+ neurons. Taken together these data support a role for presynaptic AMPA receptors in modulating release of GABA and glycine in the superficial dorsal horn. Because inhibition in the dorsal horn is important for controlling pain signaling, presynaptic AMPA receptors acting to modulate the inhibitory inputs onto dorsal horn neurons would be expected to impact upon pain signaling in the spinal cord dorsal horn.
Cisplatin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent whose dose-limiting side effects include ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. Recent evidence indicates that cisplatin induces the expression of a novel protein, kidney injury molecule-1, in the renal proximal tubular epithelium to aid in regeneration. In this study, we determined whether kidney injury molecule-1 is expressed in the cochlea and is induced by cisplatin. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction techniques, we have now identified kidney injury molecule-1 in the rat cochlea and in three different mouse transformed hair cell lines. Administration of cisplatin to rats produced hearing loss and induced kidney injury molecule-1 mRNA in the rat cochlea. Pretreatment of rats with lipoic acid, a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, significantly reduced cisplatin-induced hearing loss and kidney injury molecule-1 expression. Cisplatin also increased the expression of cochlear NOX3 mRNA, a member of the superoxide generating NADPH oxidase family of proteins recently identified in the cochlea, inhibition of which decreased kidney injury molecule-1 expression. Polymerase chain reaction performed on different regions of the cochlea indicated the presence of kidney injury molecule-1 mRNA in the lateral wall, organ of Corti and spiral ganglion. This distribution was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Taken together, these data identify kidney injury molecule-1 as a novel cochlear injury molecule, whose expression is regulated by reactive oxygen species generated via the NADPH oxidase pathway.
Near-infrared light via light-emitting diode treatment has documented therapeutic effects on neurons functionally inactivated by tetrodotoxin or methanol intoxication. Light-emitting diode pretreatment also reduced potassium cyanide-induced cell death, but the mode of death via the apoptotic or necrotic pathway was unclear. The current study tested our hypothesis that light-emitting diode rescues neurons from apoptotic cell death. Primary neuronal cultures from postnatal rat visual cortex were pretreated with light-emitting diode for 10 min at a total energy density of 30 J/cm2 before exposing to potassium cyanide for 28 h. With 100 or 300 microM potassium cyanide, neurons died mainly via the apoptotic pathway, as confirmed by electron microscopy, Hoechst 33258, single-stranded DNA, Bax, and active caspase-3. In the presence of caspase inhibitor I, the percentage of apoptotic cells in 300microM potassium cyanide was significantly decreased. Light-emitting diode pretreatment reduced apoptosis from 36% to 17.9% (100 microM potassium cyanide) and from 58.9% to 39.6% (300 microM potassium cyanide), representing a 50.3% and 32.8% reduction, respectively. Light-emitting diode pretreatment significantly decreased the expression of caspase-3 elicited by potassium cyanide. It also reversed the potassium cyanide-induced increased expression of Bax and decreased expression of Bcl-2 to control levels. Moreover, light-emitting diode decreased the intensity of 5-(and -6) chloromethy-2', 7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate acetyl ester, a marker of reactive oxygen species, in neurons exposed to 300 microM potassium cyanide. These results indicate that light-emitting diode pretreatment partially protects neurons against cyanide-induced caspase-mediated apoptosis, most likely by decreasing reactive oxygen species production, down-regulating pro-apoptotic proteins and activating anti-apoptotic proteins, as well as increasing energy metabolism in neurons as reported previously.
One class of spinal interneurons, the Renshaw cells, is able to discharge at very high frequencies in adult mammals. Neuronal firing at such high frequencies requires voltage-gated potassium channels to rapidly repolarize the membrane potential after each action potential. We sought to establish the pattern of expression of calbindin and potassium channels with Kv3.1b and Kv3.2 subunits in Renshaw cells at different developmental stages of postnatal mice. The pattern of expression of calbindin changed dramatically during early postnatal development. An adult pattern of calbindin reactive neurons started to emerge from postnatal day 10 to postnatal day 14, with cells in laminae I and II of superficial dorsal horn and the ventral lamina VII. Renshaw cells were identified immunohistochemically by their expression of calbindin and their location in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. Western blot results of the lumbar spinal cord showed that Kv3.1b expression became faintly evident from postnatal day 10, reached a maximum at postnatal day 21 and was maintained through postnatal day 49. Double labeling results showed that all Renshaw cells expressed Kv3.1b weakly from postnatal day 14, and strongly at postnatal day 21. Western blot results showed that Kv3.2 expression became detectable in the lumbar cord from postnatal day 12, and increased steadily until reaching an adult level at postnatal day 28. In contrast to the Kv3.1b results, Kv3.2 was not expressed in Renshaw cells, although some neurons located at laminae VIII and VI expressed Kv3.2. We conclude that Renshaw cells express Kv3.1b but not Kv3.2 from postnatal day 14.
This study was aimed to investigate reactive changes of Mller glial cells in rats subjected to experimentally induced glaucoma. In the latter, it is well documented that elevated intraocular pressure leads to the loss of ganglion cells as confirmed in this study. The present results have shown that Mller glial cells as well as astrocytes closely associated with the ganglion cells reacted vigorously to increased intraocular pressure as manifested by the induced and upregulated expression of nestin and glial fibrillar acidic protein. A major finding in glaucomatous rats was the induced expression of nestin together with glial fibrillar acidic protein with the rise of the intraocular pressure beginning at 2 h. The marked nestin expression appeared to be most intense at 1 week after operation and was sustained at 3 weeks. Induced nestin expression in Mller glial cells was demonstrated unequivocally in whole-mount preparation of the retina. In the same tissue preparation, nestin expression was also detected in some astrocytes. Western blotting analysis confirmed a marked increase in expression of nestin and glial fibrillar acidic protein. Present results suggest that nestin as well as glial fibrillar acidic protein is a useful biomarker for retina injury. The induced expression of these intermediate filament proteins in Mller glial cells especially at their end-feet and also in some astrocytes adjoining the neuronal injury suggests a potential neuroprotective mechanism in response to acute rise in intraocular pressure resulting in neuronal degeneration.
Successful strategies for transplantation of neural precursor cells for replacement of lost or dysfunctional CNS cells require long-term survival of grafted cells and integration with the host system, potentially for the life of the recipient. It is also important to demonstrate that transplants do not result in adverse outcomes. Few studies have examined the long-term properties of transplanted neural precursor cells in the CNS, particularly in non-neurogenic regions of the adult. The aim of the present study was to extensively characterize the fate of defined populations of neural precursor cells following transplantation into the developing and adult CNS (brain and spinal cord) for up to 15 months, including integration of graft-derived neurons with the host. Specifically, we employed neuronal-restricted precursors and glial-restricted precursors, which represent neural precursor cells with lineage restrictions for neuronal and glial fate, respectively. Transplanted cells were prepared from embryonic day-13.5 fetal spinal cord of transgenic donor rats that express the marker gene human placental alkaline phosphatase to achieve stable and reliable graft tracking. We found that in both developing and adult CNS grafted cells showed long-term survival, morphological maturation, extensive distribution and differentiation into all mature CNS cell types (neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes). Graft-derived neurons also formed synapses, as identified by electron microscopy, suggesting that transplanted neural precursor cells integrated with adult CNS. Furthermore, grafts did not result in any apparent deleterious outcomes. We did not detect tumor formation, cells did not localize to unwanted locations and no pronounced immune response was present at the graft sites. The long-term stability of neuronal-restricted precursors and glial-restricted precursors and the lack of adverse effects suggest that transplantation of lineage-restricted neural precursor cells can serve as an effective and safe replacement therapy for CNS injury and degeneration.
Adaptation of ocular reflexes is a prototype of motor learning. While the cerebellum is acknowledged as the critical site for motor learning, the functional differences between the cerebellar cortex and nuclei in motor memory formation are not precisely known. Two different views are proposed: one that the memory is formed within the cerebellar flocculus, and the other that the memory is formed within vestibular nuclei. Here we developed a new paradigm of long-term adaptation of mouse horizontal optokinetic response eye movements and examined the location of its memory trace. We also tested the role of flocculus and inferior olive in long-term adaptation by chronic lesion experiments. Reversible bilateral flocculus shutdown with local application of 0.5 microl-5% lidocaine extinguished the memory trace of day-long adaptation, while it very little affected the memory trace of week-long adaptation. The responsiveness of vestibular nuclei after week-long adaptation was examined by measuring the extracellular field responses to the electrical stimulation of vestibular nerve under trichloroacetaldehyde anesthesia. The amplitudes and slopes of evoked monosynaptic field response (N1) of week-long adapted mice were enhanced around the medial vestibular nucleus compared with those of control mice. Chronic flocculus or inferior olive lesions abolished both day and week-long adaptations. These results suggest that the functional memory trace of short-term adaptation is formed initially within the cerebellar cortex, and later transferred to vestibular nuclei to be consolidated to a long-term memory. Both day and week-long adaptations were markedly depressed when neural nitric oxide was pharmacologically blocked locally and when neuronal nitric oxide synthase was ablated by gene knockout, suggesting that cerebellar long-term depression underlies both acquisition and consolidation of motor memory.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the hypothesis of the presence of a local neural reflex modulating the vagally mediated contractions of striated muscle in the rat esophagus and to determine the possible involvement of tachykinins in such a local neural reflex. Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve evoked twitch contractile responses that were abolished by d-tubocurarine (5 microM). Capsaicin (1-100 microM) inhibited the vagally mediated twitch contractions o f the normal rat esophageal preparations concentration-dependently but not those of the neonatally capsaicin-treated ones. NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 microM), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, blocked the inhibitory effect of capsaicin and exogenous application of a nitric oxide donor (1 mM) inhibited the vagally mediated twitch contractions. Capsaicin suppressed acetylcholine release from the normal rat esophageal segments evoked by vagus nerve stimulation but not that from the neonatally capsaicin-treated ones. A selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist (0.1 or 1 microM) attenuated the inhibitory effect of capsaicin. However, antagonists of tachykinin NK2, tachykinin NK3 and calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors (1 microM) did not have any effect. A tachykinin NK1 receptor agonist (1 or 5 microM) inhibited the vagally mediated twitch contractions, which was prevented by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 microM). These data suggest that the rat esophagus might have a local neural reflex inhibiting the vagally mediated striated muscle motility, which consists of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons and myenteric nitrergic neurons, and that tachykinins might be involved in the neural reflex through tachykinin NK1 receptors.
Numerous sex differences have been detected in the morphology of the dentate and hippocampal neurons and hippocampus-dependent memory functions. The aim of the present study was to ascertain whether the mossy cells, an interneuron population forming a recurrent excitatory circuit with the dentate granule cells, are sexually dimorphic. The brains of juvenile (15-16 days old) and peripubescent (45-46 days old) male and female guinea-pigs were Golgi-Cox stained. Mossy cells were sampled from the hilus in the septal third of the dentate gyrus and their dendritic tree and somata were analyzed. The analysis was separately conducted on mossy cells with soma located in the portions of the hilus that face the upper blade (upper hilus) and lower blade (lower hilus), respectively. The mossy cells in the upper hilus were found to be sexually dimorphic in both juvenile and peripubescent animals. At both ages females had a larger dendritic tree than males. This difference was due to a greater mean branch length and, in peripubescent animals, also to a greater number of branches. In juvenile males, the spines on the proximal dendrites (thorny excrescences) had a greater density than in females. No differences in spine density were present in peripubescent animals. Unlike the mossy cells in the upper hilus, the mossy cells in the lower hilus showed very few sex differences in juvenile animals and no differences in peripubescent animals. The few differences favored females, that had more proximal branches and a greater spine density on the distal dendrites than males. The results show that the mossy cells of the guinea-pig are sexually dimorphic prior to puberty. Extending a previous investigation, the present data provide evidence that sex differences are mainly confined to the dentate region corresponding to the upper blade and upper hilus. The observed segregation of the sexual dimorphism in the upper blade/upper hilus suggests that this region might underlie the sexual dimorphism in hippocampus-dependent memory functions.
Lead exposure is known to be associated with cognitive dysfunction in children. Impairment of the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) has been reported in area CA1 of rat hippocampus following lead exposure in vivo and in vitro. The present study was carried out to investigate whether the alterations of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-independent LTP following lead exposure involve internal calcium stores in hippocampus CA1 synapses. Monosynaptic field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in hippocampal slice area CA1 were recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp upon acute lead treatment, and these studies were coupled with calcium imaging experiments to observe internal calcium changes in cultured hippocampal neurons. Inhibiting calcium release by ryanodine significantly reduced NMDA receptor-independent LTP, and depletion of internal calcium stores with thapsigargin blocked this form of LTP. Caffeine, an agonist of ryanodine receptors, enhanced this form of LTP. However, caffeine-enhanced NMDA receptor-independent LTP was depressed after bath application of lead. Moreover, lead further decreased ryanodine- and thapsigargin-reduced NMDA receptor-independent LTP. Calcium imaging also confirmed that lead had an effect on internal calcium release and uptake. Taken together, these results demonstrated that lead inhibited NMDA receptor-independent LTP by action on calcium release and uptake by ryanodine-sensitive stores in rat hippocampal area CA1.
Using real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, Northern blot, and Western blot analyses, we evaluated the developmental pattern of mRNA and protein expression level of muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors in the carotid body, petrosal ganglion and superior cervical ganglion of 1-day, 15-day, 2-month-old and adult cats. mRNA expression and protein levels of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis, were also assessed. Carotid body M1 receptor mRNA, increased significantly by approximately 100% and 300% in 2-month and adult vs. 1- and 15-day-old cats, but protein level decreased gradually being approximately 50% lower compared with 1-day-old cats. In the petrosal ganglion, muscarinic M1 receptor mRNA level was higher in 15-day-old cats vs. 1-day-old, 2-month-old and adult cats and protein levels were about 30% lower than in 1- and 15-day-old cats. In the superior cervical ganglion, muscarinic M1 receptor mRNA was approximately 50% and 80% higher in 2-month-old and adult cats than 1- and 15-day-old, but no changes in the protein level except in 15-day-old cats which was approximately 40% higher than 1-day-old. There was no change of muscarinic M2 receptor mRNA or protein level in the carotid body or petrosal ganglion. However, in the superior cervical ganglion, the significant increase of mRNA of 30% and 50% in 2-month-olds and adults, respectively was not associated with an increase in receptor protein. Tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and protein level decreased significantly with age in the carotid body and petrosal ganglion. In the superior cervical ganglion, the age dependent increase in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was not associated with any changes in the protein level. These results show that the expression of muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors are age and organ-dependent in cats. Consequently, these changes may modulate chemosensory activity during development since muscarinic M1 receptor is predominantly involved in postsynaptic chemosensory activity, while muscarinic M2 receptor modulates acetylcholine and dopamine release from chemosensitive cells.
The progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone, like benzodiazepines, reduces learning and impairs memory in rats. Both substances act as GABA agonists at the GABA-A receptor and impair the performance in the Morris water maze test. Women are during the menstrual cycle, pregnancy, and during hormone replacement therapy exposed to allopregnanolone or allopregnanolone-like substances for extended periods. Long-term benzodiazepine treatment can cause tolerance against benzodiazepine-induced learning impairments. In this study we evaluated whether a corresponding allopregnanolone tolerance develops in rats. Adult male Wistar rats were pretreated for 3 days with i.v. allopregnanolone injections (2 mg/kg) one or two times a day, or for 7 days with allopregnanolone injections 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally, twice a day. Thereafter the rats were tested in the Morris water maze for 5 days and compared with relevant controls. Rats pretreated with allopregnanolone twice a day had decreased escape latency, path length and thigmotaxis compared with the acute allopregnanolone group that was pretreated with vehicle. Pretreatment for 7 days resulted in learning of the platform position. However, the memory of the platform position was in these tolerant rats not as strong as in controls only given vehicle. Allopregnanolone treatment was therefore seen to induce a partial tolerance against acute allopregnanolone effects in the Morris water maze.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is a neurotrophin belonging to the nerve growth factor family, which is involved in the differentiation and survival of many types of neurons. It also participates in neuroprotection and neuronal plasticity in adult rats. Our previous studies showed that a single brain-derived neurotrophic factor injection modifies hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity in adult male rats. To investigate the effect of chronic brain-derived neurotrophic factor administration on some physiological parameters, adult rats were implanted with osmotic micro-pumps to deliver brain-derived neurotrophic factor continuously for 14 days in the lateral ventricle (12 microg/day/rat). mRNA levels were evaluated by in situ hybridization analysis, peptide contents and plasma hormone concentrations by radioimmunoassay. Animals were also equipped with telemetric transmitters to study locomotor activity and temperature rhythms modifications, since hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is known to modulate these two parameters. Decreased body weight was used as a control of brain-derived neurotrophic factor access to hypothalamic areas as already documented. In the hypothalamus the continuous brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment increases: (i) the mRNA steady state levels of corticotropin releasing hormone and arginin-vasopressin in the paraventricular nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus, and the suprachiasmatic nucleus; (ii) the surface of corticotropin releasing hormone and arginin-vasopressin mRNA signals in these nuclei as detected by in situ hybridization, and (iii) the corticotropin releasing hormone and arginin-vasopressin contents. The plasma concentrations of adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone were decreased and increased, respectively. Finally, this treatment increased daily locomotor activity and temperature, and provoked some circadian perturbations. These results obtained after chronic brain-derived neurotrophic factor administration extend data on the brain-derived neurotrophic factor involvement in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis regulation and illustrate its effects on the locomotor and temperature rhythms. They also allow demonstrating that the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis by brain-derived neurotrophic factor differs according to the brain-derived neurotrophic factor administration mode, i.e. acute injection or chronic administration.
This study aims to investigate how quadriplegic patients with a C6-C7 spinal lesion coordinate their upper limb to extend the elbow despite the paralysis or weakness of the triceps brachii, and what is the effect of a surgical musculotendinous transfer. For this purpose, aiming movements in a wide workspace were recorded in seven healthy subjects and in patients with incomplete (five cases) or complete (eight cases) triceps paralysis and after musculotendinous transfer (eight cases). We used four electromagnetic field sensors to quantify hand trajectory and to compute the angles describing the rotations at the scapula, glenohumeral joint, elbow and wrist (10 degrees of freedom). Extent and smoothness of the hand trajectories and hand velocity profiles were surprisingly similar between healthy subjects and quadriplegic patients. The reduction of elbow extension observed in patients was compensated by rotations distributed across several degrees of freedom including the scapula. Principal components analysis showed that the joint rotations could be summarized by an additive combination of two synergies, respectively orientating and stretching out the limb, which explained similar amounts of variance in healthy subjects and in patients. The participations of degrees of freedom in the synergies were roughly similar in the different groups of subjects, the main difference concerning scapular medial-lateral rotation, which seems to be critical in patients with a complete triceps paralysis. This demonstrates that elbow extension in quadriplegic patients is due to anticipated mechanical interaction coupling between upper limb segments. We propose that the persisting (incomplete paralysis) or restored (musculotendinous transfer) elbow extensor strength may act by stabilizing the elbow. This counterintuitive preservation of limb kinematics for horizontal aiming movements in quadriplegic patients despite the drastic changes in muscle action provoked by paralysis and/or by surgery strongly suggests that the motor system does not primarily control forces but the morphological aspects of movement, via joint rotation synergies.
Insulin-like growth factors-I and -II and insulin are structurally related mitogenic growth factors with multiple actions in the developing nervous system and adult CNS. Previous studies have demonstrated acute induction of insulin-like growth factors and their receptors, over a time course of several days, in response to hypoxic/ischemic insult to developing or adult brain. The current study tested whether birth insults involving hypoxia may produce long term changes in brain insulin-like growth factor or insulin receptor levels, lasting into adulthood. For this, rats were born vaginally (controls), by cesarean section, or by cesarean section with 15 min of added global anoxia (cesarean section+anoxia), and brain [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I, [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II and [125I]insulin receptor binding sites were assessed autoradiographically at adulthood. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor-I receptor binding sites were increased in all hippocampal subfields (CA1-CA3, dentate gyrus) in rats born either by cesarean section or by cesarean section+anoxia, compared with vaginal birth. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor-II binding was increased in all hippocampal subfields only in rats born by cesarean section+anoxia compared with either vaginal birth or cesarean section groups. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor-I and [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II binding in frontal cortex, striatum and cerebellum were unaffected by birth group, except for increased [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I binding in the cerebellar molecular layer of cesarean-sectioned animals. Birth group had no significant effect on [125I]insulin binding in any brain region. Affinity cross-linking experiments performed with hippocampal membranes from the three birth groups showed that i) [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I and [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II recognized bands of molecular weights characteristic of insulin-like growth factor-I and insulin-like growth factor-II receptors, respectively, and ii) [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I and [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II were displaced more potently by their respective unlabeled ligands than by related molecules. It is concluded that birth insults involving hypoxia can induce lasting increases in insulin-like growth factor-I and -II receptors in the CNS. There is specificity with respect to the subtype of insulin-like growth factor receptor affected by the particular birth insult and the brain region affected. It is suggested that enduring increases in levels of insulin-like growth factor receptors consequent to hypoxic birth insult may help to maintain hippocampal function at adulthood, and could modulate responsiveness to insulin-like growth factor administration.
Although it is established that neurokinin B is expressed by some neurons in laminae I-III of the rat spinal dorsal horn, little is known about the proportions of cells in these laminae that express neurokinin B, or whether these are excitatory or inhibitory neurons. Neurokinin B is derived from preprotachykinin B, and we have used an antibody against preprotachykinin B to address these issues. We found that preprotachykinin B-immunoreactive neurons were present throughout laminae I-III, constituting 10-11% of the neuronal population in laminae I-II, and 4% of that in lamina III. They formed a prominent band in the ventral half of lamina II (where they made up 16% of the population) and the dorsalmost part of lamina III. The great majority (99%) of preprotachykinin B-immunoreactive axonal boutons contained the vesicular glutamate transporter 2, while none contained glutamic acid decarboxylase. Since most of these boutons are likely to be derived from local preprotachykinin B-expressing cells, these observations suggest that most of the latter are excitatory interneurons. Although 9% of preprotachykinin B-labeled axonal varicosities were substance P-immunoreactive, none contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, which is consistent with reports that neurokinin B is not expressed by primary afferent axons. Many of the preprotachykinin B-immunoreactive cells contained compounds that are present in putative excitatory neurons in laminae I-III: calbindin (84%), protein kinase Cgamma (76%) or somatostatin (31%). However, there was little or no overlap between preprotachykinin B and three other markers associated with excitatory neurons in these laminae: the mu opioid receptor MOR-1, the neurokinin 1 receptor and neurotensin. These results suggest that neurokinin B is expressed by specific populations of excitatory neurons in the superficial dorsal horn. By examining expression of Fos protein in response to intraplantar injection of formaldehyde we provide evidence that many of the preprotachykinin B cells in lamina I and the outer part of lamina II respond to noxious stimulation.
GABA is an important inhibitory transmitter in the CNS. In the enteric nervous system, however, both excitatory and inhibitory actions have been reported. Here, we investigated the effects of GABA on the intracellular Ca2+ concentration of guinea-pig myenteric neurons (at 35 degrees C) using Fura-2-AM. Neurons were identified by 75 mM K+ depolarization (5 s), which evoked a transient intracellular Ca2+ concentration increase. GABA (10 s) induced a dose dependent (5 nM-1 microM) transient intracellular Ca2+ concentration rise in the majority of neurons (500 nM GABA: 251+/-17 nM, n=232/289). Interestingly, the response to 5 microM GABA (n=18) lasted several minutes and did not fully recover. GABA response amplitudes were significantly (P&lt;0.001) reduced by GABAA and GABAB receptor antagonists (10 microM) bicuculline and phaclofen. The GABAA agonist isoguvacine (10 microM) and GABAB agonist baclofen (10 microM) induced similar responses as 50 nM GABA, while the GABAC agonist cis-4-aminocrotonic acid (CACA) (10 microM) only elicited small responses in a minority of neurons. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ abolished all responses while depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores by thapsigargin (5 microM) did not alter the responses to 500 nM GABA (n=13), but reduction of Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels did. The nicotinic antagonist hexamethonium (100 microM) also reduced GABA responses by almost 70% suggesting that GABA stimulates cholinergic pathways, while the purinergic receptor blocker pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) and the 5-HT3 receptor blocker ondansetron only had minor effects. Conclusion: GABA elicits transient intracellular Ca2+ concentration responses in the majority of myenteric neurons through activation of GABAA and GABAB receptors and much of the response can be attributed to facilitation of ACh release. Thus GABA may act mainly as a modulator that sets the state of excitability of the enteric nerve network. A concentration of 5 microM GABA, although frequently used in pharmacological experiments, seems to cause a detrimental response reminiscent of the neurotoxic effects glutamate has in the CNS.
In this study, we used a well-established animal model to investigate changes in the peptidergic and parasympathetic innervation of the bladder following chronic bladder inflammation. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with either 70 mg/kg cyclophosphamide diluted in saline, i.p., once every 3 days or saline. After 10 days, all animals were tested for urinary frequency and number of low volume voids, as well as symptoms of spontaneous pain. At the end of 12 days, all animals were perfused with histological fixatives and the urinary bladders processed for immunofluorescence using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter as markers, respectively, of peptidergic primary afferent fibers and parasympathetic efferent fibers. We show that animals treated with cyclophosphamide had inflamed bladders and displayed high urinary frequency as well as some indicators of spontaneous pain, such as piloerection and a rounded-back posture. Furthermore, they had a significant increase in the density of both parasympathetic and peptidergic sensory fibers in the bladder mucosa and an increase in peptidergic sensory fibers in the detrusor muscle. Based on these results, we suggest that peripheral sprouting of parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers could be a mechanism responsible for sensitization of the bladder, leading to urinary symptoms. Since we observed that the parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers often wrapped around one another and that their varicosities were very close, these two fiber populations may be interacting with each other to lead to and maintain sensitization. Future studies are required to establish the role of this fiber sprouting in bladder symptoms.


Limb regeneration in amphibians is a representative process of epimorphosis. This type of organ regeneration, in which a mass of undifferentiated cells referred to as the &quot;blastema&quot; proliferate to restore the lost part of the amputated organ, is distinct from morphallaxis as observed, for instance, in Hydra, in which rearrangement of pre-existing cells and tissues mainly contribute to regeneration. In contrast to complete limb regeneration in urodele amphibians, limb regeneration in Xenopus, an anuran amphibian, is restricted. In this review of some aspects regarding adult limb regeneration in Xenopus laevis, we suggest that limb regeneration in adult Xenopus, which is pattern/tissue deficient, also represents epimorphosis.
The dogma that genetic alterations are restricted to directly irradiated cells has been challenged by observations in which effects of ionizing radiation, characteristically associated with the consequences of energy deposition in the cell nucleus, arise in non-irradiated cells. These, so called, untargeted effects are demonstrated in cells that have received damaging signals produced by irradiated cells (radiation-induced bystander effects) or that are the descendants of irradiated cells (radiation-induced genomic instability). Radiation-induced genomic instability is characterized by a number of delayed adverse responses including chromosomal abnormalities, gene mutations and cell death. Similar effects, as well as responses that may be regarded as protective, have been attributed to bystander mechanisms. Whilst the majority of studies to date have used in vitro systems, some adverse non-targeted effects have been demonstrated in vivo. However, at least for haemopoietic tissues, radiation-induced genomic instability in vivo may not necessarily be a reflection of genomically unstable cells. Rather the damage may reflect responses to ongoing production of damaging signals; i.e. bystander responses, but not in the sense used to describe the rapidly induced effects resulting from direct interaction of irradiated and non-irradiated cells. The findings are consistent with a delayed and long-lived tissue reaction to radiation injury characteristic of an inflammatory response with the potential for persisting bystander-mediated damage. An important implication of the findings is that contrary to conventional radiobiological dogma and interpretation of epidemiologically-based risk estimates, ionizing radiation may contribute to malignancy and particularly childhood leukaemia by promoting initiated cells rather than being the initiating agent. Untargeted mechanisms may also contribute to other pathological consequences.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptor is a ligand-gated cation channel that can be activated by capsaicin, heat, protons and cytosolic lipids. We compared activation of recombinant human TRPV1 receptors stably expressed in human 293 cells, derived from kidney embryonic cells, and in human 1321N1 cells, derived from brain astrocytes. Cellular influx of calcium was measured in response to acid, endovanilloids (N-arachidonoyl-dopamine, N-oleoyl-dopamine and anandamide), capsaicin and other traditional vanilloid agonists under normal (pH 7.4) and acidic (pH 6.7 and 6.0) assay conditions. The host cell expression system altered the agonist profile of endogenous TRPV1 receptor agonists without affecting the pharmacological profile of either exogenous TRPV1 receptor agonists or antagonists. Our data signify that the host cell expression system plays a modulatory role in TRPV1 receptor activity, and suggests that activation of native human TRPV1 receptors in vivo will be dependent on cell-specific regulatory factors/pathways.
The novel iboga alkaloid congener 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC) is a putative anti-addictive agent that has been shown, in rats, to decrease the self-administration of morphine and other drugs of abuse. Previous work has established that 18-MC is a potent antagonist at alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors. Because alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors in the brain are preferentially located in the medial habenula and the interpeduncular nucleus, the present study was conducted to determine if 18-MC could act in these brain areas to modulate morphine self-administration in rats. Local administration of 18-MC into either the medial habenula or the interpeduncular area decreased morphine self-administration while having no effect on responding for a non-drug reinforcer (sucrose). Similar results were produced by local administration into the same brain areas of two other alpha3beta4 nicotinic antagonists, mecamylamine and alpha-conotoxin AuIB. Local administration of 18-MC into the ventral tegmental area had no effect on morphine self-administration. These and other data are consistent with the hypothesis that 18-MC decreases morphine self-administration by blocking alpha3beta4 nicotinic receptors in the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway.
Cells in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (aVCN) send out calyceal axons that form large excitatory somatic terminals, the calyces of Held, onto principal cells of the contralateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). It is unclear which fraction of these axons might form more than one calyx and whether this fraction changes during development. We combined in vitro anterograde tracing, stereological cell counts, analysis of apoptosis, and immunohistochemistry to study the development of calyceal afferents in rats of different postnatal ages. We found that some principal cells were contacted by multiple large axosomatic inputs, but these invariably originated from the same axon. Conversely, at least 18% of traced afferents branched to form multiple calyces, independently of age. Calyces from the same axon generally innervated nearby principal cells, and most of these branch points were &lt;50 microm away from the synaptic terminals. Our results show that the projection from the aVCN to the MNTB is divergent, both when calyces have just been formed and in the adult. Cell counts did not provide evidence for principal cell loss during development, although analysis of apoptosis showed a large increase in nonneuronal cell death around the onset of hearing. Our data suggest that, once a calyceal synapse forms in the MNTB, it stays.
Planar cell polarity (PCP) is a process in which cells develop with uniform orientation within the plane of an epithelium. To begin to elucidate the mechanisms of PCP in vertebrates, the localization of the protein Vangl2 (Van Gogh-like) was determined during the development of the mammalian cochlea. Results indicate that Vangl2 becomes asymmetrically localized to specific cell-cell boundaries along the axis of polarization and that this asymmetry is lost in PCP mutants. In addition, PDZ2 (postsynaptic density/Discs large/zona occludens 1), PDZ3, and PDZ4 of the PCP protein Scrb1 (Scribble) are shown to bind to the C-terminal PDZ binding domain of Vangl2, suggesting that Scrb1 plays a direct role in asymmetric targeting of Vangl2. Finally, Fz3 (Frizzled), a newly demonstrated mediator of PCP, is also asymmetrically localized in a pattern that matches that of Vangl2. The presence and asymmetry of Fz3 at the membrane is shown to be dependent on Vangl2. This result suggests a role for Vangl2 in the targeting or anchoring of Fz3, a hypothesis strengthened by the existence of a physical interaction between the two proteins. Together, our data support the idea that protein asymmetry plays an important role in the development of PCP, but the colocalization and interaction of Fz3 and Vangl2 suggests that novel PCP mechanisms exist in vertebrates.
Paranodal junctions of myelinated nerve fibers are important for saltatory conduction and function as paracellular and membrane protein diffusion barriers flanking nodes of Ranvier. The formation of these specialized axoglial contacts depends on the presence of three cell adhesion molecules: neurofascin 155 on the glial membrane and a complex of Caspr and contactin on the axon. We isolated axonal and glial membranes highly enriched in these paranodal proteins and then used mass spectrometry to identify additional proteins associated with the paranodal axoglial junction. This strategy led to the identification of three novel components of the paranodal cytoskeleton: ankyrinB, alphaII spectrin, and betaII spectrin. Biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses revealed that these proteins associate with protein 4.1B in a macromolecular complex that is concentrated at central and peripheral paranodal junctions in the adult and during early myelination. Furthermore, we show that the paranodal localization of ankyrinB is disrupted in Caspr-null mice with aberrant paranodal junctions, demonstrating that paranodal neuron-glia interactions regulate the organization of the underlying cytoskeleton. In contrast, genetic disruption of the juxtaparanodal protein Caspr2 or the nodal cytoskeletal protein betaIV spectrin did not alter the paranodal cytoskeleton. Our results demonstrate that the paranodal junction contains specialized cytoskeletal components that may be important to stabilize axon-glia interactions and contribute to the membrane protein diffusion barrier found at paranodes.
Spinal marginal zone (MZ) neurons play a crucial role in the transmission of nociceptive and thermoreceptive information to the brain. The precise areas to which physiologically characterized MZ neurons project in the ventral posterior lateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus have not been clearly established. Here, we examine this projection in rats using the method of antidromic activation to map the axon terminals of neurons recorded from the MZ. Thirty-three neurons were antidromically activated using pulses of &lt; or =30 microA in the contralateral VPL. In every case, the most rostral point from which the MZ neuron could be antidromically activated was surrounded by stimulating tracks in which large-amplitude current pulses failed to activate the examined neuron, indicating the termination of the spinothalamic tract (STT) axon. Each of 30 examined neurons responded to noxious but not innocuous mechanical stimuli applied to their cutaneous receptive fields, which ranged in size from two digits to the entire limb. Of 17 thermally tested neurons, 16 responded to innocuous or noxious thermal stimuli. Among STT neurons that responded to thermal stimuli, 50% responded to innocuous cooling as well as noxious heat and cold, 31% responded to noxious heat and cold, and 19% responded only to noxious heat. Axons from cells responsive to innocuous cooling terminated in the core region of VPL, significantly dorsal and medial relative to other thermally responsive subgroups. In rats, thermally responsive subgroups of MZ neurons project directly to distinct regions of VPL.
The transcription factor DeltaFosB (also referred to as FosB2 or FosB[short form]) is an important mediator of the long-term plasticity induced in brain by chronic exposure to several types of psychoactive stimuli, including drugs of abuse, stress, and electroconvulsive seizures. A distinct feature of DeltaFosB is that, once induced, it persists in brain for relatively long periods of time in the absence of further stimulation. The mechanisms underlying this apparent stability, however, have remained unknown. Here, we demonstrate that DeltaFosB is a relatively stable transcription factor, with a half-life of approximately 10 h in cell culture. Furthermore, we show that DeltaFosB is a phosphoprotein in brain and that phosphorylation of a highly conserved serine residue (Ser27) in DeltaFosB protects it from proteasomal degradation. We provide several lines of evidence suggesting that this phosphorylation is mediated by casein kinase 2. These findings constitute the first evidence that DeltaFosB is phosphorylated and demonstrate that phosphorylation contributes to its stability, which is at the core of its ability to mediate long-lasting adaptations in brain.
The rapid cycling of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) at the membrane maintains synaptic transmission at a number of CNS synapses and may play a role in several forms of synaptic plasticity. It is unclear, however, how prevalent the trafficking of AMPARs is in the CNS, particularly at synapses not known to exhibit activity-dependent plasticity. Because trafficking is regulated by basal synaptic activity, a question also remains as to how receptor trafficking is modulated at synapses subject to different patterns of synaptic activation. We have investigated whether trafficking of AMPARs occurs in retinal neurons, which are subject to tonic glutamate release. We find two distinct states of AMPAR trafficking in ON ganglion cells. Light adaptation serves to stabilize AMPARs in a noncycling mode. However, dark adaptation for as little as 8 h triggers a switch to a second state of trafficking characterized by rapid cycling. We provide evidence that the activation of AMPARs is critical for switching between cycling and noncycling states. The induction of cycling further appears to be modulated by changes in the function of glutamate receptor 2/3-interacting proteins. Our results suggest that there is a strong link between synaptic activity and AMPAR trafficking in retinal neurons. These results further suggest the existence of a previously unknown form of activity-dependent plasticity in the retina that may be regulated in the course of a normal light/dark cycle.
Most neurons in the developing mammalian brain migrate to their final destinations by translocation of the cell nucleus within their leading process and immature bipolar body that is devoid of synaptic connections. Here, we used a combination of immunohistochemistry at light- and electron-microscopic (EM) levels and time-lapse imaging in slice cultures to analyze migration of synaptically interconnected, cholecystokinin-immunopositive [CCK(+)] interneurons in the dentate gyrus in the rat hippocampus during early postnatal ages. We observed dynamic morphogenetic transformation of the CCK(+) interneurons, from a horizontal bipolar shape situated in the molecular layer, through a transitional triangular and then vertical bipolar form that they acquire while traversing the granular layer to finally assume an adult-like pyramidal-shaped morphology on entering the hilus. Immunostaining with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and three-dimensional reconstructions from serial EM images indicate that, unlike granule cells, which migrate from the hilus to the granular layer, interneurons traverse this layer in the opposite direction without apparent surface-mediated guidance of the radial glial cells. Importantly, the somas, dendrites, and axons of the CCK(+) transitional forms maintain old and acquire new synaptic contacts while migrating across the dentate plate. The migration of synaptically interconnected neurons that may occur in response to local functional demand represents a novel mode of cell movement and form of neuroplasticity.
Strategies are implicitly formed when a task is consistent and can be used to improve performance. To investigate how strategies can alter perceptual performance, I trained animals in a reaction time (RT) detection task in which the probability of a fixed duration motion pulse appearing varied over time in a consistent manner. Consistent with previous studies suggesting the implicit representation of task timing, I found that RTs were inversely related to the probability of the pulse appearing and decreased with training. I then inferred the sensory integration underlying responses using behavioral reverse correlation analysis. This analysis revealed that training and anticipation optimized detection by improving the correlation between sensory integration and the spatiotemporal extent of the motion pulse. Moreover, I found that these improvements in sensory integration could largely explain observed changes in the distribution of RT with training and anticipation. These results suggest that training can increase detection performance by optimizing sensory integration according to implicitly formed representations of the likelihood and nature of the stimulus.
A diagnostic hypothesis is a causa ficta. It is an assumption, suitable to explain phenomena, which are not yet proven to be the only and valid explanation of the observed. One of Wilhelm Hauff's faitales illustrates how a hypothesis is generated. It is based on the interpretation of signs. Signs are of an ikonic, an indexical or a symbolic nature. According to S. Peirce, a hypothesis is created by abduction, to Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes by immersion into thoughts, and to S. Freud by free floating attention. The three procedures are alike. Neurobiological structures and functions, which correspond to these processes, are described; especially the emotional-implicite memory. The technique of hypothesis-generation is meaningful to clinical medicine.
We investigated the neuropathogenic effects of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) envelope proteins in the context of both extracellular exposure and intracellular expression in feline neural cells. The envelope from the neurovirulent CSF-derived FIV V1 strain (V1-CSF) conferred infectivity to pseudotyped viruses in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (P &lt; 0.01) in contrast to other cell types. Intracellular V1-CSF envelope expression in macrophages and microglia but not astrocytes resulted in the induction of host inflammatory genes contributing to neurotoxicity including IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and indolamine 2',3'-dioxygenase (IDO) (P &lt; 0.05) with concurrent neuronal death (P &lt; 0.05). Upregulation of the endoplasmic reticulum stress genes was evident in brains from FIV-infected animals (P &lt; 0.05) and in FIV-infected macrophages (P &lt; 0.05) relative to controls. Intrastriatal implantation of an FIV envelope pseudotyped virus led to marked neuroinflammation and neuronal injury associated with neurobehavioral deficits (P &lt; 0.01). Thus, lentivirus envelope proteins exert differential neuropathogenic effects through mechanisms that depend on the infected or exposed cell type.
The blockade of NMDA receptors has been pursued as a strategy to reduce the consequences of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) and NMDA receptors remain a valid therapeutic target to treat AIS. Because the pharmacological and toxicity profile of memantine in Alzheimer's disease patients appears to be good, we determined whether memantine would be effective at improving behavioral performance following embolic strokes in rabbits. For these studies, we used a rabbit multiple infarct ischemia model with a well-defined behavioral endpoint. In this study, memantine dissolved in PBS was given intravenously either as a bolus injection (over 1 min) or infused over 60 min. The P(50) of the control groups measured 24 h after embolization were 1.12 +/- 0.18 mg and 1.08 +/- 0.23 mg for the bolus injected and infused groups, respectively. Bolus injections of memantine at 1 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg were not effective at altering the P(50) value and memantine at a dose of 25 mg/kg was lethal. However, slowly infused memantine (25 mg/kg) significantly increased the P(50) value to 2.31 +/- 0.48 mg and 3.13 +/- 1.13 mg when given 5 and 60 min following embolization, respectively. Memantine administered 180 min following embolization also increased the P(50) value to 2.69 +/- 2.21 mg, but the response was variable. These results suggest that uncompetitive NMDA antagonists, more specifically open channel blockers, which may be alternatives to high affinity NMDA antagonists, may have substantial therapeutic benefit for the treatment of AIS and memantine or new dual activity analogs of memantine should be further pursued as a useful therapy to treat the behavioral deficits associated with multiple-infarct ischemia.
Even when confined to the same spatial location, flickering and steady light evoke very different conscious experiences because of their distinct temporal patterns. The neural basis of such differences in subjective experience remains uncertain . Here, we used functional MRI in humans to examine the neural structures involved in awareness of flicker. Participants viewed a single point source of light that flickered at the critical flicker fusion (CFF) threshold, where the same stimulus is sometimes perceived as flickering and sometimes as steady (fused) . We were thus able to compare brain activity for conscious percepts that differed qualitatively (flickering or fused) but were evoked by identical physical stimuli. Greater brain activation was observed on flicker (versus fused) trials in regions of frontal and parietal cortex previously associated with visual awareness in tasks that did not require detection of temporal patterns . In contrast, greater activation was observed on fused (versus flicker) trials in occipital extrastriate cortex. Our findings indicate that activity of higher-level cortical areas is important for awareness of temporally distinct visual events in the context of a nonspatial task, and they thus suggest that frontal and parietal regions may play a general role in visual awareness.



Medical students and residents often struggle with the pros and cons of pursuing an away rotation. The purpose of this article is to share personal perspectives on the benefits and costs of an away rotation.
This Teaching Resource describes a research project that can be used in an advanced undergraduate course in neurobiology that covers basic electrophysiology and synaptic transmission. A thought experiment is provided that can be used to assess student understanding of (i) the scientific method, (ii) the process whereby nerve stimulation leads to muscle contraction, and (iii) the use of pharmacological agents to analyze a physiological system.

In the present study, we first report an in vivo characterization of flexor responses induced by three distinct sine-wave stimuli in the electrical stimulation-induced paw flexion (EPF) test in mice. The fixed sine-wave electric stimulations of 5 Hz (C-fiber), 250 Hz (Adelta-fiber) and 2000 Hz (Abeta-fiber) to the hind paw of mice induced a paw-flexion response and vocalization. The average threshold for paw flexor responses by sine-wave stimulations was much lower than that for vocalization. Neonatally (P3) pretreatment with capsaicin to degenerate polymodal substance P-ergic C-fiber neurons increased the threshold to 5 Hz (C-fiber) stimuli, but not to 250 Hz (Adelta-fiber) and 2000 Hz (Abeta-fiber). The flexor responses to 5 Hz stimuli were significantly blocked by intrathecal (i.t.) pretreatment with both CP-99994 and MK-801, an NK1 and NMDA receptor antagonist, respectively, but not by CNQX, an AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist. On the other hand, the flexor responses induced by 250 Hz stimuli were blocked by MK-801 (i.t.) but not by CP-99994 or CNQX. In contrast, flexor responses induced by 2000 Hz stimuli were only blocked by CNQX treatment. These data suggest that we have identified three pharmacologically different categories of responses mediated through different primary afferent fibers. Furthermore, we also carried out characterization of the in vivo functional sensitivity of each of the sensory fiber types in nerve-injured mice using the EPF test, and found that the threshold to both 250 Hz and 2000 Hz stimulations were markedly decreased, whereas the threshold to 5 Hz stimulations was significantly increased. Thus we found opposing effects on specific sensory fiber-mediated responses as a result of nerve injury in mice. These results also suggest that the EPF analysis is useful for the evaluation of plasticity in sensory functions in animal disease models.
Stromal cell-derived factor (SDF-1), by activating its cognate receptor CXCR4, plays multiple roles in cell migration, proliferation and survival in the development of the central nervous system. Recently, we have shown that functional SDF1alpha/CXCR4 signaling mediates chemotaxis through extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation in the developing spinal cord. Here, we report that SDF1alpha/CXCR4 signaling activates beta-catenin/TCF transcriptional activity in embryonic rat spinal cord neural progenitors. Stimulation of neural progenitors with SDF1alpha resulted in cytoplasmic beta-catenin accumulation in 30 min, and lasted for approximately 240 min, while Wnt3a, a positive control, stabilized cytoplasmic beta-catenin in 120 min. Dose-response studies indicated that the beta-catenin stabilization effect could be detected in cells exposed to fM concentrations of SDF1alpha. This SDF1alpha-induced beta-catenin stabilization effect was inhibited by pretreatment of the cells with either pertussis toxin (PTX), an inactivator of G protein-coupled receptors, or PD98059, a MEK1 inhibitor. Concomitant with beta-catenin accumulation in the cytoplasm, SDF1alpha enhanced nuclear translocation of beta-catenin and its binding to nuclear transcription factor T cell-specific transcription factor/lymphoid enhancer-binding factor (TCF/LEF). Furthermore, SDF1alpha increased expression of genes such as Ccnd1, 2, 3, and c-Myc known as targets of the Wnt/beta-catenin/TCF pathway. The increased expression of Ccnd1 and c-Myc by SDF1alpha was further confirmed by immunoblot analysis. Our data suggest that SDF1alpha/CXCR4 signaling may interact with the Wnt/beta-catenin/TCF pathway to regulate the development of the central nervous system.
It had been shown previously that a photic tetanus induces LTP-like changes in the visual cortex, as indexed by an enhancement of the N1b component of the visual evoked potential, recorded non-invasively by electroencephalography. This potentiation was shown to last over 1 h. In the present study, the effect of a photic tetanus on oscillatory activity is investigated. EEGs were collected from eight healthy subjects in three conditions while visual checkerboards were displayed. Following baseline presentations in two conditions a lateralized visual tetanus was given, either to the left or right visual field, and in a third condition no tetanus was given. This was followed by a return to baseline presentations, both immediately after the tetanus/control block, and 1 h later. Enhanced event-related desynchronization (ERD) of the alpha rhythm lasting 1 h was seen following the photic tetanus over occipital electrodes. Because ERD of the alpha rhythm is thought to represent active cortex, these results suggest that the visual tetanus induces long-lasting cortical changes, with stronger neuronal assemblies and increased neuronal output.


Gamma-secretase belongs to an atypical class of aspartic proteases that hydrolyzes peptide bonds within the transmembrane domain of substrates, including amyloid-beta precursor protein and Notch. gamma-Secretase is comprised of presenilin, nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2 which form a large multimeric membrane protein complex, the three-dimensional structure of which is unknown. To gain insight into the structure of this complex enzyme, we purified functional gamma-secretase complex reconstituted in Sf9 cells and analyzed it using negative stain electron microscopy and 3D reconstruction techniques. Analysis of 2341 negatively stained particle images resulted in the three-dimensional representation of gamma-secretase at a resolution of 48 angstroms. The structure occupies a volume of 560 x 320 x 240 angstroms and resembles a flat heart comprised of two oppositely faced, dimpled domains. A low density space containing multiple pores resides between the domains. Some of the dimples in the putative transmembrane region may house the catalytic site. The large dimensions are consistent with the observation that gamma-secretase activity resides within a high molecular weight complex.
Neuronal processes exhibit exquisitely complex branching patterns crucial for the formation of distinct neural circuits. In this issue of Cell, Chen et al. (2006) show that the isoform diversity of the Dscam protein in Drosophila is required to establish stereotypical axonal branching patterns, suggesting that nonrandom expression of Dscam alternative splice variants determines neural connectivity.
Both apolipoprotein E (apoE) and 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol are involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). It has been hypothesized that apoE affects AD development via isoform-specific effects on lipid trafficking between astrocytes and neurons. However, the regulation of the cholesterol supply of neurons via apoE-containing high density lipoproteins remains to be clarified. We show for the first time that the brain-specific metabolite of cholesterol produced by neurons, i.e. 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol, induces apoE transcription, protein synthesis, and secretion in a dose- and time-dependent manner in cells of astrocytic but not of neuronal origin. Moreover, 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol primes astrocytoma, but not neuroblastoma cells, to mediate cholesterol efflux to apoE. Similar results were obtained using the synthetic liver X receptor (LXR) agonist GW683965A, suggesting involvement of an LXR-controlled signaling pathway. A 10-20-fold higher basal LXRalpha and -beta expression level in astrocytoma compared with neuroblastoma cells may underlie these differential effects. Furthermore, apoE-mediated cholesterol efflux from astrocytoma cells may be controlled by the ATP binding cassette transporters ABCA1 and ABCG1, since their expression was also up-regulated by both compounds. In contrast, ABCG4 seems not to be involved, because its expression was induced only in neuronal cells. The expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP-2), low density lipoprotein receptor, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase, and SREBP-1c was transiently up-regulated by GW683965A in astrocytes but down-regulated by 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol, suggesting that cholesterol efflux and synthesis are regulated independently. In conclusion, evidence is provided that 24(S)-hydroxycholesterol induces apoE-mediated efflux of cholesterol in astrocytes via an LXR-controlled pathway, which may be relevant for chronic and acute neurological diseases.
Up-regulation of BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) has been suggested to contribute to the action of antidepressants. However, it is unclear whether chronic treatment with antidepressants may influence acute BDNF signaling in central nervous system neurons. Because BDNF has been shown by us to reinforce excitatory glutamatergic transmission in cultured cortical neurons via the phospholipase-gamma (PLC-gamma)/inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)/Ca2+ pathway (Numakawa, T., Yamagishi, S., Adachi, N., Matsumoto, T., Yokomaku, D., Yamada, M., and Hatanaka, H. (2002) J. Biol. Chem. 277, 6520-6529), we examined in this study the possible effects of pretreatment with antidepressants on the BDNF signaling through the PLC-gamma)/IP3/Ca2+ pathway. Furthermore, because the PLC-gamma/IP3/Ca2+ pathway is regulated by sigma-1 receptors (Hayashi, T., and Su, T. P. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 98, 491-496), we examined whether the BDNF signaling is modulated by sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1R). We found that the BDNF-stimulated PLC-gamma activation and the ensued increase in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) were potentiated by pretreatment with imipramine or fluvoxamine, so was the BDNF-induced glutamate release. Furthermore, enhancement of the interaction between PLC-gamma and TrkB (receptor for BDNF) after imipramine pretreatment was observed. Interestingly, BD1047, a potent Sig-1R antagonist, blocked the imipramine-dependent potentiation on the BDNF-induced PLC-gamma activation and glutamate release. In contrast, overexpression of Sig-1R per se, without antidepressant pretreatment, enhances BDNF-induced PLC-gamma activation and glutamate release. These results suggest that antidepressant pretreatment selectively enhance the BDNF signaling on the PLC-gamma/IP3/Ca2+ pathway via Sig-1R, and that Sig-1R plays an important role in BDNF signaling leading to glutamate release.


After ischemia, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathways are activated that include unfolded protein response (UPR) and protein synthesis inhibition (PSI). Both of these mechanisms aim to restore ER functioning mainly by inhibition of translation and increased processing of excess proteins in ER. We were interested in the role of these pathways during spontaneous recovery after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in rats. The spontaneous recovery of rats was assessed with a limb-placing test. The expression of ER-stress-related genes (IRE1, ATF6, GRP78, eif2alpha, ATF4, PERK) was studied by using in situ hybridization in different brain areas on post-operative days 2, 7, 14 and 28. Elevated signals were detected in striatum contralateral to the lesion on days 2 (PERK and IRE1) and 14 post-ischemia (IRE1). Gene expression was elevated on day 7 in the striatum ipsilateral to the lesion (ATF6 and GRP78) and on day 14 (GRP78) post-ischemia. Furthermore, elevated levels of GRP78 were detected on day 14 after ischemia in the ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex. These results suggest that altered gene expression related to unfolded protein response may be more long lasting than expected following focal cerebral ischemia. In addition, these results show that the response to ER stress differs ipsi- and contralaterally after MCAO in rats. Since these differences are detected in both hemispheres only in areas adjacent to the lesion, UPR may contribute to spontaneous recovery after MCAO in rats.
Neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is a common cause of brain damage and subsequent behavioral deficits in premature/term infants. Rapid auditory processing deficits have been suggested to play a role in later language impairments in this population. We have previously shown auditory deficits in rats with neonatal HI injury and now report novel effects of behavioral sparing and neuroprotection following treatment with a low dose of Erythropoietin using this HI injury model.
Toluene (methylbenzene) is representative of a class of industrial solvents that are voluntarily inhaled as drugs of abuse. Previous data from this laboratory and others have shown that these compounds alter the function of a variety of ion channels including ligand-gated channels activated by ATP, acetylcholine, GABA, glutamate and serotonin, as well as voltage-dependent sodium and calcium channels. It is less clear what effects toluene may have on potassium channels that act to reduce the excitability of most cells. Previous studies have shown that ethanol potentiates the function of both the large conductance, calcium-activated potassium channel (BK) and specific members of the G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels (GirKs). Since toluene and other abused inhalants share many behavioral effects with ethanol, it was hypothesized that toluene would also enhance the function of these channels. This hypothesis was tested using two-electrode voltage-clamp electrophysiology to measure the activity of BK and GirK potassium channel currents expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. As reported previously, ethanol potentiated currents in oocytes expressing either BK or GirK2 channels. In contrast, toluene caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of BK channel currents with 3 mM producing approximately 50% inhibition of control currents. Currents in oocytes injected with GirK2 mRNA were also inhibited by toluene while those expressing GirK1/2 and 1/4 channels were minimally affected. In oocytes co-injected with mRNA for GirK2 and the mGluR1a metabotropic receptor, exposure to glutamate potentiated currents evoked by a high-potassium solution. Toluene inhibited these glutamate-activated currents to approximately the same degree as those induced under basal conditions. The results of these studies show that toluene has effects on BK and GirK channels that are opposite to those of ethanol, suggesting that these channels are unlikely to underlie behaviors that these two drugs of abuse share.
The amyloid-beta precursor protein APP is generally accepted to be involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Since its physiological role is still unclear, we decided to study the function of APP via stable transgenesis in the amphibian Xenopus laevis. However, the application of constructs encoding (mutant) APP fused to the C-terminus of the green fluorescent protein GFP (GFP-APP), and harboring a tissue-specific or an inducible gene promoter did not result in transgene expression of APP in neuronal and neuroendocrine cells. Surprisingly, a construct encoding either Xenopus or human APP fused to the N-terminus of GFP (APP-GFP) gave fluorescence throughout the whole brain of the tadpole, despite the fact that a proopiomelanocortin gene promoter was used to target transgene expression specifically to the intermediate pituitary cells. Detailed analysis with deletion mutants revealed the presence of a neural-specific, transcriptionally active DNA element within the 3'-end of the APP-coding sequence that gave rise to an aberrant transcript and protein in the APP-GFP transgenic animals. The DNA element appears to prevent proper APP transgene expression in Xenopus neuronal and neuroendocrine cells. Thus, the coding sequences of Xenopus and human APP contain a neural-specific promoter element, the physiological significance of which is at present unclear.
Reconsolidation is a putative neuronal process in which the retrieval of a previously consolidated memory returns it to a labile state that is once again subject to stabilization. This study explored the idea that reconsolidation occurs in spatial memory when animals retrieve memory under circumstances in which new memory encoding is likely to occur. Control studies confirmed that intrahippocampal infusions of anisomycin inhibited protein synthesis locally and that the spatial training protocols we used are subject to overnight protein synthesis-dependent consolidation. We then compared the impact of anisomycin in two conditions: when memory retrieval occurred in a reference memory task after performance had reached asymptote over several days; and after a comparable extent of training of a delayed matching-to-place task in which new memory encoding was required each day. Sensitivity to intrahippocampal anisomycin was observed only in the protocol involving new memory encoding at the time of retrieval.
Visual neurons, from retina to cortex, adapt slowly to stimulus contrast. Following a switch from high to low contrast, a neuron rapidly decreases its responsiveness and recovers over 5-20 s. Cortical adaptation arises from an intrinsic cellular mechanism: a sodium-dependent potassium conductance that causes prolonged hyperpolarization. Spiking can drive this mechanism, raising the possibility that the same mechanism exists in retinal ganglion cells. We found that adaptation in ganglion cells corresponds to a slowly recovering afterhyperpolarization (AHP), but, unlike in cortical cells, this AHP is not primarily driven by an intrinsic cellular property: spiking was not sufficient to generate adaptation. Adaptation was strongest following spatial stimuli tuned to presynaptic bipolar cells rather than the ganglion cell; it was driven by a reduced excitatory conductance, and it persisted while blocking GABA and glycine receptors, K((Ca)) channels, or mGluRs. Thus, slow adaptation arises from reduced glutamate release from presynaptic (nonspiking) bipolar cells.
Early in development, excitatory synapses transmit with low efficacy, one mechanism for which is a low probability of transmitter release (Pr). However, little is known about the developmental mechanisms that control activity-dependent maturation of the presynaptic release. Here, we show that during early development, transmission at CA3-CA1 synapses is regulated by a high-affinity, G protein-dependent kainate receptor (KAR), which is endogenously activated by ambient glutamate. By tonically depressing glutamate release, this mechanism sets the dynamic properties of neonatal inputs to favor transmission during high frequency bursts of activity, typical for developing neuronal networks. In response to induction of LTP, the tonic activation of KAR is rapidly down regulated, causing an increase in Pr and profoundly changing the dynamic properties of transmission. Early development of the glutamatergic connectivity thus involves an activity-dependent loss of presynaptic KAR function producing maturation in the mode of excitatory transmission from CA3 to CA1.
Maturation of presynaptic transmitter secretion machinery is a critical step in synaptogenesis. Here we report that a brief train of presynaptic action potentials rapidly converts early nonfunctional contacts between cultured hippocampal neurons into functional synapses by enhancing presynaptic glutamate release. The enhanced release was confirmed by a marked increase in the number of depolarization-induced FM4-64 puncta in the presynaptic axon. This rapid presynaptic maturation can be abolished by treatments that interfered with presynaptic BDNF and Cdc42 signaling or actin polymerization. Activation of Cdc42 by applying BDNF or bradykinin mimicked the effect of electrical activity in promoting synaptic maturation. Furthermore, activity-induced increase in presynaptic actin polymerization, as revealed by increased concentration of actin-YFP at axon boutons, was abolished by inhibiting BDNF and Cdc42 signaling. Thus, rapid presynaptic maturation induced by neuronal activity is mediated by presynaptic activation of the Cdc42 signaling pathway.
CNS deletion of Pten in the mouse has revealed its roles in controlling cell size and number, thus providing compelling etiology for macrocephaly and Lhermitte-Duclos disease. PTEN mutations in individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have also been reported, although a causal link between PTEN and ASD remains unclear. In the present study, we deleted Pten in limited differentiated neuronal populations in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of mice. Resulting mutant mice showed abnormal social interaction and exaggerated responses to sensory stimuli. We observed macrocephaly and neuronal hypertrophy, including hypertrophic and ectopic dendrites and axonal tracts with increased synapses. This abnormal morphology was associated with activation of the Akt/mTor/S6k pathway and inactivation of Gsk3beta. Thus, our data suggest that abnormal activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway in specific neuronal populations can underlie macrocephaly and behavioral abnormalities reminiscent of certain features of human ASD.
Nascent synaptic networks have a high incidence of silent synapses. In this issue of Neuron, Shen et al. show that a brief burst of action potentials rapidly awaken silent synapses by increasing the availability of synaptic vesicles for fusion through BDNF-triggered presynaptic actin remodeling mediated by the small GTPase Cdc42.

The primary sensory cortex is positioned at a confluence of bottom-up dedicated sensory inputs and top-down inputs related to higher-order sensory features, attentional state, and behavioral reinforcement. We tested whether topographic map plasticity in the adult primary auditory cortex and a secondary auditory area, the suprarhinal auditory field, was controlled by the statistics of bottom-up sensory inputs or by top-down task-dependent influences. Rats were trained to attend to independent parameters, either frequency or intensity, within an identical set of auditory stimuli, allowing us to vary task demands while holding the bottom-up sensory inputs constant. We observed a clear double-dissociation in map plasticity in both cortical fields. Rats trained to attend to frequency cues exhibited an expanded representation of the target frequency range within the tonotopic map but no change in sound intensity encoding compared with controls. Rats trained to attend to intensity cues expressed an increased proportion of nonmonotonic intensity response profiles preferentially tuned to the target intensity range but no change in tonotopic map organization relative to controls. The degree of topographic map plasticity within the task-relevant stimulus dimension was correlated with the degree of perceptual learning for rats in both tasks. These data suggest that enduring receptive field plasticity in the adult auditory cortex may be shaped by task-specific top-down inputs that interact with bottom-up sensory inputs and reinforcement-based neuromodulator release. Top-down inputs might confer the selectivity necessary to modify a single feature representation without affecting other spatially organized feature representations embedded within the same neural circuitry.
Simple activities like picking up the morning newspaper or catching a ball require finely coordinated movements of multiple body segments. How our brain readily achieves such kinematically complex yet remarkably precise multijoint movements remains a fundamental and unresolved question in neuroscience. Many prevailing theoretical frameworks ensure multijoint coordination by means of integrative feedback control. However, to date, it has proven both technically and conceptually difficult to determine whether the activity of motor circuits is consistent with integrated feedback coding. Here, we tested this proposal using coordinated eye-head gaze shifts as an example behavior. Individual neurons in the premotor network that command saccadic eye movements were recorded in monkeys trained to make voluntary eye-head gaze shifts. Head-movement feedback was experimentally controlled by unexpectedly and transiently altering the head trajectory midflight during a subset of movements. We found that the duration and dynamics of neuronal responses were appropriately updated following head perturbations to preserve global movement accuracy. Perturbation-induced increases in gaze shift durations were accompanied by equivalent changes in response durations so that neuronal activity remained tightly synchronized to gaze shift offset. In addition, the saccadic command signal was updated on-line in response to head perturbations applied during gaze shifts. Nearly instantaneous updating of responses, coupled with longer latency changes in overall discharge durations, indicated the convergence of at least two levels of feedback. We propose that this strategy is likely to have analogs in other motor systems and provides the flexibility required for fine-tuning goal-directed movements.
Although knowledge indexes our experiences of the world, the neural basis of this relationship remains to be determined. Previous neuroimaging research, especially involving knowledge biased to visual and functional information, suggests that semantic representations depend on modality-specific brain mechanisms. However, it is unclear whether sensory cortical regions, in general, support retrieval of perceptual knowledge. Using neuroimaging methods, we show that semantic decisions that index tactile, gustatory, auditory, and visual knowledge specifically activate brain regions associated with encoding these sensory experiences. Retrieval of tactile knowledge was specifically associated with increased activation in somatosensory, motor, and premotor cortical regions. In contrast, decisions involving flavor knowledge increased activation in an orbitofrontal region previously implicated in processing semantic comparisons among edible items. Perceptual knowledge retrieval that references visual and auditory experiences was associated with increased activity in distinct temporal brain regions involved in the respective sensory processing. These results indicate that retrieval of perceptual knowledge relies on brain regions used to mediate sensory experiences with the referenced objects.
An increasing amount of evidence suggests that the family of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) transcription factors plays an important role in synaptic plasticity and long-term memory formation. The present study investigated the regulation of NF-kappaB family members p50, p65/RelA, and c-Rel in the hippocampus in response to metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) signaling. Activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (GpI-mGluRs) with the agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) resulted in a time-dependent increase in DNA binding activity of p50, p65, and c-Rel in area CA1 of the hippocampus. An antagonist of mGluR5, 2-Methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine, inhibited the DHPG-induced activation of NF-kappaB, whereas an antagonist of mGluR1, (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid, did not. Using a series of inhibitors, we investigated the signaling pathways necessary for DHPG-induced activation of NF-kappaB and found that they included the phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase, protein kinase C, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, and p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. To determine the functional significance of mGluR-induced regulation of NF-kappaB, we measured long-term depression (LTD) of Schaffer-collateral synapses in the hippocampus of c-Rel knock-out mice. Early phase LTD was normal in c-rel(-/-) mice. However, late-phase LTD (&gt;90 min) was impaired in c-rel(-/-) mice. The observations of this deficit in hippocampal synaptic plasticity prompted us to further investigate long-term memory formation in c-rel(-/-) mice. c-rel(-/-) mice exhibited impaired performance in a long-term passive avoidance task, providing additional evidence for c-Rel in long-term memory formation. These results demonstrate that the NF-kappaB transcription factor family is regulated by GpI-mGluRs in the hippocampus and that the c-Rel transcription factor is necessary for long-term maintenance of LTD and formation of long-term memory.
The precise role of the anterior cingulate cortex in monitoring, evaluating, and correcting behavior remains unclear despite numerous theories and much empirical data implicating it in cognitive control. The present event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study was able to separate monitoring from error-specific functions by allowing subjects to reject a trial so as to avoid errors. Cingulate and left dorsolateral prefrontal activity was greatest on rejection trials but comparable for correct and error trials, whereas an error-specific response was observed in bilateral insula. A dissociation was also observed between the cingulate and the nucleus accumbens with the latter more active for error than reject trials. These results reveal that the functional role of the cingulate is not particular to errors but instead is related to an evaluative function concerned with on-line behavioral adjustment in the service of avoiding losses.
Since its description by Charcot in 1869, the mechanism underlying the characteristic selective degeneration and death of motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has remained a mystery. There is no effective remedy for this progressive, fatal disorder. Modern genetics have now identified two genes, SODI and ALS2 as primary causes of the disease and has implicated others as potential contributors. These insights have enabled development of model systems to test hypotheses of disease mechanism and potential therapies. Along with errors in the handling of synaptic glutamate and the potential excitotoxic response that it provokes, these model systems underscore the involvement of non-neuronal cells in disease progression and provide new therapeutic strategies.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
Twenty percent of the familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is caused by mutations in the Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1) through the gain of a toxic function. The nature of this toxic function of mutant SOD1 has remained largely unknown. Here we show that WT SOD1 not only hastens onset of the ALS phenotype but can also convert an unaffected phenotype to an ALS phenotype in mutant SOD1 transgenic mouse models. Further analyses of the single- and double-transgenic mice revealed that conversion of mutant SOD1 from a soluble form to an aggregated and detergent-insoluble form was associated with development of the ALS phenotype in transgenic mice. Conversion of WT SOD1 from a soluble form to an aggregated and insoluble form also correlates with exacerbation of the disease or conversion to a disease phenotype in double-transgenic mice. This conversion, observed in the mitochondrial fraction of the spinal cord, involved formation of insoluble SOD1 dimers and multimers that are crosslinked through intermolecular disulfide bonds via oxidation of cysteine residues in SOD1. Our data thus show a molecular mechanism by which SOD1, an important protein in cellular defense against free radicals, is converted to aggregated and apparently ALS-associated toxic dimers and multimers by redox processes. These findings provide evidence of direct links among oxidation, protein aggregation, mitochondrial damage, and SOD1-mediated ALS, with possible applications to the aging process and other late-onset neurodegenerative disorders. Importantly, rational therapy based on these observations can now be developed and tested.
The ability to switch between multiple tasks is central to flexible behavior. Although switching between tasks is readily accomplished, a well established consequence of task switching (TS) is behavioral slowing. The source of this switch cost and the contribution of cognitive control to its resolution remain highly controversial. Here, we tested whether proactive interference arising from memory places fundamental constraints on flexible performance, and whether prefrontal control processes contribute to overcoming these constraints. Event-related functional MRI indexed neural responses during TS. The contributions of cognitive control and interference were made theoretically explicit in a computational model of task performance. Model estimates of two levels of proactive interference, &quot;conceptual conflict&quot; and &quot;response conflict,&quot; produced distinct preparation-related profiles. Left ventrolateral prefrontal cortical activation paralleled model estimates of conceptual conflict, dissociating from that in left inferior parietal cortex, which paralleled model estimates of response conflict. These computationally informed neural measures specify retrieved conceptual representations as a source of conflict during TS and suggest that left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex resolves this conflict to facilitate flexible performance.
Cerebellar mutism is a rare phenomenon often described in children following surgical intervention in the posterior fossa. In this report we present a very unusual case of pre-operative cerebellar mutism in an adult in the context of cognitive-affective syndrome caused by cystic hemangioblastoma.
The present paper deals with a fundamental issue in neuroscience: the inter-neuronal communication. The paper gives a brief account of our previous and more recent theoretical contributions to the subject and also reports new recent data that support some aspects of our proposal on two major modes of communication in the central nervous system: the wiring and the volume transmission. There exist two competing theories on inter-neuronal communication: the neuron doctrine and the theory of the diffuse nerve network, supported by Cajal and Golgi, respectively (see their respective Nobel Lectures). The present paper gives a brief account of a view on inter-neuronal communication in the brain, the volume and wiring transmission concept that to a great extent reconcile these two theories. Thus, the theory of volume and wiring transmission are summarized and its recent developments that allow to extend these two modes of communication from the cellular network to the molecular network level is also briefly illustrated. The explanatory value of this broadened view is further enhanced by our recent proposal on the existence of a Global Molecular Network enmeshing the entire central nervous system. It may be interesting to note that also the Global Molecular Network theory is reminiscent of the old reticular theory of Apathy. Finally, the so-called 'tide hypothesis' for diffusion of signals in the brain is briefly discussed and its possible extension to the molecular level is for the first time introduced. Early indirect evidence supporting volume transmission in the brain was the discovery of transmitter-receptor mismatches. Thus, as an experimental part of the present paper a new approach to evaluate transmitter-receptor mismatches is given and evidence for inter-relationships between temperature micro-gradients and mismatches is provided.
An injury often starts with acute physiological pain, which becomes inflammatory or neuropathic, and may sometimes become chronic. It has been proposed recently that activated glial cells, astrocytes and microglia within the central nervous system could maintain the pain sensation even after the original injury or inflammation has healed, and convert it into chronic by altering neuronal excitability. Glial cell activation has also been proposed to be involved in the phenomenon of spread of pain sensation ipsilaterally or to the contralateral side (i.e. mirror image pain). Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide, released due to an inflammatory process, interact with the endothelial cells of the blood-spinal cord and blood-brain barriers. The barriers open partially and substances may influence adjacent glial cells. Such substances are also released from neurones carrying the 'pain message' all the way from the injury to the cerebral cortex. Pro-inflammatory cytokines may be released from the microglial cells, and astroglial Ca2+-transients or oscillations may spread within the astroglial networks. One theory is that Ca2+-oscillations could facilitate the formation of new synapses. These new synapses could establish neuronal contacts for maintaining and spreading the pain sensation. If this theory holds true, it is possible that Ca2+ waves, production of cytokines and growth factors could be modified by selective anti-inflammatory drugs to achieve a balance in the activities of the different intercellular and intracellular processes. This paper reviews current knowledge about glial mechanisms underlying the phenomena of chronic pain and spread of the pain sensation.

The most studied and most frequently used pharmacologic treatments in bulimia nervosa are the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), in particular, fluoxetine. Less is known about the efficacy of the other SSRIs. To compare fluoxetine with citalopram in the treatment of bulimic patients, 37 bulimic patients were randomized to receive fluoxetine (n=18) or citalopram (n=19); these patients were assessed with regard to clinical (ie, body mass index, pathologic behaviors), psychopathologic (Eating Disorder Inventory-2, Body Shape Questionnaire, Binge-Eating Scale, Beck Depression Inventory), personality (Temperament and Character Inventory), and clinical global impression measures. These measures were compared between the 2 treatment groups at baseline and at the end of treatment. Dropout rates were similar in the 2 groups. Both groups showed significant improvement in eating psychopathology, angry feelings, and clinical global impression. Patients in the fluoxetine group displayed a greater reduction in introjected anger, whereas those in the citalopram group displayed a greater reduction in depressive feelings. Both treatments showed some effect on outcome measures, but efficacy profiles did not overlap. Citalopram may be useful in depressed patients with bulimia, whereas fluoxetine is more specific for those with introjected anger and bulimia.

Uncoupling proteins (UCPs), which dissipate the mitochondrial proton gradient, have the ability to decouple mitochodrial respiration from ATP production. Since mitochondrial electron transport is a major source of free radical production, it is possible that UCP activity might impact free radical production. Free radicals can react with and damage cellular proteins, DNA and lipids. Accumulated damage from oxidative stress is believed to be a major contributor to cellular decline during aging. If UCP function were to impact mitochondrial free radical production, then one would expect to find a link between UCP activity and aging. This theory has recently been tested in a handful of organisms whose genomes contain UCP1 homologs. Interestingly, these experiments indicate that UCP homologs can affect lifespan, although they do not support a simple relationship between UCP activity and aging. Instead, UCP-like proteins appear to have a variety of effects on lifespan, and on pathways implicated in lifespan regulation. One possible explanation for this complex picture is that UCP homologs may have tissue-specific effects that complicate their effects on aging. Furthermore, the functional analysis of UCP1 homologs is incomplete. Thus, these proteins may perform functions in addition to, or instead of, mitochondrial uncoupling. Although these studies have not revealed a clear picture of UCP effects on aging, they have contributed to the growing knowledge base for these interesting proteins. Future biochemical and genetic investigation of UCP-like proteins will do much to clarify their functions and to identify the regulatory networks in which they are involved.
Oxidative stress over time leads to the accumulation of damaged macromolecules and to profound physiological changes that are associated with several age-related diseases. The plasma membrane redox system (PMRS) appears to attenuate oxidative stress acting as a compensatory mechanism during the aging process. The PMRS appears to play a protective role during mitochondrial dysfunction to provide cells with a survival mechanism by lowering oxidative stress. The PMRS accomplishes this by producing more NAD(+) for glycolytic ATP production via transfer of electrons from intracellular reducing equivalents to extracelluar acceptors. Ubiquinone and alpha-tocopherol are key antioxidant molecules in the plasma membrane that are affected by aging and can be up-regulated by dietary interventions such as calorie restriction (CR). Up-regulation of PMRS activity leads to cell survival and membrane homeostasis under stress conditions and during calorie restriction. Further studies of the PMRS may provide not only additional information on the mechanisms involved in aging and CR, but may provide therapeutic targets for the prevention and treatment of age-related diseases.
Throughout life, organisms and their cells are subjected to various stressors which they must respond to adaptively in order to avoid disease and death. Accordingly, cells possess a variety of stress-responsive signaling pathways that are coupled to kinase cascades and transcription factors that induce the expression of genes that encode cytoprotective proteins such as protein chaperones (PC), growth factors and antioxidant enzymes. Emerging findings suggest that many of the environmental factors that improve health and so prolong lifespan (for example, dietary restriction, exercise and cognitive stimulation) exert their beneficial effects through a hormesis-like mechanism. Here we describe data supporting the hormesis hypothesis of disease resistance and longevity, with a focus on findings from studies of the nervous system in this laboratory.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has emerged as a prominent mediator of neuronal development and synaptic plasticity. BDNF activates multiple signal transduction cascades that regulate cellular function through phosphorylation, transcription, and translation. Ethanol is known to inhibit neurotrophin signaling, but a thorough pharmacological analysis of the effect of ethanol on BDNF signaling in developing neurons has not been performed. These experiments were undertaken to determine the interactions between membrane depolarization, BDNF concentration, and ethanol concentration on extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) activation in neurons. We examined cerebellar granule cells grown under physiological (5mM) or elevated (25mM) potassium culture conditions after 3 days in vitro. BDNF-stimulated ERK phosphorylation (pERK) within 10min and supported stimulation from 20 to 60min. Ethanol decreased basal pERK and reduced the magnitude of BDNF stimulation of ERK under both conditions. The NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate did not effect basal pERK or inhibit BDNF stimulation of ERK, suggesting that NMDA receptors do not modulate BDNF stimulation of ERK in short-term cultures. These data characterize the pharmacological effects of ethanol on growth factor signaling and provide the basis of a model for further characterization of the biochemical mechanisms of ERK inhibition by ethanol. Perturbation of BDNF signal transduction by ethanol may underlie some of the cognitive deficits and developmental abnormalities resulting from ethanol exposure.




We investigated the effects of a single course of antenatal betamethasone on neonatal somatic and brain development. On day 20 of gestation, pregnant rats were injected with either with 170 microg kg(-1) body weight of betamethasone (&quot;clinically-equivalent dose,&quot; equivalent to 12 mg twice, 24 hours apart) or half this dose or vehicle. Pups (8-11 animals per experimental group per timepoint per gender) were analyzed at 1 (P1), 2, and 21 days after birth. We report that betamethasone induced a significant dose-dependent decrease of somatic measurements in both genders. At P1 cell proliferation was affected by the &quot;clinically equivalent dose&quot; only in the subventricular zone in both genders and in the hippocampus in males. In summary, we show for the first time that a lower dose (equivalent to 6 mg) induces fewer and less severe effects on somatic growth, whereas it does not affect cell proliferation within the brain.

To better study early events in glioma genesis, markers that reliably denote landmarks in glioma development are needed. In the present study, we used microarray analysis to compare the gene expression patterns of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-localized N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced tumors in rat brains with those of uninvolved contralateral side and normal brains. Our analysis identified osteopontin (OPN) as the most up-regulated gene in glioma. Using immunohistochemistry we then confirmed OPN expression in every tumor examined (n = 17), including those with diameters as small as 300 mum. By contrast, no OPN immunostaining was seen in normal brain or in brains removed from ENU-exposed rats before the development of glioma. Further studies confirmed that OPN was co-localized exclusively in intratumoral glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing cells and was notably absent from nestin-expressing ones. In conjunction with this, we confirmed that both normal neurosphere cells and ENU-im-mortalized subventricular zone/striatal cells produced negligible amounts of OPN compared to the established rat glioma cell line C6. Furthermore, inducing OPN expression in an immortalized cell line increased cell proliferation. Based on these findings, we conclude that OPN overexpression in ENU-induced gliomas occurs within a specific subset of intratumoral glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells and becomes evident at the stage of tumor progression.
Interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) is a pleiotropic cytokine that plays an important role in many inflammatory processes, including autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Demyelination is a hallmark of MS and a prominent pathological feature of several other inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system, including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of MS. Accordingly, in this study we followed the effect of IFNgamma in the demyelination and remyelination process by using an experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model of demyelination/remyelination after exposure of mice to the neurotoxic agent cuprizone. We show that demyelination in response to cuprizone is delayed in mice lacking the binding chain of IFNgamma receptor. In addition, IFNgammaR(-/-) mice exhibited an accelerated remyelination process after cuprizone was removed from the diet. Our results also indicate that the levels of IFNgamma were able to modulate the microglia/macrophage recruitment to the demyelinating areas. Moreover, the accelerated regenerative response showed by the IFNgammaR(-/-) mice was associated with a more efficient recruitment of oligodendrocyte precursor cells in the demyelinated areas. In conclusion, this study suggests that IFNgamma regulates the development and resolution of the demyelinating syndrome and may be associated with toxic effects on both mature oligodendrocytes and oligodendrocyte precursor cells.
Chloride channels modulate gastrointestinal neuromuscular functions in vitro. Lubiprostone, a selective type 2 chloride channel (ClC-2) activator, induces intestinal secretion and has been shown to relieve constipation in clinical trials; however, the effects of lubiprostone on gastric function and whole gut transit in humans are unclear. Our aim was to compare the effects of the selective ClC-2 activator lubiprostone on maximum tolerated volume (MTV) of a meal, postprandial symptoms, gastric volumes, and gastrointestinal and colonic transit in humans. We performed a randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the effects of lubiprostone (24 microg bid) in 30 healthy volunteers. Validated methods were used: scintigraphic gastrointestinal and colonic transit, SPECT to measure gastric volumes, and the nutrient drink (&quot;satiation&quot;) test to measure MTV and postprandial symptoms. Lubiprostone accelerated small bowel and colonic transit, increased fasting gastric volume, and retarded gastric emptying. MTV values were reduced compared with placebo; however, the MTV was within the normal range for healthy adults in 13 of 14 participants, and there was no significant change compared with baseline measurements. Lubiprostone had no significant effect on postprandial gastric volume or aggregate symptoms but did decrease fullness 30 min after the fully satiating meal. Thus the ClC-2 activator lubiprostone accelerates small intestinal and colonic transit, which confers potential in the treatment of constipation.
To develop a comprehensive approach for the study of oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) gene expression in the rat hypothalamus, we first developed an intronic riboprobe to measure OT heteronuclear RNA (hnRNA) levels by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH). Using this 84-bp riboprobe, directed against intron 2 of the OT gene, we demonstrate strong and specific signals in neurons confined to the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of the rat hypothalamus. We used this new intronic OT probe, together with other well-established intronic and exonic OT and VP probes, to reevaluate OT and VP gene expression in the hypothalamus under two classical physiological conditions, acute osmotic stimulation, and lactation. We found that magnocellular neurons in 7- to 8-day lactating female rats exhibit increased OT but not VP hnRNA. Since VP mRNA is increased during lactation, this suggests that decreased VP mRNA degradation during lactation may be responsible for this change. In contrast, whereas there was the expected large increase in VP hnRNA after acute salt loading, there was no change in OT hnRNA, suggesting that acute hyperosmotic stimuli produce increased VP but not OT gene transcription. Hence, the use of both exon- and intron-specific probes, which distinguish the changes in hnRNA and mRNA levels, respectively, can provide insight into the relative roles of transcription and mRNA degradation processes in changes in gene expression evoked by physiological stimuli.
The thalamic midline paraventricular nucleus (PVT) is prominently innervated by vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), site of the brain's biological clock. Using patch-clamp recordings in slice preparations taken from Wistar rats during the subjective day, we examined 90 PVT neurons for responses to bath-applied AVP (0.5-2 microM; 1-3 min). In current clamp at resting membrane potentials (-65 +/- 1 mV), PVT neurons displayed low-threshold spikes (LTSs) and burst firing patterns. In 50% of cells tested, AVP induced a slowly rising, prolonged membrane depolarization and tonic firing, returning to burst firing upon recovery. AVP modulated hyperpolarization-activated LTSs by decreasing the time to the initial sodium spike at the onset of LTS, also increasing the duration of the afterdepolarization. Responses were blockable with a V(1a) receptor antagonist (Manning compound). Under voltage clamp, AVP induced a TTX-resistant, slowly rising, and prolonged (approximately 15 min) inward current (&lt;40 pA). Current-voltage relationship (I-V) analyses of the AVP responses revealed a decrease in membrane conductance to 73.1 +/- 6.2% of control, with net AVP current reversing at -106 +/- 4 mV, and decreased inward rectification at negative potentials. These observations are consistent with an AVP-induced closure of an inwardly rectifying potassium conductance. On the basis of these in vitro observations, we suggest that the SCN vasopressinergic innervation of PVT is excitatory in nature, possibly releasing AVP with circadian rhythmicity and contributing to state-dependent firing patterns in PVT neurons over the sleep-wake cycle.
The present experiments sought to identify the physiological signals that inhibit thirst when dehydrated rats drink water or NaCl solution. Rats were deprived of drinking fluid but not food overnight. When allowed to drink again, the dehydrated animals consumed water or saline (0.05 M, 0.10 M, 0.15 M, or 0.20 M NaCl solution) almost continuously for 5-8 min before stopping. The volumes consumed were similar regardless of which fluid they ingested, but blood analyses indicated that increased plasma osmolality and decreased plasma volume, or both, still remained when drinking terminated. These results suggest that the composition of the ingested fluid is less significant than its volume in providing an early signal that inhibits thirst and fluid consumption by dehydrated rats. Analyses of the gastrointestinal tracts revealed that the cumulative volume in the stomach and small intestine correlated highly with the amount consumed regardless of which fluid was ingested. These and other results suggest that the volume of fluid ingested by dehydrated rats is sensed by stretch receptors detecting distension of the stomach and small intestine, which provide an early inhibitory stimulus of thirst.
