Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive technique for brain stimulation and it increasingly being used in the treatments of some neurological/psychiatric conditions (e.g. chronic pain, epilepsy, depression, motor rehabilitation after stroke and Parkinson's disease). With tDCS, cortical neurons excitability increases in the vicinity of the anodal electrode and suppressed near the cathodal electrode. There is evidence that anorexia is associated with hyperactivity in right-hemisphere frontal regions. tDCS, therefore has a promising potential in facilitating inter-hemispheric balance. A tDCS protocol is proposed: the anode electrode placed over the left prefrontal cortex and the cathode electrode located, either on the right homotopic region for non-SSRI-medicated anorexics, or on a non-cephalic site for SSRI-medicated anorexics. Together with nutritional supplements, psychotherapy and other treatments, tDCS have a good potential, as a complementary tool, in the treatment of anorexia.
A number of analysis tools have been developed for the estimation of brain atrophy using MRI. Since brain atrophy is being increasingly used as a marker of disease progression in many neuro-degenerative diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease, the validation of these tools is an important task. However, this is complex, in the real scenario, due to the absence of gold standards for comparison. In order to create gold standards, we first propose an approach for the realistic simulation of brain tissue loss that relies on the estimation of a topology preserving B-spline based deformation fields. Using these gold standards, an evaluation of the performance of three standard brain atrophy estimation methods (SIENA, SIENAX and BSI-UCD), on the basis of their robustness to various sources of error (bias-field inhomogeneity, noise, geometrical distortions, interpolation artefacts and presence of lesions), is presented. Our evaluation shows that, in general, bias-field inhomogeneity and noise lead to larger errors in the estimated atrophy than geometrical distortions and interpolation artefacts. Experiments on 18 different anatomical models of the brain after simulating whole brain atrophies in the range of 0.2-1.5% indicate that, in the presence of bias-field inhomogeneity and noise, a mean error of 0.64+/-0.53%,4.00+/-2.41% and 1.79+/-0.97% may be expected in the atrophy estimated by SIENA, SIENAX and BSI-UCD, respectively.
Mental illnesses such as bipolar disorders, ADHD, depression and schizophrenia are a major public health concern worldwide. While several pharmacological agents acting on monoamine neurotransmission are used for the management of these disorders, the ultimate molecular mechanisms responsible for their therapeutic effects and their relationships to disease etiology are still poorly understood. Here we provide an overview of recent advances on the involvement of the signaling molecules Akt and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) in the regulation of behavior by the monoamine neurotransmitters dopamine and serotonin (5-HT). We also examine the possible participation of these signaling molecules to the effects of antipsychotics, antidepressant and lithium and their contribution to mental disorders. Regulation of Akt and GSK3 by monoamine neurotransmitters may provide a better understanding of mental illnesses leading to new therapeutic approaches having better efficacy.
In the pathophysiology of many different diseases, proinflammatory disease processes repeatedly seem to represent a basic principle. Proinflammation, as any biologic process, has the capacity of exerting negative effects, since its components are toxic and autotoxic. Since proinflammation is a common phenomenon and is, capable of executing negative 'side effects', it is understandable and plausible why it seems to be involved in many different disease states. The different clinical manifestations of proinflammation (different diseases) may actually represent a common and consistent pathophysiological entity that is not separable by its molecular implications. Simultaneously, preconditioning protection counter-intuitively may rely on the same molecular process involving nitric oxide as a chemical messenger.

Phosphorylation of GABA(A) receptors is an important mechanism for dynamically modulating inhibitory synaptic function in the mammalian brain. In particular, phosphorylation of tyrosine residues 365 and 367 (Y365/7) within the GABA(A) receptor gamma2 subunit negatively regulates the endocytosis of GABA(A) receptors and enhances synaptic inhibition. Here we show that Fyn, a Src family kinase (SFK), interacts with the gamma2 subunit in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Fyn binds within a region of the gamma2 intracellular domain that is centered on residues Y365/7, with the phosphorylation of Y367 being particularly important for mediating this interaction. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the gamma2 subunit is significantly reduced in the hippocampus of Fyn knockout mice, suggesting that Fyn is an important kinase that contributes to the phosphorylation of this subunit in vivo. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the gamma2 subunit is not completely abolished in Fyn kinase mice, suggesting that other SFKs, such as Src, also contribute to maintaining and regulating the endogenous phosphorylation level of gamma2-containing GABA(A) receptors. In summary, we demonstrate Fyn as one of the SFKs that binds to and phosphorylates the gamma2 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. This has important implications for the regulation of synaptic GABA(A) receptors via signaling pathways that lead to the activation of Fyn kinase.
A number of intrinsic factors are present intracellularly and could be turned on to protect cells from stress and injury, including cerebral ischemia. The degree of protection of these factors is dependent on the time of induction, their concentration, as well as the duration and extent of injury. This review summarizes recent studies on some of the protective factors with specific emphasis on two recently discovered intrinsic protective proteins: 14-3-3gamma protein and neuroglobin. Both of them were originally discovered in neurons, later identified in astrocytes under ischemic conditions, and demonstrated to have protective effect on nerve cells from apoptosis. Understanding the mode of induction and role of protection of these intrinsic protective proteins would be beneficial for the future development of pharmacotherapy in extending the therapeutic time window, which would lead to better stroke management for patients.
Recently, one of the P2 purinergic receptors, the P2X(7) receptor, has been extensively studied in nervous system and important functions have been revealed in both astrocytes and microglia. Stimulation of the receptors induces a sustained and nondesensitized increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). In astrocytes purinergic receptors primarily regulate neurotransmission by inducing gliotransmitters release whereas in microglia the receptors stimulate the processing and release of proinflammation cytokines such as interleukin-1 and are thereby involved in inflammation and neurodegeneration. Thus, P2X(7) receptors are considered not only to exert physiological functions but also mediate cell death. P2X(7) receptors have also been identified in various cancer cells and in neuroblastoma cells. In these cells, the P2X(7) receptor-mediated sustained Ca(2+) signal is important in maintaining cellular viability and growth. Accordingly, these findings not only lead to a better understanding of roles of the receptor but also prompt the development of more potent, selective and safer P2X(7) selective antagonists. These emerging antagonists bring new hope in the treatment of inflammatory-induced neurodegenerative diseases as well as neuroblastoma.
Phospholipases A(2) (PLA(2)s) are a diverse family of lipolytic enzymes which hydrolyze the acyl bond at the sn-2 position of glycerophospholipids to produce free fatty acids and lysophospholipids. These products are precursors of bioactive eicosanoids and platelet-activating factor which have been implicated in pathological states of numerous acute and chronic neurological disorders. To date, more than 27 isoforms of PLA(2) have been found in the mammalian system which can be classified into four major categories: secretory PLA(2), cytosolic PLA(2), Ca(2+)-independent PLA(2), and platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolases. Multiple isoforms of PLA(2) are found in the mammalian spinal cord. Under physiological conditions, PLA(2)s are involved in diverse cellular responses, including phospholipid digestion and metabolism, host defense, and signal transduction. However, under pathological situations, increased PLA(2) activity, excessive production of free fatty acids and their metabolites may lead to the loss of membrane integrity, inflammation, oxidative stress, and subsequent neuronal injury. There is emerging evidence that PLA(2) plays a key role in the secondary injury process after traumatic spinal cord injury. This review outlines the current knowledge of the PLA(2) in the spinal cord with an emphasis being placed on the possible roles of PLA(2) in mediating the secondary SCI.
Stroke is a leading cause of adult disability and mortality. Diabetes is a major risk factor for stroke. Patients with diabetes have a higher incidence of stroke and a poorer prognosis after stroke. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a ligand-modulated transcriptional factor and a therapeutic target for treating type II diabetes. It is well-documented that activation of PPAR-gamma can also attenuate postischemic inflammation and damage. In this review, we focus on the newly revealed anti-apoptotic actions of PPAR-gamma against cerebral ischemia. PPAR-gamma, by increasing superoxide dismutase/catalase and decreasing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase levels, attenuated ischemia-induced reactive oxygen species and subsequently alleviated the postischemic degradation of Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, and Akt. The preserved Akt phosphorylated Bad. Meanwhile, PPAR-gamma also promotes the transcription of 14-3-3epsilon. Elevated 14-3-3epsilon binds and sequesters p-Bad and prevents Bad translocation to neutralize the anti-apoptotic function of Bcl-2. This review further supports the notion that PPAR-gamma may serve as a potential therapeutic target for treating ischemic stroke.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder caused by expended CAG repeats in the Huntingtin (Htt) gene. The resultant mutant Htt (mHtt) forms aggregates in neurons and causes neuronal dysfunctions. The major characteristic of HD is the selective loss of neurons in the striatum and cortex, which leads to movement disorders, dementia, and eventual death. Expression of mHtt was also found in non-neuronal cells in the brain, suggesting non-cell-autonomous neurotoxicity in HD. As was documented in many different neurodegenerative disorders, elevated inflammatory responses are also reported in HD. To date, effective treatments for this devastating disease remain to be developed. This review focuses on the importance of glial cells and inflammation in HD pathogenesis. Potential anti-inflammatory interventions for HD are also discussed.
Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC), characterized by absence of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and lack of overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), are typically associated with poor prognosis, due to aggressive tumor phenotype(s), only partial response to chemotherapy and present lack of clinically established targeted therapies. Advances in the design of individualized strategies for treatment of TNBC patients require further elucidation, by combined 'omics' approaches, of the molecular mechanisms underlying TNBC phenotypic heterogeneity, and the still poorly understood association of TNBC with BRCA1 mutations. An overview is here presented on TNBC profiling in terms of expression signatures, within the functional genomic breast tumor classification, and ongoing efforts toward identification of new therapy targets and bioimaging markers. Due to the complexity of aberrant molecular patterns involved in expression, pathological progression and biological/clinical heterogeneity, the search for novel TNBC biomarkers and therapy targets requires collection of multi-dimensional data sets, use of robust multivariate data analysis techniques and development of innovative systems biology approaches.
Punding is a stereotyped behavior characterized by an intense fascination with a complex, excessive, nongoal oriented, repetitive activity. Men tend to repetitively tinker with technical equipment such as radio sets, clocks, watches and car engines, the parts of which may be analyzed, arranged, sorted and cataloged but rarely put back together. Women, in contrast, incessantly sort through their handbags, tidy continuously, brush their hair or polish their nails. Punders are normally aware of the inapposite and obtuse nature of the behavior; however, despite the consequent self-injury, they do not stop such behavior. The most common causes of punding are dopaminergic replacement therapy in patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD) and cocaine and amphetamine use in addicts. The vast majority of information about punding comes from PD cases. A critical review of these cases shows that almost all afflicted patients (90%) were on treatment with drugs acting mainly on dopamine receptors D1 and D2, whereas only three cases were reported in association with selective D2 and D3 agonists. Epidemiological considerations and available data from animal models suggest that punding, drug-induced stereotypies, addiction and dyskinesias all share a common pathophysiological process. Punding may be related to plastic changes in the ventral and dorsal striatal structures, including the nucleus accumbens, and linked to psychomotor stimulation and reward mechanisms. Possible management guidelines are proposed.
Psychiatric disturbances may occur at the onset of multiple sclerosis. However, information on their outcome is lacking. Our objective was to document the characteristics of psychiatric symptoms at presentation of multiple sclerosis and to define the long-term evolution of psychiatric disturbances in these patients. Based on a clinical record analysis of patients with defined multiple sclerosis diagnosis and coming under the care of a university multiple sclerosis centre within the period 1997-2007, patients with both psychiatric and neurological symptoms at presentation were identified. Clinical data at onset and at last follow-up were considered. Among 682 evaluated patients, psychiatric disturbances were associated with multiple sclerosis onset in 16 cases (2.3%). Most patients (56%) presented with a mood disorder with clinical characteristics of a major depressive-like episode, five (32%) had psychotic symptoms. Initial psychiatric disturbances improved later than neurological symptoms, or never fully recovered, regardless of the concomitant use of psychotropic medications. In most of the subjects psychiatric disturbances tended to remain over the follow-up period and at last visit, after a mean follow-up of 7.6 years (+/-2.3), 14 subjects (87%) had a supplementary diagnosis of psychiatric illness. Psychiatric symptoms at onset of multiple sclerosis may be indicators of possible maintenance of psychiatric morbidity in a sizeable proportion of patients.
The purpose of this study was to describe a trigeminal neuropathy caused by the perineural spread of an amyloidoma. A 62-year-old woman had an amyloidoma of the Gasserian ganglion that was hypointense on T2-weighted images; the lesion was enhanced by gadolinium on thin-slice magnetic resonance imaging. There was no evidence of systemic amyloidosis or underlying inflammatory or neoplastic disorders. Her blink reflex and thin-slice magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated that the right trigeminal nerve was involved. A rare trigeminal neuropathy resulted from the perineural spread of a primary amyloidoma that was difficult to detect by conventional magnetic resonance imaging.
Thirty-nine members, ages 1 to 67 years, of a Swedish family with rippling muscle disease (RMD) were investigated to assess genotype-phenotype correlations. Clinical, neurophysiological, and muscle morphological examinations were performed. Genetic analysis was performed in 38 individuals. Twenty-three patients had percussion-induced muscle mounding (PIMM) and percussion-induced rapid contractions (PIRC). Rippling and hyperCKemia were not found in all patients. Weakness was minor or absent. The electromyogram showed absence of electrical activity in ripples and PIMM, and muscle biopsy specimens confirmed caveolin-3 deficiency and absence of caveolae. Genetic analysis revealed a CAV3 c.G136A transition resulting in a p.A46T missense mutation in affected family members. The phenotype in these 23 cases of RMD with this mutation appears to be homogenous, benign, and nonprogressive. The presence of PIMM and PIRC seems to be diagnostic at all ages, whereas the absence of hyperCKemia and rippling does not exclude the diagnosis.
Non-invasive excitability studies of motor axons in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have revealed a changing pattern of abnormal membrane properties with disease progression, but the heterogeneity of the changes has made it difficult to relate them to pathophysiology. The SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS displays more synchronous motoneuron pathology. Multiple excitability measures of caudal and sciatic nerves in mutant and wild-type mice were compared before onset of signs and during disease progression (4-19 weeks), and they were related to changes in muscle fiber histochemistry. Excitability differences indicated a modest membrane depolarization in SOD1(G93A) axons at about the time of symptom onset (8 weeks), possibly due to deficient energy supply. Previously described excitability changes in ALS patients, suggesting altered sodium and potassium conductances, were not seen in the mice. This suggests that those changes relate to features of the human disease that are not well represented in the animal model.
Recent developments in research related to nanoparticles in neuroscience necessitated the establishment of a new discipline known as 'nanoneuroscience'. In order to understand the possible role of nanoparticles in the development of neurotoxicity or their potential use in neuroprotection, nine top experts across the world in this newly developing discipline were invited to present their cutting edge research in the 7th annual meeting of the Global College of Neuroprotection &amp; Neuroregeneration in Stockholm, Sweden. The new developments suggest that more research is needed to understand the potential use of nanoparticles in nanomedicine. Highlights of these presentations are summarized in this article.
Muscle paralysis after spinal cord injury is partly caused by a loss of brainstem-derived serotonin (5-HT), which normally maintains motoneuron excitability by regulating crucial persistent calcium currents. Here we examine how over time motoneurons compensate for lost 5-HT to regain excitability. We find that, months after a spinal transection in rats, changes in post-transcriptional editing of 5-HT2C receptor mRNA lead to increased expression of 5-HT2C receptor isoforms that are spontaneously active (constitutively active) without 5-HT. Such constitutive receptor activity restores large persistent calcium currents in motoneurons in the absence of 5-HT. We show that this helps motoneurons recover their ability to produce sustained muscle contractions and ultimately enables recovery of motor functions such as locomotion. However, without regulation from the brain, these sustained contractions can also cause debilitating muscle spasms. Accordingly, blocking constitutively active 5-HT2C receptors with SB206553 or cyproheptadine, in both rats and humans, largely eliminates these calcium currents and muscle spasms, providing a new rationale for antispastic drug therapy.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative process characterized by numerous motor and nonmotor clinical manifestations for which effective, mechanism-based treatments remain elusive. Here we discuss a series of critical issues that we think researchers need to address to stand a better chance of solving the different challenges posed by this pathology.
In contrast with the many studies of stress effects on the brain, relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms of resilience, the ability of some individuals to escape the deleterious effects of stress. We found that the transcription factor DeltaFosB mediates an essential mechanism of resilience in mice. Induction of DeltaFosB in the nucleus accumbens, an important brain reward-associated region, in response to chronic social defeat stress was both necessary and sufficient for resilience. DeltaFosB induction was also required for the standard antidepressant fluoxetine to reverse behavioral pathology induced by social defeat. DeltaFosB produced these effects through induction of the GluR2 AMPA glutamate receptor subunit, which decreased the responsiveness of nucleus accumbens neurons to glutamate, and through other synaptic proteins. Together, these findings establish a previously unknown molecular pathway underlying both resilience and antidepressant action.
Ependymal cells form the epithelial lining of cerebral ventricles. Their apical surface is covered by cilia that beat in a coordinated fashion to facilitate circulation of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The genetic factors that govern the development and function of ependymal cilia remain poorly understood. We found that the planar cell polarity cadherins Celsr2 and Celsr3 control these processes. In Celsr2-deficient mice, the development and planar organization of ependymal cilia are compromised, leading to defective CSF dynamics and hydrocephalus. In Celsr2 and Celsr3 double mutant ependyma, ciliogenesis is markedly impaired, resulting in lethal hydrocephalus. The membrane distribution of Vangl2 and Fzd3, two key planar cell polarity proteins, was disturbed in Celsr2 mutants, and even more so in Celsr2 and Celsr3 double mutants. Our findings suggest that planar cell polarity signaling is involved in ependymal cilia development and in the pathophysiology of hydrocephalus, with possible implications in other ciliopathies.
The eyeless animal C. elegans is able to sense light and engages in phototaxis behavior that is mediated by photoreceptor cells. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying phototransduction in C. elegans remain largely unclear. By recording the photoreceptor neuron ASJ in wild-type and various mutant worms, we found that phototransduction in ASJ is a G protein-mediated process and requires membrane-associated guanylate cyclases, but not typical phosphodiesterases. In addition, we found that C. elegans phototransduction requires LITE-1, a candidate photoreceptor protein known to be a member of the invertebrate taste receptor family. Our genetic, pharmacological and electrophysiological data suggest a model in which LITE-1 transduces light signals in ASJ via G protein signaling, which leads to upregulation of the second messenger cGMP, followed by opening of cGMP-sensitive CNG channels and stimulation of photoreceptor cells. Our results identify a phototransduction cascade in C. elegans and implicate the function of a 'taste receptor' in phototransduction.
The development of interventions to slow or prevent progression represents an important aim for current research into Parkinson disease (PD). General agreement prevails that success in this endeavor will depend on a clearer understanding of etiology and pathogenesis, and several important advances have recently been made, particularly in defining the genetic causes of PD. Studies of the biochemical consequences of the mutations that cause familial PD, and postmortem brain studies of idiopathic, sporadic PD, have highlighted mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and protein metabolism by the ubiquitin-proteasomal and autophagy systems as being central to pathogenesis. In parallel with advances in etiopathogenesis, a clearer perception has developed of the clinical prodrome of PD, offering an opportunity to identify individuals who are at risk of PD, as well as those in the earliest clinical phase of the disease that might even precede the onset of motor symptoms. These populations are potentially the most suitable in which to test new protective therapies, and to study potential peripheral markers of disease progression. The awareness of the early symptomatic period of PD also raises the possibility of providing treatments that not only improve motor function but might also favorably modify outcome.
Owing to improved survival rates of premature newborns, the number of very low birth weight infants is rising. Preterm infants display a greater propensity for brain injury caused by hypoxic or ischemic events, infection and/or inflammation that results in prominent white matter injury (WMI) than infants carried to full term. The intrinsic vulnerability of developing oligodendroglia to excitotoxic, oxidative and inflammatory forms of injury is a major factor in the pathogenesis of this condition. Furthermore, activated microglia and astrogliosis are critically involved in triggering WMI. Currently, no specific treatment is available for this kind of injury. Injury to the premature brain can substantially influence brain development and lead to disability. Impairment of the main motor pathways, such as the corticospinal tract, in the perinatal period contributes substantially to clinical outcome. Advanced neuroimaging techniques have led to greater understanding of the nature of both white and gray matter injury in preterm infants. Further research is warranted to examine the translational potential of preclinical therapeutic strategies for controlling such injury and preserving the integrity of motor pathways in preterm infants.
The discovery of mirror neurons in motor areas of the brain has led many to assume that our ability to understand other people's behaviour partially relies on vicarious activations of motor cortices. This Review focuses the limelight of social neuroscience on a different set of brain regions: the somatosensory cortices. These have anatomical connections that enable them to have a role in visual and auditory social perception. Studies that measure brain activity while participants witness the sensations, actions and somatic pain of others consistently show vicarious activation in the somatosensory cortices. Neuroscientists are starting to understand how the brain adds a somatosensory dimension to our perception of other people.
Much of the original historical data behind the greatest discoveries in neuroscience are now lost. However, a recently rediscovered box of histological slides belonging to Sir Charles Sherrington, a pioneer in spinal cord and motor control research, has survived at the University of Oxford since 1936. Sherrington coined the term 'synapse', developed the concept of inhibition in neuronal function, demonstrated the integration of sensory and motor actions of the nervous system, and examined the synaptic activity of single neurons and their integration into neuronal circuits. Here, we explore Sherrington's lifetime of discoveries, with reference to histological specimens from his box of slides.

The prognosis for malignant gliomas remains poor, and new treatments are urgently needed. Targeted suicide gene therapy exploits the enzymatic conversion of a prodrug, such as a nucleoside analog, into a cytotoxic compound. Although this therapeutic strategy has been considered a promising regimen for central nervous system (CNS) tumors, several obstacles have been encountered such as inefficient gene transfer to the tumor cells, limited prodrug penetration into the CNS, and inefficient enzymatic activity of the suicide gene. We report here the cloning and successful application of a novel thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) from the tomato plant, with favorable characteristics in vitro and in vivo. This enzyme (toTK1) is highly specific for the nucleoside analog prodrug zidovudine (azidothymidine, AZT), which is known to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. An important feature of toTK1 is that it efficiently phosphorylates its substrate AZT not only to AZT monophosphate, but also to AZT diphosphate, with excellent kinetics. The efficiency of the toTK1/AZT system was confirmed when toTK1-transduced human glioblastoma (GBM) cells displayed a 500-fold increased sensitivity to AZT compared with wild-type cells. In addition, when neural progenitor cells were used as delivery vectors for toTK1 in intracranial GBM xenografts in nude rats, substantial attenuation of tumor growth was achieved in animals exposed to AZT, and survival of the animals was significantly improved compared with controls. The novel toTK1/AZT suicide gene therapy system in combination with stem cell-mediated gene delivery promises new treatment of malignant gliomas.
Aberrant promoter hypermethylation of several known or putative tumor suppressor genes occurs frequently during the malignant transformation in gliomas. We hypothesized that quantitative analysis of methylated genes will provide prognostic values in malignant glioma patients. We used an immunocapturing approach followed by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis to detect altered patterns of promoter methylation in O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), p16INK4a, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3), and thrombospondin 1 (THBS1). The tumor tissue and paired serum as well as cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 66 patients with malignant gliomas were studied. Serum and CSF from 20 age-matched noncancer individuals were used as control. Promoter hypermethylation in MGMT, p16INK4a, TIMP-3, and THBS1 was detected at high frequencies in tumor tissue, serum, and CSF. None of the control serum or CSF showed aberrant methylation. Hypermethylation in serum and CSF DNA was all accompanied with methylation in the corresponding tumor tissues with 100% specificity. Highly elevated MGMT, p16INK4a, and THBS1 methylation levels in gliomas serum were the sole independent factors predicting inferior overall survival in this cohort. For progression-free survival, hypermethylation of MGMT and THBS1 in CSF were the independent prognostic factors. Multiple gene promoter hypermethylation analysis appears to be promising as a prognostic factor in glioma and as a mini-invasive tumor marker in serum and/or CSF DNA. Evaluation of these changes may help in selecting glioma patients for optimal adjuvant treatments and modifying chemotherapy.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) may play a role in dementia pathogenesis because of its effects on vascular and metabolic homeostasis, amyloid metabolism, and learning and memory. The angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), a pivotal RAS protein, is encoded for by a gene containing a functional ID variant, which has been related to dementia risk. We examined the relationship between the ACE Insertion Deletion (ACE ID) variant and dementia with consideration for metabolic phenotypes, age and APOEepsilon4 using a population-based, cross-sectional sample of 891 Swedish women and men aged 70-92 years, of whom 61 people were demented. The odds of dementia was two-fold higher among those with ACE II genotype, and ranged from 2.18 to 4.35 among those with dementia onset &lt;or=70 years, an APOEepsilon4 allele, systolic blood pressure &lt;160 mmHg, body mass index &lt;25 kg/m(2), and in women only, waist circumference &lt;or=88 cm and hip circumference &lt;101 cm. Variations among reports on the relationship between the ACE ID polymorphism and dementia may be due to lack of consideration for gene-gene and gene-phenotype associations.
Treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the discovery of promising drug candidates depend on early diagnosis. Few currently available diagnostic tests have significantly improved this early uncertainty, while the &quot;gold standard&quot; diagnosis continues to require clinical dementia in life and the presence of pathologic brain lesions of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain at autopsy. Here, the inflammatory agonist bradykinin, a small nano-peptide, that induces PKC-mediated phosphorylation of Erk1 and Erk2 in fibroblasts, was applied to punch-biopsy-obtained human skin fibroblasts. Quantitative imaging of the phosphorylated Erk1 and Erk2 bands was then used in a ratio that is mathematically configured into an AD-Biomarker Index (AD-Index). In the population described here (N=264), there were 64 autopsy examinations. Demented individuals were clinically diagnosed as AD with an overall accuracy of 78%. Among the 42 autopsy-confirmed cases for which there were also AD-Biomarker measurements, the overall accuracy of the AD-Biomarker was 98%. Among both the autopsy-confirmed and the clinically diagnosed patients, the AD-Index values were inversely correlated with the duration of disease, i.e., the time from the onset of dementia symptoms. Among the autopsy-confirmed cases, the AD-Biomarker diagnosis showed remarkably high sensitivity (97%) and specificity (100%) compared to clinical diagnosis (sensitivity: 78% and specificity: 20%). Using autopsy validation, the clinical diagnosis was only accurate at 52% level vs. the AD-Biomarker accuracy of 100% for cases with dementia not larger than 4 years of duration. Finally, application of soluble Abeta(1-42) to the fibroblasts of normal controls induced the abnormal AD-Biomarker phenotype, suggesting the pathophysiologic relevance of this AD-Biomarker measurement. In summary, the AD-Biomarker, as confirmed by autopsy validation, showed significantly higher sensitivity and specificity than did clinical diagnosis, particularly at early stages of disease, and pathophysiological relevance was demonstrated for the mechanistic basis of the AD-Biomarker measurements.
Aged non-human primates are a valuable model for gaining insight into mechanisms underlying neural decline with aging and during the course of neurodegenerative disorders. Behavioral studies are a valuable component of aged primate models, but are difficult to perform, time consuming, and often of uncertain relevance to human cognitive measures. We now report findings from an automated cognitive test battery in aged primates using equipment that is identical, and tasks that are similar, to those employed in human aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) studies. Young (7.1+/-0.8 years) and aged (23.0+/-0.5 years) rhesus monkeys underwent testing on a modified version of the Cambridge Automated Neuropsychological Test Battery (CANTAB), examining cognitive performance on separate tasks that sample features of visuospatial learning, spatial working memory, discrimination learning, and skilled motor performance. We find selective cognitive impairments among aged subjects in visuospatial learning and spatial working memory, but not in delayed recall of previously learned discriminations. Aged monkeys also exhibit slower speed in skilled motor function. Thus, aged monkeys behaviorally characterized on a battery of automated tests reveal patterns of age-related cognitive impairment that mirror in quality and severity those of aged humans, and differ fundamentally from more severe patterns of deficits observed in AD.
We investigated whether the val(158)met functional polymorphism of catechol-o-methyltransferase influenced age-related changes in grey matter density and volume, both in healthy individuals (n=80, ages 18-79) and those with Parkinson's disease (n=50). Global grey matter volumes and voxelwise estimates of grey matter volume and density were determined from structural magnetic resonance images at 3T. Male and female ValVal homozygotes (low prefrontal cortical dopamine) had more grey matter in early adulthood, but this difference disappeared with increasing age. The insula and ventral prefrontal cortex had higher grey matter volume in younger, but not older, ValVal homozygotes. Conversely, the dominant premotor cortex revealed genotypic differences in grey matter density in later life. There were no global or local interactions between Parkinson's disease and COMT val(158)met genotype on morphometry. Since the val(158)met polymorphism is associated with differences in cortical dopamine metabolism, our data suggest a role for dopamine in cortical development followed by differential vulnerability to cortical atrophy across the adult life span.
Proteasomal dysfunction may play a role in neurodegenerative conditions and protein aggregation. Overexpression in neuronal cells of alpha-synuclein, a molecule linked to Parkinson's Disease, may lead to proteasomal dysfunction. Using PC12 cells stably expressing wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein and gel filtration, we demonstrate that soluble, intermediate size oligomers of alpha-synuclein co-elute with the 26S proteasome. These soluble oligomers associate with the 26S proteasome and are significantly increased following treatment with proteasomal, but not lysosomal, inhibitors, indicating specific degradation of these particular species by the 26S proteasome. Importantly, expression of alpha-synuclein resulted in a significant inhibition of all proteasomal activities without affecting the levels or assembly of the 26S proteasome. Pharmacological dissociation of alpha-synuclein oligomers restored proteasomal function and reduced polyubiquitinated protein load in intact cells. Our findings suggest a model where only a subset of specific soluble cell-derived alpha-synuclein oligomers is targeted to the 26S proteasome for degradation, and simultaneously inhibit its function, likely by impeding access of other proteasomal substrates.
The aim of this study was to quantify spinal cord expression of genes known to cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) or influence survival in a large cohort of sporadic cases of ALS (SALS), in order to determine their relevance to pathogenic mechanisms occurring in SALS. The expression of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), vesicle associated membrane protein (VAPB), senataxin (SETX), dynactin (DCTN1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF1), the small heat shock proteins, HSPB1 and HSPB8, and three genes activated during disease progression, caspases-1 and -3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), were quantified. Robust changes in the expression of four genes were found, VAPB mRNA levels were decreased in the spinal cord of ALS patients compared to controls (p&lt;0.006), whilst HSPB1, HSPB8 and caspase-1 showed significant increases (1.5-2.3-fold). Expression of VAPB mRNA and protein was predominantly localised to large motor neurones further supporting the relevance of this finding to disease progression occurring in SALS.
Beta-secretase (BACE1), an enzyme responsible for the production of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), is increased by oxidative stress and is elevated in the brains of patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we show that oxidative stress fails to induce BACE1 expression in presenilin-1 (gamma-secretase)-deficient cells and in normal cells treated with gamma-secretase inhibitors. Oxidative stress-induced beta-secretase activity and sAPPbeta levels were suppressed by gamma-secretase inhibitors. Levels of gamma- and beta-secretase activities were greater in brain tissue samples from AD patients compared to non-demented control subjects, and the elevated BACE1 level in the brains of 3xTgAD mice was reduced by treatment with a gamma-secretase inhibitor. Our findings suggest that gamma-secretase mediates oxidative stress-induced expression of BACE1 resulting in excessive Abeta production in AD.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can result in altered inhibitory neurotransmission, hippocampal dysfunction, and cognitive impairments. GABAergic spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) and tonic (extrasynaptic) whole cell currents were recorded in control rat hippocampal dentate granule cells (DGCs) and at 90days after controlled cortical impact (CCI). At 34 degrees C, in CCI DGCs, sIPSC frequency and amplitude were unchanged, whereas mIPSC frequency was decreased (3.10+/-0.84Hz, n=16, and 2.44+/-0.67Hz, n=7, p&lt;0.05). At 23 degrees C, 300nM diazepam increased peak amplitude of mIPSCs in control and CCI DGCs, but the increase was 20% higher in control (26.81+/-2.2pA and 42.60+/-1.22pA, n=9, p=0.031) compared to CCI DGCs (33.46+/-2.98pA and 46.13+/-1.09pA, n=10, p=0.047). At 34 degrees C, diazepam did not prolong decay time constants (6.59+/-0.12ms and 6.62+/-0.98ms, n=9, p=0.12), the latter suggesting that CCI resulted in benzodiazepine-insensitive pharmacology in synaptic GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). In CCI DGCs, peak amplitude of mIPSCs was inhibited by 100microM furosemide (51.30+/-0.80pA at baseline and 43.50+/-5.30pA after furosemide, n=5, p&lt;0.001), a noncompetitive antagonist of GABA(A)Rs with an enhanced affinity to alpha4 subunit-containing receptors. Potentiation of tonic current by the GABA(A)R delta subunit-preferring competitive agonist THIP (1 and 3microM) was increased in CCI DGCs (47% and 198%) compared to control DGCs (13% and 162%), suggesting the presence of larger tonic current in CCI DGCs; THIP (1microM) had no effect on mIPSCs. Taken together, these results demonstrate alterations in synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A)Rs in DGCs following CCI.
Dopaminergic depletion in the nigrostriatal system is the neurochemical hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although numerous efforts have been made to determine the evolution of dopaminergic depletion in PD, &quot;in vivo&quot; data concerning the stages of this process are still scarce. We evaluated 6-[18F]-fluoro-l-DOPA ((18)F-DOPA) and 11C-(+)-alpha-dihydrotetrabenazine ((11)C-DTBZ) using PET in a model of chronically MPTP-induced parkinsonism in non-human primates. Methods: Sixty-seven cynomolgus monkeys (Macacafascicularis) were included in the study. Progressive parkinsonism was induced by repeated administration of small doses of MPTP (iv) over several months. Animals were classified as controls, asymptomatic, recovered (having exhibited parkinsonian features transiently) and stable parkinsonian, according to their motor status. Analysis of striatal dopaminergic activity was conducted by regions of interest (ROI) and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) over normalized parametric images. Results: A progressive loss of striatal uptake was evident among groups for both radiotracers, which correlated significantly with the clinical motor status. Changes occurred earlier, i.e. in the less affected stages, with (11)C-DTBZ. Similar results were achieved by ROI and SPM analysis. Uptake was similar with both radiotracers for the asymptomatic and recovered groups. Conclusions: Serial assessment with (18)F-DOPA and (11)C-DTBZ PETs provides an effective approach to evaluate evolution of dopaminergic depletion in monkeys with MPTP-induced parkinsonism. This approach could be useful to perform studies aiming to test the effect of early therapeutic intervention and putative neuroprotective treatments.
Previous studies of auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia found that the hallucinations were reduced by the application of transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Here we describe a case of traumatic brain injury associated with continuous music hallucinations. An MRI scan showed a structural lesion of the right temporal pole and a PET scan indicated a hyperactive area of the posterior right temporal lobe. We hypothesized that rTMS applied to the right temporal area would reduce this activity and the corresponding hallucinations. The patient's music hallucinations were significantly reduced by rTMS treatment. A PET scan following treatment also indicated that rTMS treatment reduced brain activity in the right temporal lobe. This case provides initial evidence that rTMS may be a successful treatment of syndromes associated with hyperactive brain areas.
Schizophrenia has been linked to a region on chromosome 17q21 in Latino populations (Escamilla et al., 2009). Mutations of a gene at this location (GRN) are associated with frontotemporal dementia. A recent study demonstrated that patients with frontotemporal dementia who presented with symptoms of schizophrenia show neuropathological findings consistent with GRN mutations, but were not tested for GRN mutations (Velakoulis, Walterfang, Mocellin, Pantelis, &amp; McLean, 2009). The current study describes a Latino family in which two siblings have schizophrenia and one has frontotemporal dementia. We sequenced GRN in one of the siblings with frontotemporal dementia and one of the siblings with schizophrenia. The siblings both have a loss-of-function GRN mutation. This finding, in conjunction with other studies (Escamilla et al., 2009; Velakoulis et al., 2009), suggests that there may be an association between schizophrenia, frontotemporal dementia, and GRN mutations in Latino populations that should be investigated further.


Peripheral injection of the endotoxin LPS in rats 3 weeks prior to a second injection of LPS derived from another bacterial strain results in elevated corticosterone and decreased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the blood. We further investigated this model by measuring cytokine expression in the hypothalamus and spleen. In LPS-pretreated rats, hypothalamic expression of a range of cytokines was attenuated in response to the second injection of LPS while splenic expression was elevated. This is the first demonstration that prior exposure to an endotoxin can differentially affect cytokine expression in the brain and peripheral tissues when a host is confronted with a second, acute, pro-inflammatory stimulus. Changes in hypothalamic cytokine expression in endotoxin pretreated rats may provide new evidence for the involvement of central cytokine pathways in modulating peripheral inflammation and mediating psychopathological alterations associated with inflammatory diseases.

Attention can be focused voluntarily and effectively on spatial locations in order to enhance the processing of task-relevant events. However, work on 'attentional capture' has demonstrated that spatial biases can be temporarily reset by transient and salient stimuli, especially if they share defining characteristics with the targets of a task goal. In the current study, we investigated whether the appearance of stimuli containing task-defining features at an unattended location was sufficient to capture attention, even when these were not perceptually salient. We used event-related-potential (ERP) markers to test whether the selection of task-defining features was modulated by top-down spatial attention, and to test whether the appearance of 'unattended targets' transiently disrupted the spatial bias. Surprisingly, the results revealed that ERP markers of selection of task-defining features were equivalent for stimuli appearing at spatially attended and unattended locations. In addition, the presentation of task-defining stimuli at the spatially unattended location induced a short-lived redistribution of the pre-established spatial attention bias toward the 'capture' side. These findings show that task-defining features of a stimulus are automatically processed independently from spatial attention, and suggest the co-existence of multiple sources of top-down biasing signals, which might in part sustain the capture mechanism.
Creativity has been essential to the development of human civilization and plays a crucial role in cultural life. However, despite a number of functional imaging studies on creativity, the relationship between regional gray matter morphology and creativity has never been investigated in subcortical regions. We used voxel-based morphometry (VBM) to identify the gray matter correlates of individual creativity as measured by the divergent thinking test. We found positive correlations between regional gray matter volume and individual creativity in several regions such as the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, bilateral striata and in an anatomical cluster which included areas such as the substantia nigra, tegmental ventral area and periaqueductal gray. These findings suggest that individual creativity, as measured by the divergent thinking test, is mainly related to the regional gray matter of brain regions known to be associated with the dopaminergic system, congruent with the idea that dopaminergic physiological mechanisms are associated with individual creativity.
Functional brain imaging technologies have enabled recent advances in understanding human brain function. In particular, a noninvasive and fast optical technique will become one of the most promising tools for future studies. As a fundamental ex vivo study for the development of such a technique, this paper demonstrates the spectral measurement of fast optical changes associated with neural activity in bulk brain tissue. For this purpose, a high-speed confocal near-infrared spectrometer was built and used. The results verified that observed transient optical responses (tORs) are associated with neural activity by showing that the following: tORs were concurrent and correlated with local field potentials (LFPs); tORs disappeared following tetrodotoxin application; and tORs were reproducibly observed across preparations. In addition, the amplitude of tORs was statistically significantly larger in longer wavelengths (approximately 1200 nm). The time course of tORs, however, is quite different from that of LFPs. Since this difference implies that tORs may originate not directly from the electric potential variation but from other neurophysiological events accompanying excitation, this paper tested the hypothesis that tORs are attributed to transient cellular volume changes (tCVCs). With no previous dynamic equation to elucidate such different temporal dynamics of the optical responses, a novel mathematical neuron model to describe tCVCs was developed. This neuron model, along with finite-difference time-domain simulations, showed that tCVCs and tORs were similar in the temporal dynamics, order of magnitude, response direction, and detectability in the bulk tissue; thus supporting the hypothesis.
In a genome-wide association study of structural brain degeneration, we mapped the 3D profile of temporal lobe volume differences in 742 brain MRI scans of Alzheimer's disease patients, mildly impaired, and healthy elderly subjects. After searching 546,314 genomic markers, 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were associated with bilateral temporal lobe volume (P&lt;5 x 10(-7)). One SNP, rs10845840, is located in the GRIN2B gene which encodes the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor NR2B subunit. This protein - involved in learning and memory, and excitotoxic cell death - has age-dependent prevalence in the synapse and is already a therapeutic target in Alzheimer's disease. Risk alleles for lower temporal lobe volume at this SNP were significantly over-represented in AD and MCI subjects vs. controls (odds ratio=1.273; P=0.039) and were associated with mini-mental state exam scores (MMSE; t=-2.114; P=0.035) demonstrating a negative effect on global cognitive function. Voxelwise maps of genetic association of this SNP with regional brain volumes, revealed intense temporal lobe effects (FDR correction at q=0.05; critical P=0.0257). This study uses large-scale brain mapping for gene discovery with implications for Alzheimer's disease.
A &quot;late&quot; period of activity in striate cortex (V1) in response to extrastriate feedback has been proposed to act as a marker of visual awareness. It is not clear, however, whether such recurrent activity is associated exclusively with aware perception or whether it is necessary also for unaware visual processing. We investigated the role of the &quot;late&quot; V1 activity in both aware and unaware visual motion perception. Participants were asked to make a forced-choice direction discrimination judgment on a coherently moving random-dot display and additionally rate their subjective awareness of the stimulus. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied over the early visual cortex (V1/V2) either 20, 40, 60, 80, or 100 ms after motion offset. Visual awareness was impaired at an &quot;early&quot; (20 ms) and a &quot;late&quot; (60 ms) stimulation time window. Participants' forced-choice direction discrimination performance on &quot;unaware&quot; trials was above chance in No TMS baseline condition. Importantly, this performance was impaired by TMS over V1/V2 at the &quot;late&quot; time window. In a second experiment we show that the critical time window of V5/MT falls between the &quot;early&quot; and &quot;late&quot; time windows of V1/V2 activity. The results indicate that recurrent extrastriate-V1 activity is necessary for both aware and unaware perception.
Human communication and survival depend on effective social information processing. Abundant behavioral evidence has shown that humans efficiently judge preferences for other individuals, a critical task in social interaction, yet the neural mechanism of this basic social evaluation, remains less than clear. Using a socio-emotional preference task and connectivity analyses (psycho-physiological interaction) of fMRI data, we first demonstrated that cortical midline structures (medial prefrontal and posterior cingulate cortices) and the task-positive network typically implicated in carrying out goal-directed tasks (pre-supplementary motor area, dorsal anterior cingulate and bilateral frontoparietal cortices) were both recruited when subjects made a preference judgment, relative to gender identification, to human faces. Connectivity analyses further showed network interactions among these cortical midline structures, and with the task-positive network, both of which vary as a function of social preference. Overall, the data demonstrate the involvement of cortical midline structures in forming social preference, and provide evidence of network interactions which might reflect a mechanism by which an individual regularly forms and expresses this fundamental decision.
Race models have been used to explain perceptual, motor and oculomotor decisions. Here we developed a race model to explain how human subjects select actions when there are no overt rewards and no external cues to specify which action to make. Critically, we were able to estimate the cumulative activity of neuronal decision-units for selected and non-selected actions. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test for regional brain activity that correlated with the predictions of this race model. Activity in the pre-SMA, cingulate motor and premotor areas correlated with prospective selection between responses according to the race model. Activity in the lateral prefrontal cortex did not correlate with the race model, even though this area was active during action selection. This activity related to the degree to which individuals switched between alternative actions. Crucially, a follow-up experiment showed that it was not present on the first trial. Taken together, these results suggest that the lateral prefrontal cortex is not the source for the generation of action. It is more likely that it is involved in switching to alternatives or monitoring previous actions. Thus, our experiment shows the power of the race model in distinguishing the contribution of different areas in the selection of action.
Being in a close relationship is essential to human existence. Such closeness can be described as including other in the self and be underpinned on social attachment system, which evolved from a redirection of nociceptive mechanisms. To what extent does imagining a loved-one differs from imagining an unfamiliar individual being in painful situations? In this functional MRI study, participants were exposed to animated stimuli depicting hands or feet in painful and non-painful situations, and instructed to imagine these scenarios from three different perspectives: self, loved-one and stranger after being primed with their respective photographs. In line with previous studies, the three perspectives were associated with activation of the neural network involved in pain processing. Specifically, adopting the perspective of a loved-one increased activity in the anterior cingulate cortex and insula, whereas imagining a stranger induced a signal increase in the right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) and superior frontal gyrus. The closer the participants' relationships were with their partner, the greater the deactivation in the right TPJ. A negative effective connectivity between the right TPJ and the insula, and a positive one with the superior frontal gyrus were found when participants imagined the perspective of a stranger. These results demonstrate that intimacy affects the bottom-up information processing involved in empathy, as indicated by greater overlap between neural representations of the self and the other.
The present study tests the hypothesis that the dopamine system is altered in idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE), and that the pattern of possible changes differs between juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) and epilepsy with tonic-clonic seizures only (GTCS). The dopamine (DA) system was investigated with PET and a DA transporter (DAT) ligand [(11)C]PE2I in 13 patients with JME, 13 with GTCS, and 12 healthy controls. The binding potential (BP) to DAT was quantified in the caudate, putamen, and midbrain. The possible impact on function was evaluated by correlating regional BP with test performance in a battery of neuropsychological tests. Both patient groups showed a reduced BP compared to controls, albeit in different locations. JME patients had a lower tracer binding than controls in the midbrain (0.8+/-0.1 vs. 1.0+/-0.2, p=0.019), whereas GTCS patients had reduced tracer binding in the putamen (5.9+/-1.6 vs. 7.1+/-1.2, p=0.023). While GTCS patients showed impaired performance in motor functions and on one test of executive function, JME patients performed poorly also in tests of working memory and several tests of executive function. Alterations in the DA system seem to exist in both GTCS and JME. However, the regional distribution of these changes differs between the two syndromes, as does their association with psychomotor and working memory performance. The present data suggest that the two forms of IGE have different neuronal substrates.
Articulatory goals have long been proposed to mediate perception. Examples include direct realist and constructivist (analysis by synthesis) theories of speech perception. Although the activity in brain regions involved with action production has been shown to be present during action observation (Mirror Neuron System), the relationship of this activity to perceptual performance has not been clearly demonstrated at the event level. To this end we used functional magnetic resonance imaging fMRI and magnetoencephalography MEG to measure brain activity for correct and incorrect trials of an auditory phonetic identification in noise task. FMRI analysis revealed activity in the premotor cortex including the neighboring frontal opercular part of Broca's area (PMC/Broca's) for both perception and production tasks involving the same phonetic stimuli (potential mirror system site) that was significantly greater for correct over incorrect perceptual identification trials. Time-frequency analysis of single trials conducted over MEG current localized to PMC/Broca's using a hierarchical variational Bayesian source analysis technique revealed significantly greater event-related synchronization ERS and desynchronization ERD for correct over incorrect trials in the alpha, beta, and gamma frequency range prior to and after stimulus presentation. Together, these fMRI and MEG results are consistent with the hypothesis that articulatory processes serve to facilitate perceptual performance, while further dispelling concerns that activity found in ventral PMC/Broca's (mirror system) is merely a product of covert production of the perceived action. The finding of performance predictive activity prior to stimulus onset as well as activity related to task difficulty instead of information available in stimulation are consistent with constructivist and contrary to direct realist theories of perception.
Normal ageing is accompanied by a progressive decline in cognitive function but the mechanisms for this are not fully understood. Nevertheless, the importance of white matter degeneration is supported by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies, although several important questions remain about the pattern and nature of age-related white matter degeneration. Firstly, there is a lack of longitudinal data determining the rate of change in DTI parameters with age, and whether this can be detected over short time periods. Secondly, it is unclear whether observed changes are uniform across the brain or whether accelerated white matter degeneration is localised to particular brain regions, as would support the frontal-ageing hypothesis. This study uses DTI techniques to quantify structural integrity change to determine whether regional differences are apparent in the rate of degeneration during longitudinal follow-up in a sample of healthy middle aged and older adults aged between 50 and 90years. Longitudinal differences in fractional anisotropy, axial and radial diffusivity are investigated using 1D coronal slice profiles, and 2D column maps in standard space, as well as using 3D tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) to investigate local age-related structural changes on a voxel-by-voxel basis at baseline and two-year follow-up. Results indicate that DTI can detect age-related change in white matter structure over a relatively short follow-up period and that longitudinal analyses reveal significant changes in white matter integrity throughout the brain with no evidence of accelerated decline in the frontal lobe regions during a 2year period. Common changes across different diffusion characteristics are discussed.
Lapses of attention, in the form of delayed responses to salient stimuli, increase in frequency for some but not all persons after sleep deprivation (SD). To identify patterns of task-related brain activation that might explain differences in vulnerability to SD, we performed fMRI on participants during a visual, selective attention task. We analyzed the correct responses in a trial-by-trial fashion to model the effects of response time. Stimulus contrast was varied to modulate perceptual difficulty. Attentional lapses and low-contrast stimuli were independently associated with increased signal in fronto-parietal regions associated with biasing attention. Sleep-deprived vulnerable individuals showed reduced top down fronto-parietal signal across all levels of image contrast and this reduction was particularly significant during lapses. There was concurrent reduction in extrastriate cortex and thalamus activation. Non-vulnerable persons showed a trend towards higher top-down biasing of attention and preserved visual cortex activation during SD lapses. A major contributor to performance degradation in SD appears to be a reduction in top-down biasing of attention that is independent of task difficulty.
We propose a generalized method to estimate waveforms common across trials from electroencephalographic (EEG) data. From single/multi-channel EEGs, the proposed method estimates the number of waveforms common across trials, their delays in individual trials, and all of the waveforms. After verifying the performance of this method by a number of simulation tests with artificial EEGs, we apply it to EEGs during a Go/NoGo task. This method can be used in general situations where the number and the delays of EEG waveforms common across trials are unknown.
The brain is the most complex system we know of. Despite the wealth of data available in neuroscience, our understanding of this system is still very limited. Here we argue that an essential component in our arsenal of methods to advance our understanding of the brain is the construction of artificial brain-like systems. In this way we can encompass the multi-level organisation of the brain and its role in the context of the complete embodied real-world and real-time perceiving and behaving system. Hence, on the one hand, we must be able to develop and validate theories of brains as closing the loop between perception and action, and on the other hand as interacting with the real world. Evidence is growing that one of the sources of the computational power of neuronal systems lies in the massive and specific connectivity, rather than the complexity of single elements. To meet these challenges-multiple levels of organisation, sophisticated connectivity, and the interaction of neuronal models with the real-world-we have developed a multi-level neuronal simulation environment, iqr. This framework deals with these requirements by directly transforming them into the core elements of the simulation environment itself. iqr provides a means to design complex neuronal models graphically, and to visualise and analyse their properties on-line. In iqr connectivity is defined in a flexible, yet compact way, and simulations run at a high speed, which allows the control of real-world devices-robots in the broader sense-in real-time. The architecture of iqr is modular, providing the possibility to write new neuron, and synapse types, and custom interfaces to other hardware systems. The code of iqr is publicly accessible under the GNU General Public License (GPL). iqr has been in use since 1996 and has been the core tool for a large number of studies ranging from detailed models of neuronal systems like the cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum, to robot based models of perception, cognition and action to large-scale real-world systems. In addition, iqr has been widely used over many years to introduce students to neuronal simulation and neuromorphic control. In this paper we outline the conceptual and methodological background of iqr and its design philosophy. Thereafter we present iqr's main features and computational properties. Finally, we describe a number of projects using iqr, singling out how iqr is used for building a &quot;synthetic insect&quot;.
This paper describes the capabilities of DISCO, an extensible approach that supports integrative Web-based information dissemination. DISCO is a component of the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF), an NIH Neuroscience Blueprint initiative that facilitates integrated access to diverse neuroscience resources via the Internet. DISCO facilitates the automated maintenance of several distinct capabilities using a collection of files 1) that are maintained locally by the developers of participating neuroscience resources and 2) that are &quot;harvested&quot; on a regular basis by a central DISCO server. This approach allows central NIF capabilities to be updated as each resource's content changes over time. DISCO currently supports the following capabilities: 1) resource descriptions, 2) &quot;LinkOut&quot; to a resource's data items from NCBI Entrez resources such as PubMed, 3) Web-based interoperation with a resource, 4) sharing a resource's lexicon and ontology, 5) sharing a resource's database schema, and 6) participation by the resource in neuroscience-related RSS news dissemination. The developers of a resource are free to choose which DISCO capabilities their resource will participate in. Although DISCO is used by NIF to facilitate neuroscience data integration, its capabilities have general applicability to other areas of research.

Anderson-Fabry disease (AFD) is an X-linked recessive lysosomal disease caused by alpha-galactosidase A (alpha-gal) deficiency, causing progressive glycosphingolipid storage in various organ systems. Headache is a frequent symptom. Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) often shows multiple white matter lesions (WML), like those seen in patients affected by migraine, in particular with aura (MA). To our knowledge, there are no reports about the prevalence of AFD in patients with MA. The objective of the study was to determine AFD prevalence, as assessed by alpha-gal activity and genetic tests, in MA patients. We evaluated 73 consecutive patients followed by the Headache Centre of our Department with a diagnosis of MA. They were screened for migraine characteristics and cerebrovascular risk factors. Gaseous contrast transcranial Doppler was used to diagnose right-to-left shunt and MRI to detect WML. All patients underwent blood test to evaluate peripheral alpha-gal activity and to identify alpha-gal gene mutations. Of 73 consecutive screened subjects (59 females, 14 males; mean age 38.3 +/- 11.8 years), the known GLA pathologic mutation p.[Asp313Tyr] was found in a 38-year-old woman, with a history of MA, deep venous thrombosis and abdominal pain. Cerebral MRI showed small WML. This is the first study reporting AFD prevalence in a cohort of MA patients. We found a relatively high prevalence (about 1.37%) among the examined patients, even if this finding needs to be confirmed in a larger sample. Despite this high prevalence, it seems not necessary to screen systematically all MA patients for AFD, but since it is a treatable genetic disorder, it is worthwhile to consider it for the subgroup of patients presenting WML and other typical AFD symptoms.
Headache is a disorder that has a very negative personal and social impact. This is an observational, cross-sectional, population-based study conducted in a subject sample (n = 904) that was representative of the town of Parma's general population aged 18 and over. The aim of this study, which is a part of a larger project, was to assess the frequency of headache and the disease perception of subjects with headache during the past year (n = 387). The average number of headache days in the past year was 34.9 days and it was comparable in men and in women: 49.9% of subjects had 1-12 days of headache in the past year, 34.9% had 1-52 days, 11.9% had 53-180 days, and 3.4% had more than 180 days. Only three subjects had headache every day during the past year. Only one-third of the subjects with headache in the past year considered themselves headache sufferers. The analysis by gender showed differences between men and women: although the average number of headache days in the past year was comparable in the male and female populations, women considered their headache a disease more often than men did. In addition, the percentage of men who considered their headache a disease did not increase with the increase in the number of headache days in the past year. More in-depth studies on this important aspect are needed.
Primary headache prevalence in the adult Italian general population has been little studied so far. This is an observational, cross-sectional, population-based study conducted in a subject sample that was representative of the city of Parma's general population &gt;or=age 18. The lifetime prevalence of headache was 69.1%, i.e. 75.8% in women and 60.6% in men; the past-year prevalence of headache was 42.8%, i.e. 52.0% in women and 31.1% in men. Most people suffer from one headache subtype. Headache past-year prevalence decreases with age, both in men and in women. After 60, the likelihood of suffering from headache is low. In more than 80% of cases, headache starts before age 40 and, therefore, it is not very likely for people to develop headache at an advanced age (&gt;50 years). This is the first population-based study conducted in Italy on a sample aged &gt;or=18 since the publication of the IHS diagnostic criteria in 1988.
Dissection of epiaortic vessels is a rare event but can have serious clinical consequences such as ischaemic injury to the brain, cerebellum or, more rarely to the retina and is an important cause of stroke in young adults. The main clinical presentation is headache or neck pain, usually but not always associated with Horner syndrome or other local symptoms, followed by an ischemic event in the carotid or vertebral district. Very rarely, the dissection can extend to the intracranial vessels leading to subarachnoid hemorrhage. The time between the headache and the stroke is variable, ranging from a few seconds to weeks. Suspecting an arterial dissection in cases of unexplained head or neck pain in young patients is than crucial to avoid cerebrovascular events; the clinical suspect must be confirmed by ultrasound examination of the epiaortic vessels as a first screening exam, followed by an appropriate neuroimaging study. Treatment with anticoagulants, although not supported by randomized trials, is generally employed to prevent embolic events. The prognosis of stroke caused by arterial dissection does not differ from that of ischaemic events of other origin; the rate of recurrence is low and most patients have only one event in their live. Clinical research with multicenter recruitment is ongoing to provide more solid evidence on the management and prognosis of arterial dissections.
Headache is a common disorder in the general population. Among women, the primary headache form that is more heavily affected by the physiologic hormonal variations occurring through a woman's lifetime is migraine. Migraine without aura (MO) and migraine with aura (MA) show a different clinical pattern during pregnancy. MO improves or disappears while it is not infrequent for women to have their first attack of MA during this period; usually, during pregnancy MA do not improve. In MO women who continue to suffer from migraine during pregnancy, clinical observation and the few data currently available from the literature suggest that in the gestational period their attacks are nonetheless less disabling than those occurring outside this period. Even though the duration of the attacks is unchanged, their severity tends to be mild or moderate. Treatment of migraine during pregnancy is discussed.
The objective of this study is to assess patients' satisfaction with migraine treatment with frovatriptan (F) or zolmitriptan (Z), by preference questionnaire. 133 subjects with a history of migraine with or without aura (IHS criteria) were randomized to F 2.5 mg or Z 2.5 mg. The study had a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over design, with each of the two treatment periods lasting no more than 3 months. At the end of the study, patients were asked to assign preference to one of the treatments (primary endpoint). The number of pain-free (PF) and pain-relief (PR) episodes at 2 h, and number of recurrent and sustained pain-free (SPF) episodes within 48 h were the secondary study endpoints. Seventy-seven percent of patients expressed a preference. Average score of preference was 2.9 +/- 1.3 (F) versus 3.0 +/- 1.3 (Z; p = NS). Rate of PF episodes at 2 h was 26% with F and 31% with Z (p = NS). PR episodes at 2 h were 57% for F and 58% for Z (p = NS). Rate of recurrence was 21 (F) and 24% (Z; p = NS). Time to recurrence within 48 h was better for F especially between 4 and 16 h (p &lt; 0.05). SPF episodes were 18 (F) versus 22% (Z; p = NS). Drug-related adverse events were significantly (p &lt; 0.05) less under F (3 vs. 10). In conclusion, our study suggests that F has a similar efficacy of Z, with some advantage as regards tolerability and recurrence.
Hereditary inclusion body myopathy (IBM2) was mainly reported in Middle Eastern Jewish patients. Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles has been described as a worldwide distributed distal myopathy. Both diseases are caused by mutations of the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase (GNE) gene. Herein we report two patients: an Egyptian Muslim patient with the &quot;common&quot; Middle Eastern mutation (M712T), rarely described in non-Jewish patients; and an Italian patient carrying a novel GNE mutation (L179F) in the epimerase domain. Our patients share common clinical and histopathological features, with some interesting aspects. The first patient presented a clinical deterioration during her first pregnancy confirming that an increased requirement of sialic acid during pregnancy may trigger a clinical worsening. The second patient showed a slowly progressive deterioration, different from other patients carrying mutations in the epimerase domain, who had a severe and rapid progression.
We report the case of a 32-year-old woman with a history of increased sleep need and difficulty waking up; the diagnosis of idiopathic hypersomnia was hypothesized. During ambulatory polysomnography (PSG), the patient presented an episode characterized by loss of consciousness and jerking of the four limbs. A video-PSG monitoring was performed and the patient showed unresponsiveness and drowsiness at 7 a.m. During the episode, EEG showed theta-delta diffuse activity, and blood glucose level was 32 mg dl(-1). The diagnosis of insulinoma was then assumed; CT scan showed a hypodense mass into the pancreatic tail, and a partial pancreasectomy was performed. The described symptoms disappeared, and 5 years later the findings of a complete clinical and neurophysiological examination were negative. The clinical picture of insulinoma presenting with paroxysmal disorders has been previously described; however, whereas hypersomnia is uncommon, in the current case it represents the main symptom. Clinicians should keep in mind that neuroglycopenia should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with hypersomnia, particularly if the clinical scenario does not conform to standard criteria.
Phenotype of patients with the aprataxin gene mutation varies and according to previous studies, screening of aprataxin gene could be useful, once frataxin gene mutation is excluded in patients with normal GAA expansion in frataxin gene. In the present study, we sought to determine possible causative mutations in aprataxin gene (all exons and flanking intronic sequences) in 14 Greek patients with sporadic cerebellar ataxia all but one without GAA expansion in frataxin gene (1 patient was heterozygous). No detectable point mutation or deletion was found in the aprataxin gene of all the patients. Our results do not confirm the previous studies. This difference may be attributed to the different populations studied and possible different genetic background. It is still questionable whether the screening for aprataxin mutation in Greek patients' Friedreich ataxia phenotype is of clinical importance; larger, multicenter studies are necessary to clarify this issue.
Migraine is a common neurological disease in the population and the most associated headache with mood disorder. Although the relationship between migraine and depression is well known, the reverse correlation between depression and migraine was observed but not well understood. The tight relationship between the two disturbances is also suggested by the efficacy of antidepressants for migraine treatment. Starting from these observations, we can presume that both migraine and depression have overlapping biological bases. The main target of antidepressant treatments belonging to the serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) type is the serotonin transporter (SERT); a well-studied polymorphic variant, in the promoter region of the gene (SERTPR), has been demonstrated to influence the availability of serotonin in the synaptic cleft. So, our group studied the possible role of the SERT as a risk factor, both for migraine and mood disorders, in a sample of 96 patients affected by both pathologies.
As the resident innate immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), microglia fulfil a critical role in maintaining tissue homeostasis and in directing and eliciting molecular responses to CNS damage. The human disease Multiple Sclerosis and animal models of inflammatory demyelination are characterized by a complex interplay between degenerative and regenerative processes, many of which are regulated and mediated by microglia. Cellular communication between microglia and other neural and immune cells is controlled to a large extent by the activity of cytokines. Here we review the role of cytokines as mediators and regulators of microglial activity in inflammatory demyelination, highlighting their importance in potentiating cell damage, promoting neuroprotection and enhancing cellular repair in a context-dependent manner.
Immunoglobulins are proteins with a highly variable antigen-binding domain and a constant region (Fc domain) that binds to a cell surface receptor (FcR). Activation of FcRs in immune cells (lymphocytes, macrophages, and mast cells) triggers effector responses including cytokine production, phagocytosis, and degranulation. In addition to their roles in normal responses to infection or tissue injury, and in immune-related diseases, FcRs are increasingly recognized for their involvement in neurological disorders. One or more FcRs are expressed in microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and neurons. Aberrant activation of FcRs in such neural cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of major neurodegenerative conditions including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ischemic stroke, and multiple sclerosis. On the other hand, FcRs may play beneficial roles in counteracting pathological processes; for e.g., FcRs may facilitate removal of amyloid peptides from the brain and so protect against Alzheimer's disease. Knowledge of the functions of FcRs in the nervous system in health and disease is leading to novel preventative and therapeutic strategies for stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurological disorders.

Atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is a highly malignant embryonal CNS tumor, generally unresponsive to any form of therapy, uniformly fatal within 1 year. We report 15 cases of AT/RT diagnosed at our center over a period of 5 years (2003-08). Tumors were located in different sites of the neuraxis, posterior fossa being the most common (n = 10) followed by cerebral lobes (n = 3). There was one each at the supra sellar and cervical spinal regions, respectively. Radiologically most of the tumors were heterodense and enhancing heterogeneously. The tumors exhibited diverse histological profile that included rhabdoid and PNET areas in all cases, mesenchymal and epithelial areas in 73.3% and 53.3% cases, respectively. Necrosis was evident in all cases and one showed calcification. Tumor cells displayed a polyphenotypic immunoprofile. All cases were consistently positive for vimentin and epithelial membrane antigen and were negative for desmin. Variable positivity was seen for other markers. The number of cases positive for these were: CK (53%), SMA (60%), synaptophysin (66%), NFP (33.3%) and GFAP (85%). CK staining was prominent in epithelial areas, while PNET cells labeled prominently with synaptophysin. There was lack of INI1 expression in all cases. Follow-up was available in 46.6% of cases which revealed a uniform poor prognosis.
Gut-derived peptides are known to regulate food intake by activating specific receptors in the brain, but the target nuclei and neurons influenced are largely unknown. Here we show that peripherally administered pancreatic polypeptide (PP) stimulates neurons in key nuclei of the hypothalamus critical for appetite and satiety regulation. In the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), also known as the feeding center, neurons expressing the orexigenic neuropeptide orexin co-localize with the early neuronal activation marker c-Fos upon i.p. injection of PP into mice. In the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), also known as the satiety center, neurons activated by PP, as indicated by induction of c-Fos immunoreactivity, express the anorexigenic brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Activation of neurons in the LHA and VMH in response to PP occurs via a Y4 receptor-dependent process as it is not seen in Y4 receptor knockout mice. We further demonstrate that in response to i.p. PP, orexin mRNA expression in the LHA is down-regulated, with Y4 receptors being critical for this effect as it is not seen in Y4 receptor knockout mice, whereas BDNF mRNA expression is up-regulated in the VMH in response to i.p. PP in the fasted, but not in the non-fasted state. Taken together these data suggest that PP can regulate food intake by suppressing orexigenic pathways by down-regulation of orexin and simultaneously increasing anorexigenic pathways by up-regulating BDNF.
Recent research has highlighted a potential role for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its Y(1) receptor in the development of schizophrenia. Genetic as well as molecular biological studies have demonstrated reduced levels of NPY in schizophrenia patients. Importantly, Y(1) receptors may mediate some of the potential effects of NPY on schizophrenia, as decreased Y(1) receptor expression has been found in the lymphocytes of schizophrenia patients. To clarify NPY's role in schizophrenia, we investigated a genetic animal model for Y(1) deficiency in regard to (i) acoustic startle response (ASR), (ii) habituation to ASR and (iii) sensorimotor gating [i.e. prepulse inhibition (PPI)] using two different PPI protocols. Mutant and wild type-like mice were screened for baseline behaviours and after pharmacological challenge with the psychotropic drugs dexamphetamine (DEX) and MK-801. Y(1) knockout mice (Y(1)(-/-)) showed a moderate reduction of the ASR and an impaired ASR habituation at baseline and after DEX treatment. The baseline PPI performance of Y(1) mutant mice was unaltered their response to DEX and MK-801 challenge was moderately different compared to control mice, which was dependent on the PPI protocol used. MK-801 challenge had a protocol-dependent differential effect in Y(1)(-/-) mice and DEX a more pronounced impact at the highest prepulse intensities. In conclusion, it appears that the Y(1) receptor influences the acoustic startle response and its habituation but does not play a major role in sensorimotor gating. Further explorations into the effects of Y(1) deficiency seem valid.
The protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor genistein has been widely used to examine potential effects of tyrosine phosphorylation on neurotransmitter function. We report here that genistein inhibits N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors through a direct effect. Whole-cell NMDA-activated current was recorded in native receptors from mouse hippocampal slice culture and rat recombinant NR1aNR2A and NR1aNR2B receptors transiently expressed in HEK293 cells. Extracellular application of genistein and NMDA reversibly inhibited NMDA-activated current. The inhibition of NMDA-activated current by genistein applied externally was not affected when genistein was also pre-equilibrated in the intracellular solution. Daidzein, an analog of genistein that does not block PTK, also inhibited NMDA-activated current. Coapplication of lavendustin A, a specific inhibitor of PTK, had no effect on the NMDA response. Moreover, genistein-induced inhibition of NMDA-activated current displayed concentration- and voltage-dependence. Our results demonstrate that genistein has a direct inhibitory effect on NMDA receptors that is not mediated via inhibition of tyrosine kinase. Thus, other PTK inhibitors may be more suitable for studying involvement of PTKs in NMDA receptor-mediated events.
N-desmethylclozapine (NDMC) has been reported to display partial agonism at the human recombinant and rat native M(1) mAChR, a property suggested to contribute to the clinical efficacy of clozapine. However, the profile of action of NDMC at the human native M(1) mAChR has not been reported. The effect of NDMC on M(1) mAChR function was investigated in human native tissues by assessing its effect on (1) M(1) mAChR-mediated stimulation of [(35)S]-GTPgammaS-G(q/11)alpha binding to human post mortem cortical membranes and (2) the M(1) mAChR-mediated increase in neuronal firing in human neocortical slices. NDMC displayed intrinsic activities of 46+/-9%, compared to oxo-M, at the human recombinant M(1) receptor, in FLIPR studies and 35+/-4% at rat native M(1) receptors in [(35)S]-GTPgammaS-G(q/11)alpha binding studies. In [(35)S]-GTPgammaS-G(q/11)alpha binding studies in human cortex, oxo-M stimulated binding by 240+/-26% above basal with a pEC(50) of 6.56+/-0.05. In contrast, NDMC did not stimulate [(35)S]-GTPgammaS-G(q/11)alpha binding to human cortical membranes but antagonised the response to oxo-M (2microM) showing a pK(B) of 6.8, comparable to its human recombinant M(1) mAChR affinity (pK(i)=6.9) derived from [(3)H]-NMS binding studies. In human, contrary to the rat neocortical slices, NDMC did not elicit a significant increase in M(1) mAChR-mediated neuronal firing, and attenuated a carbachol-induced increase in neuronal firing when pre-applied. These data indicate that, whereas NDMC displays moderate to low levels of partial agonism at the human recombinant and rat native M(1) mAChR, respectively, it acts as an antagonist at the M(1) mAChR in human cortex.
The amygdala is important for integrating the emotional, endocrine and autonomic responses to stress. Exposure of the amygdala to elevated levels of corticosterone (CORT) induces anxiety-like behavior and a hypersensitive colon in rodents; however, effects on colonic transit are unknown. Micropellets releasing CORT alone or combined with a selective glucocorticoid (GR) or mineralocorticoid (MR) receptor antagonist were implanted bilaterally at the dorsal boundary of the central amygdala in male rats. Inactive cholesterol implants served as controls. Seven days later, rats received water avoidance stress (WAS) for 1 h and the fecal pellet output was measured. Colorectal transit was also evaluated following the stressor by recording the time for expulsion of a glass bead placed into the colorectum. Plasma CORT levels were evaluated before WAS, after 60 min of WAS and 90 min post-WAS. Exposure of the amygdala to elevated CORT did not alter daily fecal pellet production or the number of fecal pellets released in response to WAS. However, following WAS, rats with CORT implants on the amygdala showed a delay in colorectal transit compared to cholesterol-implanted controls. Plasma CORT measurements showed that basal and WAS-induced increases in plasma CORT were similar in all groups but a prolonged increase in plasma CORT was observed 90 after cessation of WAS in rats with CORT implants. The post-WAS changes in colonic motility and plasma CORT were prevented by antagonism of GR or MR in the amygdala, suggesting their importance in driving stress-associated changes in colonic motility.
Oxytocin (100 ng) induces penile erection when injected unilaterally into the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus of male rats. The pro-erectile effect started mostly 30 min after treatment and occurred 15 min after an increase in both nitric oxide (NO) production, measured by the concentration of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-), the main metabolites of newly formed NO, and extra-cellular glutamic acid concentration in the dialysate obtained from the ventral subiculum by intracerebral microdialysis. These responses were abolished by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (2 microg), an oxytocin receptor antagonist, S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline (SMTC), a selective inhibitor of neuronal NO-synthase (25 microg), and haemoglobin, a NO scavenger (25 microg), given into the ventral subiculum before oxytocin. Unlike d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin, SMTC and haemoglobin, (+)MK-801 (5 microg), a noncompetitive antagonist of NMDA receptors abolished oxytocin-induced penile erection, but reduced only partially the increase in NO production and extra-cellular glutamic acid. As NMDA (0.25-1 microg) injected into the ventral subiculum induces penile erection episodes, which also occurred with an increase of NO production and extra-cellular glutamic acid, and NMDA responses were abolished by (+)MK-801 (5 microg), but not by SMTC (25 microg) or haemoglobin (25 microg), injected into the ventral subiculum, these results show that oxytocin injected into the ventral subiculum increases NO production by activating its own receptors. NO in turn increases glutamic acid neurotransmission, leading to penile erection, possibly through neural (glutamatergic) efferent projections from the ventral subiculum to extra-hippocampal brain areas (e.g., prefrontal cortex) modulating the activity of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons.
The dorsal striatum is a large forebrain region involved in action initiation, timing, control, learning and memory. Learning and remembering skilled movement sequences requires the dorsal striatum, and striatal subregions participate in both goal-directed (action-outcome) and habitual (stimulus-response) learning. Modulation of synaptic transmission plays a large part in controlling input to as well as the output from striatal medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs). Synapses in this brain region are subject to short-term modulation, including allosteric alterations in ion channel function and prominent presynaptic inhibition. Two forms of long-term synaptic plasticity have also been observed in striatum, long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). LTP at glutamatergic synapses onto MSNs involves activation of NMDA-type glutamate receptors and D1 dopamine or A2A adenosine receptors. Expression of LTP appears to involve postsynaptic mechanisms. LTD at glutamatergic synapses involves retrograde endocannabinoid signaling stimulated by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and D2 dopamine receptors. While postsynaptic mechanisms participate in LTD induction, maintained expression involves presynaptic mechanisms. A similar form of LTD has also been observed at GABAergic synapses onto MSNs. Studies have just begun to examine the roles of synaptic plasticity in striatal-based learning. Findings to date indicate that molecules implicated in induction of plasticity participate in these forms of learning. Neurotransmitter receptors involved in LTP induction are necessary for proper skill and goal-directed instrumental learning. Interestingly, receptors involved in LTP and LTD at glutamatergic synapses onto MSNs of the &quot;indirect pathway&quot; appear to have important roles in habit learning. More work is needed to reveal if and when synaptic plasticity occurs during learning and if so what molecules and cellular processes, both short- and long-term, contribute to this plasticity.

This study aimed to examine the latent structure of the Chinese version of the Comprehensive Assessment of Prospective Memory (CAPM) using confirmatory factor analysis. A total of 264 healthy Chinese participants (118 men and 146 women) took part in the study and their ages ranged from 17 to 90 years. There was no gender effect upon the frequency of prospective memory (PM) forgetting but age and education were found to be correlated significantly with these frequencies in the current sample. Results of the study also showed that the model with the best fit had a tripartite structure which consisted of a general memory factor (with all items loading on it) plus a basic activities of daily living as well as an instrumental activities of daily living factor. Furthermore, this tripartite model was robust across subgroups with respect to gender, education, and age. These findings provide support for the construct validity of the original CAPM and demonstrate its utility in another culture.
In recent years, cognitive neuroscience has been concerned with the role of the corpus callosum and interhemispheric communication for lower-level processes and higher-order cognitive functions. There is empirical evidence that not only callosal disconnection but also subtle degradation of the corpus callosum can influence the transfer of information and integration between the hemispheres. The reviewed studies on patients with callosal degradation with and without disconnection indicate a dissociation of callosal functions: while anterior callosal regions were associated with interhemispheric inhibition in situations of semantic (Stroop) and visuospatial (hierarchical letters) competition, posterior callosal areas were associated with interhemispheric facilitation from redundant information at visuomotor and cognitive levels. Together, the reviewed research on selective cognitive functions provides evidence that the corpus callosum contributes to the integration of perception and action within a subcortico-cortical network promoting a unified experience of the way we perceive the visual world and prepare our actions.
Norman Geschwind's landmark paper in 1965, &quot;Disconnexion Syndromes in Animals and Man,&quot; inspired a generation of investigators to consider the effects of focal brain lesions disrupting higher brain functions. Although Geschwind viewed disconnection as resulting from either white or gray matter lesions, his signature article drew upon the insights of 19th century neurologists and firmly established white matter within the vocabulary of behavioral neurology, neuropsychology, and cognitive neuroscience. This influence, and the advent of sensitive neuroimaging techniques later in the 20th century, led to white matter gradually gaining more attention as an essential component of distributed neural networks subserving cognition and emotion. Today, whereas focal white matter lesions remain central to the pathogenesis of classic neurobehavioral syndromes, diffuse white matter involvement is regarded as increasingly relevant to a wide variety of dementia syndromes and a host of neuropsychiatric disorders as well. In parallel, better understanding of the neurobiology of brain white matter at all ages has been achieved. While much remains to be explored, a general conceptual formulation is that white matter supports information transfer to complement the information processing carried out by gray matter. As knowledge of the organization and functional relevance of white matter continues to advance, improved understanding of the role of myelinated tracts in higher function can be anticipated, and with it many clinical benefits.
We aimed to clarify the importance of early visual processing deficits for the formation of cognitive deficits in the schizophrenia spectrum. We carried out an event-related potential (ERP) study using a computerised delayed matching to sample working memory (WM) task on a sample of volunteers with high and low scores on the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ). The amplitudes of the visual ERPs to the encoding and retrieval stimuli in the task were measured using the BESA software. The hypothesis was that the high schizotypes would have deficits in early visual processing (reduced P1 amplitude) and working memory similar to those observed in schizophrenia. The high schizotypy group identified fewer previously encoded target cues than the low schizotypy group in the WM task and their mean cue-evoked P1 amplitudes were significantly reduced, both in the encoding and the retrieval phases of the task. Accuracy on the WM task correlated with the P1 amplitude. None of the later components (N1 and P2) were significantly different between the groups, nor were there differences in performance on the CANTAB tests. The results are compatible with the hypothesis that trait vulnerability to schizophrenia is associated with impaired early visual processing which may contribute to impaired cognitive memory performance. However, the high schizotypes are apparently able to compensate for the visual processing deficits and perform normally when stimuli are presented for longer as in the CANTAB tasks. This study adds to growing evidence that the schizophrenia spectrum is characterized by early sensory abnormalities.
Brain aging has been associated with both reduced and increased neural activity during task execution. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether increased neural activation during memory encoding and retrieval is already present at the age of 60 as well as to obtain more insight into the mechanism behind increased activity. Eighteen young (mean age 21.3) and 18 older (mean age 59.9) right-handed male participants were administered two picture memory tasks in an fMRI environment. Neural activation was measured during encoding and retrieval of pictures of natural scenes (landscapes) and physical objects. Results indicated reduced medial temporal activity during encoding in older participants and increased activity during both encoding and retrieval in several other areas in the brain, including the inferior and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. This increased activation was not related to better memory performance. The present findings indicate that increased neural activation during memory tasks is present in individuals near the age of 60 compared to individuals near the age of 20, which extends findings from studies of more-advanced age groups. Also, increased activation was present even though cognitive performance at 60 was not as impaired as is generally found in more-advanced age groups. Although compensation is a plausible explanation of the increased activation at this age, we suggest that other mechanisms like disinhibition, dedifferentiation, or the recruitment of less-efficient cognitive strategies may be more likely.
Observers are able to judge quite accurately the weights lifted by others. Only recently, neuroscience has focused on the role of the motor system to accomplish this task. In this respect, a previous transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) study showed that the muscular force requirements of an observed action are encoded by the primary motor cortex (M1). Overall, three distinct visual sources may provide information on the applied force of an observed lifting action, namely, (i) the perceived kinematics, (ii) the hand contraction state and finally (iii) intrinsic object properties. The principal aim of the present study was to disentangle these three visual sources and to explore their importance in mediating the encoding of muscular force requirements in the observer's motor system. A series of experiments are reported in which TMS was used to measure 'force-related' responses from the hand representation in left M1 while subjects observed distinct action-stimuli. Overall, results indicated that observation-induced activity in M1 reflects the level of observed force when kinematic cues of the lift (exp. 1) or cues on the hand contraction state (exp. 2) are available. Moreover, when kinematic cues and intrinsic object properties provide distinct information on the force requirements of an observed lifting action, results from experiment 3 indicated a strong preference for the use of kinematic features in mapping the force requirements of the observed action. In general, these findings support the hypothesis that the primary motor cortex contributes to action observation by mapping the muscle-related features of observed actions.
The present fMRI study is the first that investigates everyday moral conflict situations in which a moral standard clashes with a personal desire. In such situations people have to decide between a morally guided and a hedonistic behaviour. Twelve healthy subjects were presented with verbal stories describing conflicts with either moral or neutral content. The moral stories described conflicts requiring a decision between a personal desire and a conflicting moral standard, whereas the neutral conflicts required a decision between two conflicting personal desires. When compared to neutral conflicts, moral conflicts elicited higher activity in a wide spread neural network including the medial frontal cortex, the temporal cortex and the temporo-parietal junction and the posterior cingulate cortex. Further analyses of the moral conflicts revealed that hedonistic decisions in contrast to morally guided decisions were associated with significantly higher rankings of uncertainty and unpleasant emotions and induced significant more activation in the amygdala/parahippocampal region. The present results generalise findings on the neuroscience of moral understanding by extending it to everyday moral decisions. Furthermore, the results show that the amydala region plays a central role in the processing of negative emotional consequences associated with immoral decisions.
Although it is generally accepted that patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have significantly impaired recollection, recent evidence has been mixed as to whether these patients demonstrate impaired memorial familiarity. Recent work suggests that familiarity may remain intact for pictures, but not for words. Further, a recent event-related potential (ERP) study suggests that enhanced conceptual processing of pictures may underlie this intact familiarity. However, to date there has been no direct comparison of perceptual and conceptual-based familiarity for pictures and words in patients with aMCI and AD. To investigate this issue, patients with aMCI, patients with AD, and healthy older adults underwent four study-test conditions of word-word, picture-picture, word-picture, and picture-word. When stimuli undergo form change, it has been suggested that only conceptual processing can help support recognition in the absence of recollection. Our results showed that patients successfully relied on perceptual and conceptual-based familiarity to improve recognition for the within format conditions over the across format conditions. Further, results suggested that patients with aMCI and AD are able to use enhanced conceptual processing of pictures compared to words to allow them to overcome the deleterious effects of form change in a similar manner as controls. These results help us begin to understand which aspects of memory are impaired and which remain relatively intact in patients with aMCI and AD. This understanding can then in turn help us to assess, conceptualize, and build behavioral interventions to help treat these patients.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) show slowed movement initiation and can have deficits in executive function, leading to impairments in controlling involuntary behavior. This results in difficulties performing an antisaccade, which requires one to suppress an automatic eye movement (a prosaccade) to a visual stimulus, and execute a voluntary eye movement in the opposite direction. Antisaccade deficits are similar to those seen in task switching, whereby one is required to change a response after performing a different behavior. Both antisaccade (Hood et al., 2007) and task switching (Cools, Barker, Sahakian, &amp; Robbins, 2001) deficits in PD have been attributed to fronto-basal ganglia (BG) dysfunction. Previously, we demonstrated with functional magnetic resonance imaging that BG circuitry is important to both task switching and voluntary saccade generation, as greater caudate activation was seen when healthy young adults first prepared a prosaccade, but then switched to an antisaccade (Cameron, Coe, et al., 2009). Therefore, we hypothesized that PD patients would have difficulty switching from one saccade response to the other, with particular impairment in switching from a pro to an antisaccade. Here, we not only confirmed this prediction, but also showed that PD patients performed better than controls in switching from an anti to a prosaccade. This suggests that task switching deficits in PD are particularly pronounced when more automatic behavior needs to be overridden with alternative behavior. We suggest that this occurs primarily at the level of establishing the appropriate task set, which is an internalized rule that governs how to respond.
The use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in non-human primates is on the increase. It is known that the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal varies not only as a function of local neuronal energy consumption but also as a function of cardiac and respiratory activity. We mapped these cyclic cardiac and respiratory artifacts in anesthetized macaque monkeys and present an objective analysis of their impact on estimates of functional connectivity (fcMRI). Voxels with significant cardiac and respiratory artifacts were found in much the same regions as previously reported for awake humans. We show two example seeds where removing the artifacts clearly decreased the number of false positive and false negative correlations. In particular, removing the artifacts reduced correlations in the so-called resting state network. Temporal bandpass filtering or spatial smoothing may help to reduce the effects of artifacts in some cases but are not an adequate replacement for an algorithm that explicitly models and removes cyclic cardiac and respiratory artifacts.
Clinical studies suggest that agonists at peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) may exert beneficial effects in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the mechanism for the potential therapeutic interest of this class of drugs has not yet been elucidated. Here, in mice overexpressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein, we found that chronic treatment with rosiglitazone, a high-affinity agonist at PPARgamma, facilitated beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) clearance. Rosiglitazone not only reduced Abeta burden in the brain but, importantly, almost completely removed the abundant amyloid plaques observed in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex of 13-month-old transgenic mice. In the hippocampus, neuropil threads containing phosphorylated tau, probably corresponding to dystrophic neurites, were also decreased by the drug. Rosiglitazone switched on the activated microglial phenotype, promoting its phagocytic ability, reducing the expression of proinflammatory markers and inducing factors for alternative differentiation. The decreased amyloid pathology may account for the reduction of p-tau-containing neuropil threads and for the rescue of impaired recognition and spatial memory in the transgenic mice. This study provides further insights into the mechanisms for the beneficial effect of rosiglitazone in AD patients.
Klumpke's palsy is a rare form of paralysis involving the muscles of the forearm and hand, resulting from a brachial plexus injury in which the eighth cervical (C8) and first thoracic (Th1) nerves are injured either before or after they have joined to form the lower trunk. We report a case of a 45 years-old woman with post-traumatic left cervical-brachial pain afflicted by obstetric brachial plexus palsy on the right side. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examination of the cervical spine revealed a meningeal stretch in the left side at C7-Th1 level, responsible for pain, and also multiple intraforaminal pseudomeningoceles at C5-C6, C6-C7 and C7-Th1 intersomatic spaces in the right side, due to the perinatal trauma that had determined the obstetric brachial plexus palsy. Spinal pseudomeningocele is an extradural collection of CSF in the surrounding soft tissues due to a dural breach and can represent a predictive finding of injury of the brachial plexus. We obtained clinical and electrophysiological findings of Klumpke's palsy, but MRI examination showed the lack of visualization of C8 and the integrity of Th1 nerve roots and to our knowledge there is no evidence in literature about the possibility to have a partial Klumpke's palsy without Th1 avulsion. The aim of this article was to underline that for the correct assessment of patients with brachial plexus palsy the only use of MRI is insufficient: it is necessary an integration of the information obtained from clinical, electromyographic and MRI study.
Pituitary apoplexy is a potentially life-threatening acute or subacute clinical syndrome occurring from enlargement of the pituitary gland, and pituitary insufficiency, from hemorrhage or ischemia from an unknown pituitary lesion, most frequently being a non-functioning macroadenoma. A close, and multidisciplinary management is required. The purpose of this case report is to increase awareness to pituitary apoplexy presentation and management by reporting clinical features and neuroradiological findings observed in a 70-year-old patient with an unknown pituitary lesion. He presented with pituitary apoplexy and brain ischemia at magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps. MR angiography (MRA) showed diffuse vasospasm of anterior and posterior circulation. Both MRI and cytochemical examination of the cerebrospinal fluid ruled out subarachnoid hemorrhage. Due to concomitant diseases, and absence of visual deficit, the management was conservative by medical and substitutive therapy, without surgery. Clinical follow-up showed clearcut improvement, and this was consistent with MRI and MRA evidence of vasospasm regression, and clearcut pituitary lesion shrinkage. Pituitary lesions with hemorrhagic infarction presenting with pituitary apoplexy may be associated with vasospasm and brain ischemia at diagnosis, also in the absence of subarachnoid hemorrhage. A correct MR evaluation of patients with PA should include DWI, ADC maps, and MRA. Notably, early diagnosis of PA-associated vasospasm and cerebral ischemia avoids the possibility of their detection only after neurosurgery.
Transient global amnesia (TGA) is characterized by anterograde memory disturbance of sudden onset that lasts for 1 to 24 hours. The etiology and pathogenesis of TGA are still uncertain, although an hypoxic-ischemic origin has been recently suggested on the basis of infarct-like diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) lesions in the hippocampus of some affected individuals. Recent diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) studies have indicated the presence of focal hyperintensities involving the hippocampus in TGA patients. These lesions detected by DWI, which peak at 48 to 72 hours, are small and punctate (1-3 mm) and in most studies are reported as unilateral. We describe one TGA patient with high signal-intensity lesions in the bilateral hippocampus on DWI at the acute stage. The mechanisms related to the pathophysiology are discussed with emphasis on the hypoxic-ischemic origin underlying the observation of infarct-like diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) abnormalities.
The primary aim of this review is to examine evidence for a functional role of gamma and theta oscillations in human episodic memory. It is proposed here that gamma and theta oscillations allow for the transient interaction between cortical structures and the hippocampus for the encoding and retrieval of episodic memories as described by the hippocampal memory indexing theory (Teyler and DiScenna, 1986). Gamma rhythms can act in the cortex to bind perceptual features and in the hippocampus to bind the rich perceptual and contextual information from diverse brain regions into episodic representations. Theta oscillations act to temporally order these individual episodic memory representations. Through feedback projections from the hippocampus to the cortex these gamma and theta patterns could cause the reinstatement of the entire episodic memory representation in the cortex. In addition, theta oscillations could allow for top-down control from the frontal cortex to the hippocampus modulating the encoding and retrieval of episodic memories.
A central topic in cognitive neuroscience is the question, which processes underlie large scale communication within and between different neural networks. The basic assumption is that oscillatory phase synchronization plays an important role for process binding--the transient linking of different cognitive processes--which may be considered a special type of large scale communication. We investigate this question for memory processes on the basis of different types of oscillatory synchronization mechanisms. The reviewed findings suggest that theta and alpha phase coupling (and phase reorganization) reflect control processes in two large memory systems, a working memory and a complex knowledge system that comprises semantic long-term memory. It is suggested that alpha phase synchronization may be interpreted in terms of processes that coordinate top-down control (a process guided by expectancy to focus on relevant search areas) and access to memory traces (a process leading to the activation of a memory trace). An analogous interpretation is suggested for theta oscillations and the controlled access to episodic memories.
The growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (Grb2)-associated binder (Gab) proteins are intracellular scaffolding/docking molecules, and participate in multiple signaling pathways, usually acting as the downstream effector of protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs)-triggered signal transduction pathway. When phosphorylated by PTKs, Gab proteins can recruit several signaling molecules (p85, SHP2, and Crk), and subsequently activate multiple transmitting signals that are critical for cell growth, survival, differentiation and apoptosis. Recently, it has been reported that Gab2 polymorphism is associated with the increase in the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is involved in the pathogenesis of AD. This review mainly focuses on the structure and function of Gab2 protein and its role in the pathogenesis of AD.
The flexibility of the behavior of humans and other primates comes from the cognitive capability to use different behavioral modes depending on the contextual information. To investigate the neural mechanism of such a cognitive function, we trained monkeys to participate in a repeated category-outcome reversal. To perform the task efficiently, they had to explore and remember the relevant rule, i.e., which group of stimuli was associated with which outcome, and apply that rule to the visual cue in order to predict an outcome and select a response correctly. We recorded single-unit activity from the prefrontal cortex, including dorsolateral/ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and orbitofrontal cortex, and found that many neurons in these areas showed rule-dependent changes in activity during the trial and during the inter-trial-interval. The time period when a high proportion of neurons started to show rule-dependent activity was the precue period, and the typical activity pattern at that time was sustained and increasing firing towards the onset of the cue (&quot;anticipatory&quot; precue activity). The results indicate that the prefrontal cortex is involved in maintaining rule information in the short-term memory within and between trials and that the rule information is anticipatorily activated towards the onset of the task-relevant cue.
It is still incompletely known how NMDA receptors (NMDA-R) regulate bidirectional synaptic plasticity. We examined this issue by an experimental protocol in which paired pulse stimulation (PPS) with 50ms interstimulus interval and basal frequency of 0.1Hz was applied to CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices during low Mg(2+) perfusion. Under blockade of NMDA-Rs by AP5, PPS for 12-60min led to only a minor depression. In contrast, when PPS was applied in the absence of AP5, there was a prominent short-term potentiation (STP), mainly of AMPA-R mediated responses, with peak at 1min and lasting 10-15min. The STP was followed by a slowly developing long-term depression (LTD). Applying AP5 during the STP, converted it to a stable increase relative to the control pathway. Following peak STP, plasticity was controlled in a composite manner. Whereas the initial decay was counteracted by NMDA-R activation, the following LTD was dependent on such activation. Our data suggest that synaptic changes do not only depend on the instantaneous, NMDA-dependent Ca(2+) concentration in the dendritic spine, but are also influenced by prior induction events. In addition to NMDA-R driven processes, passive relaxation contributes to the synaptic plasticity and in some cases outbalances the active control.
Attentional and emotional states alter the way we perceive pain. Recent findings suggest that the mechanisms underlying these two forms of pain modulation are at least partially separable. This concept is supported by the observation that attention and emotions differentially alter the sensory and affective dimensions of pain perception and apparently implicate different brain circuits. In this review, we will examine those recent findings within the broader cognitive neuroscience conceptualization of human attention and emotion and the corresponding functional neuroanatomy.
Noninvasive plasticity paradigms, both physiologically induced and artificially induced, have come into their own in the study of the effects of genetic variation on human cortical plasticity. These techniques have the singular advantage that they enable one to study the effects of genetic variation in its natural and most relevant context, that of the awake intact human cortex, in both health and disease. This review aims to introduce the currently available artificially induced plasticity paradigms, their putative mechanisms-both in the traditional language of the systems neurophysiologist and in the evolving (and perhaps more relevant for the purposes of stimulation genomics) reinterpretation in terms of molecular neurochemistry, and highlights recent studies employing these techniques by way of examples of applications.







Accumulating evidence suggests that the endoplasmic reticulum protein sigma-1 receptors function as &quot;receptor chaperons&quot;, and that sigma-1 receptors might be involved in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and cognitive deficits. Recent findings suggest that sigma-1 receptors play an important role in the neuronal plasticity in the brain. Recently, we reported that sigma-1 receptor agonists could enhance nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth in cell culture, and that sigma-1 receptor agonists could attenuate phencyclidine-induced cognitive deficits in mice. In this article, the author reviews the role of sigma-1 receptors in the neuronal plasticity and clinical implications of sigma-1 receptors in the treatment for neuropsychiatric diseases.

Stomach motility contributes significantly to fullness sensation while eating and cessation of food intake in humans. Genes controlling adrenergic and serotonergic mechanisms (ADRA2A, GNB3, and SLC6A4) affect gastric emptying (GE), volume (GV), and satiation. Fat mass and obesity-associated gene (FTO) is linked with satiety. Our aim was to examine the association of these candidate genes with stomach functions that signal postprandial fullness: GE, GV, and maximum tolerated volume (MTV). These biomarkers constitute a component of the intermediate phenotype of satiation. A total of 62 overweight or obese participants underwent genotyping of the candidate genes, and validated measurements of GE of solids and liquids by scintigraphy, fasting and postprandial change in GV by SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography), and MTV by nutrient drink test. These markers of satiation were compared for 38 genetic variants in ADRA2A, ADR2C, ADRB3, uncoupling protein (UCP)-2 and -3, GNB3, FTO, and SLC6A4 using a recessive model of inheritance. ADRA2A, ADR2C, UCP-3, GNB3, and FTO loci were significantly associated with the intermediate phenotype markers of satiation: ADR2C (Ins-Del322_325) with accelerated GE; GNB3 (rs1047776) with delayed GE; ADRA2A (rs491589 and rs553668) and GNB3 (rs2269355, rs10849527, and rs3759348) with decreased postprandial GV; ADRA2A (rs3750625) and GNB3 (rs4963517 and rs1129649) with increased postprandial GV; UCP-3 (rs1685356) with increased MTV, and FTO (rs9939609) decreased MTV. Genetic susceptibility to postprandial satiation can be identified through intermediate phenotype markers. With independent validation, these markers may guide patient selection of weight-loss therapies directed at gastric motor functions.



Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) in which neuropathic pain is now recognized as a major symptom. To date, few studies have examined the underlying mechanisms of neuropathic pain in MS. Recently we showed that in a chronic-relapsing animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), characteristic neuropathic behaviours develop. However, responses to persistent noxious stimuli in EAE remain unexplored. We, therefore set out to characterize the changes in pain sensitivity in our EAE model to subcutaneous injection of formalin. We show here that female C57BL/6 mice immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG(35-55)) display a significant decrease in elicited pain behaviours in response to formalin injection. These effects were found to involve dysregulation of the glutamatergic system in EAE. We show here that these effects are mediated by decreased glutamate transporter expression associated with EAE. Our findings demonstrate that dysregulation of glutamate transporter function in EAE mice is an important mechanism underlying the abnormal pain sensitivity in response to persistent noxious stimulation of mice with EAE and also sheds light on a potential mechanism underlying neuropathic pain behaviours in this model.
Dementia is a common feature in Parkinson disease (PD), the time of onset determining how patients are classified. Those patients where dementia develops prior to parkinsonism or during the first year of disease are designated as having dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). In those where dementia develops over a year after the onset of motor signs, the condition is known as Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD). While this seems at first sight to be a definitive way to distinguish these conditions, reality is rather different. The overlap between them is considerable, and there is much uncertainty associated with patients who have both motor symptoms and early cognitive impairment. The diagnosis is still based on medical history and clinical evaluation. It is not even certain that they can be accurately distinguished at autopsy. For this reason, the data concerning these entities have been reviewed, to examine various markers employed or measured in clinical, neuropathological, neuroimaging, and biochemical investigations. The concept of PDD and DLB being separate conditions is comparatively new, and the most promising tools with which to separate them at present are cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning that indicate increased amyloid-beta burden in DLB compared to PDD. However as yet there are no markers that unequivocally distinguish between PDD and DLB.
Pancreatic polypeptide (PP) belongs to the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family of peptides and is released from pancreatic F cells postprandially. PP functions as a peptide hormone and has been associated with decreased food intake in humans and rodents. Our study describes the effects of PP on feeding behavior in dogs, whose mammalian order (Carnivora) is more distantly related to primates and rodents than these are to each other. Furthermore, obesity is becoming more prevalent in dogs which makes knowledge about their appetite regulation highly relevant. Repeated peripheral administration of physiological doses of PP (three injections of 30 pmol/kg each that were administered within 30 min) to six male beagle dogs prolonged the median time spent eating three servings of food by 19% but resulted in no reduction of food intake. In addition, PP decreased the duration of food-seeking behavior after the first serving by 71%. Thus, a physiological dose of PP seems to decrease both the appetitive and the consummatory drive in dogs.

The classic view of estrogen actions in the brain was confined to regulation of ovulation and reproductive behavior in the female of all mammalian species studied, including humans. Burgeoning evidence now documents profound effects of estrogens on learning, memory, and mood as well as neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative processes. Most data derive from studies in females, but there is mounting recognition that estrogens play important roles in the male brain, where they can be generated from circulating testosterone by local aromatase enzymes or synthesized de novo by neurons and glia. Estrogen-based therapy therefore holds considerable promise for brain disorders that affect both men and women. However, as investigations are beginning to consider the role of estrogens in the male brain more carefully, it emerges that they have different, even opposite, effects as well as similar effects in male and female brains. This review focuses on these differences, including sex dimorphisms in the ability of estradiol to influence synaptic plasticity, neurotransmission, neurodegeneration, and cognition, which, we argue, are due in a large part to sex differences in the organization of the underlying circuitry. There are notable sex differences in the incidence and manifestations of virtually all central nervous system disorders, including neurodegenerative disease (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's), drug abuse, anxiety, and depression. Understanding the cellular and molecular basis of sex differences in brain physiology and responses to estrogen and estrogen mimics is, therefore, vitally important for understanding the nature and origins of sex-specific pathological conditions and for designing novel hormone-based therapeutic agents that will have optimal effectiveness in men or women.
Recurrent hypoglycemia (RH), the most common side-effect of intensive insulin therapy for diabetes, is well established to diminish counter-regulatory responses to further hypoglycemia. However, despite significant patient concern, the impact of RH on cognitive and neural function remains controversial. Here we review the data from both human studies and recent animal studies regarding the impact of RH on cognitive, metabolic, and neural processes. Overall, RH appears to cause brain adaptations which may enhance cognitive performance and fuel supply when euglycemic but which pose significant threats during future hypoglycemic episodes.
The chloroform extracts of whole plants of Hypericum erectum were investigated for antiplasmodial activity against chloroquine-sensitive strains of Plasmodium falciparum. Five phloroglucinol derivatives, otogirin (1), otogirone (2), erectquione A (3), erectquione B (4), and erectquione C (5) were isolated from the whole plants of H. erectum. Also, five compounds were evaluated for in vitro antiplasmodial activities as well as their cytotoxic potential on SK-OV-3 cancer cell line cells. Compounds 2, 4 showed notable growth inhibitory activity against chloroquine-sensitive strains of Plasmodium falciparum with IC(50) values from 5.6 and 7.2 microM. This compound showed no significant cytotoxicity (IC(50) &gt; 150 microM) evaluated using SK-OV-3 cancer cell line cells.
Human Griscelli syndrome type 2 (GS-2) is characterized by partial albinism and a severe immunologic disorder as a result of RAB27A mutations. In melanocytes, Rab27A forms a tripartite complex with a specific effector Slac2-a/melanophilin and myosin Va, and the complex regulates melanosome transport. Here, we report a novel homozygous missense mutation of Rab27A, i.e. K22R, in a Persian GS-2 patient and the results of analysis of the impact of the K22R mutation and the previously reported I44T mutation on protein function. Both mutations completely abolish Slac2-a/melanophilin binding activity but they affect the biochemical properties of Rab27A differently. The Rab27A(K22R) mutant lacks the GTP binding ability and exhibits cytosolic localization in melanocytes. By contrast, neither intrinsic GTPase activity nor melanosomal localization of Rab27A is affected by the I44T mutation, but the Rab27A(I44T) mutant is unable to recruit Slac2-a/melanophilin. Interestingly, the two mutations differently affect binding to other Rab27A effectors, Slp2-a, Slp4-a/granuphilin-a, and Munc13-4. The Rab27A(K22R) mutant normally binds Munc13-4, but not Slp2-a or Slp4-a, whereas the Rab27A(I44T) mutant shows reduced binding activity to Slp2-a and Munc13-4 but normally binds Slp4-a.
Intravenous thrombolysis significantly improves the chance of independent recovery from ischaemic stroke but its benefit is strongly time dependent: present evidence supports effectiveness when delivered up to 4.5 h after symptom onset but the chance of recovery is twice as great when it is given within 90 min compared with 3-4.5 h. Delivery of treatment to a high proportion of patients is possible but requires clinicians to optimise systems for patient transfer, clinical and radiological assessment. A high proportion of patients with stroke already present to UK hospitals within the treatment time window even without specific public awareness or prehospital triage. Establishing a service requires dialogue with all those involved in the patient pathway, including ambulance dispatchers, paramedics, emergency department staff, radiology and colleagues in acute medicine. Most acute stroke teams cross traditional medical disciplines. Thrombolysis should ideally be delivered within an integrated service that seamlessly includes acute stroke unit care and rehabilitation.
Patients with chronic dizziness pose a particular challenge to the clinician, partly because their symptoms correlate poorly with standard vestibular tests; so a 'test and think later' approach is likely to lead to diagnostic confusion rather than clarity. Rather, a meticulous clinical assessment is required. Here our approach to the chronic dizzy patient is described with an emphasis on treating the patient's symptoms.

Feedback plays important roles in sensory processing. Mushroom bodies are believed to be involved in olfactory learning/memory and multisensory integration in insects. Previous cobalt-labeling studies have suggested the existence of feedback from the mushroom bodies to the antennal lobes in the honey bee. In this study, the existence of functional feedback from Drosophila mushroom bodies to the antennal lobes was investigated through ectopic expression of the ATP receptor P2X(2) in the Kenyon cells of mushroom bodies. Activation of Kenyon cells induced depolarization in projection neurons and local interneurons in the antennal lobes in a nicotinic receptor-dependent manner. Activation of Kenyon cell axons in the betagamma-lobes in the mushroom body induced more potent responses in the antennal lobe neurons than activation of Kenyon cell somata. Our results indicate that functional feedback from Kenyon cells to projection neurons and local interneurons is present in Drosophila and is likely mediated by the betagamma-lobes. The presence of this functional feedback from the mushroom bodies to the antennal lobes suggests top-down modulation of olfactory information processing in Drosophila.
RNA virus polymerases must initiate replicative RNA synthesis with extremely high accuracy to maintain their genome termini and to avoid generating defective genomes. For the single-stranded negative-sense RNA viruses, it is not known how this accuracy is achieved. To investigate this question, mutations were introduced into the 3' terminal base of a respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) template, and the RNA products were examined to determine the impact of the mutation. To perform the assay, RNA replication was reconstituted using a modified minireplicon system in which replication was limited to a single step. Importantly, this system allowed analysis of RSV RNA generated intracellularly, but from a defined template that was not subject to selection by replication. Sequence analysis of RNA products generated from templates containing 1U-C and 1U-A substitutions showed that, in both cases, replication products were initiated with a nontemplated, WT A residue, rather than a templated G or U residue, indicating that the polymerase selects the terminal NTP independently of the template. Examination of a template in which the position 1 nucleotide was deleted supported these findings. This mutant directed efficient replication at approximately 60% of WT levels, and its product was found to be initiated at the WT position (-1 relative to the template) with a WT A residue. These findings show that the RSV replicase selects ATP and initiates at the correct position, independently of the first nucleotide of the template, suggesting a mechanism by which highly accurate replication initiation is achieved.
The extracellular parasite Trypanosoma brucei causes human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), also known as sleeping sickness. Trypanosomes are transmitted by tsetse flies and HAT occurs in foci in sub-Saharan Africa. The disease, which is invariably lethal if untreated, evolves in a first hemo-lymphatic stage, progressing to a second meningo-encephalitic stage when the parasites cross the blood-brain barrier. At first, trypanosomes are restricted to circumventricular organs and choroid plexus in the brain outside the blood-brain barrier, and to dorsal root ganglia. Later, parasites cross the blood-brain barrier at post-capillary venules, through a multi-step process similar to that of lymphocytes. Accumulation of parasites in the brain is regulated by cytokines and chemokines. Trypanosomes can alter neuronal function and the most prominent manifestation is represented by sleep alterations. These are characterized, in HAT and experimental rodent infections, by disruption of the sleep-wake 24h cycle and internal sleep structure. Trypanosome infections alter also some, but not all, other endogenous biological rhythms. A number of neural pathways and molecules may be involved in such effects. Trypanosomes secrete prostaglandins including the somnogenic PGD2, and they interact with the host's immune system to cause release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. From the sites of early localization of parasites in the brain and meninges, such molecules could affect adjacent brain areas implicated in sleep-wakefulness regulation, including the suprachiasmatic nucleus and its downstream targets, to cause the changes characteristic of the disease. This raises challenging issues on the effects of cytokines on synaptic functions potentially involved in sleep-wakefulness alterations.
The primary constituent of the amyloid plaque, beta-amyloid (Abeta), is thought to be the causal &quot;toxic moiety&quot; of Alzheimer's disease. However, despite much work focused on both Abeta and its parent protein, amyloid precursor protein (APP), the functional roles of APP and its cleavage products remain to be fully elucidated. Protein-protein interaction networks can provide insight into protein function, however, high-throughput data often report false positives and are in frequent disagreement with low-throughput experiments. Moreover, the complexity of the CNS is likely to be under represented in such databases. Therefore, we curated the published work characterizing both APP and Abeta to create a protein interaction network of APP and its proteolytic cleavage products, with annotation, where possible, to the level of APP binding domain and isoform. This is the first time that an interactome has been refined to domain level, essential for the interpretation of APP due to the presence of multiple isoforms and processed fragments. Gene ontology and network analysis were used to identify potentially novel functional relationships among interacting proteins.
Women are at a higher risk than men of developing depression and anxiety and such increased risk might be particularly associated with reproductive cycle events. Recent evidence suggests that the transition to menopause may constitute a window of vulnerability for some women for the development of new onset and recurrent depression. Several biological and environmental factors seem to be independent predictors or modulating factors for the occurrence of depression in menopausal women; they include the presence and severity of hot flushes, sleep disturbances, history of severe premenstrual syndrome or postpartum blues, stressful life events, history of depression, socioeconomic status, and use of hormones and psychotropic agents. The regulation of monoaminergic systems by ovarian hormones might explain, at least in part, the emergence of depressive symptoms and/or anxiety in biologically predisposed subpopulations. The use of transdermal estradiol, as well as serotonergic and noradrenergic antidepressants, is an efficacious strategy in the treatment of depression and vasomotor symptoms in symptomatic women in midlife. In this review, the authors discuss the existing evidence of a greater risk for the development of depression during the menopausal transition and the putative underlying mechanisms contributing to this window of vulnerability. Hormonal and nonhormonal treatment strategies for depression and anxiety in this particular population are critically examined, although more tailored treatment options are still needed.

We present evidence from a 5-year longitudinal study for the prospective associations between loneliness and depressive symptoms in a population-based, ethnically diverse sample of 229 men and women who were 50-68 years old at study onset. Cross-lagged panel models were used in which the criterion variables were loneliness and depressive symptoms, considered simultaneously. We used variations on this model to evaluate the possible effects of gender, ethnicity, education, physical functioning, medications, social network size, neuroticism, stressful life events, perceived stress, and social support on the observed associations between loneliness and depressive symptoms. Cross-lagged analyses indicated that loneliness predicted subsequent changes in depressive symptomatology, but not vice versa, and that this temporal association was not attributable to demographic variables, objective social isolation, dispositional negativity, stress, or social support. The importance of distinguishing between loneliness and depressive symptoms and the implications for loneliness and depressive symptomatology in older adults are discussed.
To verify the hypothesis that suicide attempts are associated with lower serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels of patients with mood disorders, 26 patients with mood disorders (bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder) were admitted after a medically serious suicide attempt to the emergency department and then hospitalized in the psychiatric unit of the Sant' Andrea Hospital (Rome, Italy). Controls were 87 patients who had not made a recent suicide attempt. Attempters and nonattempters did not differ in the levels of serum cholesterol or triglycerides. Indeed, attempters had nonsignificantly higher serum levels of cholesterol and lower serum levels of triglycerides. The use of biologic indicators such as levels of serum cholesterol and triglycerides in the prediction of suicide risk in mood disorders was not fully supported from this small sample.

We used a new theory of the biological basis of the Big Five personality traits to generate hypotheses about the association of each trait with the volume of different brain regions. Controlling for age, sex, and whole-brain volume, results from structural magnetic resonance imaging of 116 healthy adults supported our hypotheses for four of the five traits: Extraversion, Neuroticism, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness. Extraversion covaried with volume of medial orbitofrontal cortex, a brain region involved in processing reward information. Neuroticism covaried with volume of brain regions associated with threat, punishment, and negative affect. Agreeableness covaried with volume in regions that process information about the intentions and mental states of other individuals. Conscientiousness covaried with volume in lateral prefrontal cortex, a region involved in planning and the voluntary control of behavior. These findings support our biologically based, explanatory model of the Big Five and demonstrate the potential of personality neuroscience (i.e., the systematic study of individual differences in personality using neuroscience methods) as a discipline.
Social subordination can be biologically stressful; when mammals lose dominance contests they have acute increases in the stress hormone cortisol. However, human studies of the effect of dominance contest outcomes on cortisol changes have had inconsistent results. Moreover, human studies have been limited to face-to-face competitions and have heretofore never examined cortisol responses to shifts in political dominance hierarchies. The present study investigated voters' cortisol responses to the outcome of the 2008 United States Presidential election. 183 participants at two research sites (Michigan and North Carolina) provided saliva samples at several time points before and after the announcement of the winner on Election Night. Radioimmunoassay was used to measure levels of cortisol in the saliva samples. In North Carolina, John McCain voters (losers) had increases in post-outcome cortisol levels, whereas Barack Obama voters (winners) had stable post-outcome cortisol levels. The present research provides novel evidence that societal shifts in political dominance can impact biological stress responses in voters whose political party becomes socio-politically subordinate.
Early experiences shape brain function and behavior and, consequently, vulnerability to psychopathology at adulthood. Here we exploited the mouse communal nest (CN) paradigm in order to investigate the effect of the early social environment on the emergence of endophenotypes of depression and on antidepressant efficacy at adulthood. CN, which consists in a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior until weaning, is characterized by high levels of maternal behavior and peer interactions, thus representing an highly stimulating environment. Our results show that, when compared to mice reared in standard laboratory conditions (SN), adult CN mice exhibited greater sucrose preference on the first days of the test, displayed reduced anhedonia during social stress and had lower corticosterone levels after acute and prolonged social stress. Furthermore, in line with previous work, CN displayed longer immobility than SN mice in the forced swim test. Here we show that such behavioral response is differently affected by antidepressants according to early experiences. A 3-week fluoxetine treatment affected only SN mice, leading to an increase of immobility duration up to the levels showed by CN mice, while acute fluoxetine administration decreased immobility duration in both groups. These results show that being reared in a CN profoundly changes developmental trajectories, reducing the adult display of endophenotypes of depression and modifying response to antidepressants. The present findings suggest that early experiences represent one of those factors to be taken into account to identify the appropriate individual pharmacological strategy to treat depression in patients.
The goal of the present study was to explore the effects of long-term hormone deprivation on the ability of subsequent estrogen treatment to affect attention performance on the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT). In an initial experiment to assess estradiol effects in young adults, 2-month-old rats were trained on the 5-CSRTT, then ovariectomized and immediately implanted with capsules containing cholesterol (n=10) or estradiol (n=10). Then rats were tested on the 5-CSRTT under baseline task parameters, under increased task difficulty (behavior challenge condition), and finally in muscarinic and nicotinic drug challenge conditions. In a second experiment, 10-month-old rats were trained on the 5-CSRTT and at 12 or 17 months of age rats were ovariectomized and treated with estradiol or cholesterol, so that one group received continuous cholesterol control treatment, two groups received estradiol treatment immediately following ovariectomy (either at 12 or 17 months), and one group received delayed estradiol treatment initiated 5 months following ovariectomies. At 17 months of age, rats were tested on the 5-CSRTT. Baseline performance was comparable between estradiol- and cholesterol-treated rats of both age groups. However, young estradiol-treated rats outperformed controls when behavior was challenged by shortening the intertrial interval (Short ITI). In the same Short ITI condition, middle-aged rats receiving immediate estradiol treatment beginning at the age of 17 months, but not 12 months, outperformed controls as well as animals receiving delayed estradiol treatment. No differences between groups were found in the cholinergic drug challenge conditions. These data indicate that chronic estradiol treatment for approximately 1 month but not 6 months is able to enhance attention performance, and that prolonged ovarian hormone deprivation attenuates these beneficial effects of subsequent estradiol treatment. These findings have implications for informing clinical research about the importance of timing and duration of hormone treatment.
Psychological factors and the autonomic nervous system (ANS) are implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). This study aimed to assess, firstly the way IBS and IBD patients cope with their pathology according to their affective adjustment and secondly the possible links between these affective adjustments and ANS reactivity. Patients with Crohn's disease (CD; n=26), ulcerative colitis (UC; n=22), or IBS (n=27) were recruited and compared to 21 healthy subjects based on psychological variables (trait- and state anxiety, depressive symptomatology, negative mood, perceived stress, coping, health locus of control) and sympatho-vagal balance through heart-rate variability monitored at rest. A principal component analysis, performed on all affective variables, isolated a leading factor labelled as &quot;affective adjustment&quot;. In each disease, patients were distributed into positive and negative affective adjustment. In all the diseases, a positive affect was associated with problem-focused coping, and a negative affect with emotion-focused coping and external health locus of control. Results show that the sympatho-vagal balance varied according to the disease. In CD presenting positive affectivity, an adapted high sympathetic activity was observed. In UC, a parasympathetic blunt was observed in the presence of negative affectivity and an equilibrated sympatho-vagal balance in the presence of positive affectivity. In contrast, in IBS, an important dysautonomia (with high sympathetic and low parasympathetic tone) was constantly observed whatever the affective adjustment. In conclusion, this study suggests that the equilibrium of the ANS is differentially adapted according to the disease. This equilibrium is conjugated with positive affective and cognitive adjustment in IBD (CD and UC) but not in IBS.





Across individuals, risk for poor health varies inversely with socioeconomic position (SEP). The pathways by which SEP affects health have been viewed from many epidemiological perspectives. Central to these perspectives is the notion that socioeconomic health disparities arise from an interplay between nested, recursive, and cumulative environmental, social, familial, psychological, behavioral, and physiological processes that unfold over the life span. Epidemiological perspectives on socioeconomic health disparities, however, have not yet formally integrated emerging findings from neuropharmacological, molecular genetic, and neuroimaging studies demonstrating that indicators of SEP relate to patterns of brain neurotransmission, brain morphology, and brain functionality implicated in the etiology of chronic medical conditions and psychological disorders. Here, we survey these emerging findings and consider how future neurobiological studies in this area can enhance our understanding of the pathways by which different dimensions of SEP become embodied by the brain to influence health throughout life.


In a colour variation of the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) false memory paradigm, participants studied lists of words critically related to a nonstudied colour name (e.g., &quot;blood, cherry, scarlet, rouge ... &quot;); they later showed false memory for the critical colour name (e.g., &quot;red&quot;). Two additional experiments suggest that participants generate colour imagery in response to such colour-related DRM lists. First, participants claim to experience colour imagery more often following colour-related than standard non-colour-related DRM lists; they also rate their colour imagery as more vivid following colour-related lists. Second, participants exhibit facilitative priming for critical colours in a dot selection task that follows words in the colour-related DRM list, suggesting that colour-related DRM lists prime participants for the actual critical colours themselves. Despite these findings, false memory for critical colour names does not extend to the actual colours themselves (font colours). Rather than leading to source confusion about which colours were self-generated and which were studied, presenting the study lists in varied font colours actually worked to reduce false memory overall. Results are interpreted within the framework of the visual distinctiveness hypothesis.

Despite aggressive multimodal strategies, the prognosis in patients affected by primary brain tumors is still very unfavorable. Glial tumors seem to be able to create a favorable environment for the invasion of neoplastic cells into the cerebral parenchyma when they interact with the extracellular matrix via cell surface receptors. The major problem in drug delivery into the brain is due to the presence of the blood brain barrier which limits drug penetration. Nanotechnology involves the design, synthesis and characterization of materials that have a functional organization at least in one dimension on the nanometer scale. Nanoengineered devices in medical applications are designed to interface and interact with cells and tissues at the molecular level. Nanoparticle systems can represent ideal devices for delivery of specific compounds to brain tumors, across the blood brain barrier. In this brief review, we report the results of studies related to the emerging novel applications of nanoparticle systems in diagnosis and treatment of primary brain tumors, and also the patents of studies that adopt nanoparticle systems as drug delivery carriers in brain tumor diagnosis and therapy.



Neurodevelopmental pathogenesis of schizophrenia might be mediated by abnormalities in Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1). Developmental disturbances like obstetric complications, by themselves, as well as through the resultant hypercortisolemia due to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity, can lead to deficient IGF-1 level. The relevance of IGF-1-Cortisol interactions in schizophrenia, especially in the context of antipsychotic treatment, is yet to be explored. In this study, thirty-three antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (13-men) were examined for serum IGF-1 and cortisol levels at baseline and after 3months of antipsychotic treatment. For baseline analyses, the patients were compared with 33 healthy controls matched for age, sex, socio-economic status, and physical activity. Symptoms were assessed using Scale for Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS) and Scale for Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS). At baseline, schizophrenia patients had significantly lower levels of IGF-1 [t=4.6; p&lt;0.0001] and higher levels of cortisol [t=3.9; p=0.0002] in comparison with healthy controls. Following treatment, IGF-1 level increased significantly [t=4.5; p&lt;0.0001] whereas cortisol decreased significantly [t=2.5; p=0.02] in patients. There was a significant positive correlation between magnitude of increase in IGF-1 level and the magnitude of reduction in cortisol level [r=0.52; p=0.002]. Also, the greater the increase in IGF-1 the greater was the reduction in SAPS score [r=0.39; p=0.02]. Our study findings demonstrate that antipsychotic treatment can result in significant elevation of serum IGF-1 possibly mediated by reduction in cortisol levels. These observations suggest a possible link between HPA axis abnormalities and IGF-1 deficits in the neurodevelopmental pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Heat shock proteins act as intracellular chaperones by assisting with proper protein folding in response to various cellular stresses. In doing so, these proteins protect the cell from unwanted protein aggregation, which in turn, plays an important role in the pathogenesis of numerous disorders. Previous reports from our laboratory have described a 40 kDa catecholamine regulated heat shock-like protein (CRP40), an alternate gene product of the 70 kDa mitochondrial heat shock protein, mortalin. CRP40 shares an intimate association with dopaminergic activity, specifically as it pertains to dopamine dysregulation in schizophrenia. This study investigates human CRP40/mortalin mRNA expression within dorsolateral prefrontal cortex postmortem specimens from normal control, schizophrenic and bipolar patients obtained from the Stanley Medical Research Institute. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was carried out for all patient samples (n=105; n=35 per group) in a blinded manner. No significant alterations in CRP40/mortalin mRNA expression levels were observed between control, bipolar and schizophrenic patients. However, multiple regression demonstrated a distinct positive correlation between CRP40/mortalin mRNA expression and lifetime use of antipsychotic drugs within the schizophrenic patient profile, after controlling for important confounding factors. Thus, the data suggest that human CRP40/mortalin is modulated by dopaminergic activity and may act to protect neurons from excess catecholamine activity in regions of the brain associated with psychosis.


The discovery of proteins that recognize membrane curvature created a paradigm shift by suggesting that membrane shape may act as a cue for protein localization that is independent of lipid or protein composition. Here we review recent data on membrane curvature sensing by three structurally unrelated motifs: BAR domains, amphipathic helices and membrane-anchored proteins. We discuss the conclusion that the curvature of the BAR dimer is not responsible for sensing and that the sensing properties of all three motifs can be rationalized by the physicochemical properties of the curved membrane itself. We thus anticipate that membrane curvature will promote the redistribution of proteins that are anchored in membranes through any type of hydrophobic moiety, a thesis that broadens tremendously the implications of membrane curvature for protein sorting, trafficking and signaling in cell biology.

Cultural neuroscience is an emerging research discipline that investigates cultural variation in psychological, neural and genomic processes as a means of articulating the bidirectional relationship of these processes and their emergent properties. Research in cultural neuroscience integrates theory and methods from anthropology, cultural psychology, neuroscience and neurogenetics. Here, we review a set of core theoretical and methodological challenges facing researchers when planning and conducting cultural neuroscience studies, and provide suggestions for overcoming these challenges. In particular, we focus on the problems of defining culture and culturally appropriate experimental tasks, comparing neuroimaging data acquired from different populations and scanner sites and identifying functional genetic polymorphisms relevant to culture. Implications of cultural neuroscience research for addressing current issues in population health disparities are discussed.
Cultural neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field of research that investigates interrelations among culture, mind and the brain. Drawing on both the growing body of scientific evidence on cultural variation in psychological processes and the recent development of social and cognitive neuroscience, this emerging field of research aspires to understand how culture as an amalgam of values, meanings, conventions, and artifacts that constitute daily social realities might interact with the mind and its underlying brain pathways of each individual member of the culture. In this article, following a brief review of studies that demonstrate the surprising degree to which brain processes are malleably shaped by cultural tools and practices, the authors discuss cultural variation in brain processes involved in self-representations, cognition, emotion and motivation. They then propose (i) that primary values of culture such as independence and interdependence are reflected in the compositions of cultural tasks (i.e. daily routines designed to accomplish the cultural values) and further (ii) that active and sustained engagement in these tasks yields culturally patterned neural activities of the brain, thereby laying the ground for the embodied construction of the self and identity. Implications for research on culture and the brain are discussed.

A fundamental challenge facing social perceivers is identifying the cause underlying other people's behavior. Evidence indicates that East Asian perceivers are more likely than Western perceivers to reference the social context when attributing a cause to a target person's actions. One outstanding question is whether this reflects a culture's influence on automatic or on controlled components of causal attribution. After reviewing behavioral evidence that culture can shape automatic mental processes as well as controlled reasoning, we discuss the evidence in favor of cultural differences in automatic and controlled components of causal attribution more specifically. We contend that insights emerging from social cognitive neuroscience research can inform this debate. After introducing an attribution framework popular among social neuroscientists, we consider findings relevant to the automaticity of attribution, before speculating how one could use a social neuroscience approach to clarify whether culture affects automatic, controlled or both types of attribution processes.
Cultural neuroscience provides a new approach for understanding the impact of culture on the human brain (and vice versa) opening thus new avenues for cross-disciplinary collaboration with archaeology and anthropology. Finding new meaningful and productive unit of analysis is essential for such collaboration. But what can archaeological preoccupation with material culture and long-term change contribute to this end? In this article, I introduce and discuss the notion of the brain-artefact interface (BAI) as a useful conceptual bridge between neuroplastisty and the extended mind. I argue that a key challenge for archaeology and cultural neuroscience lies in the cross-disciplinary understanding of the processes by which our plastic enculturated brains become constituted within the wider extended networks of non-biological artefacts and cultural practices that delineate the real spatial and temporal boundaries of the human cognitive map.
The investigation of cultural phenomena using neuroscientific methods-cultural neuroscience (CN)-is receiving increasing attention. Yet it is unclear whether the integration of cultural study and neuroscience is merely additive, providing additional evidence of neural plasticity in the human brain, or truly synergistic, yielding discoveries that neither discipline could have achieved alone. We discuss how the parent fields to CN: cross-cultural psychology, psychological anthropology and cognitive neuroscience inform the investigation of the role of cultural experience in shaping the brain. Drawing on well-established methodologies from cross-cultural psychology and cognitive neuroscience, we outline a set of guidelines for CN, evaluate 17 CN studies in terms of these guidelines, and provide a summary table of our results. We conclude that the combination of culture and neuroscience is both additive and synergistic; while some CN methodologies and findings will represent the direct union of information from parent fields, CN studies employing the methodological rigor required by this logistically challenging new field have the potential to transform existing methodologies and produce unique findings.
We sought to elucidate the relationship of ADHD (Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) to the DRD4 exon III VNTR 7R allele worldwide using analytic techniques and to relate these findings to the field of cultural neuroscience. To focus on a potential moderating role of race/ethnicity, we excluded over 30 papers that have explored the relationship between the DRD4 7R and ADHD but had unclear or lax racial-ethnic inclusion criteria. The papers in this meta-analysis were only included if a single race made up 95% or more of their sample. We searched for and translated papers not published in English, and found a significant difference in the relationship of ADHD and DRD4 7R in people of European-Caucasian (Odds ratio 1.635, Z = 3.936, P &lt; 0.00001) and South American (Odds ratio 2.407, Z = 3.317, P = 0.001) descent vs people of Middle Eastern ancestry (Odds ratio 0.717, Z = -2.466; P = 0.014). We also examined the moderating effect of differing ADHD diagnoses, subject recruitment, control recruitment and male to female ratio. Finally, we consider the implications of these data for cultural neuroscience.
Anthropologists have become increasingly interested in embodiment-that is, the ways that socio-cultural factors influence the form, behavior and subjective experience of human bodies. At the same time, social cognitive neuroscience has begun to reveal the mechanisms of embodiment by investigating the neural underpinnings and consequences of social experience. Despite this overlap, the two fields have barely engaged one another. We suggest three interconnected domains of inquiry in which the intersection of neuroscience and anthropology can productively inform our understanding of the relationship between human brains and their socio-cultural contexts. These are: the social construction of emotion, cultural psychiatry, and the embodiment of ritual. We build on both current research findings in cultural neuroscience and ethnographic data on cultural differences in thought and behavior, to generate novel, ecologically informed hypotheses for future study. In addition, we lay out a specific suggestion for operationalizing insights from anthropology in the context of cultural neuroscience research. Specifically, we advocate the development of field studies that use portable measurement technologies to connect individual patterns of biological response with socio-cultural processes. We illustrate the potential of such an approach with data from a study of psychophysiology and religious devotion in Northeastern Brazil.
Cultural neuroscience is set to flourish in the next few years. As the field develops, it is necessary to reflect on what is meant by 'culture' and how this can be translated for the laboratory context. This article uses the example of the adolescent brain to discuss three aspects of culture that may help us to shape and reframe questions, interpretations and applications in cultural neuroscience: cultural contingencies of categories, cultural differences in experience and cultural context of neuroscience research. The last few years have seen a sudden increase in the study of adolescence as a period of both structural and functional plasticity, with new brain-based explanations of teenage behaviour being taken up in education, policy and medicine. However, the concept of adolescence, as an object of behavioural science, took shape relatively recently, not much more than a hundred years ago and was shaped by a number of cultural and historical factors. Moreover, research in anthropology and cross-cultural psychology has shown that the experience of adolescence, as a period of the lifespan, is variable and contingent upon culture. The emerging field of cultural neuroscience has begun to tackle the question of cultural differences in social cognitive processing in adults. In this article, I explore what a cultural neuroscience can mean in the case of adolescence. I consider how to integrate perspectives from social neuroscience and anthropology to conceptualize, and to empirically study, adolescence as a culturally variable phenomenon, which, itself, has been culturally constructed.
In this article, we argue that a combined anthropology/neuroscience field of enquiry can make a significant and distinctive contribution to the study of the relationship between culture and the brain. This field, which can appropriately be termed as neuroanthropology, is conceived of as being complementary to and mutually informative with social and cultural neuroscience. We start by providing an introduction to the culture concept in anthropology. We then present a detailed characterization of neuroanthropology and its methods and how they relate to the anthropological understanding of culture. The field is described as a humanistic science, that is, a field of enquiry founded on the perceived epistemological and methodological interdependence of science and the humanities. We also provide examples that illustrate the proposed methodological model for neuroanthropology. We conclude with a discussion about specific contributions the field can make to the study of the culture-brain nexus.


Many recent research studies have proposed stem cell therapy as a treatment for cancer, spinal cord injuries, brain damage, cardiovascular disease, and other conditions. Some of these experimental therapies have been tested in small animals and, in rare cases, in humans. Medical researchers anticipate extensive clinical applications of stem cell therapy in the future. The lack of basic knowledge concerning basic stem cell biology-survival, migration, differentiation, integration in a real time manner when transplanted into damaged CNS remains an absolute bottleneck for attempt to design stem cell therapies for CNS diseases. A major challenge to the development of clinical applied stem cell therapy in medical practice remains the lack of efficient stem cell tracking methods. As a result, the fate of the vast majority of stem cells transplanted in the human central nervous system (CNS), particularly in the detrimental effects, remains unknown. The paucity of knowledge concerning basic stem cell biology--survival, migration, differentiation, integration in real-time when transplanted into damaged CNS remains a bottleneck in the attempt to design stem cell therapies for CNS diseases. Even though excellent histological techniques remain as the gold standard, no good in vivo techniques are currently available to assess the transplanted graft for migration, differentiation, or survival. To address these issues, herein we propose strategies to investigate the lineage fate determination of derived human embryonic stem cells (hESC) transplanted in vivo into the CNS. Here, we describe a comprehensive biological Global Positioning System (bGPS) to track transplanted stem cells. But, first, we review, four currently used standard methods for tracking stem cells in vivo: magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), bioluminescence imaging (BLI), positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and fluorescence imaging (FLI) with quantum dots. We summarize these modalities and propose criteria that can be employed to rank the practical usefulness for specific applications. Based on the results of this review, we argue that additional qualities are still needed to advance these modalities toward clinical applications. We then discuss an ideal procedure for labeling and tracking stem cells in vivo, finally, we present a novel imaging system based on our experiments.
The maturation of young neurons is regulated by complex mechanisms and dysregulation of this process is frequently found in neurodevepmental disorders. MicroRNAs have been implicated in several steps of neuronal maturation including dendritic and axonal growth, spine development, and synaptogenesis. We demonstrate that one brain-enriched microRNA, miR-137, has a significant role in regulating neuronal maturation. Overexpression of miR-137 inhibits dendritic morphogenesis, phenotypic maturation, and spine development both in brain and cultured primary neurons. On the other hand, a reduction in miR-137 had opposite effects. We further show that miR-137 targets the Mind bomb one (Mib1) protein through the conserved target site located in the 3' untranslated region of Mib1 messenger RNA. Mib1 is an ubiquitin ligase known to be important for neurodevelopment. We show that exogenously expressed Mib1 could partially rescue the phenotypes associated with miR-137 overexpression. These results demonstrate a novel miRNA-mediated mechanism involving miR-137 and Mib1 that function to regulate neuronal maturation and dendritic morphogenesis during development.
Various types of cardiomyocytes undergo changes in automaticity and electrical properties during fetal heart development. Human embryonic stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hESC-CMs), like fetal cardiomyocytes, are electrophysiologically immature and exhibit automaticity. We used hESC-CMs to investigate developmental changes in mechanisms of automaticity and to determine whether electrophysiological maturation is driven by an intrinsic developmental clock and/or is regulated by interactions with non-cardiomyocytes in embryoid bodies (EBs). We isolated pure populations of hESC-CMs from EBs by lentivirus-engineered Puromycin resistance at various stages of differentiation. Using pharmacological agents, calcium (Ca(2+)) imaging, and intracellular recording techniques, we found that intracellular Ca(2+)-cycling mechanisms developed early and contributed to dominant automaticity throughout hESC-CM differentiation. Sarcolemmal ion channels evolved later upon further differentiation within EBs and played an increasing role in controlling automaticity and electrophysiological properties of hESC-CMs. In contrast to the development of intracellular Ca(2+)-handling proteins, ion channel development and electrophysiological maturation of hESC-CMs did not occur when hESC-CMs were isolated from EBs early and maintained in culture without further interaction with non-cardiomyocytes. Adding back non-cardiomyocytes to early-isolated hESC-CMs rescued the arrest of electrophysiological maturation, indicating that non-cardiomyocytes in EBs drive electrophysiological maturation of early hESC-CMs. Non-cardiomyocytes in EBs contain most cell types present in the embryonic heart that are known to influence early cardiac development. Our study is the first to demonstrate that non-cardiomyocytes influence electrophysiological maturation of early hESC-CMs in cultures. Defining the nature of these extrinsic signals will aid in the directed maturation of immature hESC-CMs to mitigate arrhythmogenic risks of cell-based therapies.
Attempts to repair the central nervous system damaged as a result of trauma or disease will depend on the ability to restore the appropriate neuronal connectivity. This will rely on establishing appropriate chemical and physical environments for supporting neural cells and their processes and in this regard, engineering of biomaterials is of increasing interest. It will be important to understand how cells behave on these biomaterials in vitro, prior to future in vivo application. We reveal that modification of 3-dimensional (3D) electrospun poly-epsilon-caprolactone (PCL) nanofiber scaffolds by fiber alignment and aminolysation is superior to classical 2-dimensional (2D) culture-ware in promoting in vitro proliferation and differentiation of cortical cells. Many studies have examined the importance of exogenous soluble factors to promote cell fate specification. Here, we demonstrate that tethering the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), onto modified nanofibers is superior to culturing in the presence of soluble BDNF. Functional immobilization of BDNF to polymer nanofibers enhances neural stem cell (NSC) proliferation and directs cell fate toward neuronal and oligodendrocyte specification, essential for neural tissue repair. These findings indicate that modified PCL nanofibrous 3D scaffolds are capable of supporting NSCs and their derivatives and may present a new avenue for encouraging neural repair in the future.






Anaesthesia represents one of the most important medical advances in history, and, nowadays, can widely be considered safe, thanks to the discovery of new drugs and the adoption of modern technologies. Nevertheless, anaesthetic practices still represent cause for concern regarding the consequences they produce. Various anaesthetics are frequently used without knowing their effects on specific diseases: despite having been reported that invasion or metastasis of cancer cells easily occurs during surgical procedures, numerous anaesthetics are used for cancer resection even if their effect on the behaviour of cancer cells is unclear. Guidelines for a proper use of anaesthetics in cancer surgery are not available, therefore, the aim of the present review is to survey available up-to-date information on the effects of the most used drugs in anaesthesia (volatile and intravenous anaesthetics, nitrous oxide, opioids, local anaesthetics and neuromuscular blocking drugs) in correlation to cancer. This kind of knowledge could be a basic valuable support to improve anaesthesia performance and patient safety.
Most molecular imaging studies of the dopamine (DA) system performed to date have focused on the striatum, a region receiving dense dopaminergic innervation. In clinical research on the DA D2-receptor, striatal binding has often been regarded as an index of global DA function, based on the underlying assumption of common regulatory mechanisms for receptor expression across brain regions. Recent data has challenged this view, suggesting differences in genetic regulation between striatal and extrastriatal brain regions. The relationship between binding levels in brain regions has, however, not been directly examined in the same sample. In this study, we searched for interregional correlations between DA D2-receptor availability as determined with Positron Emission Tomography in 16 control subjects. The radioligands [11C]raclopride and [11C]FLB 457 were used for measurements of D2-receptor binding in striatal and extrastriatal regions, respectively. No correlation was observed between D2-receptor availability in striatum and any of the extrastriatal regions, as assessed using both region of interest- and voxel-based analyses. Instead, the pattern of correlations was consistent with the model of separate dopaminergic systems as has been originally observed in rodents. These preliminary results encourage approaches searching for individual patterns of receptor binding across the whole brain volume in clinical studies on the dopamine system.
We have recently shown that chronic intermittent exposure of adolescent rats to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or Ecstasy) completely blocks the reduction in serotonin transporter (SERT) binding and the hypoactivity seen following a subsequent MDMA binge treatment. The present study determined whether a similar neuroprotective effect also occurs in rats given the same intermittent MDMA exposure in adulthood. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given either MDMA (10 mg/kg x 2) or saline, every fifth day, from postnatal day (PD) 60 to PD 85. The MDMA-induced latency until seminal plug production was reduced over the course of intermittent treatments. After a 1-week wash-out period, animals received either a low- or high-dose MDMA binge (2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg x 4). Core body temperature was measured during and after the binge to determine the effects of MDMA pretreatment on MDMA-induced hyperthermia. Spontaneous motor activity was determined the next day, and cortical and hippocampal samples were collected at 1 week postbinge to measure serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentrations as well as [3H]citalopram binding to SERT. Hyperthermia occurred more rapidly and seminal discharge was more common in the MDMA-pretreated group compared to the MDMA-nave group in animals given the low-dose binge. MDMA preexposure protected animals from the reductions in cortical 5-HT levels and SERT binding produced by the high-dose binge and blocked the postbinge hypoactivity. These findings indicate that chronic, intermittent MDMA exposure in adulthood induces neuroprotective effects similar to those seen with adolescent treatment. However, there was also evidence for drug-induced sensitization in adults that was not observed in adolescents. Thus, altered drug sensitivity in chronic Ecstasy users may depend not only on the frequency and pattern of use but also on the age of the user.
Synaptic vesicles recycle repeatedly in order to maintain synaptic transmission. We have previously proposed that upon exocytosis the vesicle components persist as clusters, which would be endocytosed as whole units. It has also been proposed that the vesicle components diffuse into the plasma membrane and are then randomly gathered into new vesicles. We found here that while strong stimulation (releasing the entire recycling pool) causes the diffusion of the vesicle marker synaptotagmin out of synaptic boutons, moderate stimulation (releasing approximately 19% of all vesicles) is followed by no measurable diffusion. In agreement with this observation, synaptotagmin molecules labeled with different fluorescently tagged antibodies did not appear to mix upon vesicle recycling, when investigated by subdiffraction resolution stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy. Finally, as protein diffusion from vesicles has been mainly observed using molecules tagged with pH-sensitive green fluorescent protein (pHluorin), we have also investigated the membrane patterning of several native and pHluorin-tagged proteins. While the native proteins had a clustered distribution, the GFP-tagged ones were diffused in the plasma membrane. We conclude that synaptic vesicle components intermix little, at least under moderate stimulation, possibly because of the formation of clusters in the plasma membrane. We suggest that several pHluorin-tagged vesicle proteins are less well integrated in clusters.

Decision formation and attention are two fundamental processes through which we select, respectively, appropriate actions or sources of information. Although both functions have been studied in the oculomotor system, we lack a unified view explaining both forms of selection. We review evidence showing that parietal neurons encoding saccade motor decisions also carry signals of attention (perceptual selection) that are independent of the metrics, modality and reward of an action. We propose that attention implements a specialized form of decision based on the utility of information. Thus, oculomotor control depends on two interacting but distinct processes: attentional decisions that assign value to sources of information and motor decisions that flexibly link the selected information with action.
The release probability, the average probability that an active zone of a presynaptic terminal releases one or more vesicles following an action potential, is tightly regulated. Measurements in cultured neurons or in slices indicate that this probability can vary greatly between synapses, but on average it is estimated to be as high as 0.5. In vivo, however, the size of synaptic potentials is relatively independent of recent history, suggesting that release probability is much lower. Possible causes for this discrepancy include maturational differences, a higher spontaneous activity, a lower extracellular calcium concentration and more prominent tonic inhibition by ambient neurotransmitters during in vivo recordings. Existing evidence thus suggests that under physiological conditions in vivo, presynaptic action potentials trigger the release of neurotransmitter much less frequently than what is observed in in vitro preparations.
Sex differences exist in brain function and behavior. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are only beginning to emerge. Recent studies in rodents have revealed molecular mechanisms underlying sex differences in memory formation. It is becoming clear that sex differences are not simply reflective of differences in sex hormones, but also reflect distinctions in synaptic signaling mechanisms including the role of synaptic kinases. Furthermore, there are sex differences in the activation of transcription factors and gene transcription during memory formation. This review discusses emerging evidence in the field and how these findings are providing a first step towards a molecular understanding of how sex differences impact on memory formation both in health and disease.
Addictive drugs cause persistent restructuring of several neuronal cell types in the limbic regions of brain thought to be responsible for long-term behavioral plasticity driving addiction. Although these structural changes are well documented in nucleus accumbens medium spiny neurons, little is known regarding the underlying molecular mechanisms. Additionally, it remains unclear whether structural plasticity and its synaptic concomitants drive addictive behaviors or whether they reflect homeostatic compensations to the drug not related to addiction per se. Here, we discuss recent paradoxical data, which either support or oppose the hypothesis that drug-induced changes in dendritic spines drive addictive behavior. We define areas where future investigation can provide a more detailed picture of drug-induced synaptic reorganization, including ultrastructural, electrophysiological and behavioral studies.
Ischaemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a common feature of several diseases associated with high morbidity and mortality, such as stroke and myocardial infarction. The damaged tissue displays cardinal signs of inflammation and microvascular injury that, unless resolved, lead to long-term tissue damage with associated dysfunction. Current therapies are limited and are often associated with many side effects. Increasing evidence suggests that members of the formyl peptide receptor (FPR) family, in particular human FPR2/ALX, might have an important role in the pathophysiology of I/R injury. It was recently demonstrated that several peptides and non-peptidyl small-molecule compounds have anti-inflammatory and pro-resolving properties via their action on members of the FPR family. Here I review this evidence and suggest that FPR ligands, particularly in the brain, could be novel and exciting anti-inflammatory therapeutics for the treatment of a variety of clinical conditions, including stroke.
Endometriosis is a common disease characterised by ectopic growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterine cavity. Angiogenesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease; some molecules, like hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and neuronal, endothelial and inducible nitric oxide synthase isoforms (nNOS, eNOS and iNOS), are known as proangiogenetic factors. We evaluated expression of these molecules by immunohistochemistry in 32 cases of ovarian endometriomas, formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded. Analysis was focused on the cells composing the inner layer of the cyst, constituted by the ectopic endometrial glands, stromal cells and vessels, and the outer one, constituted by a fibrous layer of fibroblasts and vessels. We found that epithelial glands and capsular vessel endothelial cells showed a correlated expression of NOS isoforms; that expression of nNOS, iNOS and HIF-1alpha was correlated in epithelial glands and capsular fibroblasts; that vessel endothelial cells showed a higher mean expression for all the proangiogenetic molecules in the outer layer than in the inner one; and that capsular fibroblasts showed a higher mean expression for HIF-1alpha, iNOS and eNOS compared to the specialised stromal cells of the inner layer. Our data seem to indicate that angiogenesis is stimulated more in the outer capsule than in the inner layer of ovarian endometriotic cysts. The knowledge of the complex mechanisms associated to angiogenesis might be useful in a therapeutic approach of ovarian endometriosis based on anti-angiogenetic drugs. The therapeutic target would be mainly the capsular vasculature, more than the vasculature of ectopic endometrial tissues.
Functional neuroimaging techniques are used widely in cognitive neuroscience to investigate aspects of functional specialization and functional integration in the human brain. Functional integration can be characterized in two ways, functional connectivity and effective connectivity. While functional connectivity describes statistical dependencies between data, effective connectivity rests on a mechanistic model of the causal effects that generated the data. This review addresses the conceptual and methodological basis of established techniques for characterizing effective connectivity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. In particular, we focus on dynamic causal modeling (DCM) of fMRI data and emphasize the importance of model selection procedures and nonlinear mechanisms for context-dependent changes in connection strengths.
The purpose of this review is to outline the mechanisms responsible for the succession of the three vigilance states, namely waking, non rapid eye movement (nonREM) and REM (paradoxical) sleep over 24 h. The latest hypothesis on the mechanisms by which cortical activity switches from an activated state during waking to a synchronised state during nonREM sleep is presented. It is proposed that the activated cortical state during waking is induced by the activity of multiple waking systems, including the serotonergic, noradrenergic, cholinergic and hypocretin systems located at different subcortical levels. In contrast, the neurons inducing nonREM sleep are all localized in a single small nucleus named the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) situated above the optic chiasm. These neurons all contain the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid. The notion that the switch from waking to nonREM sleep is due to the inhibition of the waking systems by the VLPO sleep-active neurons is introduced. At the onset of sleep, the sleep neurons are activated by the circadian clock localized in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and a hypnogenic factor, adenosine, which progressively accumulates in the brain during waking.


America's obesity epidemic has gathered much media attention recently. A rise in the percent of the population who are obese coincides with an increase in the widespread use of non-caloric artificial sweeteners, such as aspartame (e.g., Diet Coke) and sucralose (e.g., Pepsi One), in food products (Figure 1). Both forward and reverse causalities have been proposed. While people often choose &quot;diet&quot; or &quot;light&quot; products to lose weight, research studies suggest that artificial sweeteners may contribute to weight gain. In this mini-review, inspired by a discussion with Dr. Dana Small at Yale's Neuroscience 2010 conference in April, I first examine the development of artificial sweeteners in a historic context. I then summarize the epidemiological and experimental evidence concerning their effects on weight. Finally, I attempt to explain those effects in light of the neurobiology of food reward.
The model organism zebrafish (Danio rerio) is extensively utilized in studies of developmental biology but is also being investigated in the context of a growing list of human age-related diseases. To facilitate such studies, we here present protein expression patterns of adult zebrafish organs, including blood, brain, fin, heart, intestine, liver, and skeletal muscle. Protein extracts were prepared from the different organs of two zebrafish and analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry. Zebrafish tissue was digested directly after minimal fractionation and cleaned up (the shotgun approach). Proteins were identified using Mascot software. In total, 1394 proteins were identified of which 644 were nonredundant. Of these, 373 demonstrated an organ-specific expression pattern and 57 had not been shown on protein level before. These data emphasize the need for increased research at the protein level to facilitate the selection of candidate proteins for targeted quantification and to refine systematic genetic network analysis in vertebrate development, biology, and disease.


The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress results from disrupted protein folding triggered by protein mutation or oxidation, reduced proteasome activity, and altered Ca2+ homeostasis. ER stress is accompanied by activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) and cell death pathway. We examined if the UPR and cell death pathway would be activated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). RT-PCR experiments revealed increased splicing of X-box binding protein-1 (XBP-1), an UPR transcription factor, in AD compared with age-matched control. Among target genes of XBP-1, expression of protein disulfide isomerase (PDI), but not glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), was increased in AD, suggesting disturbed activation of the UPR in AD. C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), caspase-3, caspase-4, and caspase-12, downstream mediators of cell death pathway, were activated in AD. Neither the UPR nor cell death pathway was induced in aged Tg2576 mice, a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease that reveals both plaque pathology and some cognitive deficits. The present study suggests that disturbed induction of the UPR and activation of the pro-apoptotic proteins contribute to neuropathological process in AD irrespective of amyloid beta and senile plaque.
Curcumin, an active principle component in rhizome of Curcuma longa, has proved its merit for diabetes through its anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory properties. This study aims at evaluating the effect of curcumin in modulating the altered dopaminergic receptors, CREB and phospholipase C in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum of STZ induced diabetic rats. Radioreceptor binding assays and gene expression was done in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum of male Wistar rats using specific ligands and probes. Total dopaminergic receptor binding parameter, B(max) showed an increase in cerebral cortex and decrease in the cerebellum of diabetic rats. Gene expression studies using real time PCR showed an increased expression of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor in the cerebral cortex of diabetic rats. In cerebellum dopamine D1 receptor was down regulated and D2 receptor showed an up regulation. Transcription factor CREB and phospholipase C showed a significant down regulation in cerebral cortex and cerebellum of diabetic rats. We report that curcumin supplementation reduces diabetes induced alteration of dopamine D1, D2 receptors, transcription factor CREB and phospholipase C to near control. Our results indicate that curcumin has a potential to regulate diabetes induced malfunctions of dopaminergic signalling, CREB and Phospholipase C expression in cerebral cortex and cerebellum and thereby improving the cognitive and emotional functions associated with these regions. Furthermore, in line with these studies an interaction between curcumin and dopaminergic receptors, CREB and phospholipase C is suggested, which attenuates the cortical and cerebellar dysfunction in diabetes. These results suggest that curcumin holds promise as an agent to prevent or treat CNS complications in diabetes.

The whisker to barrel system in rodents has become one of the major models for the study of sensory processing. Several tens of whiskers (or vibrissae) are distributed in a regular manner on both sides of the snout. Many tactile discrimination tasks using this system need multiple contacts with more than one whisker to be solved. With the aim of mimicking those multi-whisker stimuli during electrophysiological recordings, we developed a novel mechanical stimulator composed of 24 independent multi-directional piezoelectric benders adapted to the five rows and the five caudal arcs of the rat whisker pad. The most widely used technology for producing mechanical deflections of the whiskers is based on piezoelectric benders that display a non-linear behavior when driven with high frequency input commands and, if not compensated, show high unwanted ringing at particular resonance frequencies. If not corrected, this non-linear behavior precludes the application of high frequency deflections and the study of cortical responses to behaviorally relevant stimuli. To cope with the ringing problem, a mechanical and a software based solutions have been developed. With these corrections, the upper bound of the linear range of the bender is increased to 1 kHz. This new device allows the controlled delivery of large scale natural patterns of whisker deflections characterized by rapid high frequency vibrations of multiple whiskers.
The Golgi method has been used for over a century to describe the general morphology of neurons in the nervous system of different species. The &quot;single-section&quot; Golgi method of Gabbott and Somogyi (1984) and the modifications made by Izzo et al. (1987) are able to produce consistent results. Here, we describe procedures to show cortical and subcortical neurons of human brains immersed in formalin for months or even years. The tissue was sliced with a vibratome, post-fixed in a combination of paraformaldehyde and picric acid in phosphate buffer, followed by osmium tetroxide and potassium dicromate, &quot;sandwiched&quot; between cover slips, and immersed in silver nitrate. The whole procedure takes between 5 and 11 days to achieve good results. The Golgi method has its characteristic pitfalls but, with this procedure, neurons and glia appear well-impregnated, allowing qualitative and quantitative studies under light microscopy. This contribution adds to the basic techniques for the study of human nervous tissue with the same advantages described for the &quot;single-section&quot; Golgi method in other species; it is easy and fast, requires minimal equipment, and provides consistent results.
A growing number of studies of auditory processing are being carried out in awake, behaving animals, creating a need for precisely controlled sound delivery without restricting head movements. We have designed a system for closed-field stimulus presentation in freely moving ferrets, which comprises lightweight, adjustable headphones that can be consistently positioned over the ears via a small, skull-mounted implant. The invasiveness of the implant was minimized by simplifying its construction and using dental adhesive only for attaching it to the skull, thereby reducing the surgery required and avoiding the use of screws or other anchoring devices. Attaching the headphones to a chronic implant also reduced the amount of contact they had with the head and ears, increasing the willingness of the animals to wear them. We validated sound stimulation via the headphones in ferrets trained previously in a free-field task to localize stimuli presented from one of two loudspeakers. Noise bursts were delivered binaurally over the headphones and interaural level differences (ILDs) were introduced to allow the sound to be lateralized. Animals rapidly transferred from the free-field task to indicate the perceived location of the stimulus presented over headphones. They showed near perfect lateralization with a 5 dB ILD, matching the scores achieved in the free-field task. As expected, the ferrets' performance declined when the ILD was reduced in value. This closed-field system can easily be adapted for use in other species, and provides a reliable means of presenting closed-field stimuli whilst monitoring behavioral responses in freely moving animals.
A rat model of penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) was recently established to study military-relevant severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). The purpose of this study was to conduct a side-by-side evaluation of two well-established cognitive testing paradigms: the novel object recognition (NOR) task and the Morris water maze (MWM) task. Accordingly, male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to PBBI and their cognitive abilities were assessed at 7 and 21 days post-PBBI. Although PBBI animals had more difficulty completing both tasks compared to sham animals, their performance on the NOR task was confounded by a high degree of within-group variability that was likely due to attention deficits produced by the injury. In contrast, PBBI produced consistent, significant spatial learning deficits in the MWM task. Overall, these results suggest that the MWM task provides a more appropriate cognitive test for the PBBI model that would be useful for testing promising neuroprotective therapeutics.
The extraction and detection of specific responses from a large amount of background noise has been the subject of a considerable body of research in brain functional imaging, and more specifically in optical intrinsic signal imaging. Recent work by Kalatsky and Stryker (2003) showed that by combining different conditions and using periodic stimuli, recording times can be reduced. Spectral decomposition is then used to provide amplitude and phase information locked to the stimulus. A drawback of the above method is that by focusing only on a single harmonic, response information is limited. The shape of the hemodynamic response function (HRF) and the temporal variations in the neural responses cannot be assessed. In this work it is argued that additional information about neural responses can be gathered by using higher harmonics. Moving bars were used to generate visuotopic maps on large portions of the cat visual cortex. Up to four simultaneously bars moving repetitively across the visual field at different frequencies were used to sample the HRF in the Fourier domain. The HRF profile obtained with continuous stimulation was spatially homogeneous throughout the cortex and similar to the HRF profile obtained using episodic stimulation. Furthermore, by modeling the optical response as a convolution between HRF and neuronal responses, the ratio of the second harmonic to the first provided an estimation of the receptive field size. This was further validated by measuring spatial frequency selectivity. Therefore, the use of higher harmonics opens new avenues to estimate receptive field size from temporal signals.
Using intrinsic optical imaging methods, somatosensory-evoked neural activity was visualized in the rat barrel cortex at high spatial resolution in order to obtain cortical maps of the directional selectivity of whisker deflection. For this task, a special multidirectional mechanical stimulator was developed in our laboratory. The vibrissae were covered with magnetic paint and deflection was performed using a custom-built deflecting device with four small crosswise electromagnets; the whisker was placed at the intersection of the magnet axes. The results show that differences between responses to directional deflection were indicated by a change in the intrinsic optical signal of incident light at 546 nm corresponding to an increase in blood volume. Our results provide a preliminary indication that the different regions of the barrel have different directional preference, supporting recent electrophysiological studies suggesting that the barrel might have a fine, directionally-sensitive anatomical structure.
Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) is a sophisticated paradigm that can be used to assess the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse such as cocaine and amphetamine. Initial studies using this method to assess brain stimulation reward (BSR) examined the enhancement of response rates after drug administration. In the mid to late 1980s several groups began implementing paradigms to assess the direct rewarding effects of drugs of abuse that, for the most part, are independent of rate (i.e., progressive-ratio, auto-titration, rate-frequency curve), providing a representative assessment of a drugs rewarding effects. However, some drugs such as morphine and ethanol, which are known to have abuse potential, have sedative effects that may impede the ability to accurately quantify rewarding effects, even in these rate-independent paradigms. Few studies to date report effects of morphine in the ICSS paradigm and those that do appear to be inconsistent, lack robustness, have not been reproducible by other groups, or require inconvenient experimental designs. Here, we demonstrate a reliable and robust method to assess the rewarding effects of morphine using the rate-frequency curve paradigm.
An understanding of the in vivo spatial emergence of abnormal brain activity during spontaneous seizure onset is critical to future early seizure detection and closed-loop seizure prevention therapies. In this study, we use Granger causality (GC) to determine the strength and direction of relationships between local field potentials (LFPs) recorded from bilateral microelectrode arrays in an intermittent spontaneous seizure model of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy before, during, and after Racine grade partial onset generalized seizures. Our results indicate distinct patterns of directional GC relationships within the hippocampus, specifically from the CA1 subfield to the dentate gyrus, prior to and during seizure onset. Our results suggest sequential and hierarchical temporal relationships between the CA1 and dentate gyrus within and across hippocampal hemispheres during seizure. Additionally, our analysis suggests a reversal in the direction of GC relationships during seizure, from an abnormal pattern to more anatomically expected pattern. This reversal correlates well with the observed behavioral transition from tonic to clonic seizure in time-locked video. These findings highlight the utility of GC to reveal dynamic directional temporal relationships between multichannel LFP recordings from multiple brain regions during unprovoked spontaneous seizures.
Quantification of neurotransmitter transport dynamics is hindered by a lack of sufficient tools to directly monitor bioactive flux under physiological conditions. Traditional techniques for studying neurotransmitter release/uptake require inferences from non-selective electrical recordings, are invasive/destructive, and/or suffer from poor temporal resolution. Recent advances in electrochemical biosensors have enhanced in vitro and in vivo detection of neurotransmitter concentration under physiological/pathophysiological conditions. The use of enzymatic biosensors with performance enhancing materials (e.g., carbon nanotubes) has been a major focus for many of these advances. However, these techniques are not used as mainstream neuroscience research tools, due to relatively low sensitivity, excessive drift/noise, low signal-to-noise ratio, and inability to quantify rapid neurochemical kinetics during synaptic transmission. A sensing technique known as self-referencing overcomes many of these problems, and allows non-invasive quantification of biophysical transport. This work presents a self-referencing CNT modified glutamate oxidase biosensor for monitoring glutamate flux near neural/neuronal cells. Concentration of basal glutamate was similar to other in vivo and in vitro measurements. The biosensor was used in self-referencing (oscillating) mode to measure net glutamate flux near neural cells during electrical stimulation. Prior to stimulation, the average influx was 33.9+/-6.4 fmol cm(-2)s(-1)). Glutamate efflux took place immediately following stimulation, and was always followed by uptake in the 50-150 fmol cm(-2)s(-1) range. Uptake was inhibited using threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate, and average surface flux in replicate cells (1.1+/-7.4 fmol cm(-2)s(-1)) was significantly lower than uninhibited cells. The technique is extremely valuable for studying neuropathological conditions related to neurotransmission under dynamic physiological conditions.
The sciatic functional index (SFI) is a remarkable tool to assess dysfunction and functional recovery of the sciatic nerve of rats. Usually measured on hind foot imprints on paper, a new method is now being proposed, by direct analysis of video recorded foot sole images obtained with a treadmill-type walking belt machine functioning with gait speed control (G1). Results were compared with the SFI measured on imprints on paper (G2) and on video recorded foot sole images obtained with a static see-through runway (G3). The right sciatic nerve of 19 adult female Wistar rats was crushed by the application of a controlled load. Impressions/images obtained both preoperatively and at weekly intervals for eight consecutive postoperative weeks were digitized, stored and analyzed in a computer loaded with specific software, the SFI being automatically calculated after measuring the appropriate parameters. SFI differed significantly between G1 and G2 and G1 and G3 (p&lt;0.05), but not between G2 and G3 (p&gt;0.05) during the first and second postoperative weeks, nonsignificant differences (p&gt;0.05) being observed for any comparison between groups during the third through eighth postoperative weeks. We conclude that the three methods yielded equivalent results from the third week onward, but both video recording methods (G2 and G3) permitted a more adequate early evaluation (first and second weeks), since the SFI parameters were more easily identifiable. Images obtained with the walking belt machine are more uniform and sharper, thus contributing to reduce the influence of biases observed with imprints on paper.
To analyze the spatiotemporal dynamics of network activity in a brain tissue slice, it is useful to record simultaneously from multiple locations. When obtained from laminar structures such as the hippocampus or neocortex, multisite recordings also yield information about subcellular current distributions via current source density analysis. Multisite probes developed for in vivo recordings could serve these purposes in vitro, allowing recordings to be obtained from brain slices at sites deeper within the tissue than currently available surface recording methods permit. However, existing recording chambers do not allow for the insertion of lamina-spanning probes that enter through the edges of brain slices. Here, we present a novel brain slice recording chamber design that accomplishes this goal. The device provides a stable microfluidic perfusion environment in which tissue health is optimized by superfusing both surfaces of the slice. Multichannel electrodes can be inserted parallel to the surface of the slice, at any depth relative to the surface. Access is also provided from above for the insertion of additional recording or stimulating electrodes. We illustrate the utility of this recording configuration by measuring current sources and sinks during theta burst stimuli that lead to the induction of long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices.
Brain imaging techniques allow the in vivo evaluation of the human brain, leading to a better understanding of its anatomical, functional and metabolic substrate. The aim of this current report is to present a systematic and critical review of neuroimaging findings in Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD). A literature review was performed in the PubMed Medline, Scielo and Web of Science databases using the following keywords: 'MRI', 'functional', 'tomography', 'PET', 'SPECT', 'spectroscopy', 'relaxometry', 'tractography' and 'voxel' crossed one by one with the terms 'social anxiety' and 'social phobic', with no limit of time. We selected 196 articles and 48 of them were included in our review. Most of the included studies have explored the neural response to facial expressions of emotion, symptoms provocation paradigms, and disorder-related abnormalities in dopamine or serotonin neurotransmission. The most coherent finding among the brain imaging techniques reflects increased activity in limbic and paralimbic regions in SAD. The predominance of evidence implicating the amygdala strengthens the notion that it plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of SAD. The observation of alterations in pre-frontal regions and the reduced activity observed in striatal and parietal areas show that much remains to be investigated within the complexity of SAD. Interesting, follow-up designed studies observed a decrease in perfusion in these same areas after either by pharmacological or psychological treatment. The medial prefrontal cortex provided additional support for a corticolimbic model of SAD pathophysiology, being a promising area to investigation. Furthermore, the dopaminergic and GABAergic hypotheses seem directed related to its physiopathology. The present review indicates that neuroimaging has contributed to a better understanding of the neurobiology of SAD. Although there were several methodological differences among the studies, the global results have often been consistent, reinforcing the evidence of a specific cerebral circuit involved in SAD, formed by limbic and cortical areas.
The corpus callosum (CC), the largest inter-hemispheric tract connecting the association cortices, has been shown to be affected in disorders with aberrant neurodevelopment. Previous studies that investigated CC abnormalities in schizophrenia have reported mixed findings potentially due to various confounding factors. In this study, we used magnetic resonance imaging to examine a large sample of antipsychotic-nave schizophrenia patients (n=66) in comparison with age-, sex-, and handedness-matched (as a group) healthy comparison subjects (n=46). Mid-sagittal areas of CC sub-regions--namely, the genu, body, isthmus and splenium--were measured based on Witelson's method with good inter- and intra-rater reliability. The genu and body of the CC were significantly smaller in schizophrenia patients in comparison to healthy subjects after controlling for the potential confounding effects of age, sex and intracranial area. In male schizophrenia patients, there was a significant positive correlation between the age at onset of psychosis and the area of the genu. Together, these findings suggest neurodevelopmentally mediated hypoconnectivity in schizophrenia.

Acute injection of a high dose of lithium chloride (LiCl) increases c-Fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). We investigated if LiCl-induced c-Fos expression in the CeA is correlated with histone acetylation and phospho-acetylation. Chromatin modifications such as acetylation and phosphorylation are necessary for optimal gene expression, and gene expression may be increased by inhibiting the activity of histone deacetylases. LiCl (0.15 M, 12 ml/kg, i.p.) highly increased the levels of acetylation and phospho-acetylation of histone H3 in the CeA. The time course of these increases closely corresponded to and preceded the time course of c-Fos induction. Moreover, LiCl-induced c-Fos was co-localized with phospho-acetylated histone H3 in a majority of c-Fos-positive cells in the CeA. Systemic administration of a histone deacetylase inhibitor, sodium butyrate (NaB; 0.3 M, 0.4 g/kg, i.p.), significantly increased the levels of LiCl-induced c-Fos and phospho-acetylated histone H3 in the CeA. NaB also enhanced conditioned taste aversion learning induced by pairing saccharin consumption with LiCl injection, by making the conditioned taste aversion more resistant to extinction. These results suggest that LiCl-induced c-Fos expression may be regulated by modification of histone H3, especially phospho-acetylation, in the CeA. Furthermore, the level of phospho-acetylation of histone H3, c-Fos induction, and amygdalar-dependent taste aversion learning is constrained by endogenous histone deacetylase activity.
Excitatory and inhibitory synapses may control neuronal output through a push-pull mechanism--that is, increases in excitation are coupled to simultaneous decreases in inhibition or vice versa. This pattern of activity is characteristic of excitatory and inhibitory vestibulospinal axons that mediate vestibulocollic reflexes. Previously, we showed that medial vestibulospinal tract (MVST) neurons in the rostral descending vestibular nucleus (DVN), an excitatory pathway, primarily innervate the medial dendrites of contralateral splenius motoneurons. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that the counterparts of the push-pull mechanism, the ipsilateral inhibitory MVST synapses, are distributed on the dendritic tree such that the interactions with excitatory MVST synapses are enhanced. We combined anterograde tracing and intracellular staining in adult felines and show that most contacts (approximately 70%) between inhibitory MVST neurons in the rostral DVN and ipsilateral splenius motoneurons are also located on medial dendrites. There was a weak bias towards proximal dendrites. Using computational methods, we further show that the organization of excitatory and inhibitory MVST synapses on splenius motoneurons increases their likelihood for interaction. We found that if either excitatory or inhibitory MVST synapses were uniformly distributed throughout the dendritic tree, the proportion of inhibitory contacts in close proximity to excitatory contacts decreased. Thus, the compartmentalized distribution of excitatory and inhibitory MVST synapses on splenius motoneurons may be specifically designed to enhance their interactions during vestibulocollic reflexes. This suggests that the push-pull modulation of motoneuron output is based, in part, on the spatial arrangement of synapses on the dendritic tree.
Activity-dependent changes in cortical protein expression may mediate long-term physiological processes such as sleep and neural connectivity. In this study we determined the number of nerve growth factor (NGF)- and interleukin-1beta (IL1beta)-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the somatosensory cortex (Sctx) in response to 2 h of mystacial whisker stimulation. Manual whisker stimulation for 2 h increased the number of NGF-IR cells within layers II-V in activated Sctx columns, identified by enhanced Fos-IR. IL1beta-IR neurons increased within layers II-III and V-VI in these activated columns and IL1beta-IR astrocytes increased in layers I, II-III and V as well as the external capsule beneath the activated columns. These whisker-stimulated increases in the Sctx did not occur in the auditory cortex. These data demonstrate that expression of NGF or IL1beta in Sctx neurons and IL1beta in Sctx astrocytes is, in part, afferent input-dependent.
The actin-filled stereocilia of cochlear hair cells deflect in response to sound by pivoting around rootlets at their insertion points at the sensory cell surface. Kitajiri et al. (2010) now show that the actin-binding protein TRIOBP tightly bundles the actin filaments into rootlets, endowing these stereocilia &quot;pivots&quot; with unique elasticity and robustness.
The formation of myelin requires a series of complex signaling events initiated by the axon to surrounding glial cells, which ultimately respond by tightly wrapping the axon with layers of specialized plasma membrane thereby allowing for saltatory conduction. Activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB in Schwann cells has been suggested to be critical for these cells to differentiate into a myelinating phenotype; however, the mechanisms by which it is activated have yet to be elucidated. Here, we demonstrate that axonal membranes are sufficient to promote NF-kappaB activation in cultured Schwann cells and identify neuregulin 1 (NRG1), specifically the membrane-bound type III isoform, as the signal responsible for activating this transcription factor. Surprisingly, neither membrane-bound type I nor the soluble NRG1 EGF domain could activate NF-kappaB, indicating that type III induces a qualitatively unique signal. The transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB was significantly enhanced by treatment with forskolin, indicating these two signals converge for maximal activation. Both ErbB2 and -3 receptors were required for transducing the NRG1 signal, because gene deletion of ErbB3 in Schwann cells or treatment with the ErbB2 selective inhibitor, PKI-166, prevented the stimulation of NF-kappaB by axonal membranes. Finally, PKI-166 blocked the activation of the transcription factor in myelinating neuron/Schwann cell co-cultures and in vivo, in developing sciatic nerves. Taken together, these data establish NRG1 type III as the activator of NF-kappaB during myelin formation.
A new device and automated measurement technology known as OroSTIFF is described to characterize non-participatory perioral stiffness in healthy adults for eventual application to patients with orofacial movement disorders associated with neuromotor disease, traumatic injury, or congenital clefts of the upper lip. Previous studies of perioral biomechanics required head stabilization for extended periods of time during measurement, which precluded sampling patients with involuntary body/head movements (dyskinesias), or pediatric subjects. The OroSTIFF device is face-referenced and avoids the complications associated with head-restraint. Supporting data of non-participatory perioral tissue stiffness using OroSTIFF are included from 10 male and 10 female healthy subjects. The OroSTIFF device incorporates a pneumatic glass air cylinder actuator instrumented for pressure, and an integrated subminiature displacement sensor to encode lip aperture. Perioral electromyograms were simultaneously sampled to confirm passive muscle state for the superior and inferior divisions of the orbicularis oris muscles. Perioral stiffness, derived as a quotient from resultant force (DeltaF) and interangle span (DeltaX), was modeled with multilevel regression techniques. Real-time calculation of the perioral stiffness function demonstrated a significant quadratic relation between imposed interangle stretch and resultant force. This stiffness growth function also differed significantly between males and females. This study demonstrates the OroSTIFF 'proof-of-concept' for cost-effective non-invasive stimulus generation and derivation of perioral stiffness in a group of healthy unrestrained adults, and a case study to illustrate the dose-dependent effects of Levodopa on perioral stiffness in an individual with advanced Parkinson's disease who exhibited marked dyskinesia and rigidity.
Migraine is a neurological disorder that correlates with an increased risk of cerebrovascular lesions. Genetic mutations of the MTHFR gene are correlated to migraine and to the increased risk of artery pathologies. Also, migraine patients show altered hematochemical parameters, linked to an impaired platelet aggregation mechanism. Hence, the vascular assessment of migraineurs is of primary importance.Transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) is used to measure cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV) and vasomotor reactivity (by an index measured during breath-holding - BHI). Aim of this study was the metabolic profiling of migraine subjects with T/T677-MTHFR and C/T677-MTHFR mutations and its correlation with CBFV and BHI.Metabonomic multidimensional techniques were used to describe and cluster subjects. Fifty women suffering from migraine (age: 18-64; 21 with aura) underwent TCD examination, hematochemical blood analysis, Born test, and genetic tests for MTHFR mutation. Fourteen (7 with aura) had T/T677, 18 (8 with aura) had C/T677, and 18 (6 with aura) had no mutation. The total number of variables was 24.Unsupervised and supervised techniques_showed the correlation between CBFV and BHI with mutation. Discriminant analysis allowed for classifying the subjects with 95.9% sensitivity and 89.0% specificity. Aura was not correlated to mutation or variations of instrumental data.Our study showed that metabonomics could be effectively applied in clinical problems to show the overall correlation structure of complex systems in pathology. Specifically, our results confirmed the importance of TCD in the metabolic profiling and follow-up of migraine patients.





The formation and guidance of specialized endothelial tip cells is essential for both developmental and pathological angiogenesis. Notch-1 signalling regulates the generation of tip cells, which respond to gradients of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF-A). The molecular cues and signalling pathways that control the guidance of tip cells are poorly understood. Bidirectional signalling by Eph receptors and ephrin ligands represents one of the most important guidance cues involved in axon path finding. Here we show that ephrin-B2 reverse signalling involving PDZ interactions regulates endothelial tip cell guidance to control angiogenic sprouting and branching in physiological and pathological angiogenesis. In vivo, ephrin-B2 PDZ-signalling-deficient mice (ephrin-B2DeltaV) exhibit a reduced number of tip cells with fewer filopodial extensions at the vascular front in the mouse retina. In pathological settings, impaired PDZ signalling decreases tumour vascularization and growth. Mechanistically, we show that ephrin-B2 controls VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-2 internalization and signalling. Importantly, internalization of VEGFR2 is necessary for activation and downstream signalling of the receptor and is required for VEGF-induced tip cell filopodial extension. Together, our results suggest that ephrin-B2 at the tip cell filopodia regulates the proper spatial activation of VEGFR2 endocytosis and signalling to direct filopodial extension. Blocking ephrin-B2 reverse signalling may be an attractive alternative or combinatorial anti-angiogenic therapy strategy to disrupt VEGFR2 function in tumour angiogenesis.

The recoding of diverse sensory and motor signals by granule cells (GCs) is probably critical for the function of cerebellar circuits, yet the nature of these transformations and their significance for cerebellar information processing remain poorly understood. In cerebellum-like structures in fish, anti-Hebbian plasticity at parallel fiber synapses generates &quot;negative images&quot; that act to cancel predictable patterns of electrosensory input. Here I test the hypothesis that GCs enhance the capacity of Purkinje-like cells to generate specific negative images by selectively encoding combinations of sensory and motor signals. Using in vivo whole-cell recordings, I show (1) that a subset of GCs integrate sensory and motor signals conveyed by distinct mossy fiber classes and (2) that Purkinje-like cells exhibit plastic changes specific to the combinations of signals that individual GCs encode. Consistent with influential theories of cerebellar function, these findings suggest that selective GC output enhances the capacity of Purkinje-like cells to acquire selectivity through associative plasticity.
Neurons propagate information through circuits by integrating thousands of synaptic inputs to generate an action potential output. Inputs from different origins are often targeted to distinct regions of a neuron's dendritic tree, with synapses on more distal dendrites normally having a weaker influence on cellular output compared to synapses on more proximal dendrites. Here, we report that hippocampal CA2 pyramidal neurons, whose function has remained obscure for 75 years, have a reversed synaptic strength rule. Thus, CA2 neurons are strongly excited by their distal dendritic inputs from entorhinal cortex but only weakly activated by their more proximal dendritic inputs from hippocampal CA3 neurons. CA2 neurons in turn make strong excitatory synaptic contacts with CA1 neurons. In this manner, CA2 neurons form the nexus of a highly plastic disynaptic circuit linking the cortical input to the hippocampus to its CA1 neuronal output. This circuit is likely to mediate key aspects of hippocampal-dependent spatial memory.
Smooth-pursuit eye movements transform 100 ms of visual motion into a rapid initiation of smooth eye movement followed by sustained accurate tracking. Both the mean and variation of the visually driven pursuit response can be accounted for by the combination of the mean tuning curves and the correlated noise within the sensory representation of visual motion in extrastriate visual area MT. Sensory-motor and motor circuits have both housekeeping and modulatory functions, implemented in the cerebellum and the smooth eye movement region of the frontal eye fields. The representation of pursuit is quite different in these two regions of the brain, but both regions seem to control pursuit directly with little or no noise added downstream. Finally, pursuit exhibits a number of voluntary characteristics that happen on short timescales. These features make pursuit an excellent exemplar for understanding the general properties of sensory-motor processing in the brain.
Multiple lines of evidence indicate that hypofunction of glutamatergic neurotransmission via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors might be implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, suggesting that increasing NMDA receptor function via pharmacological manipulation could provide a new strategy for the management of schizophrenia. Currently, the glycine modulatory sites on NMDA receptors present the most attractive therapeutic targets for the treatment of schizophrenia. One means of enhancing NMDA receptor neurotransmission is to increase the availability of the obligatory co-agonist glycine at modulatory sites on the NMDA receptors through the inhibition of glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) on glial cells. Clinical studies have demonstrated that the GlyT-1 inhibitor sarcosine (N-methyl glycine) shows antipsychotic activity in patients with schizophrenia. Accordingly, a number of pharmaceutical companies have developed novel and selective GlyT-1 inhibitors for the treatment of schizophrenia. This paper provides an overview of the various GlyT-1 inhibitors and their therapeutic potential.
Accumulating evidence suggests that 7 nicotinic receptors (7 nAChRs), a subtype of nAChRs, play a role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases, including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). A number of psychopharmacological and genetic studies shown that 7 nAChRs play an important role in the deficits of P50 auditory evoked potential in patients with schizophrenia, and that ( nAChR agonists would be potential therapeutic drugs for cognitive impairments associated with P50 deficits in schizophrenia. Furthermore, some studies have demonstrated that 7 nAChRs might play a key role in the amyloid- (A)-mediated pathology of AD, and that 7 nAChR agonists would be potential therapeutic drugs for A deposition in the brains of patients with AD. Interestingly, the altered expression of 7 nAChRs in the postmortem brain tissues from patients with schizophrenia and AD has been reported. Based on all these findings, selective 7 nAChR agonists can be considered potential therapeutic drugs for cognitive impairments in both schizophrenia and AD. In this article, we review the recent research into the role of 7 nAChRs in the pathophysiology of these diseases and into the potential use of novel 7 nAChR agonists as therapeutic drugs.


Fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs) interact with their cognate ligands, FGFs, and with a number of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), such as the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), mediating a wide range of events during the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Determination of protein structure, in silico modeling and biological studies have recently resulted in the identification of FGFR binding peptides derived from various FGFs and NCAM mimicking the effects of these molecules with regard to their neuritogenic and neuroprotective properties. This review focuses on recently developed functional peptide agonists of FGFR with possible therapeutic potential.
The chemokine SDF1 activates a cAMP-mediated signaling pathway that antagonizes retinal responses to the midline repellent slit. We show that knocking down the calmodulin-activated adenylate cyclase ADCY8 makes retinal axons insensitive to SDF1. Experiments in vivo using male and female zebrafish (Danio rerio) confirm a mutual antagonism between slit signaling and ADCY8-mediated signaling. Unexpectedly, knockdown of ADCY8 or another calmodulin-activated cyclase, ADCY1, induces ipsilateral misprojections of retinal axons that would normally cross the ventral midline. We demonstrate a cell-autonomous requirement for ADCY8 in retinal neurons for normal midline crossing. These findings are the first to show that ADCY8 is required for axonal pathfinding before axons reach their targets. They support a model in which ADCY8 is an essential component of a signaling pathway that opposes repellent signaling. Finally, they demonstrate that ADCY8 helps regulate retinal sensitivity to midline guidance cues.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an essential cellular compartment responsible for Ca(2+) sequestration, signaling, protein translation, folding as well as transport. Several acute and chronic disease conditions impair ER function leading to ER stress. To study the impact of ER stress on synaptic transmission we applied tunicamycin (TM) or thapsigargin (TG) to hippocampal neurons, which triggered sustained elevation of key ER stress markers. We monitored evoked and spontaneous neurotransmission during 4 d of TM or TG treatment and detected only a 20% increase in paired pulse depression suggesting an increase in neurotransmitter release probability. However, the treatments did not significantly affect the number of active synapses or the size of the total recycling vesicle pool as measured by uptake and release of styryl dye FM1-43. In contrast, under the same conditions, we observed a dramatic fourfold increase in spontaneous excitatory transmission, which could be reversed by chronic treatment with the NMDA receptor blocker AP-5 or by treatment with salubrinal, a selective inhibitor of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2alpha) dephosphorylation. Furthermore, ER stress caused NMDA receptor-dependent suppression of eukaryotic elongation factor-2 (eEF2) phosphorylation thus reversing downstream signaling mediated by spontaneous release. Together, these findings suggest that chronic ER stress augments spontaneous excitatory neurotransmission and reverses its downstream signaling in a NMDA receptor-dependent manner, which may contribute to neuronal circuitry abnormalities that precede synapse degeneration in several neurological disorders.
Recent studies have demonstrated the high selectivity of neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1) and a highly sparse representation of sounds by the population of A1 neurons in awake animals. However, the underlying receptive field structures that confer high selectivity on A1 neurons are poorly understood. The sharp tuning of A1 neurons' excitatory receptive fields (RFs) provides a partial explanation of the above properties. However, it remains unclear how inhibitory components of RFs contribute to the selectivity of A1 neurons observed in awake animals. To examine the role of the inhibition in sharpening stimulus selectivity, we have quantitatively analyzed stimulus-induced suppressive effects over populations of single neurons in frequency, amplitude, and time in A1 of awake marmosets. In addition to the well documented short-latency side-band suppression elicited by masking tones around the best frequency (BF) of a neuron, we uncovered long-latency suppressions caused by single-tone stimulation. Such long-latency suppressions also included monotonically increasing suppression with sound level both on-BF and off-BF, and persistent suppression lasting up to 100 ms after stimulus offset in a substantial proportion of A1 neurons. The extent of the suppression depended on the shape of a neuron's frequency-response area (&quot;O&quot; or &quot;V&quot; shaped). These findings suggest that the excitatory RF of A1 neurons is cocooned by wide-ranging inhibition that contributes to the high selectivity in A1 neurons' responses to complex stimuli. Population sparseness of the tone-responsive A1 neuron population may also be a consequence of this pervasive inhibition.
Purkinje cells in the mammalian cerebellum are remarkably homogeneous in shape and orientation, yet they exhibit regional differences in gene expression. Purkinje cells that express high levels of zebrin II (aldolase C) and the glutamate transporter EAAT4 cluster in parasagittal zones that receive input from distinct groups of climbing fibers (CFs); however, the physiological properties of CFs that target these molecularly distinct Purkinje cells have not been determined. Here we report that CFs that innervate Purkinje cells in zebrin II-immunoreactive (Z(+)) zones release more glutamate per action potential than CFs in Z(-) zones. CF terminals in Z(+) zones had larger pools of release-ready vesicles, exhibited enhanced multivesicular release, and produced larger synaptic glutamate transients. As a result, CF-mediated EPSCs in Purkinje cells decayed more slowly in Z(+) zones, which triggered longer-duration complex spikes containing a greater number of spikelets. The differences in the duration of CF EPSCs between Z(+) and Z(-) zones persisted in EAAT4 knock-out mice, indicating that EAAT4 is not required for maintaining this aspect of CF function. These results indicate that the organization of the cerebellum into discrete longitudinal zones is defined not only by molecular phenotype of Purkinje cells within zones, but also by the physiological properties of CFs that project to these distinct regions. The enhanced release of glutamate from CFs in Z(+) zones may alter the threshold for synaptic plasticity and prolong inhibition of cerebellar output neurons in deep cerebellar nuclei.
Episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) is a hereditary cerebellar ataxia associated with mutations in the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium (Ca(2+)) channels. Therapeutic approaches for treatment of EA2 are very limited. Presently, the potassium (K(+)) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) constitutes the most promising treatment, although its mechanism of action is not understood. Here we show that, in contrast to what is commonly believed, therapeutic concentrations of 4-AP do not increase the inhibitory drive of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Instead, 4-AP restores the severely diminished precision of pacemaking in Purkinje cells of EA2 mutant mice by prolonging the action potential and increasing the action potential afterhyperpolarization. Consistent with this mode of action, the therapeutic efficacy of 4-AP was comparable, and not additive, to chlorzoxazone, an activator of Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) channels that also restores the precision of Purkinje cell pacemaking. The likely target of 4-AP at the concentrations used are the K(v)1 family of K(+) channels, possibly the K(v)1.5 subtype. Because at higher concentrations 4-AP blocks a large array of K(+) channels and is a proconvulsant, use of selective K(v)1 channel blockers is likely to be a safer substitute for treatment of cerebellar ataxia.
Episodic ataxia type-2 (EA2) is an inherited movement disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding the Ca(v)2.1alpha1 subunit of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel that result in an overall reduction in the P/Q-type calcium current. A consequence of these mutations is loss of precision of pacemaking in cerebellar Purkinje cells. This diminished precision reduces the information encoded by Purkinje cells and is thought to contribute to symptoms associated with this disorder. The loss of the precision of pacemaking in EA2 is the consequence of reduced activation of calcium-dependent potassium channels (K(Ca)) by the smaller calcium current and in vitro can be pharmacologically restored by K(Ca) activators. We used a well established mouse model of EA2, the tottering (tg/tg) mouse, to examine the potential therapeutic utility of one such Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved compound, chlorzoxazone (CHZ). Compared with wild-type Purkinje cells, we found the firing rate of tg/tg Purkinje cells in acutely prepared cerebellar slices to be very irregular. Bath application of CHZ successfully restored the precision of pacemaking in a dose-dependent manner. Oral administration of CHZ to tg/tg mice improved their baseline motor performance and reduced the severity, frequency, and duration of episodes of dyskinesia without producing any adverse effects. We propose the use of CHZ, which is currently FDA approved as a muscle relaxant, as a safe and novel treatment of EA2.
Similar to dopamine (DA), cannabinoids strongly influence prefrontal cortical functions, such as working memory, emotional learning, and sensory perception. Although endogenous cannabinoid receptors (CB(1)Rs) are abundantly expressed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), very little is known about endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling in this brain region. Recent behavioral and electrophysiological evidence has suggested a functional interplay between the dopamine and cannabinoid receptor systems, although the cellular mechanisms underlying this interaction remain to be elucidated. We examined this issue by combining neuroanatomical and electrophysiological techniques in PFC of rats and mice (both genders). Using immunoelectron microscopy, we show that CB(1)Rs and dopamine type 2 receptors (D(2)Rs) colocalize at terminals of symmetrical, presumably GABAergic, synapses in the PFC. Indeed, activation of either receptor can suppress GABA release onto layer 5 pyramidal cells. Furthermore, coactivation of both receptors via repetitive afferent stimulation triggers eCB-mediated long-term depression of inhibitory transmission (I-LTD). This I-LTD is heterosynaptic in nature, requiring glutamate release to activate group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. D(2)Rs most likely facilitate eCB signaling at the presynaptic site as disrupting postsynaptic D(2)R signaling does not diminish I-LTD. Facilitation of eCB-LTD may be one mechanism by which DA modulates neuronal activity in the PFC and regulates PFC-mediated behavior in vivo.
Substantial data from the cognitive neurosciences point to the importance of bodily processing for the development of a comprehensive theory of the self. A key aspect of the bodily self is self-location, the experience that the self is localized at a specific position in space within one's bodily borders (embodied self-location). Although the neural mechanisms of self-location have been studied by manipulating the spatial location of one's visual perspective during mental imagery, such experiments were conducted in constrained, explicit, and unecological contexts such as explicit instructions in a prone/seated position, although most human interactions occur spontaneously while standing/walking. Using a motor paradigm, we investigated the behavioral and neural mechanisms of spontaneous self-location and mental body transformations during active human interaction. Using own-body imagery using spontaneous and explicit changes in self-location in standing participants, we report that spontaneous interactions with an avatar are neurally indistinguishable from explicit own-body transformation with disembodied self-location but differ from explicit own-body transformation with embodied self-location at 400-600 ms after stimulus onset. We discuss these findings with respect to the neural mechanisms of perspective-taking and self-location in spontaneous human interaction.
This study investigated the neural plasticity associated with perceptual learning of a cochlear implant (CI) simulation. Normal-hearing listeners were trained with vocoded and spectrally shifted speech simulating a CI while cortical responses were measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A condition in which the vocoded speech was spectrally inverted provided a control for learnability and adaptation. Behavioral measures showed considerable individual variability both in the ability to learn to understand the degraded speech, and in phonological working memory capacity. Neurally, left-lateralized regions in superior temporal sulcus and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) were sensitive to the learnability of the simulations, but only the activity in prefrontal cortex correlated with interindividual variation in intelligibility scores and phonological working memory. A region in left angular gyrus (AG) showed an activation pattern that reflected learning over the course of the experiment, and covariation of activity in AG and IFG was modulated by the learnability of the stimuli. These results suggest that variation in listeners' ability to adjust to vocoded and spectrally shifted speech is partly reflected in differences in the recruitment of higher-level language processes in prefrontal cortex, and that this variability may further depend on functional links between the left inferior frontal gyrus and angular gyrus. Differences in the engagement of left inferior prefrontal cortex, and its covariation with posterior parietal areas, may thus underlie some of the variation in speech perception skills that have been observed in clinical populations of CI users.


Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional modulators of gene expression that regulate the stability and translation of their target messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Here we report that the levels of a human brain-enriched miRNA-125b are up-regulated in interleukin-6 (IL-6)-stressed normal human astrocytes (NHA), a treatment known to induce astrogliosis. In vitro, anti-miRNA-125b added exogenously to IL-6-stressed NHA cultures attenuated both glial cell proliferation and increased the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A), a miRNA-125b target and negative regulator of cell growth. A strong positive correlation between miRNA-125b abundance and the glial cell markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, and CDKN2A down-regulation was noted in advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in Down's syndrome (DS) brain, chronic neurological disorders associated with astrogliosis. The results suggest that miRNA-125b up-regulation contributes to astrogliosis and to defects in the cell cycle that are characteristic of degenerating brain tissues.


Empathy and affective appraisals for conspecifics are among the hallmarks of social interaction. Using functional MRI, we hypothesized that vegetarians and vegans, who made their feeding choice for ethical reasons, might show brain responses to conditions of suffering involving humans or animals different from omnivores. We recruited 20 omnivore subjects, 19 vegetarians, and 21 vegans. The groups were matched for sex and age. Brain activation was investigated using fMRI and an event-related design during observation of negative affective pictures of human beings and animals (showing mutilations, murdered people, human/animal threat, tortures, wounds, etc.). Participants saw negative-valence scenes related to humans and animals, alternating with natural landscapes. During human negative valence scenes, compared with omnivores, vegetarians and vegans had an increased recruitment of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). More critically, during animal negative valence scenes, they had decreased amygdala activation and increased activation of the lingual gyri, the left cuneus, the posterior cingulate cortex and several areas mainly located in the frontal lobes, including the ACC, the IFG and the middle frontal gyrus. Nonetheless, also substantial differences between vegetarians and vegans have been found responding to negative scenes. Vegetarians showed a selective recruitment of the right inferior parietal lobule during human negative scenes, and a prevailing activation of the ACC during animal negative scenes. Conversely, during animal negative scenes an increased activation of the inferior prefrontal cortex was observed in vegans. These results suggest that empathy toward non conspecifics has different neural representation among individuals with different feeding habits, perhaps reflecting different motivational factors and beliefs.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a critical neurotrophin, regulates many neuronal aspects including cell differentiation, cell survival, neurotransmission, and synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS). Though BDNF has two types of receptors, high affinity tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk)B and low affinity p75 receptors, BDNF positively exerts its biological effects on neurons via activation of TrkB and of resultant intracellular signaling cascades including mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase, phospholipase C, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathways. Notably, it is possible that alteration in the expression and/or function of BDNF in the CNS is involved in the pathophysiology of various brain diseases such as stroke, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and mental disorders. On the other hand, glucocorticoids, stress-induced steroid hormones, also putatively contribute to the pathophysiology of depression. Interestingly, in addition to the reduction in BDNF levels due to increased glucocorticoid exposure, current reports demonstrate possible interactions between glucocorticoids and BDNF-mediated neuronal functions. Other steroid hormones, such as estrogen, are involved in not only sexual differentiation in the brain, but also numerous neuronal events including cell survival and synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, it is well known that estrogen plays a role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and mental illness, while serving to regulate BDNF expression and/or function. Here, we present a broad overview of the current knowledge concerning the association between BDNF expression/function and steroid hormones (glucocorticoids and estrogen).
A number of studies have indicated that plasma membrane calcium ATPases (PMCAs) are expressed in the brain and spinal cord and could play important roles not only in the maintenance of cellular calcium homeostasis but also in the survival and function of central nervous system cells under pathological conditions. The different regional and cellular distributions of the various PMCA isoforms and splice variants in the nervous system and the diverse phenotypes of PMCA knockout mice support the notion that each isoform might play a distinct role. Especially in the spinal cord, the survival of neurons and, in particular, motor neurons could be dependent on PMCA2. This is indicated by the knockdown of PMCA2 in pure spinal cord neuronal cultures that leads to cell death via a decrease in collapsing response mediator protein 1 levels. Moreover, the progressive decline in the number of motor neurons in PMCA2-null mice and heterozygous mice further supports this notion. Therefore, the reported reduction in PMCA2 mRNA and protein levels in the inflamed spinal cord of mice affected by experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis, and after spinal cord contusion injury, suggests that changes in PMCA2 expression could be a cause of neuronal pathology and death during inflammation and injury. Glutamate excitotoxicity mediated via kainate receptors has been implicated in the neuropathology of both EAE and spinal cord injury, and has been identified as a trigger that reduces PMCA2 levels in pure spinal cord neuronal cultures through degradation of the pump by calpain without affecting PMCA2 transcript levels. It remains to be determined which other stimuli modulate PMCA2 mRNA expression in the aforementioned pathological conditions of the spinal cord.


A long-standing problem for visual science is how the world remains so apparently stable in the face of continual rapid eye movements. New experimental evidence, and computational models are helping to solve this mystery.
Neurogenetic and lesion studies have identified regions of the insect brain that can modulate and direct locomotion. Activities of these neurons have now been recorded in cockroaches during walking.
Semantic cognition permits us to bring meaning to our verbal and nonverbal experiences and to generate context- and time-appropriate behavior. It is core to language and nonverbal skilled behaviors and, when impaired after brain damage, it generates significant disability. A fundamental neuroscience question is, therefore, how does the brain code and generate semantic cognition? Historical and some contemporary theories emphasize that conceptualization stems from the joint action of modality-specific association cortices (the &quot;distributed&quot; theory) reflecting our accumulated verbal, motor, and sensory experiences. Parallel studies of semantic dementia, rTMS in normal participants, and neuroimaging indicate that the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) plays a crucial and necessary role in conceptualization by merging experience into an amodal semantic representation. Some contemporary computational models suggest that concepts reflect a hub-and-spoke combination of information--modality-specific association areas support sensory, verbal, and motor sources (the spokes) while anterior temporal lobes act as an amodal hub. We demonstrate novel and striking evidence in favor of this hypothesis by applying rTMS to normal participants: ATL stimulation generates a category-general impairment whereas IPL stimulation induces a category-specific deficit for man-made objects, reflecting the coding of praxis in this neural region.
One of the fundamental goals of neuroscience is to understand how perception arises from the activity of neurons in the brain. Stereopsis is a type of three-dimensional (3D) perception that relies on two slightly different projections of the world onto the retinas of the two eyes, i.e., binocular disparity. Neurons selective for curved surfaces defined by binocular disparity may contribute to the perception of an object's 3D structure. Such neurons have been observed in both the anterior lower bank of the superior temporal sulcus (TEs, part of the inferior temporal cortex [IT]) and the anterior intraparietal area (AIP). However, the specific contributions of IT and AIP to depth perception remain unknown. We simultaneously recorded multiunit activity in IT and AIP while monkeys discriminated between concave and convex 3D shapes. We observed a correlation between the neural activity and behavioral choice that arose early and during perceptual decision formation in IT but later and after perceptual decision formation in AIP. These results suggest a role for IT, but not AIP, in 3D shape discrimination. Furthermore, the results demonstrate that similar neuronal stimulus selectivities in two areas do not imply a similar function.
Neuroinflammation is associated with a number of neurodegenerative diseases. It is known that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treatment induces neuroinflammation and memory deterioration. Agmatine, the metabolite of arginine by arginine decarboxylase, is suggested to be a neuroprotective agent. The aim of this study was to explore if agmatine can prevent LPS-induced spatial memory impairment and hippocampal apoptosis. Adult male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were trained in water maze for 4 days (3 days in hidden platform and the last day in visible platform task). Saline, LPS (250 microg/kg/ip) or (and) agmatine (5 or 10 mg/kg) were administered 4h before every training session. LPS treatment impaired water maze place learning while agmatine co-administration prevented it. Also western blot studies revealed that LPS induces hippocampal caspase-3 activation while agmatine treatment prevented it.


Current theoretical models of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have proposed that impairments in the processing of social/emotional information may be linked to amygdala dysfunction. However, the extent to which amygdala functions are compromised in ASD has become a topic of debate in recent years. In a jittered functional magnetic resonance imaging study, sub-threshold presentations of anxious faces permitted an examination of amygdala recruitment in 12 high functioning adult males with ASD and 12 matched controls. We found heightened neural activation of the amygdala in both high functioning adults with ASD and matched controls. Neither the intensity nor the time-course of amygdala activation differed between the groups. However, the adults with ASD showed significantly lower levels of fusiform activation during the trials compared to controls. Our findings suggest that in ASD, the transmission of socially salient information along sub-cortical pathways is intact: and yet the signaling of this information to structures downstream may be impoverished, and the pathways that facilitate subsequent processing deficient.
Tauopathies are defined by assembly of the microtubule associated protein tau into filamentous tangles and classified by the predominant tau isoform within these aggregates. The major isoforms are determined by alternative mRNA splicing of exon 10 generating tau with three (3R) or four (4R) approximately 32 amino acid imperfect repeats in the microtubule binding domain. In normal adult brains there is an approximately equimolar ratio of 3R and 4R tau which is altered by several disease-causing mutations in the tau gene. We hypothesized that when 4R and 3R tau isoforms are not at equimolar ratios aggregation is favored. Here we provide evidence for the first time that the combination of 3R and 4R tau isoforms results in less in vitro heparin induced polymerization than with 4R preparations alone. This effect was independent of reducing conditions and the presence of alternatively spliced exons 2 and 3 N-terminal inserts. The addition of even small amounts of 3R to 4R tau assembly reactions significantly decreased 4R assembly. Together these findings suggest that co-expression of 3R and 4R tau isoforms reduce tau filament assembly and that 3R tau isoforms inhibit 4R tau assembly. Expression of equimolar amounts of 3R and 4R tau in adult humans may be necessary to maintain proper neuronal microtubule dynamics and to prevent abnormal tau filament assembly. Importantly, these findings indicate that disruption of the normal equimolar 3R to 4R ratio may be sufficient to drive tau aggregation and that restoration of the tau isoform balance may have important therapeutic implications in tauopathies.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease. LRRK2 is a large protein containing a small GTPase domain and a kinase domain, but its physiological role is unknown. To identify the normal function of LRRK2 in vivo, we generated two independent lines of germ-line deletion mice. The dopaminergic system of LRRK2(-/-) mice appears normal, and numbers of dopaminergic neurons and levels of striatal dopamine are unchanged. However, LRRK2(-/-) kidneys, which suffer the greatest loss of LRRK compared with other organs, develop striking accumulation and aggregation of alpha-synuclein and ubiquitinated proteins at 20 months of age. The autophagy-lysosomal pathway is also impaired in the absence of LRRK2, as indicated by accumulation of lipofuscin granules as well as altered levels of LC3-II and p62. Furthermore, loss of LRRK2 dramatically increases apoptotic cell death, inflammatory responses, and oxidative damage. Collectively, our findings show that LRRK2 plays an essential and unexpected role in the regulation of protein homeostasis during aging, and suggest that LRRK2 mutations may cause Parkinson's disease and cell death via impairment of protein degradation pathways, leading to alpha-synuclein accumulation and aggregation over time.
A wealth of neuroscientific evidence indicates that our brains respond differently to previously encountered than to novel stimuli. There has been an upswell of interest in the prospect that functional MRI (fMRI), when coupled with multivariate data analysis techniques, might allow the presence or absence of individual memories to be detected from brain activity patterns. This could have profound implications for forensic investigations and legal proceedings, and thus the merits and limitations of such an approach are in critical need of empirical evaluation. We conducted two experiments to investigate whether neural signatures of recognition memory can be reliably decoded from fMRI data. In Exp. 1, participants were scanned while making explicit recognition judgments for studied and novel faces. Multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA) revealed a robust ability to classify whether a given face was subjectively experienced as old or new, as well as whether recognition was accompanied by recollection, strong familiarity, or weak familiarity. Moreover, a participant's subjective mnemonic experiences could be reliably decoded even when the classifier was trained on the brain data from other individuals. In contrast, the ability to classify a face's objective old/new status, when holding subjective status constant, was severely limited. This important boundary condition was further evidenced in Exp. 2, which demonstrated that mnemonic decoding is poor when memory is indirectly (implicitly) probed. Thus, although subjective memory states can be decoded quite accurately under controlled experimental conditions, fMRI has uncertain utility for objectively detecting an individual's past experiences.
Formation of neural circuits depends on stable contacts between neuronal processes, mediated by interaction of cell adhesion molecules, including N-cadherin. In the present study, we found that activity-dependent dendrite arborization specifically requires N-cadherin-mediated extracellular neuron-neuron interaction, because the enhancement did not occur for neurons cultured in isolation or plated on an astrocyte monolayer and was abolished by a recombinant soluble N-cadherin ectodomain. Furthermore, depolarization elevated the level of membrane-associated cadherin/catenin complexes and surface N-cadherin. Importantly, surface N-cadherin elevation is specifically required for the maintenance of nascent dendrite arbors. Through loss- and gain-of-function approaches, we showed that N-cadherin-mediated dendrite growth requires association of the cadherin/catenin complex with the actin cytoskeleton. In summary, these results identify a previously unexplored and specific function for activity-induced, N-cadherin-mediated neuron-neuron contacts in the maintenance of dendrite arbors.
Human point mutations in beta- and gamma-tropomyosin induce contractile deregulation, skeletal muscle weakness, and congenital myopathies. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the hitherto unknown underlying molecular mechanisms. Hence, we recorded and analyzed the X-ray diffraction patterns of human membrane-permeabilized muscle cells expressing a particular beta-tropomyosin mutation (R133W) associated with a loss in cell force production, in vivo muscle weakness, and distal arthrogryposis. Upon addition of calcium, we notably observed less intensified changes, compared with controls, (i) in the second (1/19 nm(-1)), sixth (1/5.9 nm(-1)), and seventh (1/5.1 nm(-1)) actin layer lines of cells set at a sarcomere length, allowing an optimal thin-thick filament overlap; and (ii) in the second actin layer line of overstretched cells. Collectively, these results directly prove that during activation, switching of a positive to a neutral charge at position 133 in the protein partially hinders both calcium- and myosin-induced tropomyosin movement over the thin filament, blocking actin conformational changes and consequently decreasing the number of cross-bridges and subsequent force production.
Olfactory responses of Drosophila undergo pronounced changes after eclosion. The flies develop attraction to odors to which they are exposed and aversion to other odors. Behavioral adaptation is correlated with changes in the firing pattern of olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). In this article, we present an information-theoretic analysis of the firing pattern of ORNs. Flies reared in a synthetic odorless medium were transferred after eclosion to three different media: (i) a synthetic medium relatively devoid of odor cues, (ii) synthetic medium infused with a single odorant, and (iii) complex cornmeal medium rich in odors. Recordings were made from an identified sensillum (type II), and the Jensen-Shannon divergence (D(JS)) was used to assess quantitatively the differences between ensemble spike responses to different odors. Analysis shows that prolonged exposure to ethyl acetate and several related esters increases sensitivity to these esters but does not improve the ability of the fly to distinguish between them. Flies exposed to cornmeal display varied sensitivity to these odorants and at the same time develop greater capacity to distinguish between odors. Deprivation of odor experience on an odorless synthetic medium leads to a loss of both sensitivity and acuity. Rich olfactory experience thus helps to shape the ORNs response and enhances its discriminative power. The experiments presented here demonstrate an experience-dependent adaptation at the level of the receptor neuron.
Intracellular pH (pH(i)) can change during physiological and pathological conditions causing significant changes of electrical and metabolic cell-cell communication through gap junction (GJ) channels. In HeLa cells expressing wild-type connexin45 (Cx45) as well as Cx45 and Cx43 tagged with EGFP, we examined how pH(i) affects junctional conductance (g(j)) and g(j) dependence on transjunctional voltage (V(j)). To characterize V(j) gating, we fit the g(j)-V(j) relation using a stochastic four-state model containing one V(j)-sensitive gate in each apposed hemichannel (aHC); aHC open probability was a Boltzmann function of the fraction of V(j) across it. Using the model, we estimated gating parameters characterizing sensitivity to V(j) and number of functional channels. In homotypic Cx45 and heterotypic Cx45/Cx43-EGFP GJs, pH(i) changes from 7.2 to approximately 8.0 shifted g(j)-V(j) dependence of Cx45 aHCs along the V(j) axis resulting in increased probability of GJ channels being in the fully open state without change in the slope of g(j) dependence on V(j). In contrast, acidification shifted g(j)-V(j) dependence in the opposite direction, reducing open probability; acidification also reduced the number of functional channels. Correlation between the number of channels in Cx45-EGFP GJs and maximal g(j) achieved under alkaline conditions showed that only approximately 4% of channels were functional. The acid dissociation constant (pK(a)) of g(j)-pH(i) dependence of Cx45/Cx45 GJs was approximately 7. The pK(a) of heterotypic Cx45/Cx43-EGFP GJs was lower, approximately 6.7, between the pK(a)s of Cx45 and Cx43-EGFP (approximately 6.5) homotypic GJs. In summary, pH(i) significantly modulates junctional conductance of Cx45 by affecting both V(j) gating and number of functional channels.
The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) has drawn tremendous attention in the field of neuroscience. In recent years, we have gained insights into UPS-dependent mechanisms in brain development and disease. Several interesting studies over the past two years have highlighted the role of distinct E3 ubiquitin ligases in neurogenesis. Here, we will review the major findings in these studies and discuss their implications.
Recent research has proposed a pathway in which sensory neurons expressing the capsaicin activated ion channel TRPV1 are required for histamine-induced itch and subsequent scratching behavior. We examined histamine-induced itch in the African naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber) and found that although naked mole-rats display innate scratching behavior, histamine was unable to evoke increased scratching as is observed in most mouse strains. Using calcium imaging, we examined the histamine sensitivity of naked mole-rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and identified a population of small diameter neurons activated by histamine, the majority of which are also capsaicin-sensitive. This suggested that naked mole-rat sensory neurons are activated by histamine, but that spinal dorsal horn processing of sensory information is not the same as in other rodents. We have previously shown that naked mole-rats naturally lack substance P (SP) in cutaneous C-fibers, but that the neurokinin-1 receptor is expressed in the superficial spinal cord. This led us to investigate if SP deficiency plays a role in the lack of histamine-induced scratching in this species. After intrathecal administration of SP into the spinal cord we observed robust scratching behavior in response to histamine injection. Our data therefore support a model in which TRPV1-expressing sensory neurons are important for histamine-induced itch. In addition, we demonstrate a requirement for active, SP-induced post-synaptic drive to enable histamine sensitive afferents to drive itch-related behavior in the naked mole-rat. These results illustrate that it is altered dorsal horn connectivity of nociceptors that underlies the lack of itch and pain-related behavior in the naked mole-rat.
This mini-review outlines the opioid systems and their roles primarily as related to reward and compulsive drug/alcohol intake. The central role is taken by the mu-opioid receptor, target for opiate analgesics and also a central target in compulsive alcohol abuse, alcoholism. The mu-opioid receptor and the cognate opioid neuropeptides from proenkephalin and proopiomelancortin are members of a superfamily of opioid systems, each with unique and still to be defined roles in the central nervous system.
The text book view of cell surface receptors depicts them at the top of a vertical chain of command that starts with ligand binding and proceeds in a lineal fashion towards the cell nucleus. Although pedagogically useful, this view is incomplete and recent findings suggest that the extracellular domain of cell surface receptors can be a transmitter as much as a receiver in intercellular communication. GFRalpha1 is a GPI-anchored receptor for GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor), a neuronal growth factor with widespread functions in the developing and adult nervous system. GFRalpha1 partners with transmembrane proteins, such as the receptor tyrosine kinase RET or the cell adhesion molecule NCAM, for intracellular transmission of the GDNF signal. In addition to this canonical role, GFRalpha1 can also engage in horizontal interactions and thereby modify the function of other cell surface components. GFRalpha1 can also function as a ligand-induced adhesion cell molecule, mediating homophilic cell-cell interactions in response to GDNF. Finally, GFRalpha1 can also be released from the cell surface and act at a distance as a soluble factor together with its ligand. This plethora of unconventional mechanisms is likely to be a feature common to several other receptors and considerably expands our view of cell surface receptor function.
Locomotion in mammals is a complex motor act that involves the activation of a large number of muscles in a well-coordinated pattern. Understanding the network organization of the intrinsic spinal networks that control the locomotion, the central pattern generators, has been a challenge to neuroscientists. However, experiments using the isolated rodent spinal cord and combining electrophysiology and molecular genetics to dissect the locomotor network have started to shed new light on the network structure. In the present review, we will discuss findings that have revealed the role of designated populations of neurons for the key network functions including coordinating muscle activity and generating rhythmic activity. These findings are summarized in proposed organizational principles for the mammalian segmental CPG.
The basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) receives robust sensory inputs from the rhinal cortices (RCx) that are important for the generation of emotional behavior. The BLC is also one of the main targets of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. DA potentiates cortical sensory inputs to the BLC, which leads to an increase in the excitability of BLC pyramidal cells. These findings suggest that there may be convergence of RCx and DA inputs onto the dendrites of pyramidal cells in the BLC. In the present study we used dual-labeling immunohistochemistry and anterograde tract-tracing at the ultrastructural level to test this hypothesis in the rat brain. RCx axons were labeled by Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) injections, whereas tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was used as a marker for DA axons. The extent of convergence of these axons was analyzed in the posterior subdivision of the basolateral nucleus (BLp), which is densely innervated by both inputs. RCx synapses were asymmetrical and mainly contacted dendritic spines (86.4%) and dendritic shafts (12.1%). TH-positive (TH+) terminals also mainly formed synapses (symmetrical) and appositions with spines and shafts of dendrites. However, ultrastructural analysis found a very low percentage of RCx terminals converging with DA terminals onto unlabeled dendrites (9.4%) and axons (7.5 %), or exhibiting direct contacts with TH+ terminals (3.8%). These findings suggest that the association of specific behaviorally salient sensory stimuli with dopamine release in the BLC is not dependent on a point-to-point spatial relationship of cortical and DA inputs.
We used positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying the willingness to forgive another person's moral transgression involving deception. During scanning, 12 subjects were asked to judge the forgivability of a perpetrator's moral transgression. These transgressions were described by four kinds of scenarios composed of a combination of two factors: the attitude of the perpetrator (dishonest or honest) and the severity of the moral transgression (serious or minor). Behavioral data showed that both the perpetrator's dishonesty and the seriousness of the scenario decreased the subjects' willingness to forgive the moral transgression. Neuroimaging data revealed that, relative to honest responses, a perpetrator's dishonest responses were associated with right ventromedial prefrontal activity, which possibly reflects the subjects' identification of the perpetrator's deception. The opposite comparison did not show significant activation. Moreover, a comparison of serious scenarios with minor scenarios did not reveal significant activation. Instead, minor scenarios, relative to serious scenarios, evoked activity in the right middle frontal gyrus and the right caudate nucleus, possibly reflecting increased demand on frontal control system function. Further analysis revealed that the left ventromedial prefrontal cortex showed a significant interaction between the two factors, indicating that this region functions as a mediator of the two factors, modulating judgments regarding the forgivability of moral transgressions. Taken together, these findings suggest that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex plays a key role in the forgiveness of moral transgressions involving deception.
Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)) accumulates at the leading edge of migrating cells and works, at least partially, as both a compass to indicate directionality and a hub for subsequent intracellular events. However, how PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) regulates the migratory machinery has not been fully elucidated. Here, we demonstrate a novel mechanism for efficient lamellipodium formation that depends on PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) and the reciprocal regulation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) itself. LL5beta, whose subcellular localization is directed by membrane PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3), recruits the actin-cross-linking protein Filamin A to the plasma membrane, where PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) accumulates, with the Filamin A-binding Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase 2 (SHIP2). A large and dynamic lamellipodium was formed in the presence of Filamin A and LL5beta by the application of epidermal growth factor. Conversely, depletion of either Filamin A or LL5beta or the overexpression of either an F-actin-cross-linking mutant of Filamin A or a mutant of LL5beta without its PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)-interacting region inhibited such events in COS-7 cells. Because F-actin initially polymerizes near the plasma membrane, it is likely that membrane-recruited Filamin A efficiently cross-links newly polymerized F-actin, leading to enhanced lamellipodium formation at the site of PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) accumulation. Moreover, we demonstrate that co-recruited SHIP2 dephosphorylates PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) at the same location.
Channelrhodopsins (ChRs) of green algae such as Chlamydomonas are used as neuroscience tools to specifically depolarize cells with light. A crude model of the ChR2 photocycle has been recently established, but details of the photoreactions are widely unknown. Here, we present the photoreactions of a slow-cycling ChR2 mutant (step function rhodopsin), with C128 replaced by threonine and 200-fold extended lifetime of the conducting-state P520. At a late state of the photocycle, a fraction of the proteins branches off into an inactive species, P380, which accumulates during prolonged illumination. At neutral pH, P380 is converted into P353, a species with a characteristic fine-structured spectrum that is interpreted as retroretinyl chromophore. The described branching reactions should be considered, when ChR is used as a neuroscience tool, especially in the case of fluorescence imaging at high light intensities.
Although the transcription factor CREB has been widely implicated in memory, whether it is sufficient to produce spatial memory under conditions that do not normally support memory formation in mammals is unknown. We found that locally and acutely increasing CREB levels in the dorsal hippocampus using viral vectors is sufficient to induce robust spatial memory in two conditions that do not normally support spatial memory, weakly trained wild-type (WT) mice and strongly trained mutant mice with a brain-wide disruption of CREB function. Together with previous results, these findings indicate that CREB is both necessary and sufficient for spatial memory formation, and highlight its pivotal role in the hippocampal molecular machinery underlying the formation of spatial memory.
Since the beginning of the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) era, epidemiological evidence indicates an increasing incidence of Alzheimer's (AD)-like brain pathology in aging HIV patients. Emerging evidence warns of potential convergent mechanisms underlying HIV- and Abeta-mediated neurodegeneration. We found that HIV-1 Tat B and gp120 promote the secretion of Abeta 1-42 in primary rat fetal hippocampal cell cultures. Our results demonstrate that the variant of Tat expressed by the neurotropic subtype of HIV-1 virus (HIV-1 clade B) specifically induces both the release of amyloidogenic Abeta 1-42 and the accumulation of cell-bound amyloid aggregates. The results of the research rationalize testing of the ability of beta-amyloid aggregation inhibitors to attenuate HIV protein-mediated cognitive deficits in animal models of NeuroAIDS. The long-term goal of the study is to evaluate the potential benefits of anti-amyloidogenic therapies for management of cognitive dysfunction in aging HIV-1 patients.
Reduced activity of CNS serotonin is reported in unipolar depression and serotonin is the major target of recent antidepressant drugs. However, an acute depletion of serotonin in healthy individuals does not induce depressive symptoms suggesting that depression does not correlate with the serotonin system only. Neuronal plasticity (structural adaptation of neurons to functional requirements) includes synthesis of microtubular proteins such as tyrosinated isoform of alpha-tubulin and presence of serotonin as regulator of synaptogenesis. In depression neuronal plasticity is modified.HERE, IN RATS SUBMITTED TO A BEHAVIOURAL TEST WIDELY USED TO PREDICT THE EFFICACY OF ANTIDEPRESSANT DRUGS (FORCED SWIMMING TEST: FST) a significant decrease of both cerebral tyrosinated alpha-tubulin expression and serotonin levels is monitored. Moreover, treatment with para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA, compound that specifically depletes brain serotonin) but not alpha-methyl para tyrosine (alpha-MPT, compound that blocks synthesis of catechols: chemicals also implicated in depression) significantly reduced tyrosinated alpha-tubulin. Thus, a direct relationship between serotonin and tyrosinated alpha-tubulin appears to be present both in &quot;physiological&quot; and in &quot;pathological&quot; states. In addition, data obtained in animals submitted to FST and/or treated with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine further support the interrelationship between central serotonin and cytoskeleton. These data propose that direct relationship between serotonin and tyrosinated alpha-tubulin could be considered within the mechanism(s) involved in the pathogenesis of depression.
Most neurons undergo their last cell division within the first 1 to 2% of the lifespan of an organism. This has been interpreted to mean that adult neurons are permanently postmitotic, but Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an example of a late-onset neurodegenerative disease that challenges this concept. In AD, neurons in populations at risk for death reactivate their cell cycle and replicate their genome - but rather than complete the cycle with mitosis and cytokinesis, the neurons die. While opening new perspectives on the etiology of AD dementia, the simple linear model suggested by this description gains in complexity with the maturation of the adult brain. This complexity makes the full understanding of the relationship between cell division and cell death more difficult to achieve. The quest for understanding is worthwhile, however, as fresh avenues for therapeutic intervention are the prizes for success.

The theory of evolution is poorly understood in the population at large, even by those with some science education. The recurrent misunderstandings can be partly attributed to failure to distinguish between processes which individual organisms undergo and those which populations undergo. They may be so pervasive because we usually explain evolutionary ideas with examples from non-human animals, and our everyday cognition about animals does not track individuals as distinct from the species to which they belong. By contrast, everyday cognition about other people tracks unique individuals as well as general properties of humans. In Study 1, I present experimental evidence that categorization by species occurs more strongly for non-human animals than for other people in 50 British university students. In Study 2, I show, in the same population, that framing evolutionary scenarios in terms of people produces fewer conceptual errors than when logically identical scenarios are framed terms of non-human animals. I conclude that public understanding of evolution might be improved if we began instruction by considering the organisms which are most familiar to us.


Vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) is a member of the major facilitator superfamily (MFS). It contains conserved sequence motifs originally defined in the bacterial multidrug resistance transporter family of the MFS. Motif C (GSLV(227) A(228)PPFGGIL) is located at the C-terminal end of transmembrane helix 5 (TM 5) in VAChT. The motif is rich in glycine and proline residues that often have special roles in backbone conformations of TMs. The A228G mutant of VAChT transports &gt; 3-fold faster than wild type does [Chandrasekaran et al. (2006)J. Neurochem. 98, 1551-1559.]. In the current study, the structure of Loop 4/5, TM 5, and Motif C were taken from a three-dimensional homology model for human VAChT. The peptide was immersed in implicit membrane, energy minimized, and molecular dynamics (MD) were simulated. Kinking and wobbling occur in otherwise helical peptide at the hinge residues L226 and V227. MD also were simulated for A228G single-mutant and V227L-A228A double-mutant peptides to investigate the structural roles of the A228G mutation and beta-branching at V227. Mutant peptides exhibit increased wobbling at the hinge residues, but in the double mutant the increase is less. Because Motif C participates in the interface that mediates hypothesized rocker-switch re-orientation of the acetylcholine binding site during transport, dynamics in Motif C might be an important contributor to transport rate.
Dendritic spines are the postsynaptic sites for the majority of excitatory synapses in the mammalian forebrain. While many spines display great stability, others change shape in a matter of seconds to minutes. These rapid alterations in dendritic spine number and size require tight control of the actin cytoskeleton, the main structural component of dendritic spines. The ability of neurons to alter spine number and size is essential for the expression of neuronal plasticity. Within spines, guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) act as critical regulators of the actin cytoskeleton by controlling the activity of Rho-GTPases. In this review we focus on the Rho-GEFs expressed in the nucleus accumbens and localized to the postsynaptic density, and thus positioned to effect rapid alterations in the structure of dendritic spines. We review literature that ties these GEFs to different receptor systems and intracellular signaling cascades and discuss the effects these interactions are likely to have on synaptic plasticity.
Savella (milnacipran), a selective serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, was approved by the FDA on January 14th, 2009, for the treatment of fibromyalgia.
Membrane and secretory trafficking are essential for proper neuronal development. However, the molecular mechanisms that organize secretory trafficking are poorly understood. Here, we identify Bicaudal-D-related protein 1 (BICDR-1) as an effector of the small GTPase Rab6 and key component of the molecular machinery that controls secretory vesicle transport in developing neurons. BICDR-1 interacts with kinesin motor Kif1C, the dynein/dynactin retrograde motor complex, regulates the pericentrosomal localization of Rab6-positive secretory vesicles and is required for neural development in zebrafish. BICDR-1 expression is high during early neuronal development and strongly declines during neurite outgrowth. In young neurons, BICDR-1 accumulates Rab6 secretory vesicles around the centrosome, restricts anterograde secretory transport and inhibits neuritogenesis. Later during development, BICDR-1 expression is strongly reduced, which permits anterograde secretory transport required for neurite outgrowth. These results indicate an important role for BICDR-1 as temporal regulator of secretory trafficking during the early phase of neuronal differentiation.
Ca(2+) entry through non-voltage operated channels serves as a key signaling component for tumor progression in a variety of cancers including prostate, colon and breast. As a starting point for an inquiry into the role of Ca(2+) signaling pathways in gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine cancers, including carcinoid, we characterized Ca(2+) entry in a set of human carcinoid cell lines originating in the foregut, midgut and hindgut. In the current study, we provide molecular and functional evidence for store-operated and other non-voltage operated Ca(2+) permeable channels in carcinoid tumor cell lines. RT-PCR technique was used to profile an array of non voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels in carcinoid cell lines. Live-cell imaging methods were used to functionally assess store operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) following depletion of ER Ca(2+) stores by cyclopiazonic acid. Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors of SOCE generally reduced Ca(2+) entry. We also demonstrated that SOCE in some carcinoid cell lines was activated by neurotransmitter suggesting that Ca(2+) entry through specific channels may be important for mediating neural, paracrine or autocrine signals in the gut in health and disease such as carcinoid cancer.
Averaging 8.1% (w/w) of the earth's crust, aluminum is the most highly abundant metal in our biosphere, yet has long been thought to serve no essential biological function. In aqueous solutions, aluminum salts and hydroxides are exceptionally potent aggregators of biological molecules, often coalescing molecular species to the point that they precipitate out of solution. A biological function for aluminum is proposed in which this abundant, high charge density metal cation has a significant role in biomolecular compaction. Sometimes, molecules ectopically aggregated by aluminum are associated with pathological conditions. The data further suggests that a specific consequence of 'aluminum biocompaction' may be particularly important in the condensation of A+T-rich chromatin domains, and in silencing the expression of specific kinds of genetic information.
The optokinetic response (OKR) to a visual stimulus moving at constant velocity consists of a series of two alternating components, a slow phase, during which the eyes follow the stimulus, and a quick phase, which resets the eyes to begin a new response cycle. The quick phases of the OKR resemble the saccades observed during free viewing. It is unclear to what extent the premotor circuitry underlying these two types of jerky, conjugate eye movements is conserved among vertebrates. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae, broadly expressing halorhodopsin (NpHR) or channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) in most neurons, were used to map the location of neurons involved in this behavior. By blocking activity in localized groups of NpHR-expressing neurons with an optic fiber positioned above the head of the fish and by systematically varying the site of photostimulation, we discovered that activity in a small hindbrain area in rhombomere 5 was necessary for saccades to occur. Unilateral block of activity at this site affected behavior in a direction-specific manner. Inhibition of the right side suppressed rightward saccades of both eyes, while leaving leftward saccades unaffected, and vice versa. Photostimulation of this area in ChR2-transgenic fish was sufficient to trigger saccades that were precisely locked to the light pulses. These extra saccades could be induced both during free viewing and during the OKR, and were distinct in their kinetics from eye movements elicited by stimulating the abducens motor neurons. Zebrafish double indemnity (didy) mutants were identified in a chemical mutagenesis screen based on a defect in sustaining saccades during OKR. Positional cloning, molecular analysis, and electrophysiology revealed that the didy mutation disrupts the voltage-gated sodium channel Scn1lab (Nav1.lb). ChR2 photostimulation of the putative hindbrain saccade generator was able to fully reconstitute saccades in the didy mutant. Our studies demonstrate that an optogenetic approach is useful for targeted loss-of-function and gain-of-function manipulations of neural circuitry underlying eye movements in zebrafish and that the saccade-generating circuit in this species shares many of its properties with that in mammals.
Recent evidence suggests the intriguing possibility that midbrain dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons may use fast glutamatergic transmission to communicate with their postsynaptic targets. Because of technical limitations, direct demonstration of the existence of this signaling mechanism has been limited to experiments using cell culture preparations that often alter neuronal function including neurotransmitter phenotype. Consequently, it remains uncertain whether glutamatergic signaling between DAergic neurons and their postsynaptic targets exists under physiological conditions. Here, using an optogenetic approach, we provide the first conclusive demonstration that mesolimbic DAergic neurons in mice release glutamate and elicit excitatory postsynaptic responses in projection neurons of the nucleus accumbens. In addition, we describe the properties of the postsynaptic glutamatergic responses of these neurons during experimentally evoked burst firing of DAergic axons that reproduce the reward-related phasic population activity of the mesolimbic projection. These observations indicate that, in addition to DAergic mechanisms, mesolimbic reward signaling may involve glutamatergic transmission.
The neural substrates of memory for when events occurred are not well described. One reason for this is that the paradigms used to date have permitted isolation of only some of the relevant memory processes. In this experiment, functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to identify for the first time brain regions that support two distinct bases upon which &quot;when&quot; judgments can be made. Seventeen human participants (6 male) completed a continuous recognition memory task where the interval between presentation and re-presentation of words varied between 5 and 25 intervening words (the lag). The task on each trial was to distinguish repeated words from those presented for the first time, and to indicate the lag for repeated words. The inferior parietal lobe showed greater activation for shorter lag judgments, regardless of judgment accuracy. The lingual gyrus, by contrast, was more active for correct than for incorrect lag judgments, regardless of the interval between first and second item presentations. Both of these regions have been linked in previous work to the process of recollection, and the findings described here represent a novel neural dissociation across regions that deploy mnemonic information in fundamentally different ways to support judgments about when events occurred.
The expectancy of a rewarding outcome following actions and cues is coded by a network of brain structures including the orbitofrontal cortex. Thus far, predicted reward was considered to be coded by time-averaged spike rates of neurons. However, besides firing rate, the precise timing of action potentials in relation to ongoing oscillations in local field potentials is thought to be of importance for effective communication between brain areas. We performed multineuron and field potential recordings in orbitofrontal cortex of rats performing olfactory discrimination learning to study the temporal structure of coding predictive of outcome. After associative learning, field potentials were marked by theta oscillations, both in advance and during delivery of reward. Orbitofrontal neurons, especially those coding information about upcoming reward with their firing rate, phase locked to these oscillations in anticipation of reward. When established associations were reversed, phase locking collapsed in the anticipatory task phase, but returned when reward became predictable again after relearning. Behaviorally, the outcome anticipation phase was marked by licking responses, but the frequency of lick responses was dissociated from the strength of theta-band phase locking. The strength of theta-band phase locking by orbitofrontal neurons robustly follows the dynamics of associative learning as measured by behavior and correlates with the rat's current outcome expectancy. Theta-band phase locking may facilitate communication of outcome-related information between reward-related brain areas and offers a novel mechanism for coding value signals during reinforcement learning.
The adult cerebral cortex is composed of excitatory and inhibitory neurons that arise from progenitor cells in disparate proliferative regions in the developing brain and follow different migratory paths. Excitatory pyramidal neurons originate near the ventricle and migrate radially to their position in the cortical plate along radial glial fibers. On the other hand, inhibitory interneurons arise in the ventral telencephalon and migrate tangentially to enter the developing cortex before migrating radially to reach their correct laminar position. Gap junction adhesion has been shown to play an important mechanistic role in the radial migration of excitatory neurons. We asked whether a similar mechanism governs the tangential or radial migration of inhibitory interneurons. Using short hairpin RNA knockdown of Connexin 43 (Cx43) and Cx26 together with rescue experiments, we found that gap junctions are dispensable for the tangential migration of interneurons, but that Cx43 plays a role in the switch from tangential to radial migration that allows interneurons to enter the cortical plate and find their correct laminar position. Moreover this action is dependent on the adhesive properties and the C terminus of Cx43 but not the Cx43 channel. Thus, the radial phase of interneuron migration resembles that of excitatory neuron migration in terms of dependence on Cx43 adhesion. Furthermore, gap junctions between migrating interneurons and radial processes were observed by electron microscopy. These findings provide mechanistic and structural support for a gap junction-mediated interaction between migrating interneurons and radial glia during the switch from tangential to radial migration.
The recent discovery of short neural precursors (SNPs) in the murine neocortical ventricular zone (VZ) challenges the widely held view that radial glial cells (RGCs) are the sole occupants of this germinal compartment and suggests that precursor variety is an important factor of brain development. Here, we use in utero electroporation and genetic fate mapping to show that SNPs and RGCs cohabit the VZ but display different cell cycle kinetics and generate phenotypically different progeny. In addition, we find that RGC progeny undergo additional rounds of cell division as intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs), whereas SNP progeny generally produce postmitotic neurons directly from the VZ. By clearly defining SNPs as bona fide VZ residents, separate from both RGCs and IPCs, and uncovering their unique proliferative and lineage properties, these results demonstrate how individual neural precursor groups in the embryonic rodent VZ create diversity in the overlying neocortex.
Whole-cell recordings were obtained from tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing (TH(+)) neurons in striatal slices from bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice that synthesize enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) selectively in neurons expressing TH transcriptional regulatory sequences. Stereological cell counting indicated that there were approximately 2700 EGFP-TH(+) neurons/striatum. Whole-cell recordings in striatal slices demonstrated that EGFP-TH(+) neurons comprise four electrophysiologically distinct neuron types whose electrophysiological properties have not been reported previously in striatum. EGFP-TH(+) neurons were identified in retrograde tracing studies as interneurons. Recordings from synaptically connected pairs of EGFP-TH(+) interneurons and spiny neurons showed that the interneurons elicited GABAergic IPSPs/IPSCs in spiny neurons powerful enough to significantly delay evoked spiking. EGFP-TH(+) interneurons responded to local or cortical stimulation with glutamatergic EPSPs. Local stimulation also elicited GABA(A) IPSPs, at least some of which arose from identified spiny neurons. Single-cell reverse transcription-PCR showed expression of VMAT1 in EGFP-TH(+) interneurons, consistent with previous suggestions that these interneurons may be dopaminergic as well as GABAergic. All four classes of interneurons were medium sized with modestly branching, varicose dendrites, and dense, highly varicose axon collateral fields. These data show for the first time that there exists in the normal rodent striatum a substantial population of TH(+)/GABAergic interneurons comprising four electrophysiologically distinct subtypes whose electrophysiological properties differ significantly from those of previously described striatal GABAergic interneurons. These interneurons are likely to play an important role in striatal function through fast GABAergic synaptic transmission in addition to, and independent of, their potential role in compensation for dopamine loss in experimental or idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
When grasping and lifting different objects, visual cues and previously acquired knowledge enable us to prepare the upcoming grasp by scaling the fingertip forces according to the actual weight of the object. However, when no visual information is available, the weight of the object has to be predicted based on information learned from previous grasps. Here, we investigated how changes in corticospinal excitability (CSE) and grip force scaling depend on the presence of visual cues and the weight of previously lifted objects. CSE was assessed by delivering transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at different times before grasp of the object. In conditions in which visual information was not provided, the size of motor evoked potentials (MEP) was larger when the object lifted was preceded by a heavy relative to a light object. Interestingly, the previous lift also affected MEP amplitude when visual cues about object weight were available but only in the period immediately after object presentation (50 ms); this effect had already declined for TMS delivered 150 ms after presentation. In a second experiment, we demonstrated that these CSE changes are used by the motor system to scale grip force. This suggests that the corticospinal system stores a &quot;sensorimotor memory&quot; of the grasp of different objects and relies on this memory when no visual cues are present. Moreover, visual information about weight interacts with this stored representation and allows the corticospinal system to switch rapidly to a different model of predictive grasp control.
Purkinje neurons are the output cells of the cerebellar cortex and generate spikes in two distinct modes, known as simple and complex spikes. Revealing the point of origin of these action potentials, and how they conduct into local axon collaterals, is important for understanding local and distal neuronal processing and communication. By using a recent improvement in voltage-sensitive dye imaging technique that provided exceptional spatial and temporal resolution, we were able to resolve the region of spike initiation as well as follow spike propagation into axon collaterals for each action potential initiated on single trials. All fast action potentials, for both simple and complex spikes, whether occurring spontaneously or in response to a somatic current pulse or synaptic input, initiated in the axon initial segment. At discharge frequencies of less than approximately 250 Hz, spikes propagated faithfully through the axon and axon collaterals, in a saltatory manner. Propagation failures were only observed for very high frequencies or for the spikelets associated with complex spikes. These results demonstrate that the axon initial segment is a critical decision point in Purkinje cell processing and that the properties of axon branch points are adjusted to maintain faithful transmission.
Hormone therapy to postmenopausal females increases the risk and severity of ischemic stroke. Our previous work using an animal model of menopause (reproductive senescence) shows that middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) causes a larger cortical-striatal infarct in this older acyclic group compared with younger females. Moreover, although estrogen treatment is neuroprotective in younger females, estrogen paradoxically increases infarct volume in acyclic females. We hypothesized that the neurotoxic effects of estrogen in older females occurs because of decreased availability of IGF-1, a neuroprotectant that decreases with advancing age and is downregulated by estrogen treatment. Our data show that plasma IGF-1 levels are significantly reduced in reproductive senescent females and further reduced by estrogen at all ages. The neuroprotective effect of estrogen on MCAo-induced cortical infarct volume in mature adult female is reversed by intracerebroventricular injections of IGF-1 receptor antagonist JB-1. Similarly, estrogens neurotoxic effects on cortical infarct volume in senescent females is attenuated by concurrent IGF-1 treatment, and reversed when IGF-1 is infused 4 h after the onset of ischemia (delayed IGF-1 treatment). Delayed IGF-1/estrogen treatment also suppressed ischemia-induced ERK1 phosphorylation, reduced protein oxidation, and stimulated an early increase in prostaglandin E(2) at the infarct site. IGF-1 treatment was only protective in senescent females that received estrogen, indicating that the neuroprotective actions of this peptide require interaction with the steroid hormone receptor. These data support the hypothesis that stroke severity in older females is associated with decreased IGF-1 and further indicate that short-term postischemic IGF-1 therapy may be beneficial for stroke.
alpha-Synuclein is central in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis. Although initially alpha-synuclein was considered a purely intracellular protein, recent data suggest that it can be detected in the plasma and CSF of humans and in the culture media of neuronal cells. To address a role of secreted alpha-synuclein in neuronal homeostasis, we have generated wild-type alpha-synuclein and beta-galactosidase inducible SH-SY5Y cells. Soluble oligomeric and monomeric species of alpha-synuclein are readily detected in the conditioned media (CM) of these cells at concentrations similar to those observed in human CSF. We have found that, in this model, alpha-synuclein is secreted by externalized vesicles in a calcium-dependent manner. Electron microscopy and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry proteomic analysis demonstrate that these vesicles have the characteristic hallmarks of exosomes, secreted intraluminar vesicles of multivesicular bodies. Application of CM containing secreted alpha-synuclein causes cell death of recipient neuronal cells, which can be reversed after alpha-synuclein immunodepletion from the CM. High- and low-molecular-weight alpha-synuclein species, isolated from this CM, significantly decrease cell viability. Importantly, treatment of the CM with oligomer-interfering compounds before application rescues the recipient neuronal cells from the observed toxicity. Our results show for the first time that cell-produced alpha-synuclein is secreted via an exosomal, calcium-dependent mechanism and suggest that alpha-synuclein secretion serves to amplify and propagate Parkinson's disease-related pathology.
Functional recovery after adult CNS damage is limited in part by myelin inhibitors of axonal regrowth. Three molecules, Nogo-A, MAG, and OMgp, are produced by oligodendrocytes and share neuronal receptor mechanisms through NgR1 and PirB. While each has an axon-inhibitory role in vitro, their in vivo interactions and relative potencies have not been defined. Here, we compared mice singly, doubly, or triply mutant for these three myelin inhibitor proteins. The myelin extracted from Nogo-A mutant mice is less inhibitory for axons than is that from wild-type mice, but myelin lacking MAG and OMgp is indistinguishable from control. However, myelin lacking all three inhibitors is less inhibitory than Nogo-A-deficient myelin, uncovering a redundant and synergistic role for all three proteins in axonal growth inhibition. Spinal cord injury studies revealed an identical in vivo hierarchy of these three myelin proteins. Loss of Nogo-A allows corticospinal and raphespinal axon growth above and below the injury, as well as greater behavioral recovery than in wild-type or heterozygous mutant mice. In contrast, deletion of MAG and OMgp stimulates neither axonal growth nor enhanced locomotion. The triple-mutant mice exhibit greater axonal growth and improved locomotion, consistent with a principal role for Nogo-A and synergistic actions for MAG and OMgp, presumably through shared receptors. These data support the hypothesis that targeting all three myelin ligands, as with NgR1 decoy receptor, provides the optimal chance for overcoming myelin inhibition and improving neurological function.


p300/CREB binding protein-associated factor (PCAF) regulates gene expression by acting through histone acetylation and as a transcription coactivator. Although histone acetyltransferases were involved in the toxicity induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, nothing is known about PCAF. We here analyzed the sensitivity of PCAF knockout (KO) mice to the toxic effects induced by i.c.v. injection of Abeta(25-35) peptide, a nontransgenic model of Alzheimer's disease. PCAF wild-type (WT) and KO mice received Abeta(25-35) (1, 3 or 9 nmol) or scrambled Abeta(25-35) (9 nmol) as control. After 7 days, Abeta(25-35) toxicity was measured in the hippocampus of WT mice by a decrease in CA1 pyramidal cells and increases in oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress and induction of apoptosis. Memory deficits were observed using spontaneous alternation, water-maze learning and passive avoidance. Non-treated PCAF KO mice showed a decrease in CA1 cells and learning alterations. However, Abeta(25-35) injection failed to induce toxicity or worsen the deficits. This resistance to Abeta(25-35) toxicity did not involve changes in glutamate or acetylcholine systems. Examination of enzymes involved in Abeta generation or degradation revealed changes in transcription of presenilins, activity of neprilysin (NEP) and an absence of Abeta(25-35)-induced regulation of NEP activity in PCAF KO mice, partly due to an altered expression of somatostatin (SRIH). We conclude that PCAF regulates the expression of proteins involved in Abeta generation and degradation, thus rendering PCAF KO insensitive to amyloid toxicity. Modulating acetyltransferase activity may offer a new way to develop anti-amyloid therapies.
Progressive dysfunction of hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons during normal aging is associated in the female rat with chronic hyperprolactinemia. We assessed the effectiveness of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) gene therapy to restore TIDA neuron function in senile female rats and reverse their chronic hyperprolactinemia. Young (2.5 months) and senile (29 months) rats received a bilateral intrahypothalamic injection (10(10) pfu) of either an adenoviral vector expressing the gene for beta-galactosidase; (Y-betagal and S-betagal, respectively) or a vector expressing rat GDNF (Y-GDNF and S-GDNF, respectively). Transgenic GDNF levels in supernatants of GDNF adenovector-transduced N2a neuronal cell cultures were 25+/-4 ng/ml, as determined by bioassay. In the rats, serum prolactin (PRL) was measured at regular intervals. On day 17 animals were sacrificed and neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive cells counted in the arcuate-periventricular hypothalamic region. The S-GDNF but not the S-betagal rats, showed a significant reduction in body weight. The chronic hyperprolactinemia of the senile females was significantly ameliorated in the S-GDNF rats (P&lt;0.05) but not in the S-betagal rats. Neither age nor GDNF induced significant changes in the number of NeuN and TH neurons. We conclude that transgenic GDNF ameliorates chronic hyperprolactinemia in aging female rats, probably by restoring TIDA neuron function.
While it is well established that exercise can improve cognitive performance, it is unclear how long these benefits endure after exercise has ended. Accordingly, the effects of voluntary exercise on cognitive function and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels, a major player in the mechanisms governing the dynamics of memory formation and storage, were assessed immediately after a 3-week running period, or after a 1-week or 2-week delay following the exercise period. All exercised mice showed improved performance on the radial arm water maze relative to sedentary animals. Unexpectedly, fastest acquisition (fewest errors and shortest latency) occurred in animals trained following a 1-week delay, while best memory performance in the probe trial was observed in those trained immediately after the exercise period. Assessment of the time course of hippocampal BDNF availability following exercise revealed significant elevations of BDNF immediately after the exercise period (186% of sedentary levels) and at 1 and 2 weeks after exercise ended, with levels returning to baseline by 3-4 weeks. BDNF protein levels showed a positive correlation with cognitive improvement in radial water maze training and with memory performance on day 4, supporting the idea that BDNF availability contributes to the time-dependent cognitive benefits of exercise revealed in this study. Overall, this novel approach assessing the temporal endurance of cognitive and biochemical effects of exercise unveils new concepts in the exercise-learning field, and reveals that beneficial effects of exercise on brain plasticity continue to evolve even after exercise has ended.
The estrogen-mimicking endocrine disrupter bisphenol A (BPA) which is used in the manufacture of plastic and epoxy resins, is one of the world's most heavily produced synthetic chemicals. BPA is detected in animal tissues, and its bio-accumulation has shown to be higher in the fetus than the mother. Exposure to doses below the daily safe limit has been reported to affect the sexual differentiation of the brain and modify the behavior of the exposed rodent offspring. The aim of the present study was to investigate in the rat the possible organizational effects of low BPA exposure on glucocorticoid-regulated responses. Female breeders were exposed to 40 microg/kg b.w. BPA daily throughout pregnancy and lactation. Plasma corticosterone levels and the two types of hippocampal corticosteroid receptors (GR and MR) were determined in mid-adolescent offspring under basal conditions and following a Y-maze task. BPA treated females had higher corticosterone levels than control females and BPA males and lower GR levels than BPA males, under basal conditions. Following the mildly stressful experience of Y-maze, corticosterone levels were increased in BPA-treated animals of both sexes, compared to the controls. GR levels were also increased in BPA-treated females compared to males. No effect of BPA was observed on MR levels, whereas the Y-maze experience significantly decreased receptors' levels in both female groups. The animals' performance in the task was also evaluated. BPA exposure significantly impaired the spatial recognition memory in both sexes, and modified the behavioural coping in a sex-dependent manner. Female BPA-treated offspring exhibited increased &quot;anxiety-like&quot; behaviour and dramatic loss of exploration attitude during the task, in comparison to males. This study provides for the first time evidence that corticosterone and its actions in the brain are sensitive to the programming effects of BPA at a dose below the currently acceptable daily intake.
Doppel protein (Dpl) is a paralog of the cellular form of prion protein (PrP(C)). Its ectopic expression in the CNS elicits significant cerebellar Purkinje cell degeneration in some lines of PrP knockout mice. However, little is known about the Dpl-mediated neurodegenerative mechanism. To understand the molecular and intracellular pathways underlying Purkinje cell degeneration, here, we investigated the regulation of calcium-release channel protein, type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R1) gene in Ngsk mice. These knockout mice express high levels of Dpl and eventually develop cerebellar degeneration. We observed that the expression level of IP(3)R1 gene is reduced in the cerebella of Ngsk mice as early as 3 months of age compared with age-matched controls along with the reduction in DNA binding activity of nuclear factor of activated-T cells (NFAT) which is transcription factor of IP(3)R1. Notably, expression of PrP restored the reduced DNA binding activity of NFATc4 by Dpl. Reduced expressions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and ionotropic glutamate receptor subtype 2 or B (GluR2), which are regulated by NFATc4, were also restored by PrP expression. In light of these findings, we suggest a mechanism for Dpl-mediated Purkinje cell degeneration linked to reduced gene expression of proteins related to neuronal activity. Decrease in IP(3)R1 gene expression may lead to functional deficits and ultimately death of Purkinje cells in Ngsk mice.
Increasing evidence indicates that statins, specific inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-coenzyme A (CoA) reductase, exerts neuroprotective actions rather than simply lowering cholesterol. However, the underlying mechanism has not been elucidated clearly. Here, the effect of lovastatin on the neurological outcomes of nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM)-lesioned rats and the pathophysiological mechanisms were investigated. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups: (i) a sham group; (ii) a model group: bilateral NBM of rats were injured by infusion of ibotenic acid; and (iii) a lovastatin-treated group: lovastatin was administrated orally for 4 weeks before treated by ibotenic acid. We show that lovastatin significantly improves the neurological outcomes as well as the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and muscarinic/NMDA receptor binding activity impaired by NBM lesion, and that lovastatin prevents neuron loss and induces Akt whereas inhibits p38 phosphorylation. Overall, the neuro-restorative and -protective effect of lovastatin may be attributed to the regulation of Akt- and p38-mediated signaling pathway together with improvement of muscarinic/NMDA receptor functions. Statins may be useful in the treatment of neurological disorders.
A growing body of evidence demonstrates the involvement of plasminogen activators (PAs) in a number of physiologic and pathologic events in the CNS. Induction of both tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) has been observed in different experimental models of epilepsy and tPA has been implicated in the mechanisms underlying seizure activity. We investigated the expression and the cellular distribution of tPA and uPA in several epileptogenic pathologies, including hippocampal sclerosis (HS; n=6), and developmental glioneuronal lesions, such as focal cortical dysplasia (FCD, n=6), cortical tubers in patients with the tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC; n=6) and in gangliogliomas (GG; n=6), using immuno-cytochemical, western blot and real-time quantitative PCR analysis. TPA and uPA immunostaining showed increased expression within the epileptogenic lesions compared to control specimens in both glial and neuronal cells (hippocampal neurons in HS and dysplastic neurons in FCD, TSC and GG specimens). Confocal laser scanning microscopy confirmed expression of both proteins in astrocytes and microglia, as well as in microvascular endothelium. Immunoblot demonstrated also up-regulation of the uPA receptor (uPAR; P&lt;0.05). Increased expression of tPA, uPA, uPAR and tissue PA inhibitor type mRNA levels was also detected by PCR analysis in different epileptogenic pathologies (P&lt;0.05). Our data support the role of PA system components in different human focal epileptogenic pathologies, which may critically influence neuronal activity, inflammatory response, as well as contributing to the complex remodeling of the neuronal networks occurring in epileptogenic lesions.
Cortical thickness has been proposed as a new promising brain imaging endophenotype in elucidating the nature of gene-brain relationships. Here, we define the morphological impact of the Val(158)Met polymorphism in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene on human brain anatomy. One hundred and forty-nine adult healthy subjects (mean age: 40.7+/-16.1; ranging from 19 to 76 years) were genotyped (38 in the homozygous Val(158) group; 80 in the Val(158)Met group; 31 in the homozygous Met(158) group) for the COMT polymorphism and underwent morphological examination. Surface-based analysis of the cortical mantle showed that the COMT genotype was associated with structural differences in the right superior temporal sulcus and inferior prefrontal sulcus, where the individuals carrying the Met(158) allele had a thicker cortex with respect to their Val(158) counterparts. Our study extends the previous evidence found on pediatric population to the adult population, demonstrating that the higher synaptic dopamine levels associated with the presence of the Met(158) allele may influence neuronal architecture in brain structures important for executive and emotional processing.
The ontogenetic pattern of gyrification and its relationship with cerebral cortical volume were examined in cynomolgus monkey fetuses. T(1)-weighted coronal magnetic resonance (MR) images at 7 T were acquired from the fixed cerebra of three male fetuses, each at embryonic days (EDs) 70 to 150, and the gyrification index (GI) of each slice was estimated. The mean GI was low (1.1-1.2) during EDs 70 to 90, and then increased dramatically on ED 100. The developmental profiles of the rostrocaudal GI distribution revealed that cortical convolution was more frequent in the parietooccipital region than in other regions during EDs 100 to 150, forming an adult-like pattern by ED 150. The mean GI was closely correlated with the volume of cortical gray matter (r=0.9877), and also with the volume of white matter/intermediate zone (r=0.8961). These findings suggest that cortical convolution is correlated with either the maturation of cortical gray matter or the development of white matter bundles. The characteristic GI distribution pattern of catarrhines was formed by ED 150 in correlation with the progressive sulcal infolding in the parietooccipital region of the cerebrum.
Recent studies have demonstrated that total cellular levels of voltage-gated potassium channel subunits can change on a time scale of minutes in acute slices and cultured neurons, raising the possibility that rapid changes in the abundance of channel proteins contribute to experience-dependent plasticity in vivo. In order to investigate this possibility, we took advantage of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) sound localization circuit, which contains neurons that precisely phase-lock their action potentials to rapid temporal fluctuations in the acoustic waveform. Previous work has demonstrated that the ability of these neurons to follow high-frequency stimuli depends critically upon whether they express adequate amounts of the potassium channel subunit Kv3.1. To test the hypothesis that net amounts of Kv3.1 protein would be rapidly upregulated when animals are exposed to sounds that require high frequency firing for accurate encoding, we briefly exposed adult rats to acoustic environments that varied according to carrier frequency and amplitude modulation (AM) rate. Using an antibody directed at the cytoplasmic C-terminus of Kv3.1b (the adult splice isoform of Kv3.1), we found that total cellular levels of Kv3.1b protein-as well as the tonotopic distribution of Kv3.1b-labeled cells-was significantly altered following 30 min of exposure to rapidly modulated (400 Hz) sounds relative to slowly modulated (0-40 Hz, 60 Hz) sounds. These results provide direct evidence that net amounts of Kv3.1b protein can change on a time scale of minutes in response to stimulus-driven synaptic activity, permitting auditory neurons to actively adapt their complement of ion channels to changes in the acoustic environment.
The neurotransmitter acetylcholine (Ach) controls both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the striatum. Here, we investigated the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in Ach-mediated inhibition of striatal GABA transmission, and the potential role of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channels in the control of Ach-endocannabinoid coupling. We found that inhibition of Ach degradation and direct pharmacological stimulation of muscarinic M1 receptors reduced striatal inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) through the stimulation of 2-arachidonoylglicerol (2AG) synthesis and the activation of cannabinoid CB1 receptors. The effects of M1 receptor activation on IPSCs were occlusive with those of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 stimulation, and were prevented in the presence of capsaicin, agonist of TRPV1 channels. Elevation of anandamide (AEA) tone with URB597, a blocker of fatty acid amide hydrolase, mimicked the effects of capsaicin, indicating that endogenous AEA acts as an endovanilloid substance in the control of M1-dependent 2AG-mediated synaptic effects in the striatum. Accordingly, both capsaicin and URB597 effects were absent in mice lacking TRPV1 channels. Pharmacological interventions targeting AEA metabolism and TRPV1 channels might be considered alternative therapeutic routes in disorders of striatal cholinergic or endocannabinoid neurotransmission.
Dopamine has long held a prominent role in the interpretation of schizophrenia and other psychoses. Clinical studies on confabulation and disorientation, disorders marked by a confusion of reality in thinking, indicated that the ability to keep thinking in phase with reality depends on a process suppressing the interference of upcoming memories that do not refer to ongoing reality. A host of animal studies and a recent clinical study suggested that this suppression might correspond to the phasic inhibition of dopaminergic neurons in response to the absence of expected outcomes. In this study, we tested healthy subjects with a difficult version of a memory paradigm on which confabulating patients had failed. Subjects participated in three test sessions, in which they received in double-blind, randomized fashion L-dopa, risperidone, or placebo. We found that l-dopa, in comparison with risperidone, impaired performance in a highly specific way, which corresponded to the pattern of patients with reality confusion. Specifically, they had an increase of false positive responses, while overall memory performance and reaction times were unaffected. We conclude that dopaminergic transmission influences the ability to rapidly adapt thinking to ongoing reality.
The adult peripheral taste system is capable of extensive functional plasticity after injury. Sectioning the chorda tympani (CT), a primary sensory afferent nerve, elicits transient changes in the uninjured, contralateral population of taste receptor cells. Remarkably, the deficits are specific to the sodium transduction pathway. Normal function is quickly restored in the intact nerve, in parallel with an influx of macrophages to both the denervated and uninjured sides of the tongue. However, changing the dietary environment by restricting sodium blocks the macrophage response and prolongs functional alterations. Since the functional deficits occur before macrophages are present in the peripheral taste system, we hypothesized that neutrophils play a role in modulating neural responses in the intact CT. First, the dynamics of the neutrophil response to nerve injury were analyzed in control-fed and sodium-deficient rats. Nerve sectioning briefly increased the number of neutrophils on both the denervated and uninjured sides of the tongue. The low-sodium diet amplified and extended the bilateral neutrophil response to injury, in parallel with the persistent changes in sodium taste function. To test the impact of neutrophils on taste function, we depleted these cells prior to nerve sectioning and recorded neural responses from the intact CT. This treatment restored normal sodium responses in the uninjured nerve. Moreover, recruiting neutrophils to the tongue induced deficits in sodium taste function in both CT nerves. Neutrophils play a critical role in ongoing inflammatory responses in the oral cavity, and may induce changes in taste perception. We also suggest that balanced neutrophil and macrophage responses enable normal neural responses after neural injury.
Animal studies point to a role of estrogen in explaining gender differences in striatal dopaminergic functioning, but evidence from human studies is still lacking. Given that dopamine is crucial for controlling and organizing goal-directed behavior, estrogen may have a specific impact on cognitive control functions, such as the inhibition of prepotent responses. We compared the efficiency of inhibitory control (as measured by the stop-signal task) in young women across the three phases of their menstrual cycle (salivary estradiol and progesterone concentrations were assessed) and in young men. Women were less efficient in inhibiting prepotent responses in their follicular phase, which is associated with higher estradiol levels and with higher dopamine turnover rates, than in their luteal or menstruation phase. Likewise, women showed less efficient inhibitory control than men in their follicular phase but not in their luteal or menstruation phase. Our results are consistent with models assuming that the over-supply of striatal dopamine in the follicular phase weakens inhibitory pathways, thus leading to enhanced competition between responses. We conclude that gender differences in response inhibition are variable and state dependent but not structural.
Dopamine/cAMP signaling has been reported to mediate behavioral responses related to drug addiction. It also modulates the plasticity and firing properties of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), although the effects of cAMP signaling on the resting membrane potential (RMP) of MSNs has not been specifically defined. In this study, activation of dopamine D1-like receptors (D1Rs) by SKF-38393 elicited membrane depolarization and inward currents in MSNs from the NAc core of 14-17 day-old mice. Similar results were obtained following stimulation of adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity with forskolin or application of exogenous cAMP. Forskolin occluded SKF-38393's effects, thus indicating that D1R action is mediated by AC/cAMP signaling. Accordingly, AC blockade by SQ22536 significantly inhibited the responses to SKF-38393. Effects elicited by D1R stimulation or increased cAMP levels were unaffected by protein kinase A (PKA) or protein kinase C (PKC) blockade and were not mimicked by the Epac agonist, 8CPT-2Me-cAMP. Responses to forskolin were also not significantly modified by cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channel blockade. Forskolin-induced membrane depolarization was associated with increased membrane input resistance. Voltage-clamp experiments revealed that forskolin and SKF-38393 effects were due to inhibition of resting K(+) currents exhibiting inward rectification at hyperpolarized potentials and a reversal potential (around -90 mV) that shifted with the extracellular K(+) concentration. Forskolin and D1R agonist effects were abolished by the inward rectifier K(+) (Kir)-channel blocker, BaCl(2). Collectively, these data suggest that stimulation of postsynaptic D1Rs in MSNs of the NAc core causes membrane depolarization by inhibiting Kir currents. This effect is mediated by AC/cAMP signaling but it is independent on PKA, PKC, Epac and CNG channel activation, suggesting that it may stem from cAMP's direct interaction with Kir channels. D1R/cAMP-mediated excitatory effects may influence the generation of output signals from MSNs by facilitating their transition from the quiescent down-state to the functionally active up-state.
Infrasound is a kind of environmental noise and threatens the public health as a nonspecific biological stressor. Upregulated expression of corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) and its receptor CRH-R1 in the neurons of hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) was reported to be responsible for infrasonic noise-induced stress and injuries. Recent studies revealed that CRH-R1 is expressed in activated microglial cells, lending support to the hypothesis that microglial cells may be also responsible for infrasonic noise-induced stress. In this work, we exposed Sprague-Dawley rats and in vitro cultured microglial cells to infrasound with a main frequency of 16 Hz and a sound pressure level of 130 dB for 2 h, and examined the changes in the expression of CRH-R1 at different time points after infrasound exposure by immunohistochemistry and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. We found that infrasound exposure resulted in a significant activation of microglia cells and upregulated their expression of CRH-R1 in the PVN in vivo. Upregulated expression of CRH-R1 can be blocked by antalarmin, a selective CRH-R1 antagonist. Our in vitro data further revealed that in the absence of neurons, infrasound can directly induce microglial activation and upregulate their CRH-R1 expression. These findings suggest that in addition to the PVN neurons, microglial cells are the effector cells for infrasound as well, and involve in the infrasound-induced stress through upregulated expression of CRH-R1.
Polysialic acid (PSA) is a negatively charged carbohydrate polymer, which confers antiadhesive properties to the neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM and facilitates cellular plasticity during brain development. In mice, PSA expression decreases drastically during the first postnatal weeks and it gets confined to immature neurons and regions displaying structural plasticity during adulthood. In the brain, PSA is exclusively synthesized by the two polysialyltransferases ST8SiaII and ST8SiaIV. To study their individual contribution to polysialylation in the adult, we analyzed PSA expression in mice deficient for either polysialyltransferase. Focusing on the cerebral cortex, our results indicate that ST8SiaIV is solely responsible for PSA expression in mature interneurons and in most regions of cortical neuropil. By contrast, ST8SiaII is the major polysialyltransferase in immature neurons of the paleocortex layer II and the hippocampal subgranular zone. The numbers of cells expressing PSA or doublecortin, another marker of immature neurons, were increased in the paleocortex layer II of ST8SiaIV-deficient mice, indicating altered differentiation of these cells. Analysis of doublecortin expression also indicated that the production of new granule neurons in the subgranular zone of ST8SiaII-deficient mice is not affected. However, many of the immature granule neurons showed aberrant locations and morphology, suggesting a role of ST8SiaII in their terminal differentiation.
Social defeat stress is an ethologically salient stressor which activates dopaminergic areas and, when experienced repeatedly, has long-term effects on dopaminergic function and related behavior. The mechanism for these long-lasting consequences remains unclear. A potential candidate for mediating these effects is brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin involved in synaptic plasticity and displaying alterations in dopaminergic regions in response to various types of stress. In this study, we sought to determine whether repeated social defeat stress altered BDNF mRNA and protein expression in dopaminergic brain regions either immediately after the last stress exposure or 4 weeks later. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to social defeat stress consisting of brief confrontation with an aggressive male rat every third day for 10 days; control rats were handled according to the same schedule. Animals were euthanized either 2 h or 28 days after the last stress or handling episode. Our results show that 2 h after stress, BDNF protein and mRNA expression increased in the medial prefrontal cortex. At this time-point, BDNF mRNA increased in the amygdala and protein expression increased in the substantia nigra. Twenty-eight days after stress, BDNF protein and mRNA expression were elevated in the medial amygdala and ventral tegmental area. Given the role of BDNF in neural plasticity, BDNF alterations that are long-lasting may be significant for neural adaptations to social stress. The dynamic nature of BDNF expression in dopaminergic brain regions in response to repeated social stress may therefore have implications for lasting neurochemical and behavioral changes related to dopaminergic function.
Chondroitin sulfate (CS) is a glucosaminoglycan (GAG) currently used for the treatment of osteoarthritis because of its antiinflammatory and antiapoptotic actions. Recent evidence has revealed that those peripheral effects of CS may also have therapeutic interest in diseases of the CNS. Since neuroinflammation has been implicated in different neuronal pathologies, this study was planned to investigate how CS could modulate the inflammatory response in the CNS by using rat astrocyte cultures stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We have evaluated different proteins implicated in the nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) and Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathways employing RT-PCR, western blot and immunofluorescence techniques. At 10 microM, CS prevented translocation of p65 to the nucleus, reduced tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA and mitigated cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) induction by LPS. However, it did not modify LPS-induced IP-10 and SOCS-1 mRNA, proteins that participate in the JAK/STAT pathway. The results of this study indicate that CS can potentially reduce neuroinflammation by inhibition of NFkappaB. Therefore endogenous GAGs could afford neuroimmunomodulatory actions under neurotoxic conditions.
We reported previously that amoeboid microglial cells (AMC) in the developing brain exhibited endothelins (ETs) expression which diminished with advancing age and was undetected in microglia in the more mature brain. This study sought to explore if microglia in the adult would be induced to express ETs in altered conditions. By immunofluorescence microscopy, ETs and endothelin (ET)-B receptor were undetected in microglial cells in sham-operated and normal control rats. However, in adult rats subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), lectin labeled activated microglia which occurred in large numbers in the marginal zones in the ischemic cortex at 3 days and 1 week intensely expressed ETs specifically endothelin (ET)-1 and ET-B receptor; ET-3 and ET-A receptor were absent in these cells. By RT-PCR and ELISA, ET-1 and -3 mRNA and protein expression level was progressively increased in the ischemic cerebral cortex after MCAO compared with the controls. ET-A and ET-B receptor mRNA and protein levels were concomitantly up-regulated. It is suggested that increased release of ET-1 following MCAO by massive activated microglia can exert an immediate constriction of local blood vessels bearing ET-A receptor. ET-1 may also interact with activated microglia endowed with ET-B receptor via an autocrine manner that may be linked to chemokines/cytokines production. ET-1, ET-3 and ET-B receptor were also localized in reactive astrocytes along with some oligodendrocytes. We conclude that activated microglia together with other glial cells in the marginal zone after MCAO are the main cellular source of ETs that may be involved in regulation of vascular constriction and glial chemokines/cytokines production. However, dissecting the role of individual component of the endothelin system in the various glial cells, notably activated microglia, would be vital in designing of an effective therapeutic strategy for clinical treatment of stroke in which microglial cells have been implicated.
The current study reports our findings of the relationship between cross-sectional area of the corpus callosum and brain mass in over 100 eutherian mammal species. We were specifically interested in determining whether the elephant had a corpus callosum the size that would be expected for eutherian mammal with a brain mass of approximately 5000 g, or whether a different morphology had evolved. To answer this question we first analysed data from primates, other eutherian mammals and cetaceans, finding that primates and other eutherian mammals showed a positive allometric relationship between the two variables, such that larger brains had a relatively larger corpus callosum. Interestingly, primates have a slightly larger corpus callosum than other eutherian mammals, but showed a similar allometric scaling to this group. The cetaceans had a both absolutely and relatively small corpus callosum compared to other mammals and showed isometric scaling with brain mass. The six elephants studied herein had the largest absolute corpus callosums recorded to date; however, relative to the mass of their brain, the size of the corpus callosum was what would be expected of a typical eutherian mammal with a brain mass of approximately 5000 g. The data for elephants hinted at sexual dimorphism in size of the corpus callosum, with female elephants having both an absolute and relatively larger callosum than the males. If this observation is supported in future studies, the elephants will be the first non-primate species to show sexual dimorphism in this neural character. The results are discussed in both an evolutionary and functional context.
Striatal neurons are known to express GABA(A) receptor subunits that underlie both phasic and tonic inhibition. Striatal projection neurons, or medium spiny neurons (MSNs), are divided into two classes: MSNs containing the dopamine D1 receptor (D1-MSNs) form the direct pathway to the substantia nigra and facilitate movement while MSNs expressing the dopamine D2 receptor (D2-MSNs) form the pallidal pathway that inhibits movement. Consequently, modulating inhibition in distinct classes of MSNs will differentially impact downstream network activity and motor behavior. Given the powerful role of extrasynaptic inhibition in controlling neuronal excitability, we examined the nature of striatal tonic inhibition and its potential role in preventing excitotoxicity. Consistent with earlier studies in young (P16-P25) mice, tonic GABA currents in D2-MSNs were larger than in D1-MSNs. However, with age (&gt;P30 mice) the tonic GABA currents increased in D1-MSNs but decreased in D2-MSNs. These data demonstrate a developmental switch in the MSN subtype expressing larger tonic GABA currents. Compared to wild-type, MSNs from adult mice lacking the GABA(A)R delta subunit (Gabrd(-/-) mice) had both decreased tonic GABA currents and reduced survival following an in vitro excitotoxic challenge with quinolinic acid. Furthermore, muscimol-induced tonic GABA currents were accompanied by reduced acute swelling of striatal neurons after exposure to NMDA in WT mice but not in Gabrd(-/-) mice. Our data are consistent with a role for tonic inhibition mediated by GABA(A)R delta subunits in neuroprotection against excitotoxic insults in the adult striatum.
In mice, pregnancy has been shown to have a beneficial effect on the endogenous repair of focal lysolecithin-induced CNS demyelinative lesions, enhancing the genesis of new oligodendrocytes and the degree of remyelination. To identify local cells undergoing mitosis in response to such lesions, we examined the time course of phospho-histone H3 (PH3) and myelin basic protein (MBP) expression by immunohistochemistry. After lysolecithin injection into the corpus callosum of virgin female mice, the number of dividing cells peaked about 48 h after injection and declined gradually to baseline by day 7; in pregnant mice, this initial peak was unchanged, but a new delayed peak on day 4 was induced. Colocalization data using PH3 and NG2 proteoglycan, or bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and oligodendrocyte transcription factor 1 (Olig1), suggested that about 75% of the proliferating cells on day 2, and about 40% of the cells on day 4, were likely of oligodendrocyte lineage; these differential percentages were of the same magnitude in both virgin and pregnant animals. Notably, the heightened proliferative response to focal lysolecithin injection during pregnancy was specific to gestational stage (early, but not late) and to lesion location (in the corpus callosum of the periventricular forebrain, but not in the caudal cerebellar peduncle of the hindbrain).
The cytoarchitectural organization of the nervous system depends partly on extracellular serine proteases, including reelin. This 400K protein, which also exists as the N-terminally-derived 300K and 180K fragments, acts through binding to the lipoprotein receptors apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) and very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR). Ceruloplasmin (CP), a multifunctional protein found in the circulation and also expressed on glial cells, was shown to bind to, and induce aggregation of neurons newly differentiated from P19 embryonic stem cells. This indicated a potential developmental role of CP in neuronal organization, possibly in relation with reelin and other extracellular serine proteases. Therefore, we analysed the effect of cell-impermeant, large spectrum, serine protease inhibitors on CP-induced neuroaggregation and studied reelin expression. Soybean trypsin inhibitor and aprotinin (SBTI+Apro) inhibited CP neuroaggregative action. Undifferentiated and neurally-differentiating cultures secreted the 400K reelin. The 180K fragment was present during and after differentiation whereas the 300K species was barely detectable. However, CP stimulated generation of the 300K in the differentiated neuronal cultures, and SBTI+Apro abolished this CP effect. Time course profiles and function-blocking antibody indicated that neuroaggregation does not depend on the generation of the 300K fragment or on reelin action. CP neuroaggregative action thus involves a pericellular serine protease, different from reelin. On the other hand, the CP stimulation of reelin cleavage is in line with a possible role of CP in nervous system development. Since P19 cells express ApoER2 and VLDLR, they can help understanding relationships existing between CP, reelin and intervening protease(s).
Glutamate excitotoxicity is among the main cellular mechanisms leading to perinatal insults in human newborns. We used intracerebral injection of the glutamatergic glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor agonist ibotenate to produce excitotoxic lesions mimicking the acquired white matter lesions seen in human preterm infants. We evaluated whether nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) protected against glutamate excitotoxicity. Aspirin (0.01-100 microg/d), indomethacin (0.1-10 microg/d), paracetamol (10-100 microg/d), or NS-398 (12.5 microg/d) was given daily before ibotenate (P1 to P5) or after ibotenate (P5 to P9). Lesion size was measured on Cresyl Violet-stained brain sections collected on P10. None of the drugs tested alone or in combination increased lesion size. Pretreatment with low- or high-dose aspirin and post-treatment with paracetamol or NS-398 protected against white matter lesions, whereas cortical lesions were decreased by pretreatment with low- or high-dose aspirin or post-treatment with NS-398. The corticosteroid betamethasone (0.18 microg/d) was neuroprotective when given before or after ibotenate and this effect was reversed by concomitant aspirin therapy (10 microg/d). In conclusion, perinatal NSAID administration may have beneficial effects on brain injury if appropriately timed.
The perifornical-lateral hypothalamic area (PF-LHA) has been implicated in the regulation of behavioral arousal. The PF-LHA predominantly contains neurons that are active during behavioral and cortical activation and quiescent during non-rapid eye movement (nonREM) sleep, that is, are nonREM-off neurons. Some in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that PF-LHA neurons, including hypocretin-expressing neurons, are under GABAergic control. However, a role of GABA in suppressing the discharge of PF-LHA neurons during spontaneous nonREM sleep has not been confirmed. We recorded the sleep-wake discharge profiles of PF-LHA neurons and simultaneously assessed the contributions of local GABA(A) receptor activation and blockade on their wake- and nonREM sleep-related discharge activities by delivering GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (500 nm, 5 microM, and 10 microM) and its antagonist, bicuculline (5 microM, 10 microM, and 20 microM), adjacent to the recorded neurons via reverse microdialysis. Muscimol dose-dependently decreased the discharge of PF-LHA neurons including nonREM-off neurons. Muscimol-induced suppression of discharge during nonREM sleep was significantly weaker than the suppression produced during waking. In the presence of bicuculline, PF-LHA neurons, including nonREM-off neurons, exhibited elevated discharge, which was dose-dependent and was significantly higher during nonREM sleep, compared to waking. These results suggest that GABA(A) receptor mediated increased GABAergic tone contributes to the suppression of PF-LHA neurons, including nonREM-off neurons, during spontaneous nonREM sleep.
(R)-roscovitine (Ros) is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that also has been shown to have direct agonist and antagonist actions on Ca(v)2.1 (P/Q-type) and Ca(v) 2.2 (N-type) families of voltage-gated calcium channels. These kinase-independent effects represent a novel opportunity to advance our understanding of calcium channel function and calcium-triggered neurotransmitter release. Furthermore, such actions on calcium channels may direct the development of Ros derivatives as new therapeutic agents. We used patch clamp recordings to characterize mechanisms that underlie the agonist effects of Ros on unitary N-type calcium channel gating. We found that N-type channels normally gate with either a short or long mean open time, that Ros significantly prolonged the mean open time of the long gating component and increased the probability of observing channels that gated with a long open time, but had no effect on single channel conductance. Using Monte Carlo simulations of a single channel kinetic model and Ros interactions, we were able to reproduce our experimental results and investigate the model's microscopic dynamics. In particular, our simulations predicted that the longer open times generated by Ros were due to the appearance of a long open state combined with an increased amount of time spent in transitions between open states. Our results suggest a mechanism for agonist effects of Ros at the level of single channels, and provide a mechanistic explanation for previously reported agonist effects on whole cell calcium currents.
The importance and diversity of calcium signaling in the brain is mirrored by the expression of a multitude of voltage-activated calcium channel (Ca(V)) isoforms. Whereas the overall distributions of alpha(1) subunits are well established, the expression patterns of distinct channel isoforms in specific brain regions and neurons, as well as those of the auxiliary beta and alpha(2)delta subunits are still incompletely characterized. Further it is unknown whether neuronal differentiation and activity induce changes of Ca(V) subunit composition. Here we combined absolute and relative quantitative TaqMan reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) to analyze mRNA expression of all high voltage-activated Ca(V) alpha(1) subunits and all beta and alpha(2)delta subunits. This allowed for the first time the direct comparison of complete Ca(V) expression profiles of mouse cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and cultured hippocampal neurons. All brain regions expressed characteristic profiles of the full set of isoforms, except Ca(V)1.1 and Ca(V)1.4. In cortex development was accompanied by a general down regulation of alpha(1) and alpha(2)delta subunits and a shift from beta(1)/beta(3) to beta(2)/beta(4). The most abundant Ca(V) isoforms in cerebellum were Ca(V)2.1, beta(4), and alpha(2)delta-2, and in hippocampus Ca(V)2.3, beta(2), and alpha(2)delta-1. Interestingly, cultured hippocampal neurons also expressed the same Ca(V) complement as adult hippocampus. During differentiation specific Ca(V) isoforms experienced up- or down-regulation; however blocking electrical activity did not affect Ca(V) expression patterns. Correlation analysis of alpha(1), beta and alpha(2)delta subunit expression throughout all examined preparations revealed a strong preference of Ca(V)2.1 for beta(4) and alpha(2)delta-2 and vice versa, whereas the other alpha(1) isoforms were non-selectively expressed together with each of the other beta and alpha(2)delta isoforms. Together our results revealed a remarkably stable overall Ca(2+) channel complement as well as tissue specific differences in expression levels. Developmental changes are likely determined by an intrinsic program and not regulated by changes in neuronal activity.
The different origins of Cajal-Retzius cells (CRc) as well as their diverse molecular profile suggest that this cell type may represent different neuronal subpopulations. In order to investigate whether CRc from different origins show distinct functional or morphological characteristics we used transgenic Dbx1(cre);ROSA26(YFP) mice in which two subpopulations of CRc, originating from the septum and ventral pallium (VP) at the pallial-subpallial border (PSB), were permanently labeled by yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) expression. Electrophysiological properties of YFP(+) and YFP(-) CRc were investigated by whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, while a thorough somatodendritic and axonal reconstruction of the biocytin labeled CRc was subsequently performed using a Neurolucida system. Our experiments revealed that no significant differences in resting membrane potential, input resistance or capacitance, hyperpolarization activated currents and most action potentials properties could be observed between YFP(+) and YFP(-) CRc. Both YFP(+) and YFP(-) CRc displayed spontaneous and carbachol-induced GABAergic postsynaptic currents with similar properties and comparable NMDA-receptor mediated glutamatergic inward currents that were equally affected by the NR2B specific antagonist ifenprodil. Morphological reconstructions revealed that dendritic and axonal parameters are similar between YFP(+) and YFP(-) CRc, while the dendritic compartment of YFP(+) CRc was slightly larger. In summary, no considerable differences in functional and morphological properties between YFP(+) and YFP(-) CRc could be observed in this study. These observations suggest that CRc of different ontogenic origins display comparable functional properties in the early postnatal cortex and therefore perform similar functions within the transient neuronal networks of the developing cortex.
It is believed that glial cell activation and their interactions with synapses are predominantly dependent upon the characteristics of synaptic activity and the level of transmitter release. Because synaptic properties vary from one type of synapse to another, synapse-glia interactions should differ accordingly. The goal of this work was to examine how glial cell activation is dependent upon the properties of their respective synapses as well as the level of synaptic activity. We contrasted Ca(2+) responses of perisynaptic Schwann cells (PSCs) at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) with different synaptic properties; the slow-twitch soleus (SOL) and the fast-twitch levator auris longus (LAL) muscles. Amplitude of PSC Ca(2+) responses elicited by repeated motor nerve stimulation at 40, 50 and 100 Hz were larger and their kinetics faster at LAL NMJs and this, at all frequencies examined. In addition, a greater number of PSCs per NMJ was activated by sustained synaptic transmission at NMJs of LAL in comparison to SOL. Differences in PSC activation could not be explained solely by differences in levels of transmitter release but also by intrinsic PSC properties since increasing transmitter release with tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) did not increase their responsiveness. As a whole, these results indicate that PSC responsiveness at NMJs of slow- and fast-twitch muscles differ not only according to the level of activity of their synaptic partner but also in accordance with inherent glial properties.
Cytoplasmic ubiquitin-positive inclusions containing TAR-DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) within motor neurons are the hallmark pathology of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). TDP-43 is a nuclear protein and the mechanisms by which it becomes mislocalized and aggregated in ALS are not properly understood. A mutation in the vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein-B (VAPB) involving a proline to serine substitution at position 56 (VAPBP56S) is the cause of familial ALS type-8. To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms by which VAPBP56S induces disease, we created transgenic mice that express either wild-type VAPB (VAPBwt) or VAPBP56S in the nervous system. Analyses of both sets of mice revealed no overt motor phenotype nor alterations in survival. However, VAPBP56S but not VAPBwt transgenic mice develop cytoplasmic TDP-43 accumulations within spinal cord motor neurons that were first detected at 18 months of age. Our results suggest a link between abnormal VAPBP56S function and TDP-43 mislocalization.
Opioid-induced glial activation and its proinflammatory consequences have been associated with both reduced acute opioid analgesia and the enhanced development of tolerance, hyperalgesia and allodynia following chronic opioid administration. Intriguingly, recent evidence demonstrates that these effects can result independently from the activation of classical, stereoselective opioid receptors. Here, a structurally disparate range of opioids cause activation of signaling by the innate immune receptor toll like receptor 4 (TLR4), resulting in proinflammatory glial activation. In the present series of studies, we demonstrate that the (+)-isomers of methadone and morphine, which bind with negligible affinity to classical opioid receptors, induced upregulation of proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine production in rat isolated dorsal spinal cord. Chronic intrathecal (+)-methadone produced hyperalgesia and allodynia, which were associated with significantly increased spinal glial activation (TLR4 mRNA and protein) and the expression of multiple chemokines and cytokines. Statistical analysis suggests that a cluster of cytokines and chemokines may contribute to these nociceptive behavioral changes. Acute intrathecal (+)-methadone and (+)-morphine were also found to induce microglial, interleukin-1 and TLR4/myeloid differentiation factor-2 (MD-2) dependent enhancement of pain responsivity. In silico docking analysis demonstrated (+)-naloxone sensitive docking of (+)-methadone and (+)-morphine to human MD-2. Collectively, these data provide the first evidence of the pro-nociceptive consequences of small molecule xenobiotic activation of spinal TLR4 signaling independent of classical opioid receptor involvement.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by accumulation of free cholesterol in late endosomes/lysosomes. The pathological basis for the disease is poorly understood. In the present study, electrophysiological and fluorescent dye studies were applied to examine neuron-specific functions of Niemann-Pick disease type C1 (NPC1) and to determine whether excitatory and inhibitory synapses are differentially impaired by NPC1 deficiency. Densities of spines and postsynaptic receptor clusters were not affected by NPC1 deficiency over the period examined. However, drastic defects on exocytosis were found both in glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. The defects were caused in part by a delay in the time required for replacement of excytosed vesicles with new fusion-competent ones. Moreover, we found that the delay of synaptic vesicle turnover was longer in inhibitory synapses (&gt;3 s) than in excitatory synapses (&lt;0.2 s). These defects may be early indicators, and could provide a potential explanation for key features of the disease, such as dystonia and seizures.
We examined the possible protective effect of TASK-1 (TWIK-related acid-sensitive potassium channel-1, kcnk3) and -3 potassium channels during stroke. TASK-1 and TASK-3, members of the two pore domain (K2P or kcnk) potassium channel family, form hetero or homodimers and help set the resting membrane potential. We used male TASK-1 and TASK-3 knockout mice in a model of focal cerebral ischemia, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO). Infarct volume was measured 48 h after pMCAO. The TASK-1 knockout brains had larger infarct volumes (P=0.004), and those in TASK-3 knockouts were unchanged. As the TASK-1 gene is expressed in adrenal gland, heart and possibly blood vessels, the higher infarct volumes in the TASK-1 knockout mice could be due to TASK-1 regulating blood vessel tone and hence blood pressure or influencing blood vessel microarchitecture and blood flow rate. Indeed, we found that male TASK-1 knockout mice had reduced blood pressure, likely explaining the increased brain injury seen after pMCAO. Thus to make precise conclusions about how TASK-1 protects neurons, neural- or organ-specific deletions of the gene will be needed. Nevertheless, a consequence of having TASK-1 channels expressed (in various non-neuronal tissues and organs) is that neuronal damage is lessened when stroke occurs.
Cholinergic neurons rely on the sodium-dependent choline transporter CHT to provide choline for synthesis of acetylcholine. CHT cycles between cell surface and subcellular organelles, but little is known about regulation of this trafficking. We hypothesized that activation of protein kinase C with phorbol ester modulates choline uptake by altering the rate of CHT internalization from or delivery to the plasma membrane. Using SH-SY5Y cells that stably express rat CHT, we found that exposure of cells to phorbol ester for 2 or 5 min significantly increased choline uptake, whereas longer treatment had no effect. Kinetic analysis revealed that 5 min phorbol ester treatment significantly enhanced V(max) of choline uptake, but had no effect on K(m) for solute binding. Cell-surface biotinylation assays showed that plasma membrane levels of CHT protein were enhanced following 5 min phorbol ester treatment; this was blocked by protein kinase C inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide-I. Moreover, CHT internalization was decreased and delivery of CHT to plasma membrane was increased by phorbol ester. Our results suggest that treatment of neural cells with the protein kinase C activator phorbol ester rapidly and transiently increases cell surface CHT levels and this corresponds with enhanced choline uptake activity which may play an important role in replenishing acetylcholine stores following its release by depolarization.
Erythropoietin (EPO) regulates the proliferation and differentiation of erythroid cells by binding to its specific transmembrane receptor (EPOR). The presence of EPO and its receptor in the CNS suggests a different function for EPO other than erythropoiesis. The purpose of the present study was to examine EPOR expression and the role of EPO in the proliferation of neonatal spinal cord-derived neural progenitor cells. The effect of EPO on cell cycle progression was also examined, as well as the signaling cascades involved in this process. Our results showed that EPOR was present in the neural progenitor cells and EPO significantly enhanced their proliferation. Cell cycle analysis of EPO-treated neural progenitor cells indicated a reduced percentage of cells in G0/G1 phase, whereas the cell proliferation index (S phase plus G2/M phase) was increased. EPO also increased the proportion of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells. With respect to the cell cycle signaling, we examined the cyclin-dependent kinases D1, D2 and E, and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, p21cip1, p27kip1 and p57kip2. No significant differences were observed in the expression of these transcripts after EPO administration. Interestingly, the anti-apoptotic factors, mcl-1 and bcl-2 were significantly increased twofold. Moreover, these specific effects of EPO were eliminated by incubation of the progenitor cells with anti-EPO neutralizing antibody. Those observations suggested that EPO may play a role in normal spinal cord development by regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis.
Although brain structures involved in central nervous olfactory processing in humans have been well identified with functional neuroimaging, little is known about the temporal sequence of their activation. We recorded olfactory event-related potentials (ERP) to H(2)S stimuli presented to the left and right nostril in 12 healthy subjects. Topographic and source analysis identified four distinct processing steps between 200 and 1000 ms. Activation started ipsilateral to the stimulated nostril in the mesial and lateral temporal cortex (amygdala, parahippocampal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus, insula). Subsequently, the corresponding structures on the contralateral side became involved, followed by frontal structures at the end of the activation period. Thus, based on EEG-related data, current results suggest that olfactory information in humans is processed first ipsilaterally to the stimulated nostril and then activates the major relays in olfactory information processing in both hemispheres. Most importantly, the currently described techniques allow the investigation of the spatial processing of olfactory information at a high temporal resolution.
Brain mechanisms for action understanding rely on matching the observed actions into the viewer's motor system. Health professionals, who treat patients affected by movement disorders as dystonia, frequently see hyperkinetic action patterns characterized by an overflow of muscle co-contractions. To avert an overload of the motor system during observation of those actions, they might need to look at dystonic motor symptoms in a cool, detached way. To investigate whether visual expertise about atypical movement kinematics influences the viewer's motor system, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation to clinicians and to naive subjects, while they observed handwriting actions performed with two different kinematics: fluent and non-fluent. Crucially, the latter movement pattern was easily recognized by the clinicians as a typical expression of writer's cramp, whereas it was unknown to the naive subjects. Results showed that clinicians had similar corticospinal activation during observation of dystonic and healthy writings, whereas naive subjects were hyper-activated during observation of dystonic movements. Hyper-activation was selective for the muscles directly involved in the dystonic co-contractions and inversely correlated with subjective movement fluency scores, hinting at a fine-tuned association between the breakdown of observed movement fluency and corticospinal activation. These findings suggest that observation of unusual pathological actions differently modulates the viewer's motor system, depending on knowledge, visual expertise, and ability in recognizing suboptimal movement kinematics.
Senescence-accelerated mouse prone/8 (SAMP8) mice are known to exhibit age-related deterioration in sleep-wake architecture compared with senescence-accelerated mouse resistant/1 (SAMR1) mice. We investigated whether treatment with Am80 (Tamibarotene), a retinoic acid receptor agonist, would improve sleep in 9-10-month-old SAMP8 mice. One week of Am80 administration improved the decrease in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep shown by SAMP8 mice. Real-time RT-PCR analysis demonstrated an impairment in the hippocampal retinoid cascade (retinoic acid receptor alpha and transthyretin) in SAMP8 in comparison to SAMR1 mice. Am80 treatment induced an increase in mRNA expression in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter in the brainstem and transthyretin in the hippocampus. Furthermore, decreased cortical acetylcholine content in SAMP8 was improved by Am80 administration. Decreased non-REM sleep and delta oscillation were also observed in SAMP8 mice; however, this was not improved by Am80 administration. These results partially support the hypothesis that the effects of aging on sleep-wake architecture are improved by the activation of retinoic acid receptors. The improvement may be induced by the activation of the cholinergic pathway.
Both the putative mirror neuron system (pMNS) and the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) are deemed important for social interaction: the pMNS because it supposedly &quot;resonates&quot; with the actions of others, the vmPFC because it is involved in mentalizing. Strictly speaking, the resonance property of the pMNS has never been investigated. Classical functional MRI experiments have only investigated whether pMNS regions augment their activity when an action is seen or executed. Resonance, however, entails more than only &quot;going on and off together&quot;. Activity in the pMNS of an observer should continuously follow the more subtle changes over time in activity of the pMNS of the actor. Here we directly explore whether such resonance indeed occurs during continuous streams of actions. We let participants play the game of charades while we measured brain activity of both gesturer and guesser. We then applied a method to localize directed influences between the brains of the participants: between-brain Granger-causality mapping. Results show that a guesser's brain activity in regions involved in mentalizing and mirroring echoes the temporal structure of a gesturer's brain activity. This provides evidence for resonance theories and indicates a fine-grained temporal interplay between regions involved in motor planning and regions involved in thinking about the mental states of others. Furthermore, this method enables experiments to be more ecologically valid by providing the opportunity to leave social interaction unconstrained. This, in turn, would allow us to tap into the neural substrates of social deficits such as autism spectrum disorder.
The neuropeptide oxytocin enhances the processing of positive social stimuli and improves the capacity to effectively attend the eye region of conspecifics. To investigate the neural basis of these effects, we combined intranasal oxytocin administration with high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging in a unique emotion classification task. Emotional faces were briefly presented while controlling for the initial fixation, and measuring subsequent eye movements. Oxytocin had differential effects on the activity of specific amygdala subregions. On the one hand, it attenuated activation in lateral and dorsal regions of the anterior amygdala for fearful faces but enhanced activity for happy expressions, thus indicating a shift of the processing focus toward positive social stimuli. On the other hand, oxytocin increased the likelihood of reflexive gaze shifts toward the eye region irrespective of the depicted emotional expression. This gazing pattern was related to an increase of activity in the posterior amygdala and an enhanced functional coupling of this region to the superior colliculi. Thus, different behavioral effects of oxytocin seem to be closely related its specific modulatory influence on subregions within the human amygdala.
The present study aimed at characterizing the anatomical and subcellular localization of cytoglobin (Cygb) and neuroglobin (Ngb) in the mouse brain by use of in situ hybridisation, immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. Cygb and Ngb were only found in distinct brain areas and often in the same areas. We found intense staining in the piriform cortex, amygdala, hypothalamus (medial preoptic area, supra chiasmatic nucleus, lateral hypothalamus (LH), ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, and the arcuate nucleus, habenular nuclei, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg), pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg), locus coeruleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and the spinal trigeminal nucleus. In addition Cygb is found in the hippocampus, the reticular thalamic nucleus, and the dorsal raphe nucleus; Ngb is found in the sub parabrachial nucleus. Co-localization of Cygb and Ngb is mainly observed in the LDTg and PPTg. Cygb and Ngb were found in cytoplasm, along neurotubuli, in mitochondria and in the nucleus by use of immunoelectron microscopy. Most neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-positive neurons were found to co-localize Cygb, although not all nNOS neurones contain Cygb. Ngb co-localize with almost all orexin neurons in the LH. In conclusion the distribution of Cygb and Ngb seems much more restricted and coherent than previously reported. We believe other functions than pure oxygen buffers and neuroprotectants should be considered. The anatomical data indicate a role in NO signalling for Cygb and involvement in sleep-wake cycling for Cygb and Ngb.
Seizures coincide with an increase in extracellular potassium concentrations [K(+)](e) yet little information is available regarding this phenomenon on the firing pattern, frequency and neuronal properties of inhibitory neurons responsible for modulating network excitability. Therefore, we investigated the effects of elevating [K(+)](e) from 2.5 to 12.5mM on CA3 rat hippocampal interneurons in vitro using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. We found that the majority of interneurons (21/25) in artificial cerebral spinal fluid (aCSF) exhibited spontaneous tonic spiking activity. As the [K(+)](e) increased to 12.5mM, interneurons exhibited a tonic, irregular, burst firing activity, or a combination of these. The input resistance decreased significantly to 59+/-18% at 7.5mM K(+) and did not further change at higher [K(+)](e) while the amount of K(+)-induced depolarization significantly increased from 5 to 12.5mM K(+) perfusion; a depolarization block occurred in 4 of the 12 interneurons at 12.5mM. Also, as [K(+)](e) increased, a transition from lower (1.3+/-0.6Hz) to higher dominant peak frequency (15.0+/-5.0Hz) was observed. We found that non-fast spiking (NFS) interneurons represented the majority of cells recorded and exhibited mostly tonic firing activity in raised K(+). Fast spiking (FS) interneurons predominately had a tonic firing pattern with very few exhibiting bursting activity in elevated K(+). In conclusion, we report that raised [K(+)](e) in amounts observed during seizures increases hippocampal CA3 interneuronal activity and suggests that a loss or impairment of inhibitory function may be present during these events.
Glycine can act as either an inhibitory neurotransmitter or as a potentiator of NMDA-dependent excitatory neurotransmission. There is some evidence that glycine can have both pro- and anticonvulsant properties in various rodent models of epilepsy. In the present study we tested several glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) inhibitors including NFPS, SSR 504734, Lu AA21279, Org 25935, SB-710622, GSK931145, as well as the glycine agonist d-serine, in the maximal electroshock threshold (MEST) test in the rat. In a series of experiments, male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=12/group) were pre-treated with a compound of interest and then received an electric shock delivered via corneal electrodes. A cohort of satellite animals (n=3/group) was also used to measure blood and brain levels of Org 25935. All GlyT1 inhibitors increased seizure thresholds dose-dependently, indicative of anticonvulsant activity. SB-710622 and GSK931145 had lower minimum effective doses (MEDs) in the MEST test than other GlyT1 inhibitors. At estimated t(max), increases in dose administered were paralleled by increases in blood and brain concentrations of Org 25935. Thus, increasing extracellular concentration of glycine via inhibition of its uptake protects from electroshock-induced seizures in the rat. Whether strychnine-sensitive or strychnine-insensitive glycine binding sites are involved in this effect remains to be determined.
Two-pore channels (TPCs or TPCNs) are novel members of the large superfamily of voltage-gated cation channels with slightly higher sequence homology to the pore-forming subunits of voltage-gated Ca(2+) and Na(+) channels than most other members. Recent studies demonstrate that TPCs locate to endosomes and lysosomes and form Ca(2+) release channels that respond to activation by the Ca(2+) mobilizing messenger, nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP). With multiple endolysosomal targeted NAADP receptors now identified, important new insights into the regulation of endolysosomal function in health and disease will therefore be unveiled.
The permeability transition pore (PTP) is an inner mitochondrial membrane channel that has been thoroughly characterized functionally, yet remains an elusive molecular entity. The best characterized PTP-regulatory component, cyclophilin (CyP) D, is a matrix protein that favors pore opening. CyP inhibitors, CyP-D null animals, and in situ PTP readouts have established the role of PTP as an effector mechanism of cell death, and the growing definition of PTP signalling mechanisms. This review briefly covers the functional features of the PTP and the role played by its dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. Recent progress on PTP modulation by kinase/phosphatase signal transduction is discussed, with specific emphasis on hexokinase and on the Akt-ERK-GSK3 axis, which might modulate the PTP through CyP-D phosphorylation.
After a brief review of the early history of mitochondrial electrophysiology, the contribution of this approach to the study of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) is recapitulated. It has for example provided evidence for a dimeric nature of the MPT pore, allowed the distinction between two levels of control of its activity, and underscored the relevance of redox events for the phenomenon. Single-channel recording provides a means to finally solve the riddle of the biochemical entity underlying it by comparing the characteristics of the pore with those of channels formed by candidate molecules or complexes. The possibility that this entity may be the protein import machinery of the inner mitochondrial membrane is emphasized.
Dendritic spines are small actin-rich protrusions from neuronal dendrites that form the postsynaptic part of most excitatory synapses and are major sites of information processing and storage in the brain. Changes in the shape and size of dendritic spines are correlated with the strength of excitatory synaptic connections and heavily depend on remodeling of its underlying actin cytoskeleton. Emerging evidence suggests that most signaling pathways linking synaptic activity to spine morphology influence local actin dynamics. Therefore, specific mechanisms of actin regulation are integral to the formation, maturation, and plasticity of dendritic spines and to learning and memory.



High-throughput screening identified compound 1 as a potent P2X(7) receptor antagonist suitable for lead optimisation. Structure-activity relationships (SAR) of a series of (1H-pyrazol-4-yl)acetamides were investigated and compound 32 was identified as a potent P2X(7) antagonist with enhanced potency and favourable physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties.
UDP-xylose synthase (Uxs1) is strongly conserved from bacteria to humans, but because no mutation has been studied in any animal, we do not understand its roles in development. Furthermore, no crystal structure has been published. Uxs1 synthesizes UDP-xylose, which initiates glycosaminoglycan attachment to a protein core during proteoglycan formation. Crystal structure and biochemical analyses revealed that an R233H substitution mutation in zebrafish uxs1 alters an arginine buried in the dimer interface, thereby destabilizing and, as enzyme assays show, inactivating the enzyme. Homozygous uxs1 mutants lack Alcian blue-positive, proteoglycan-rich extracellular matrix in cartilages of the neurocranium, pharyngeal arches, and pectoral girdle. Transcripts for uxs1 localize to skeletal domains at hatching. GFP-labeled neural crest cells revealed defective organization and morphogenesis of chondrocytes, perichondrium, and bone in uxs1 mutants. Proteoglycans were dramatically reduced and defectively localized in uxs1 mutants. Although col2a1a transcripts over-accumulated in uxs1 mutants, diminished quantities of Col2a1 protein suggested a role for proteoglycans in collagen secretion or localization. Expression of col10a1, indian hedgehog, and patched was disrupted in mutants, reflecting improper chondrocyte/perichondrium signaling. Up-regulation of sox9a, sox9b, and runx2b in mutants suggested a molecular mechanism consistent with a role for proteoglycans in regulating skeletal cell fate. Together, our data reveal time-dependent changes to gene expression in uxs1 mutants that support a signaling role for proteoglycans during at least two distinct phases of skeletal development. These investigations are the first to examine the effect of mutation on the structure and function of Uxs1 protein in any vertebrate embryos, and reveal that Uxs1 activity is essential for the production and organization of skeletal extracellular matrix, with consequent effects on cartilage, perichondral, and bone morphogenesis.
Local aromatization of testosterone into 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) is often required for the physiological and behavioral actions of testosterone. In most vertebrates, aromatase is expressed in a few discrete brain regions. While many studies have measured brain aromatase mRNA or activity, very few studies have measured brain E(2) levels, particularly in discrete brain regions, because of technical challenges. Here, we used the Palkovits punch technique to isolate 13 discrete brain nuclei from adult male zebra finches. Steroids were extracted via solid phase extraction. E(2) was then measured with an ultrasensitive, specific and precise radioimmunoassay. Our protocol leads to high recovery of E(2) (84%) and effectively removes interfering brain lipids. E(2) levels were high in aromatase-rich regions such as caudal medial nidopallium and hippocampus. E(2) levels were intermediate in the medial preoptic area, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, lateral and medial magnocellular nuclei of anterior nidopallium, nucleus taeniae of the amygdala, and Area X. E(2) levels were largely non-detectable in the cerebellum, HVC, lateral nidopallium and optic lobes. Importantly, E(2) levels were significantly lower in plasma than in the caudal medial nidopallium. This protocol allows one to measure E(2) in discrete brain regions and potentially relate local E(2) concentrations to aromatase activity and behavior.
ESTs have been generated for many crustacean species, providing an invaluable resource for peptide discovery in members of this arthropod subphylum. Here, these data were mined for novel peptide-encoding transcripts, with the mature peptides encoded by them predicted using a combination of online peptide prediction programs and homology to known arthropod sequences. In total, 70 mature full-length/partial peptides representing members of 16 families/subfamilies were predicted, the vast majority being novel; the species from which the peptides were identified included members of the Branchiopoda (Daphnia carinata and Triops cancriformis), Maxillopoda (Caligus clemensi, Caligus rogercresseyi, Lepeophtheirus salmonis and Lernaeocera branchialis) and Malacostraca (Euphausia superba, Marsupenaeus japonicus, Penaeus monodon, Homarus americanus, Petrolisthes cinctipes, Callinectes sapidus and Portunus trituberculatus). Of particular note were the identifications of an intermediate between the insect adipokinetic hormones and crustacean red pigment concentrating hormone and a modified crustacean cardioactive peptide from the daphnid D. carinata; Arg(7)-corazonin was also deduced from this species, the first identification of a corazonin from a non-decapod crustacean. Our data also include the first reports of members of the calcitonin-like diuretic hormone, FMRFamide-related peptide (neuropeptide F subfamily) and orcokinin families from members of the Copepoda. Moreover, the prediction of a bursicon alpha from the euphausid E. superba represents the first peptide identified from any member of the basal eucaridean order Euphausiacea. In addition, large collections of insect eclosion hormone- and neuroparsin-like peptides were identified from a variety of species, greatly expanding the number of known members of these families in crustaceans.
The primary olfactory cortex (or piriform cortex, PC) is attracting increasing attention as a model system for the study of cortical sensory processing, yet little is known about inhibitory neurons in the PC. Here we provide the first systematic classification of GABA-releasing interneurons in the anterior PC of mice, based on the expression of molecular markers. Our experiments used GAD67-GFP transgenic mice, in which gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing cells are labeled with green fluorescent protein (GFP). We first confirmed, using paired whole-cell recordings, that GFP(+) neurons in the anterior PC of GAD67-GFP mice are functionally GABAergic. Next, we performed immunolabeling of GFP(+) cells to quantify their expression of every possible pairwise combination of seven molecular markers: calbindin, calretinin, parvalbumin, cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, and vasoactive intestinal peptide. We found that six main categories of interneurons could be clearly distinguished in the anterior PC, based on the size and laminar location of their somata, intensity of GFP fluorescence, patterns of axonal projections, and expression of one or more of the seven markers. A number of rarer categories of interneurons could also be identified. These data provide a road map for further work that examines the functional properties of the six main classes of interneurons. Together, this information elucidates the cellular architecture of the PC and provides clues about the roles of GABAergic interneurons in olfactory processing.
A hierarchical scheme proposed by Kaas and colleagues suggests that primate auditory cortex can be divided into core and belt regions based on anatomic connections with thalamus and distinctions among response properties. According to their model, core auditory cortex receives predominantly unimodal sensory input from the ventral nucleus of the medial geniculate body (MGBv); whereas belt cortex receives predominantly cross-modal sensory input from nuclei outside the MGBv. We previously characterized distinct response properties in rat primary (A1) versus ventral auditory field (VAF) cortex; however, it has been unclear whether VAF should be categorized as a core or belt auditory cortex. The current study employed high-resolution functional imaging to map intrinsic metabolic responses to tones and to guide retrograde tracer injections into A1 and VAF. The size and density of retrogradely labeled somas in the medial geniculate body (MGB) were examined as a function of their position along the caudal-to-rostral axis, subdivision of origin, and cortical projection target. A1 and VAF projecting neurons were found in the same subdivisions of the MGB but in rostral and caudal parts, respectively. Less than 3% of the cells projected to both regions. VAF projecting neurons were smaller than A1 projecting neurons located in dorsal (MGBd) and suprageniculate (SG) nuclei. Thus, soma size varied with both caudal-rostral position and cortical target. Finally, the majority (&gt;70%) of A1 and VAF projecting neurons were located in MGBv. These MGB connection profiles suggest that rat auditory cortex, like primate auditory cortex, is made up of multiple distinct core regions.
The hepatitis B virus (HBV) is an important infectious cause of acute and chronic liver disease throughout the world. Recombinant hepatitis B vaccines have been developed to combat morbidity and mortality associated with HBV infection. These vaccines have been associated with autoimmune diseases mostly among adult vaccine recipients. Epidemiological surveys have not established unequivocal causality between the hepatitis B vaccine and the development of various autoimmune neuromuscular disorders. However, case histories and series hint at a temporal association between hepatitis B vaccines and the development of various neuropathy syndromes, polyarteritis nodosa complicated by vasculitic neuropathy, myasthenia gravis and dermatomyositis. Conceivably, the hepatitis B vaccines have a potential to occasionally trigger the onset of immune diseases in individuals with an underlying genetic or immunological susceptibility.
Gap junctions formed by expressing connexin subunits in Xenopus oocytes provide a valuable tool for revealing the gating properties of intercellular gap junctions in electrically coupled cells. We describe a new method that consists of simultaneous triple recordings from 3 apposed oocytes expressing exogenous connexins. The advantages of this method are that in one single experiment, 1 oocyte serves as control while a pair of oocytes, which have been manipulated differently, may be tested for different gap junctional properties. Moreover, we can study simultaneously the gap junctional coupling of 3 different pairs of oocytes in the same preparation. If the experiment consists of testing the effect of a single drug, this approach will reduce the time required, as background coupling in control pairs of oocytes does not need to be measured separately as with the conventional 2 oocyte pairing. The triplet approach also increases confidence that any changes seen in junctional communication are due to the experimental treatment and not variation in the preparation of oocytes or execution of the experiment. In this study, we show the example of testing the gap junctional properties among 3 oocytes, 2 of which are expressing rat connexin36.
Optical imaging being one of the cutting-edge methods for the investigation of neural activity, it is very important to understand the mechanisms of how dye molecules work and the range of side effects that they may induce. In particular, it is very important to reveal potential toxic effects and effects impairing the functioning of the investigated neural system. Here, we investigate the effects of illumination in the presence of the commonly used di-4-ANEPPS voltage-sensitive dye on the rhythmic motor pattern generated by the pyloric central pattern generator in the crab stomatogastric nervous system, a model system for motor pattern generation. We report that the dye allows long recording sessions with little bleaching and no obvious damage to the pyloric rhythm. Yet, exciting illumination induced a temporary and reversible change in the phase relationship of the pyloric motor neurons and a concomitant speed-up of the rhythm. The effect was specific to the excitation wavelength of di-4-ANEPPS and only obtained when the neuropile and cell bodies were illuminated. Thus, di-4-ANEPPS acts as a photo-switch that causes a quick and reversible change in the phase relationship of the motor neurons, but no permanent impairment of neuronal function. It may thus also be used as a means to study the maintenance of phase relationships in rhythmic motor patterns.
A routine method of measuring circulating corticosterone (CORT) levels in rats involves sampling of plasma from cannulated animals. However, being somewhat invasive, this method can potentially be confounded by its inherently stressful nature. This study investigated the feasibility of measuring corticosterone using a non-invasive sampling method from voided urine of male rats. Reliability was assessed pharmacologically with nicotinic compounds previously demonstrated to modulate plasma glucocorticoid levels. Nicotine (0.1-1mg/kg sc) dose-dependently increased corticosterone levels in rat urine at 30-70 min following administration. The short-lived nature of this elevation was confirmed as CORT levels measured 6 and 24h later were shown to have returned to basal levels. Both basal and nicotine-induced (0.5mg/kg sc) elevations in urinary CORT were consistent between groups of animals with weights ranging from 200 to 400 g. The magnitude of urinary CORT elevation induced by nicotine (0.5mg/kg sc) was found to be similar to that induced by a forced swim stressor in male Lister ) antagonist mecamylamine (0.05-0.5mg/kg sc) dose-dependently reversed the effects of nicotine (0.5mg/kg sc) on urinary CORT. Finally, the alpha(4)beta(2)-subunit preferring agonist TC-2559 induced a dose-dependent increase in CORT, whereas alpha(7)- and beta(4)-subunit preferring ligands had no effect, suggestive of the potential for differential involvement of nicotinic receptor subtypes in the mediation of this response. In conclusion, urinary corticosterone sampling in rats represents a robust assay sensitive to experimental manipulations of both pharmacological and behavioural relevances.
Nociceptors are sensory neurons that detect harmful, or potentially harmful, stimuli, and can become sensitized following injury or repetitive stimulation. When sensitized, nociceptors often exhibit activity in the absence of apparent or additional stimulation, called ongoing (or spontaneous) activity (OA). In this report, we provide evidence that OA in nociceptors can be caused by the stimuli typically used to identify and characterize the neuron, which must by definition be noxious and therefore potentially sensitizing. Such OA caused by the experimental methodology can confound interpretation. In our nerve inflammation model, OA can potentially arise from multiple sites, including the lesion site and the receptive field. We provide evidence that the OA rate recorded during these experiments may be related to the site and cause of OA generation. We suggest that there are two types of OA, characterized by their rates. Very slow rates of ongoing activity (&lt;0.2 Hz) are likely to arise from the receptive field and may indicate sensitization during the experiment. Faster rates are likely to arise from the nerve trunk, i.e. the neuritis, or the neuronal cell body. Without appropriate methodological consideration, interpretations of results from such studies of nociceptor function may be methodologically confounded.
Functional and reliable in vitro models of Parkinson's disease (PD) are valuable for studying mechanisms of dopaminergic degeneration before proceeding to animal testing. At present, all in vitro models involve substitute cell types and thus their direct relevance to PD is questionable. Here, we describe an organotypic culture model which conserves the 3D architecture of the nigro-striatal pathway, together with the subventricular zone and cerebral cortex, and recapitulates a specific pattern of dopaminergic degeneration which is the principal hallmark of PD. The organotypic culture is kept in vitro for up to 12 days and dopaminergic degeneration is induced by the simple cutting of dopaminergic fibers. This organotypic model represents a rapid and useful method (30 min/pup for preparation and up to 12 days of cultivation) to investigate in vitro the mechanisms underlying neuronal death and protection, as well as neurogenesis and repair after nigro-striatal neurodegeneration.
Many neurophysiological experiments on rodents and non-human primates involve the implantation of more than one multi-electrode array to record from many regions of the brain. So called 'floating' microelectrode arrays are implanted in cortical regions of interest and are coupled via a flexible cable to their connectors which are fixed to the skull by a cement cap or a titanium pedestal, such as the Cereport system, which has been approved for human use. The use of bone cement has several disadvantages including the creation of infection prone areas at the interface with the skull and surrounding skin. Alternatively, the more biocompatible Cereport has a limited carrying capacity and is far more expensive. In this paper, we describe a new implantation technique, which combines the biocompatibility of titanium, a high carrying capacity with a minimal skull footprint, and a decreased chance of infection, all in a relatively inexpensive package. This technique utilizes an in-house fabricated 'Nesting Platform' (NP), mounted on a titanium headpost to hold multiple connectors above the skin, making the headpost the only transcutaneous object. The use of delrin, a durable, lightweight and easily machinable material, allows easy customization of the NP for a wide variety of floating electrodes and their connectors. The ultimate result is a longer survival time with superior neural recordings that can potentially last longer than with traditional implantation techniques.
In this study we investigated the differentiation of human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs) in vitro to evaluate their differentiation potential and in vivo to explore their viability and behavior following transplantation. Progenitors were maintained as neurospheres in media containing basic fibroblast growth factor and epidermal growth factor. Micropatterned polystyrene substrates were fabricated and coated with ECL (entactin, collagen, and laminin) to provide physical and chemical guidance during the differentiation of the hNPCs. The hNPCs growing on the micropatterned substrates showed no differences in proliferation or differentiation potential compared with those hNPCs growing on the nonpatterned substrates. However, hNPCs cultured on the micropatterned substrates were aligned in the direction of the micropattern compared with those cells growing on the nonpatterned substrates. Furthermore, hNPC migration was directed in alignment with the micropatterned substrates. Transplantation of the hNPCs into the developing retina was used to evaluate their behavior in vivo. Cells displayed extensive survival, differentiation, and morphological integration following xenotransplant into the retina, even in the absence of immunosuppression. Taken together, our results show that these multipotent hNPCs are a neurogenic progenitor population that can be maintained in culture for extended periods. Although the micropatterned substrates have no major effect on the proliferation or differentiation of the hNPCs, they clearly promoted alignment and directed neurite outgrowth along the pattern as well as directing migration of the cells. These approaches may provide important strategies to guide the growth and differentiation of NPCs in vitro and in vivo.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been used in the clinic to treat Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Our previous work has shown that DBS in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) can improve major motor deficits, and induce a variety of neural responses in rats with unilateral dopamine (DA) lesions. In the present study, we examined the effect of STN DBS on reaction time (RT) performance and parallel changes in neural activity in the cortico-basal ganglia regions of partially bilateral DA- lesioned rats. We recorded neural activity with a multiple-channel single-unit electrode system in the primary motor cortex (MI), the STN, and the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) during RT test. RT performance was severely impaired following bilateral injection of 6-OHDA into the dorsolateral part of the striatum. In parallel with such behavioral impairments, the number of responsive neurons to different behavioral events was remarkably decreased after DA lesion. Bilateral STN DBS improved RT performance in 6-OHDA lesioned rats, and restored operational behavior-related neural responses in cortico-basal ganglia regions. These behavioral and electrophysiological effects of DBS lasted nearly an hour after DBS termination. These results demonstrate that a partial DA lesion-induced impairment of RT performance is associated with changes in neural activity in the cortico-basal ganglia circuit. Furthermore, STN DBS can reverse changes in behavior and neural activity caused by partial DA depletion. The observed long-lasting beneficial effect of STN DBS suggests the involvement of the mechanism of neural plasticity in modulating cortico-basal ganglia circuits.
The serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) dysfunction found in depression may affect not only brain function (mood) but also cerebrovascular control. Similar, but possibly occult, disturbances may also be induced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity (MDMA, or &quot;ecstasy&quot;). Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) is widely used to identify vulnerability to depression, and we hypothesized that repeated MDMA administration would increase the sensitivity of rats to this acute serotonergic challenge. In this study, male Wistar rats were injected with MDMA (20 mg kg(-1), twice daily for 4 days) and challenged 3 weeks later with ATD, induced by intragastric administration of a nutritional mixture with tryptophan (TRP) removed. Cerebral metabolism (CMRG) and blood flow (CBF) were measured in parallel groups of animals following ATD by using quantitative [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose and [(14)C]iodoantipyrine autoradiographic techniques, respectively. A significant reduction in paroxetine binding to 5-HT transporter sites in MDMA-treated rats indicated 5HT terminal depletion, whereas the plasma TRP/sum large neutral amino acids ratio was reduced by 40% following ATD. Under all experimental conditions, the normal close correlation between CBF and metabolic demand was maintained. However, a global analysis of all brain regions revealed a significant decrease in the overall ratio of CBF to CMRG after ATD in control animals, whereas a higher ratio was observed after ATD in the MDMA-treated group. This increase in blood flow relative to cerebral metabolism suggests an ATD-induced loss of cerebrovascular tone in MDMA-treated animals that could have pathophysiological consequences and might conceivably contribute to the behavioral dysfunction of depression.

Cerebellar Purkinje cells produce two distinct forms of action potential output: simple and complex spikes. Simple spikes occur spontaneously or are driven by parallel fibre input, while complex spikes are activated by climbing fibre input. Previous studies indicate that both simple and complex spikes originate in the axon of Purkinje cells, but the precise location where they are initiated is unclear. Here we address where in the axon of cerebellar Purkinje cells simple and complex spikes are generated. Using extracellular recording and voltage-sensitive dye imaging in rat and mouse Purkinje cells, we show that both simple and complex spikes are generated in the proximal axon, 15-20 mum from the soma. Once initiated, simple and complex spikes propagate both down the axon and back into the soma. The speed of backpropagation into the soma was significantly faster for complex compared to simple spikes, presumably due to charging of the somatodendritic membrane capacitance during the climbing fibre synaptic conductance. In conclusion, we show using two independent methods that the final integration site of simple and complex spikes is in the proximal axon of cerebellar Purkinje cells, at a location corresponding to the distal end of the axon initial segment.
Understanding information flow in sensory pathways requires cell-selective approaches to manipulate the activity of defined neurones. Primary afferent nociceptors, which detect painful stimuli, are enriched in specific voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) subtypes. Toxins derived from venomous animals can be used to dissect the contributions of particular ion currents to cell physiology. Here we have used a transgenic approach to target a membrane-tethered isoform of the conotoxin MrVIa (t-MrVIa) only to nociceptive neurones in mice. T-MrVIa transgenic mice show a 44 +/- 7% reduction of tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) VGSC current densities. This inhibition is permanent, reversible and does not result in functional upregulation of TTX-sensitive (TTX-S) VGSCs, voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) or transient receptor potential (TRP) channels present in nociceptive neurones. As a consequence of the reduction of TTX-R VGSC currents, t-MrVIa transgenic mice display decreased inflammatory mechanical hypersensitivity, cold pain insensitivity and reduced firing of cutaneous C-fibres sensitive to noxious cold temperatures. These data validate the use of genetically encoded t-toxins as a powerful tool to manipulate VGSCs in specific cell types within the mammalian nervous system. This novel genetic methodology can be used for circuit mapping and has the key advantage that it enables the dissection of the contribution of specific ionic currents to neuronal function and to behaviour.
A correct balance between endocannabinoid and dopamine-dependent systems is believed to underlie physiological motor control. We measured the levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide in the cerebrospinal fluid of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Subjects were divided into three groups: newly diagnosed de novo patients, subjects undergoing drug withdrawal, and patients under pharmacological therapy. These groups were compared to age-matched control subjects. Anandamide levels in untreated patients were more than doubled as compared to controls. However, chronic dopaminergic replacement restored control anandamide levels. Abnormal anandamide increase might reflect a compensatory mechanism occurring in course of PD, aimed at normalizing dopamine depletion.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the discriminative power of different nonmotor signs for early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Thirty patients with PD with &lt;or=3 years of disease duration were compared with 30 healthy controls. Six deficit domains (DD) were defined: hyposmia, sleep abnormalities, dysautonomia, visual deficits, executive dysfunction, and depression. Plotting of Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and exact conditional logistic modeling, followed by manual stepwise descending procedure were used to identify a model for nonmotor signs that detects early PD. Patients with PD and controls did not differ in terms of age, gender, and educational level. Several DD discriminated patients with PD from healthy controls. Visual deficits showed the largest area under the ROC curve (0.83), followed by hyposmia (0.81) and dysautonomia (0.80). When combining the DD visual deficits and dysautonomia, the best residual model was obtained; it maximized both sensitivity and specificity for PD at a level of 0.77. At an early disease stage, several nonmotor domains were already able to discriminate patients with PD from healthy controls. Visual deficits had the best discriminatory power. Being brief and inexpensive, visual tests should be further investigated in larger cohorts as potential screening tool for early PD.
Creativity has been essential to the development of human civilization and plays a crucial role in cultural life. However, despite literature that has proposed the importance of structural connectivity in the brain for creativity, the relationship between regional white matter integrity and creativity has never been directly investigated. In this study, we used diffusion tensor imaging and a behavioral creativity test of divergent thinking to investigate the relationship between creativity and structural connectivity. We examined associations between creativity and fractional anisotropy across the brain in healthy young adult (mean age, 21.7 years old; [SD]=1.44) men (n=42) and women (n=13). After controlling for age, sex, and score on Raven's advanced progressive matrices, a test for psychometric measures of intelligence, significant positive relationships between fractional anisotropy and individual creativity as measured by the divergent thinking test were observed in the white matter in or adjacent to the bilateral prefrontal cortices, the body of the corpus callosum, the bilateral basal ganglia, the bilateral temporo-parietal junction and the right inferior parietal lobule. As a whole, these findings indicate that integrated white matter tracts underlie creativity. These pathways involve the association cortices and the corpus callosum, which connect information in distant brain regions and underlie diverse cognitive functions that support creativity. Thus, our results are congruent with the ideas that creativity is associated with the integration of conceptually distant ideas held in different brain domains and architectures and that creativity is supported by diverse high-level cognitive functions, particularly those of the frontal lobe.
Two fMRI experiments were conducted using song to investigate the domain specificity of linguistic and musical processing. In Experiment 1, participants listened to pairs of spoken words, &quot;vocalise&quot; (i.e., singing without words), and sung words while performing a same-different task. Results revealed bilateral involvement of middle and superior temporal gyri and inferior and middle frontal gyri while listening to spoken words, sung words and vocalise, although to different degrees. In Experiment 2, participants listened to pairs of sung words that were similar or different in terms of the linguistic and musical dimensions (2x2 factorial event-related design) while performing a same-different task. Results showed widespread interactions between the linguistic and musical dimensions of sung words mainly within the network of brain areas identified in Experiment 1. Consequently, the activity in these brain regions cannot be considered as specific to either language or music processing. Taken together, results of both experiments argue against domain specificity and provide additional evidence for a common cerebral network involved in both lexical/phonological and melodic processing.
A kinetic modelling method for the determination of influx constant, Ki is given that utilises basis functions derived from plasma input two-tissue compartmental models (BAFPIC). Two forms of the basis functions are given: BAFPICI with k4=0 (no product loss) and BAFPICR with k4 non-zero. Simulations were performed using literature rate constant values for [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in both normal and abnormal brain pathology. Both homogeneous and heterogeneous tissues were simulated and this data was also used as input for other methods commonly used to determine Ki: non-linear least squares compartmental modelling (NLLS), autoradiographic method and Patlak-Gjedde graphical analysis (PGA). The four methods were also compared for real FDG positron emission tomography (PET) data. For both k4=0 and k4 non-zero simulated data BAFPIC had the best bias properties of the four methods. The autoradiographic method was always the best for variability but BAFPICI had lower variability than PGA and NLLS. For non-zero k4 data, the variance of BAFPICR was inferior to PGA but still significantly superior to NLLS. Ki maps calculated from real data substantiate the simulation results, with BAFPICI having lower noise than PGA. Voxel Ki values from BAFPICI correlated well with those from PGA (r2=0.989). BAFPIC is easy to implement and combines low bias with good noise properties for voxel-wise determination of Ki for FDG. BAFPIC is suitable for determining Ki for other tracers well characterised by a serial two-tissue compartment model and has the advantage of also producing values for individual kinetic constants and blood volume.
Simultaneous EEG and functional MRI (EEG-fMRI) studies of focal epileptiform spikes commonly use the canonical haemodynamic response function (HRF) to model the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) response to these events. Support for the use of the canonical HRF has come from large studies that contain mixed cohorts of epilepsy syndromes and discharge types, and has demonstrated plausible epileptic localisation results in the majority of patients. Other studies, however, have reported that some patients show a BOLD response that differs markedly from a canonical HRF. Our aim in this study was to see if the BOLD response is well modelled by a canonical HRF in a homogeneous cohort of patients with benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS), an idiopathic partial epilepsy with stereotypical centrotemporal spikes on the EEG. We studied eight well-characterised and typical BECTS patients and found that the shape of the average BOLD response was different to the canonical HRF. Furthermore, a localisation analysis using the group-average response provided increased sensitivity and specificity compared to the canonical HRF. Our findings suggest that the canonical HRF may not provide the best model for the BOLD response in some epilepsy syndromes or spike-types. In studies of homogeneous patient groups, therefore, localisation results may be improved by using a group-specific BOLD response.
Neuroimaging centers and pharmaceutical companies are working together to evaluate treatments that might slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a common but devastating late-life neuropathology. Recently, automated brain mapping methods, such as tensor-based morphometry (TBM) of structural MRI, have outperformed cognitive measures in their precision and power to track disease progression, greatly reducing sample size estimates for drug trials. In the largest TBM study to date, we studied how sample size estimates for tracking structural brain changes depend on the time interval between the scans (6-24 months). We analyzed 1309 brain scans from 91 probable AD patients (age at baseline: 75.4+/-7.5 years) and 189 individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI; 74.6+/-7.1 years), scanned at baseline, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months. Statistical maps revealed 3D patterns of brain atrophy at each follow-up scan relative to the baseline; numerical summaries were used to quantify temporal lobe atrophy within a statistically-defined region-of-interest. Power analyses revealed superior sample size estimates over traditional clinical measures. Only 80, 46, and 39 AD patients were required for a hypothetical clinical trial, at 6, 12, and 24 months respectively, to detect a 25% reduction in average change using a two-sided test (alpha=0.05, power=80%). Correspondingly, 106, 79, and 67 subjects were needed for an equivalent MCI trial aiming for earlier intervention. A 24-month trial provides most power, except when patient attrition exceeds 15-16%/year, in which case a 12-month trial is optimal. These statistics may facilitate clinical trial design using voxel-based brain mapping methods such as TBM.
A key goal of cognitive neuroscience is to find simple and direct connections between brain and behaviour. However, fMRI analysis typically involves choices between many possible options, with each choice potentially biasing any brain-behaviour correlations that emerge. Standard methods of fMRI analysis assess each voxel individually, but then face the problem of selection bias when combining those voxels into a region-of-interest, or ROI. Multivariate pattern-based fMRI analysis methods use classifiers to analyse multiple voxels together, but can also introduce selection bias via data-reduction steps as feature selection of voxels, pre-selecting activated regions, or principal components analysis. We show here that strong brain-behaviour links can be revealed without any voxel selection or data reduction, using just plain linear regression as a classifier applied to the whole brain at once, i.e. treating each entire brain volume as a single multi-voxel pattern. The brain-behaviour correlations emerged despite the fact that the classifier was not provided with any information at all about subjects' behaviour, but instead was given only the neural data and its condition-labels. Surprisingly, more powerful classifiers such as a linear SVM and regularised logistic regression produce very similar results. We discuss some possible reasons why the very simple brain-wide linear regression model is able to find correlations with behaviour that are as strong as those obtained on the one hand from a specific ROI and on the other hand from more complex classifiers. In a manner which is unencumbered by arbitrary choices, our approach offers a method for investigating connections between brain and behaviour which is simple, rigorous and direct.
Automatic anatomical segmentation of magnetic resonance human brain images has been shown to be accurate and robust when based on multiple atlases that encompass the anatomical variability of the cohort of subjects. We observed that the method tends to fail when the segmentation target shows ventricular enlargement that is not captured by the atlas database. By incorporating tissue classification information into the image registration process, we aimed to increase the robustness of the method. For testing, subjects who participated in the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Aging (OPTIMA) and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were selected for ventriculomegaly. Segmentation quality was substantially improved in the ventricles and surrounding structures (9/9 successes on visual rating versus 4/9 successes using the baseline method). In addition, the modification resulted in a significant increase of segmentation accuracy in healthy subjects' brain images. Hippocampal segmentation results in a group of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy were near identical with both approaches. The modified approach (MAPER, multi-atlas propagation with enhanced registration) extends the applicability of multi-atlas based automatic whole-brain segmentation to subjects with ventriculomegaly, as seen in normal aging as well as in numerous neurodegenerative diseases.
Oscillatory activity is a widespread phenomenon in nervous systems and has been implicated in numerous functions. Signals that are generated by two separate neuronal sources often demonstrate a consistent phase-relationship in a particular frequency-band, i.e., they demonstrate rhythmic neuronal synchronization. This consistency is conventionally measured by the PLV (phase-locking value) or the spectral coherence measure. Both statistical measures suffer from significant bias, in that their sample estimates overestimate the population statistics for finite sample sizes. This is a significant problem in the neurosciences where statistical comparisons are often made between conditions with a different number of trials or between neurons with a different number of spikes. We introduce a new circular statistic, the PPC (pairwise phase consistency). We demonstrate that the sample estimate of the PPC is a bias-free and consistent estimator of its corresponding population parameter. We show, both analytically and by means of numerical simulations, that the population statistic of the PPC is equivalent to the population statistic of the squared PLV. The variance and mean squared error of the PPC and PLV are compared. Finally, we demonstrate the practical relevance of the method in actual neuronal data recorded from the orbitofrontal cortex of rats that engage in a two-odour discrimination task. We find a strong increase in rhythmic synchronization of spikes relative to the local field potential (as measured by the PPC) for a wide range of low frequencies (including the theta-band) during the anticipation of sucrose delivery in comparison to the anticipation of quinine delivery.
Individuals with substance use disorders typically show reduced amplitudes of the P3 component of the evoked potential and high scores on impulsivity and aggression measures. The present study investigated the usefulness of P3 amplitude, addiction severity and impulsivity as predictors of treatment completion in substance dependence. Forty-four participants (8 women), between the ages of 19 and 61 years old, who met DSM-IV-TR Axis I substance/alcohol dependence criteria were recruited for the present study. All participants were currently residents at a local substance abuse facility receiving treatment and had been free of all drug toxicity for a minimum of 21 days. The P3 was evoked using a standard rotated-heads oddball paradigm. Significantly reduced P3 amplitude at Pz was found in patients who did not complete treatment compared to those who did. P3 amplitude at Pz elicited by target stimuli correctly identified 76.2% of those who did complete the treatment and 46.7% of those who did not.
The purpose of this study was to examine the relative contributions of psychotic symptomatology such as delusions and hallucinations, and insight to quality of life (QOL) in a sample of outpatients with stable schizophrenia. Eighty-three consecutive outpatients with stable schizophrenia were enrolled in a cross-sectional study. We performed a path analysis using a multiple regression technique to assess the specific effect of psychotic symptomatology on QOL and the possible mediating role of insight. Our findings suggested that (i) psychotic symptomatology was negatively correlated to both QOL and the two dimensions of insight we considered (awareness of symptoms and attribution of symptoms); (ii) the impact of insight on QOL was not uniform as attribution of symptoms positively predicted QOL, while the effect of symptom awareness was negative; (iii) when the mediation effect of insight was taken into account, psychotic symptomatology was no longer a significant predictor of QOL on its own. These results suggested a complex pattern of relationships between different dimensions of insight, QOL and psychotic symptomatology. Different dimensions of insight could be related to different aspects of outcome, and this would need to be reflected in rehabilitation programs.
While the role of impaired cognition in accounting for functional outcome in schizophrenia is generally established, the relationship between cognitive and functional change in the context of treatments is far from clear. The current paper tries to identify which cognitive changes lead to improvements in daily functioning among persons with chronic schizophrenia who had current negative symptoms and evidenced neuropsychological impairments. In a previous work, Cognitive Remediation Therapy (CRT) was compared with a control therapy, involving similar length of therapist contact but different targets. At the end of treatment, CRT conferred a benefit to people with schizophrenia in cognition and functioning [Schizophrenia Research, 87 (2006) 323-331]. Subsequently, analyses of covariance (ANCOVA) were conducted with baseline and cognitive change scores as covariates to test whether cognitive change predicted change in functioning. Additionally, statistical tests to establish the mediation path with significant variables were performed. Although verbal memory, but not executive functioning, was associated with functioning at baseline, it was the improvement in executive functioning that predicted improved daily functioning. Verbal memory played a mediator role in the change process. Consequently, in order to improve daily functioning with CRT, executive function still needs to be targeted in despite of multiple cognitive impairments being present.
Alexithymia is characterized by a marked inability to identify feelings and emotional states and some studies have documented sensorial perception in response to visual or auditory cues in this disease. Although olfaction is well known for its emotional correlates, the perception of olfactory stimulations has not been previously investigated. This study compares with standard psychophysical methods the olfactory sensitivity and the self-ratings of intensity and hedonic valence of a panel of odorants in alexithymic patients, non-alexithymic patients and control subjects. Results show that alexithymics over-evaluate intensity and pleasantness of odorants compared to non-alexithymics or control subjects. This could be interpreted in the framework of a lack of inhibitory control including this particular sense.
The Children's Global Assessment Scale (CGAS) is a tool to assess the overall level of functioning of children in Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS). Even though the use of this rating scale requires trained raters, it is commonly deployed without prior training in clinical settings. The aim of this study was to investigate the reliability and the agreement of CGAS ratings with an expert rating, in a clinical setting with untrained raters. Five experienced clinicians rated five vignettes to provide expert ratings. These vignettes were then rated by 703 health-care professionals representing 33 Swedish CAMHS. The health-care professionals rated the vignettes significantly higher (showing better global functioning) than the expert ratings. There was a wide range between the minimum and maximum ratings. The intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.73, which indicates moderate inter-rater reliability. Neither clinical experience nor earlier experience of using CGAS influenced the agreement with the expert ratings. The inter-rater reliability is moderate when CGAS is used in a clinical setting with untrained raters. Further, the untrained raters differed substantially from the experts. This stresses the importance of proper training in conjunction with the introduction of new rating scales.
Homer1a and Yotiao are two post-synaptic density proteins at the crossroad of dopamine-glutamate neurotransmission. Homer1a has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and is differentially induced by typical and atypical antipsychotics, perhaps according to their dopaminergic profile. Yotiao has been involved in glutamate and dopamine post-synaptic signalling. Here, we seek to determine whether Homer1a and Yotiao might be implicated in post-synaptic response to antipsychotics with affinity to different dopamine D(2) receptors: haloperidol (0.8mg kg(-1)), risperidone (3mg kg(-1)), olanzapine (2.5mg kg(-1)) and (-)-sulpiride (50mg kg(-1)). Homer1a expression was significantly induced by haloperidol compared to vehicle and to atypical antipsychotics in almost all striatal sub-regions. Atypical antipsychotics induced the gene in the lateral putamen and in the core of the accumbens only. All antipsychotics, with the exclusion of sulpiride, elicited a dorsolateral-to-ventromedial distribution pattern of Homer1a expression. No significant induction was detected for Yotiao. These results suggest that the quantitative and topographical pattern of Homer1a expression may putatively be related to antipsychotics affinity and/or occupancy at dopamine D(2) receptors.
The aim of this study was to investigate theory of mind (ToM) performance on tasks that varied in the demands they placed on cognitive processing resources in a sample of 14 bipolar patients with subsyndromal illness and 14 controls. Patients showed impaired performance on cognitively demanding second-order ToM tasks. Reduced ToM performance was associated with longer illness duration, and with increased symptom severity.

Drosophila Crumbs has been reported to attenuate Notch signaling by inhibition of gamma-secretase cleavage at the wing margins. gamma-Secretase is an intramembrane protease that is responsible for the generation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). Here, we re-examined gamma-secretase inhibition by human CRB2, which is the most abundant Crumbs ortholog in the brain. Transfected CRB2 inhibited proteolytic production of Abeta and APP intracellular domains from APP C-terminal fragments in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous CRB2 increased gamma-secretase cleavage products in SH-SY5Y cells. CRB2 inhibition of gamma-cleavage was also detected in cell-free assays. CRB2 interacted with the gamma-secretase complex, but was not a competitive substrate for gamma-cleavage. The transmembrane domain of CRB2 was indispensable for inhibition of Abeta generation and mediated CRB2 binding with the gamma-secretase complex. In addition, the cytoplasmic domain appeared to play a supportive role in gamma-secretase inhibition, whereas mutational disruption of the two protein-binding motifs involved in the formation of cell adhesion complexes did not affect gamma-secretase inhibition. Co-overexpression of presenilin-1 or APH-1 abrogated gamma-secretase inhibition probably through prevention of the incorporation of CRB2 into the gamma-secretase complex. Our results suggest that CRB2 functions as an inhibitory binding protein that is involved in the formation of a mature but inactive pool of the gamma-secretase complex.
The receptors for members of the relaxin peptide family have only recently been discovered and are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Relaxin and insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) interact with the leucine-rich-repeat-containing GPCRs (LGRs) LGR7 and LGR8, respectively. These receptors show closest similarity to the glycoprotein hormone receptors and contain large ectodomains with 10 leucine-rich repeats (LRRs) but are unique members of the LGR family (class C) as they have an LDL class A (LDLa) module at their N-terminus. In contrast, relaxin-3 and INSL5 interact with another class of type I GPCRs which lack a large ectodomain, the peptide receptors GPCR135 and GPCR142, respectively. These receptors are now classified as relaxin family peptide (RXFP) receptors, RXFP1 (LGR7), RXFP2 (LGR8), RXFP3 (GPCR135) and RXFP4 (GPCR142). This review outlines the identification of the peptides and receptors, their expression profiles and physiological roles and the functional interactions of the peptides with their unique receptors.
Lombardi et al. (Reports, 23 October 2009, p. 585) reported an association between the human gammaretrovirus XMRV and chronic fatigue syndrome. However, their results may be misleading because of various potential sources of bias and confounding. If real, the association may lack generalizability because of the specific characteristics of the cases studied and could be due to reverse causality.
The cyclin dependent kinase Cdk1 controls the cell cycle, which is best understood in the model organism S. cerevisiae. Research performed during the past decade has significantly improved our understanding of the molecular machinery of the cell cycle. Approximately 75 targets of Cdk1 have been identified that control critical cell cycle events, such as DNA replication and segregation, transcriptional programs and cell morphogenesis. In this review we discuss currently known targets of Cdk1 in the budding yeast S. cerevisiae and highlight the role of Cdk1 in several crucial processes including maintenance of genome stability.
We investigated how different subregions of rodent prefrontal cortex contribute to value-based decision making, by comparing neural signals related to animal's choice, its outcome, and action value in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats performing a dynamic two-armed bandit task. Neural signals for upcoming action selection arose in the mPFC, including the anterior cingulate cortex, only immediately before the behavioral manifestation of animal's choice, suggesting that rodent prefrontal cortex is not involved in advanced action planning. Both OFC and mPFC conveyed signals related to the animal's past choices and their outcomes over multiple trials, but neural signals for chosen value and reward prediction error were more prevalent in the OFC. Our results suggest that rodent OFC and mPFC serve distinct roles in value-based decision making and that the OFC plays a prominent role in updating the values of outcomes expected from chosen actions.
One of the most intriguing aspects of adaptive behavior involves the inference of regularities and rules in ever-changing environments. Rules are often deduced through evidence-based learning which relies on the prefrontal cortex (PFC). This is a highly dynamic process, evolving trial by trial and therefore may not be adequately captured by averaging single-unit responses over numerous repetitions. Here, we employed advanced statistical techniques to visualize the trajectories of ensembles of simultaneously recorded medial PFC neurons on a trial-by-trial basis as rats deduced a novel rule in a set-shifting task. Neural populations formed clearly distinct and lasting representations of familiar and novel rules by entering unique network states. During rule acquisition, the recorded ensembles often exhibited abrupt transitions, rather than evolving continuously, in tight temporal relation to behavioral performance shifts. These results support the idea that rule learning is an evidence-based decision process, perhaps accompanied by moments of sudden insight.
In this issue of Neuron, Durstewitz and colleagues show that neuronal populations in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of rats reflect abrupt changes in behavioral strategy as animals learn to act according to new rules in a rule-switching task.
Modern model-based control theory has led to transformative improvements in our ability to track the nonlinear dynamics of systems that we observe, and to engineer control systems of unprecedented efficacy. In parallel with these developments, our ability to build computational models to embody our expanding knowledge of the biophysics of neurons and their networks is maturing at a rapid rate. In the treatment of human dynamical disease, our employment of deep brain stimulators for the treatment of Parkinson's disease is gaining increasing acceptance. Thus, the confluence of these three developments--control theory, computational neuroscience and deep brain stimulation--offers a unique opportunity to create novel approaches to the treatment of this disease. This paper explores the relevant state of the art of science, medicine and engineering, and proposes a strategy for model-based control of Parkinson's disease. We present a set of preliminary calculations employing basal ganglia computational models, structured within an unscented Kalman filter for tracking observations and prescribing control. Based upon these findings, we will offer suggestions for future research and development.

The descending serotonergic (5-HT) system is shown to be plastically altered under pathological conditions such as inflammation or peripheral nerve lesion. Although much evidence indicates that the potentiation of descending facilitatory 5-HT pathways may contribute to the development of chronic pain, the inhibition of descending inhibitory 5-HT system may be functionally more important to the development of central sensitization and neuropathic pain. In the present study, we observed that the inhibitory effects of 5-HT and its receptor agonists including 1A, 1B, 3, 4, and probably 2C receptor agonists, on the C-fiber responses of dorsal horn wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the spinal cord decreased significantly following spinal nerve ligation (SNL). Furthermore, we found that the antagonistic effects of 5-HT 1B, 2C, 3, and 4 receptor antagonists on the 5-HT-induced inhibition of C-fiber responses of WDR neurons were also attenuated after SNL. In consistent with these observations, we also found an obvious decrease in the content of 5-HT and 5-HIAA, and a marked increase in the turnover rate of 5-HT (5-HIAA/5-HT) in the ipsilateral dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord after SNL. These data indicate that a loss or decrease in the descending inhibitory 5-HT system upon the spinal processing of nociceptive information appears to occur following spinal nerve injury, and this kind of decrease in the descending inhibitory 5-HT system is proposed to be involved in the development of central sensitization and ultimately to the nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.

The diversity of protein isoforms arising from alternative splicing is thought to modulate fine-tuning of synaptic plasticity. Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), a neuronal RNA binding protein, exists in isoforms as a result of alternative splicing, but the contribution of these isoforms to neural plasticity are not well understood. We show that two isoforms of Drosophila melanogaster FMRP (dFMR1) have differential roles in mediating neural development and behavior functions conferred by the dfmr1 gene. These isoforms differ in the presence of a protein interaction module that is related to prion domains and is functionally conserved between FMRPs. Expression of both isoforms is necessary for optimal performance in tests of short- and long-term memory of courtship training. The presence or absence of the protein interaction domain may govern the types of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes dFMR1 assembles into, with different RNPs regulating gene expression in a manner necessary for establishing distinct phases of memory formation.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD) is associated with learning and memory alterations that could be, in part, a consequence of hippocampal damage. The CA3 hippocampal subfield is one of the regions affected by ethanol (EtOH), including exposure during the third trimester-equivalent (i.e., neonatal period in rats). However, the mechanism of action of EtOH is poorly understood. In CA3 pyramidal neurons from neonatal rats, dendritic BDNF release causes long-term potentiation of the frequency of GABAA receptor-mediated spontaneous postsynaptic currents (LTP-GABAA) and this mechanism is thought to play a role in GABAergic synapse maturation. Here, we show that short- and long-term exposure of neonatal male rats to low EtOH concentrations abolishes LTP-GABAA by inhibiting L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. These findings support the recommendation that even light drinking should be avoided during pregnancy.
Neuronal networks in the prefrontal cortex mediate the highest levels of cognitive processing and decision making, and the capacity to perform these functions is among the cognitive features most vulnerable to aging. Despite much research, the neurobiological basis of age-related compromised prefrontal function remains elusive. Many investigators have hypothesized that exposure to stress may accelerate cognitive aging, though few studies have directly tested this hypothesis and even fewer have investigated a neuronal basis for such effects. It is known that in young animals, stress causes morphological remodeling of prefrontal pyramidal neurons that is reversible. The present studies sought to determine whether age influences the reversibility of stress-induced morphological plasticity in rat prefrontal neurons. We hypothesized that neocortical structural resilience is compromised in normal aging. To directly test this hypothesis we used a well characterized chronic restraint stress paradigm, with an additional group allowed to recover from the stress paradigm, in 3-, 12-, and 20-month-old male rats. In young animals, stress induced reductions of apical dendritic length and branch number, which were reversed with recovery; in contrast, middle-aged and aged rats failed to show reversible morphological remodeling when subjected to the same stress and recovery paradigm. The data presented here provide evidence that aging is accompanied by selective impairments in long-term neocortical morphological plasticity.
Synaptic plasticity in the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system is critically involved in reward-based conditioning and the development of drug addiction. Ca2+ signals triggered by postsynaptic action potentials (APs) drive the induction of synaptic plasticity in the CNS. However, it is not clear how AP-evoked Ca2+ signals and the resulting synaptic plasticity are altered during in vivo exposure to drugs of abuse. We have recently described long-term potentiation (LTP) of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated transmission onto DA neurons that is induced in a manner dependent on bursts of APs. LTP induction requires amplification of burst-evoked Ca2+ signals by preceding activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) generating inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3). In this study, using brain slices prepared from male rats, we show that repeated in vivo exposure to the psychostimulant amphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p., 3-7 d) upregulates mGluR-dependent facilitation of burst-evoked Ca2+ signals in DA neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Protein kinase A (PKA)-induced sensitization of IP3 receptors mediates this upregulation of mGluR action. As a consequence, NMDAR-mediated transmission becomes more susceptible to LTP induction after repeated amphetamine exposure. We have also found that the magnitude of amphetamine-conditioned place preference (CPP) in behaving rats correlates with the magnitude of mGluR-dependent Ca2+ signal facilitation measured in VTA slices prepared from these rats. Furthermore, the development of amphetamine CPP is significantly attenuated by intra-VTA infusion of the PKA inhibitor H89. We propose that enhancement of mGluR-dependent NMDAR plasticity in the VTA may promote the learning of environmental stimuli repeatedly associated with amphetamine experience.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the oscillatory activity recorded from the basal ganglia shows dopamine-dependent changes. In the &quot;off&quot; parkinsonian motor state, there is prominent activity in the beta band (12-30 Hz) that is mostly attenuated after dopaminergic therapy (&quot;on&quot; medication state). The on state is also characterized by activity in the gamma (60-80 Hz) and high-frequency (300 Hz) bands that is modulated by movement. We recorded local field potentials from a group of 15 PD patients (three females) treated with bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus, using a high sampling rate (2 kHz) and filters suitable to study high-frequency activity (0.3-1000 Hz). We observed high-frequency oscillations (HFOs) in both the off and on motor states. In the off state, the amplitude of the HFOs was coupled to the phase of the abnormal beta activity. The beta-coupled HFOs showed little or even negative movement-related changes in amplitude. Moreover, the degree of movement-related modulation of the HFOs correlated negatively with the rigidity/bradykinesia scores. In the on motor state, the HFOs were liberated from this beta coupling, and they displayed marked movement-related amplitude modulation. Cross-frequency interactions between the phase of slow activities and the amplitude of fast frequencies have been attributed an important role in information processing in cortical structures. Our findings suggest that nonlinear coupling between frequencies may not only be a physiological mechanism (as shown previously) but also that it may participate in the pathophysiology of parkinsonism.
Axonal degeneration contributes to permanent neurological disability in inherited and acquired diseases of myelin. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been proposed as a major contributor to this axonal degeneration. It remains to be determined, however, if myelination, demyelination, or remyelination alter the size and distribution of axonal mitochondrial stationary sites or the rates of axonal mitochondrial transport. Using live myelinated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cultures, we investigated whether myelination and lysolecithin-induced demyelination affect axonal mitochondria. Myelination increased the size of axonal stationary mitochondrial sites by 2.3-fold. After demyelination, the size of axonal stationary mitochondrial sites was increased by an additional 2.2-fold and the transport velocity of motile mitochondria was increased by 47%. These measures returned to the levels of myelinated axons after remyelination. Demyelination induced activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) in DRG neurons. Knockdown of neuronal ATF3 by short hairpin RNA abolished the demyelination-induced increase in axonal mitochondrial transport and increased nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity in axonal mitochondria, suggesting that neuronal ATF3 expression and increased mitochondrial transport protect demyelinated axons from oxidative damage. In response to insufficient ATP production, demyelinated axons increase the size of stationary mitochondrial sites and thereby balance ATP production with the increased energy needs of nerve conduction.
Axon growth is regulated by many proteins, including adhesion molecules, which need to be trafficked correctly to axons. The adhesion molecule L1/neuron-glia cell adhesion molecule (NgCAM) travels to axons via an endocytosis-dependent pathway (transcytosis), traversing somatodendritic endosomes. The Eps15 homology domain (EHD) family proteins (EHD1-EHD4) play important roles in endosomal recycling and possibly in endocytosis. We investigated whether EHD1 regulates L1/NgCAM trafficking in neurons. Both short hairpin-mediated downregulation and overexpression of EHD1 led to dendritic mistargeting of NgCAM. Downregulation of EHD1 showed increased endosomal accumulation of NgCAM, whereas, surprisingly, overexpression of EHD1 led to impairment of L1/NgCAM internalization in neurons but not in fibroblasts. Transferrin internalization, however, was unaffected. At longer overexpression times of EHD1, NgCAM endocytosis returned to normal, suggesting rapid upregulation of compensatory endocytic pathways. EHD1 is capable of hetero-oligomerization, and an endogenous complex of EHD1 and EHD4 was identified previously. We therefore tested whether short-term overexpression of other EHD family members showed a similar endocytosis defect. Expression of EHD4, but not of EHD3, also caused a defect in L1/NgCAM endocytosis. Oligomerization of EHD1 was required to cause NgCAM endocytosis defects, and simultaneous expression of EHD1 and EHD4 rescued NgCAM endocytosis. Therefore, balanced levels of EHD1-EHD4 are important for NgCAM endocytosis in neurons. Our data suggest that EHD1 plays roles in both endosomal recycling and a specialized endocytosis pathway in neurons used by NgCAM. We propose that EHD1 and EHD4 act as hetero-oligomeric complexes in this pathway.
Early life stress increases the risk for developing stress-related pathologies later in life. Recent studies in rats suggest that mild early life stress, rather than being overall unfavorable, may program the hippocampus such that it is optimally adapted to a stressful context later in life. Here, we tested whether this principle of &quot;adaptive programming&quot; also holds under severely adverse early life conditions, i.e., 24 h of maternal deprivation (MD), a model for maternal neglect. In young adult male rats subjected to MD on postnatal day 3, we observed reduced levels of adult hippocampal neurogenesis as measured by cell proliferation, cell survival, and neuronal differentiation. Also, mature dentate granule cells showed a change in their dendritic morphology that was most noticeable in the proximal part of the dendritic tree. Lasting structural changes due to MD were paralleled by impaired water maze acquisition but did not affect long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus. Importantly, in the presence of high levels of the stress hormone corticosterone, even long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus of MD animals was facilitated. In addition to this, contextual learning in a high-stress environment was enhanced in MD rats. These morphological, electrophysiological, and behavioral observations show that even a severely adverse early life environment does not evolve into overall impaired hippocampal functionality later in life. Rather, adversity early in life can prepare the organism to perform optimally under conditions associated with high corticosteroid levels in adulthood.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), a member of the degenerin/epithelial Na+ channel superfamily, are widely expressed in the mammalian CNS. Accumulating evidence suggests that ASIC current density is higher in GABAergic interneurons than that in glutamatergic pyramidal neurons (PNs) in the hippocampus. Such differential expression of ASICs in cortical networks is thought to be a key element for seizure termination. However, GABAergic interneurons are highly diverse; it is unclear whether the functional expression of ASICs differs in distinct GABAergic interneuron subtypes. Moreover, the subunit composition of ASICs in individual GABAergic interneurons remains unknown. By combining patch-clamp recording and single-cell reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis, we correlated ASIC currents with their gene expression in acute rat hippocampal slices. The results yielded several surprising findings. First, ASIC current density of oriens lacunosum-moleculare (O-LM) cells in the CA1 region, a classical type of dendrite-targeting interneuron, is 6 times greater than that of fast-spiking basket cells (BCs) in the dentate gyrus, a major class of soma-targeting interneuron. Second, the recovery of ASICs from desensitization is slowest in BCs, intermediate in PNs, and fastest in O-LM cells. Third, the tarantula venom psalmotoxin 1, the specific blocker for ASIC1a homomers, inhibits ASIC currents in BCs but not in O-LM cells. Finally, single-cell RT-PCR analysis reveals coexpression of ASIC1a and ASIC2 subunit transcripts in O-LM cells, whereas only ASIC1a subunit transcript is detected in most BCs. Thus, differential expression of ASICs in inhibitory microcircuits likely contributes to the distinct roles of GABAergic interneurons in normal physiology and pathophysiology.
In the neonatal hippocampus, the activity of interneurons shapes early network bursts that are important for the establishment of neuronal connectivity. However, mechanisms controlling the firing of immature interneurons remain elusive. We now show that the spontaneous firing rate of CA3 stratum lucidum interneurons markedly decreases during early postnatal development because of changes in the properties of GluK1 (formerly known as GluR5) subunit-containing kainate receptors (KARs). In the neonate, activation of KARs by ambient glutamate exerts a tonic inhibition of the medium-duration afterhyperpolarization (mAHP) by a G-protein-dependent mechanism, permitting a high interneuronal firing rate. During development, the amplitude of the apamine-sensitive K+ currents responsible for the mAHP increases dramatically because of decoupling between KAR activation and mAHP modulation, leading to decreased interneuronal firing. The developmental shift in the KAR function and its consequences on interneuronal activity are likely to have a fundamental role in the maturation of the synchronous neuronal oscillations typical for adult hippocampal circuitry.
Most neurons in visual cortex respond to contrast borders and are orientation selective, and some are also selective for which side of a border is figure and which side is ground (&quot;border ownership coding&quot;). These neurons are influenced by the image context far beyond the classical receptive field (CRF) and as early as 25 ms after the onset of activity in the cortex. The nature of the fast context integration mechanism is not well understood. What parts of a figure contribute to the context effect? What is the structure of the &quot;extraclassical surround&quot;? Is the context information propagated through horizontal fibers within cortex or through reciprocal connections via higher-level areas? To address these questions, we studied border ownership modulation with fragmented figures. Neurons were recorded in areas V1 and V2 of Macaca mulatta under behaviorally induced fixation. Test figures were fragmented rectangles. While one edge was centered on the CRF, the presence of the fragments outside the CRF was varied. The surround fragments produced facilitation on the preferred border ownership side as well as suppression on the nonpreferred side, with approximately 80% of the locations contributing on average. Fragments far from the CRF influenced the responses even in the absence of fragments closer to the CRF, and without the extra delay that would incur from propagation through horizontal fibers. Three principally different models are discussed. The results support a model in which the antagonistic surround influences are produced by reentrant signals from a higher-level area.

Alopecia areata or hair loss occurs in one in 1000 people. If medical reasons for the hair loss are ruled out, opinion and hypothesis point towards autoimmunity and stress as possible causes. Dealing with the gradual or sudden loss of head hair, eyebrows, eyelashes, nasal, ear and body hair poses unique challenges for those it affects. Autoimmune-associated alopecia areata has no age boundaries and affects children, men and women equally. The dramatic change in appearance can result in psychological trauma, loss in confidence, bullying, low self-esteem and relationship difficulties.


Afferent neural transmission of temperature sensation from skin thermoreceptors to the central thermoregulatory system is important for the defense of body temperature against environmental thermal challenges. Here, we report a thermosensory pathway that triggers physiological heat-defense responses to elevated environmental temperature. Using in vivo electrophysiological and anatomical approaches in the rat, we found that neurons in the dorsal part of the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBd) glutamatergically transmit cutaneous warm signals from spinal somatosensory neurons directly to the thermoregulatory command center, the preoptic area (POA). Intriguingly, these LPBd neurons are located adjacent to another group of neurons that mediate cutaneous cool signaling to the POA. Functional experiments revealed that this LPBd-POA warm sensory pathway is required to elicit autonomic heat-defense responses, such as cutaneous vasodilation, to skin-warming challenges. These findings provide a fundamental framework for understanding the neural circuitry maintaining thermal homeostasis, which is critical to survive severe environmental temperatures.
Nervous system function requires tight control over the number of synapses individual neurons receive, but the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate synapse number remain obscure. Here we present evidence that a trans-synaptic interaction between EphB2 in the presynaptic compartment and ephrin-B3 in the postsynaptic compartment regulates synapse density and the formation of dendritic spines. Observations in cultured cortical neurons demonstrate that synapse density scales with ephrin-B3 expression level and is controlled by ephrin-B3-dependent competitive cell-cell interactions. RNA interference and biochemical experiments support the model that ephrin-B3 regulates synapse density by directly binding to Erk1/2 to inhibit postsynaptic Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. Together these findings define a mechanism that contributes to synapse maturation and controls the number of excitatory synaptic inputs received by individual neurons.
The first line of antidepressant treatment nowadays are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Although they are relatively safe to use, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) can induce severe side effects. New promising antidepressants may be the triple monoamine reuptake inhibitors, which not only enhance serotonin and norepinephrine neurotransmission, but also increase brain dopamine levels. Recently it has been shown that one of the triple reuptake inhibitors, DOV 216,303 has antidepressant-like effects in the olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) model of depression, but the alterations in monoaminergic neurotransmission in these animals are still unknown. In the present study we investigated not only the effect of acute, but also chronic treatment of DOV 216,303 in OBX rats on monoamine and metabolite levels. The main results are decreased baseline dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex one day after OBX, while 38days after OBX no difference could be observed in monoamine levels after vehicle treatment. Treatment with DOV 216,303 leads to increased extracellular levels of serotonin and norepinephrine neurotransmission, but also increased dopamine levels in OBX animals as well as their controls. This increase could be observed after one single administration, but also after chronic treatment. However, a DOV 216,303 challenge in chronically treated animals resulted in lower monoamine concentrations than the same challenge in untreated animals. More research is needed to investigate this seemingly hyporesponsivity to chronic DOV 216,303 treatment.
A-778317 (1-((R)-5-tert-butyl-indan-1-yl)-3-isoquinolin-5-yl-urea) is a potent antagonist of human and rat transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) receptors. We have previously reported that [(3)H]A-778317 is an excellent radioligand to study the recombinant human TRPV1 receptor in a heterologous expression system. These studies were extended to determine the feasibility of using [(3)H]A-778317 to label native TRPV1 channels in rat tissues. Saturable high-affinity binding of [(3)H]A-778317 was detected in membrane preparations of rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord that was inhibited by TRPV1 receptor agonists and antagonists. [(3)H]A-778317 labeled a single class of high-affinity binding sites in both rat DRG and spinal cord membranes (K(D)=10 and 8.4nM, respectively). The number of binding sites was 10-fold higher in rat DRG membranes than spinal cord membranes (B(max)=3.3 and 0.35pmol/mg protein, respectively). The pharmacology of the high-affinity binding sites was similar in rat DRG and spinal cord, but differed from the recombinant rat TRPV1 (rTRPV1) receptor expressed in transiently transfected HEK293-F cells. In particular, a large disparity in potency (&gt;300-fold) was observed for the TRPV1 receptor agonist resiniferatoxin between native and recombinant rTRPV1 receptors. Our data indicate that the binding of [(3)H]A-778317 to native rTRPV1 channels is pharmacologically distinct, and perhaps more complex, than its binding to the recombinant rTRPV1 receptor.
Tolerance to brain injury involves hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) and its target genes as the key pathway mediating a cascade of events including cell survival, energetics, and angiogenesis. In this study, we established the treatment paradigms for an in vitro model of tolerance to oxidative injury in primary astrocytic cultures and further examined the roles for the HIF-1 signalling cascade. Isolated murine astrocytes were preconditioned with sub-toxic concentrations of HIF-1 inducers and subsequently exposed to a H(2)O(2) insult, where changes in cell viability and protein expression were determined. Preconditioning with non-damaging concentrations of desferrioxamine (DFO) and ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (EDHB) significantly improved cellular viability after H(2)O(2) injury treatment. Time course studies revealed that DFO and EDHB treatments alone induced sequential activation of HIF-1 signal transduction where nuclear HIF-1alpha protein accumulation was detected as early as 2h, followed by downstream upregulation of intracellular and released VEGF from 4h and 8h onwards, respectively. The protective effects of DFO and EDHB preconditioning against H(2)O(2) injury were abolished by co-treatment with cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis. Importantly, when the anti-HIF-1 compound, 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzylindazole (YC-1) was used, the cytoprotection and VEGF accumulation produced by DFO and EDHB preconditioning were diminished. These results indicate the essential role of the HIF-1 pathway in our model of tolerance against oxidative injury in cultured astrocytes, and suggest roles for astrocytic HIF-1 expression and VEGF release which may influence the function of surrounding cells and vasculature during oxidative stress-related brain diseases.
Cannabinoid receptor antagonists have shown some promise as treatments capable of reducing abuse and relapse to a number of abused drugs. In rodents, such effects have been observed with methamphetamine self-administration. However, the effects of cannabinoid receptor antagonists on methamphetamine self-administration and relapse have not been studied in primates. In the present study, rhesus monkeys were trained to respond on a three-component operant schedule. During the first 5-min component, fixed-ratio responses were reinforced by food, during the second 90- or 180-min component fixed-ratio responses were reinforced by i.v. methamphetamine. The third component was identical to the first. There was a 5-min timeout between each component. The effects of the cannabinoid receptor antagonists AM 251 and rimonabant were tested at various doses against self-administration of 3microg/kg/injection methamphetamine, and 1mg/kg AM 251 and 0.3mg/kg rimonabant were tested against the methamphetamine dose-effect function. The 1mg/kg dose of AM 251 was also tested for its ability to alter reinstatement of extinguished self-administration responding. The cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM 251 was found to reduce methamphetamine self-administration at doses that did not affect food-reinforced responding. The cannabinoid receptor antagonist rimonabant had similar, but less robust effects. AM 251 also prevented reinstatement of extinguished methamphetamine seeking that was induced by re-exposure to a combination of methamphetamine and methamphetamine-associated cues. These results indicate that cannabinoid receptor antagonists might have therapeutic effects for the treatment of methamphetamine dependence.
Proinflammatory cytokines have been shown to impair cognition; consequently, immune activity in the central nervous system was considered detrimental to cognitive function. Unexpectedly, however, T cells were recently shown to support learning and memory, though the underlying mechanism was unclear. We show that one of the steps in the cascade of T cell-based support of learning and memory takes place in the meningeal spaces. Performance of cognitive tasks led to accumulation of IL-4-producing T cells in the meninges. Depletion of T cells from meningeal spaces skewed meningeal myeloid cells toward a proinflammatory phenotype. T cell-derived IL-4 was critical, as IL-4(-/-) mice exhibited a skewed proinflammatory meningeal myeloid cell phenotype and cognitive deficits. Transplantation of IL-4(-/-) bone marrow into irradiated wild-type recipients also resulted in cognitive impairment and proinflammatory skew. Moreover, adoptive transfer of T cells from wild-type into IL-4(-/-) mice reversed cognitive impairment and attenuated the proinflammatory character of meningeal myeloid cells. Our results point to a critical role for T cell-derived IL-4 in the regulation of cognitive function through meningeal myeloid cell phenotype and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression. These findings might lead to the development of new immune-based therapies for cognitive impairment associated with immune decline.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play an important role in CD4(+) T helper (Th) cell differentiation and in the initiation of both protective and pathogenic immunity. Granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is a DC growth factor critical for the induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and other autoimmune diseases, yet its mechanism of action in vivo is not fully defined. We show that GM-CSF is directly required for the accumulation of radiosensitive dermal-derived langerin(+)CD103(+) DCs in the skin and peripheral lymph nodes under steady-state and inflammatory conditions. Langerin(+)CD103(+) DCs stimulated naive myelin-reactive T cells to proliferate and produce IFN-gamma and IL-17. They were superior to other DC subsets in inducing expression of T-bet and promoting Th1 cell differentiation. Ablation of this subset in vivo conferred resistance to EAE. The current report reveals a previously unidentified role for GM-CSF in DC ontogeny and identifies langerin(+)CD103(+) DCs as an important subset in CD4(+) T cell-mediated autoimmune disease.


Methyl-CpG binding protein 1 (MBD1) regulates gene expression via a DNA methylation-mediated epigenetic mechanism. We have previously demonstrated that MBD1 deficiency impairs adult neural stem/progenitor cell (aNSC) differentiation and neurogenesis, but the underlying mechanism was unclear. Here, we show that MBD1 regulates the expression of several microRNAs in aNSCs and, specifically, that miR-184 is directly repressed by MBD1. High levels of miR-184 promoted proliferation but inhibited differentiation of aNSCs, whereas inhibition of miR-184 rescued the phenotypes associated with MBD1 deficiency. We further found that miR-184 regulates the expression of Numblike (Numbl), a known regulator of brain development, by binding to the 3'-UTR of Numbl mRNA and affecting its translation. Expression of exogenous Numbl could rescue the aNSC defects that result from either miR-184 overexpression or MBD1 deficiency. Therefore, MBD1, miR-184, and Numbl form a regulatory network that helps control the balance between proliferation and differentiation of aNSCs.
Homeostatic scaling of glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission is triggered by prolonged alterations in synaptic neuronal activity. We have previously described a presynaptic mechanism for synaptic homeostasis and plasticity that involves scaling the level of vesicular glutamate (VGLUT1) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (VGAT) transporter biosynthesis. These molecular determinants of vesicle filling and quantal size are regulated by neuronal activity in an opposite manner and bi-directionally. Here, we report that a striking induction of VGLUT2 mRNA and synaptic protein is triggered by a prolonged increase in glutamatergic synaptic activity in mature neocortical neuronal networks in vitro together with two determinants of inhibitory synaptic strength, the neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin (Narp), and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65). Activity-dependent induction of VGLUT2 and Narp exhibits a similar intermediate-early gene response that is blocked by actinomycin D and tetrodotoxin, by inhibitors of ionotropic glutamate receptors and L-type voltage-gated calcium channels, and is dependent on downstream signaling via calmodulin, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). The co-induction of VGLUT2 and Narp triggered by prolonged gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor blockade is independent of brain-derived nerve growth factor and TrkB receptor signaling. VGLUT2 protein induction occurs on a subset of cortically derived synaptic vesicles in excitatory synapses on somata and dendritic processes of multipolar GABAergic interneurons, recognized sites for the clustering of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate glutamate receptors by Narp. We propose that VGLUT2 and Narp induction by excitation-transcription coupling leads to increased glutamatergic transmission at synapses on GABAergic inhibitory feedback neurons as part of a coordinated program of Ca(2+)-signal transcription involved in mechanisms of homeostatic plasticity after prolonged hyperactivity.
Increased levels of wild-type (WT) alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) and mutant A53T alpha-syn are associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), a disease linked to abnormal mitochondrial function. This study compared mitochondria prepared from differentiated SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing WT or A53T alpha-syn with control cells, using 2-D difference in-gel electrophoresis. Statistical analysis was carried out primarily using ANOVA (p &lt; 0.01; Host:WT:A53T) and subsequently using independent t tests (host vs WT, host vs A53T). Of the protein spots found to be differentially expressed (n = 71; p &lt; 0.01, &gt;1.8/&lt;-1.8 fold change), 63 proteins were identified by LC-MS/MS, with the majority (77%) significantly altered in WT samples only. Twenty-three proteins known to be integral components of the mitochondria were abnormally expressed including those with roles in ATP synthesis, oxidoreduction, motor activity, carbohydrate metabolism, protein transcription, and protein folding. Thirteen forms of cytoskeletal proteins were also found to be overexpressed in the mitochondrial preparations from WT alpha-syn cells, suggesting an increased interaction of mitochondria with the cytoskeletal network. Altered levels of four mitochondrial proteins (HSPA9 (mortalin), NDUFS1, DLAT, ATP5A1) were confirmed using Western blot analysis. Furthermore, a significant reduction in OXPHOS 1 activity was observed in the WT alpha-syn cells, suggesting that there are functional consequences of the observed altered protein expression changes in the mitochondria.
Production of new neurons throughout adulthood has been well characterized in two brain regions, the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the anterolateral ventricle and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus. The neurons produced from these regions arise from neural stem cells (NSCs) found in highly regulated stem cell niches. We recently showed that midline structures called circumventricular organs (CVOs) also contain NSCs capable of neurogenesis and/or astrogliogenesis in vitro and in situ (Bennett et al.). The present study demonstrates that NSCs derived from two astrogliogenic CVOs, the median eminence and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis of the nestin-GFP mouse, possess the potential to integrate into the SVZ and differentiate into cells with a neuronal phenotype. These NSCs, following expansion and BrdU-labeling in culture and heterotopic transplantation into a region proximal to the SVZ in adult mice, migrate caudally to the SVZ and express early neuronal markers (TUC-4, PSA-NCAM) as they migrate along the rostral migratory stream. CVO-derived BrdU(+) cells ultimately reach the olfactory bulb where they express early (PSA-NCAM) and mature (NeuN) neuronal markers. Collectively, these data suggest that although NSCs derived from the ME and OVLT CVOs are astrogliogenic in situ, they produce cells phenotypic of neurons in vivo when placed in a neurogenic environment. These findings may have implications for neural repair in the adult brain.
Rhythmic arm cycling is known to suppress the Hoffmann (H-) reflex amplitudes in the soleus (Sol) muscles of stationary legs. However, it has remained unclear if this suppression is modulated according to the phase of movement in the cycle path or is rather a general setting of excitability level related to rhythmic movement. In the present study we investigated the phase-dependent modulation of the Sol H-reflex induced by rhythmic arm cycling by examining reflex amplitudes at 12 phases of the arm cycle movement. Arm cycling tasks consisted of bilateral, ipsilateral and contralateral movement. Additionally, data were also sampled at 12 static arm positions mimicking those occurring during movement. H-reflexes were evoked and recorded at constant motor wave amplitudes across all conditions. Suppression of Sol H-reflex amplitude was dependent upon the phase of movement (main effect p&lt;0.0001) during arm cycling, but not during static positioning. Results suggest that locomotor central pattern generators may contribute to the phasic reflex modulation observed in this study. The phasic modulation was more pronounced during bilateral movement, however aspects of the neural control driving this modulation were also present during ipsilateral and contralateral movement.

As the human life span increases, the number of people suffering from cognitive decline is rising dramatically. The mechanisms underlying age-associated memory impairment are, however, not understood. Here we show that memory disturbances in the aging brain of the mouse are associated with altered hippocampal chromatin plasticity. During learning, aged mice display a specific deregulation of histone H4 lysine 12 (H4K12) acetylation and fail to initiate a hippocampal gene expression program associated with memory consolidation. Restoration of physiological H4K12 acetylation reinstates the expression of learning-induced genes and leads to the recovery of cognitive abilities. Our data suggest that deregulated H4K12 acetylation may represent an early biomarker of an impaired genome-environment interaction in the aging mouse brain.

New neurons are generated in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus (GCL) throughout adulthood. This process is modulated by many environmental and neurochemical factors. We previously observed that castrated mice, compared to sham-operated mice, perform poorly in the delayed matching to place water-maze task (DMTP). In this study, we quantified the number of doublecortin expressing (DCX+) immature neurons and Ki-67 expressing (Ki-67+) proliferating progenitors in mice previously tested in a spatial DMTP task, a nonspatial DMTP, or that received equivalent amounts of handling only. Regardless of DMTP training experience, castration reduced immature neuron number in the GCL but had no effect on proliferating progenitors. Compared to handling only, visible DMTP training reduced the immature neuron number, but hidden DMTP training had no effect. Castration did not alter these environmental effects. Finally, performance on the spatial DMTP task did not correlate with immature neuron number. In addition, while the number of immature neurons was strongly reduced following cranial irradiation with (137)Cs, this treatment did not affect spatial DMTP performance. Thus, in mice, castration disrupts spatial memory and reduces immature neuron number, but there is no strong link between these effects.
We investigated the protective effects of minocycline following white matter damage (WMD) in the rat striatum. Excitotoxic lesions were induced by N-Methyl-d-Aspartate (NMDA) microinjections and caused striatal damage, concomitant with microglial/macrophage activation. The excitotoxic lesion both damaged oligodendrocytes (Tau-1(+) cells) and caused a decrease in tissue reactivity for myelin basic protein (MBP) after post-lesional day 3 (PLD). Treatment with the semi-synthetic tetracycline antibiotic minocycline, however, led to oligodendrocyte preservation and decreased myelin impairment. Taken together, these results suggest that white matter damage (WMD) is an important component of the physiopathology of acute striatal damage and that microglial/macrophage activation contributes to this pathological phenomenon.
The Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) has been extensively used as an animal model to investigate neuronal networks underlying various behaviors where 5-HT(3A) receptors have been found to play a critical role. To date, however, there is no comprehensive description of the distribution of 5-HT(3A) receptors in the Syrian hamster brain. The current study examined the localization of 5-HT(3A) receptors across the neuraxis of the Syrian hamster forebrain using immunohistochemistry. Overall, 5-HT(3A) receptors were widely and heterogeneously distributed across the neuraxis of the Syrian hamster brain. Notably, the most intense 5-HT(3A) immunolabeling patterns were observed in the cerebral cortex and amygdala. In addition, high variability in receptor density and expression patterns (i.e., perikarya, fibers and/or neuropilar puncta) was observed within the majority of brain areas examined, indicating that the role this receptor has in the modulation of a particular neural function differs depending on brain region. In some regions (i.e., nucleus accumbens) differences in the immunolabeling pattern between rostral, medial and caudal portions were also observed, suggesting functional heterogeneity of this receptor within a single brain region. Together, these results and the localization of this receptor to brain areas involved in the regulation of sexual behavior, aggression, circadian rhythm, drug abuse and anxiety implicate 5-HT(3A) receptors in the modulation of various behaviors and neural functions in the Syrian hamster. Further, these results underscore the importance of evaluating 5-HT(3A) receptors as a pharmacological target for the treatment of various psychopathological disorders.
Elevated temperature and decreased extracellular pH are hallmarks of inflammatory pain states. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons are integral in transferring painful stimuli from the periphery to central sites. This study investigated the effect of elevated temperatures on the response of DRG neurons to acute application of acidic solutions. At room temperature (22 degrees C), in response to pH 5.5, there were a variety of kinetic responses consistent with differential expression of TRPV1 and ASIC channels. Increasing the temperature resulted in a significant increase in the peak and total current mediated by TRPV1 in response to an acidic solution. In contrast, the amplitude of a fast activating, rapidly inactivating ASIC1-like current was not affected by increasing the temperature but did result in an increased rate of desensitization that reduced the total current level. This effect on the rate of desensitization was temperature-dependent and could be reversed by returning to 22 degrees C. Likewise, cells exhibiting slowly inactivating ASIC2-like responses also had temperature-dependent increase in the rate of desensitization. The ASIC2-like responses and the TRPV1 responses tended to decrease in amplitude with repetitive application of pH 5.5 even at 22 degrees C. The rate of desensitization of ASIC-like currents activated by less acidic solutions (pH 6.8) was also increased in a temperature-dependent manner. Finally, acidic pH reduced threshold to trigger action potentials, however, the pattern of action potential firing was shaped by the distribution of ASIC and TRPV1 channels. These results indicate that the ambient temperature at which acidosis occurs has a profound effect on the contribution of ASIC and TRPV1 channels, therefore, altering the neuronal excitability.

The detection of water and the regulation of water intake are essential for animals to maintain proper osmotic homeostasis. Drosophila and other insects have gustatory sensory neurons that mediate the recognition of external water sources, but little is known about the underlying molecular mechanism for water taste detection. Here we identify a member of the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel family, PPK28, as an osmosensitive ion channel that mediates the cellular and behavioural response to water. We use molecular, cellular, calcium imaging and electrophysiological approaches to show that ppk28 is expressed in water-sensing neurons, and that loss of ppk28 abolishes water sensitivity. Moreover, ectopic expression of ppk28 confers water sensitivity to bitter-sensing gustatory neurons in the fly and sensitivity to hypo-osmotic solutions when expressed in heterologous cells. These studies link an osmosensitive ion channel to water taste detection and drinking behaviour, providing the framework for examining the molecular basis for water detection in other animals.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a sleep-related movement disorder commonly involving an unpleasant urge to move the limbs, typically the legs. Dopaminergic agents represent the first-line therapy for RLS; however, long-term use of such drugs results in worsening symptoms due to &quot;augmentation&quot; or other adverse events. Gabapentin, an analog of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), is an anticonvulsant/analgesic agent. Gabapentin is only mildly effective in relieving RLS symptoms, perhaps a result of its poor absorption from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Gabapentin enacarbil is a prodrug of gabapentin specifically designed to enhance absorption via the GI tract, and hence provide improved circulating levels of gabapentin on metabolism. Clinical trials to date have demonstrated favorable safety and (compared to traditional gabapentin) improved pharmacokinetics and efficacy in treating RLS symptoms. Thus, gabapentin enacarbil may prove to be a useful drug in treating RLS. An application of gabapentin enacarbil for treatment of RLS is currently pending with FDA for approval.


The drug addiction process shares many commonalities with normal learning and memory. Addictive drugs subvert normal synaptic plasticity mechanisms, and the consequent synaptic changes underlie long-lasting modifications in behavior that accrue during the progression from drug use to addiction. Supporting this hypothesis, it was recently shown that nicotine administered to freely moving mice induces long-term synaptic potentiation of the perforant path connection to granule cells of the dentate gyrus. The perforant path carries place and spatial information that links the environment to drug taking. An example of that association is the nicotine-induced synaptic potentiation of the perforant path that was found to underlie nicotine-conditioned place preference. The present study examines the influence of nicotine over local GABAergic inhibition within the dentate gyrus during the drug-induced synaptic potentiation. In vivo recordings from freely moving mice suggested that both feedforward and feedback inhibition onto granules cells were diminished by nicotine during the induction of synaptic potentiation. In vitro brain slice studies indicated that nicotine altered local circuit inhibition within the dentate gyrus leading to disinhibition of granule cells. These changes in local inhibition contributed to nicotine-induced in vivo synaptic potentiation, thus, likely contributed to drug-associated memories. Through this learning process, environmental features become cues that motivate conditioned drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors.
It is becoming increasingly clear that voltage-operated Ca(2+) channels (VOCCs) play a fundamental role in the development of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Because direct phosphorylation by different kinases is one of the most important mechanisms involved in VOCC modulation, the aim of this study was to evaluate the participation of serine-threonine kinases and tyrosine kinases (TKs) on Ca(2+) influx mediated by VOCCs in OPCs. Calcium imaging revealed that OPCs exhibited Ca(2+) influx after plasma membrane depolarization via L-type VOCCs. Furthermore, VOCC-mediated Ca(2+) influx declined with OPC differentiation, indicating that VOCCs are developmentally regulated in OPCs. PKC activation significantly increased VOCC activity in OPCs, whereas PKA activation produced the opposite effect. The results also indicated that OPC morphological changes induced by PKC activation were partially mediated by VOCCs. Our data clearly suggest that TKs exert an activating influence on VOCC function in OPCs. Furthermore, using the PDGF response as a model to probe the role of TK receptors (TKr) on OPC Ca(2+) uptake, we found that TKr activation potentiated Ca(2+) influx after membrane depolarization. Interestingly, this TKr modulation of VOCCs appeared to be essential for the PDGF enhancement of OPC migration rate, because cell motility was completely blocked by TKr antagonists, as well as VOCC inhibitors, in migration assays. The present study strongly demonstrates that PKC and TKrs enhance Ca(2+) influx induced by depolarization in OPCs, whereas PKA has an inhibitory effect. These kinases modulate voltage-operated Ca(2+) uptake in OPCs and participate in the modulation of process extension and migration.
Soluble oligomers of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide are thought to play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, we reported that synthetic Abeta oligomers bind to cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) and that this interaction is required for suppression of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal slices by oligomeric Abeta peptide. We hypothesized that PrP(C) is essential for the ability of brain-derived Abeta to suppress cognitive function. Here, we crossed familial AD transgenes encoding APPswe and PSen1DeltaE9 into Prnp-/- mice to examine the necessity of PrP(C) for AD-related phenotypes. Neither APP expression nor Abeta level is altered by PrP(C) absence in this transgenic AD model, and astrogliosis is unchanged. However, deletion of PrP(C) expression rescues 5-HT axonal degeneration, loss of synaptic markers, and early death in APPswe/PSen1DeltaE9 transgenic mice. The AD transgenic mice with intact PrP(C) expression exhibit deficits in spatial learning and memory. Mice lacking PrP(C), but containing Abeta plaque derived from APPswe/PSen1DeltaE9 transgenes, show no detectable impairment of spatial learning and memory. Thus, deletion of PrP(C) expression dissociates Abeta accumulation from behavioral impairment in these AD mice, with the cognitive deficits selectively requiring PrP(C).
While AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) found at principal neuron excitatory synapses typically contain the GluR2 subunit, several forms of behavioral experience have been linked to the de novo synaptic insertion of calcium-permeable (CP) AMPARs, defined by their lack of GluR2. In particular, whisker experience drives synaptic potentiation as well as the incorporation of CP-AMPARs in the neocortex. Previous studies implicate PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase-1) in activity-dependent internalization of GluR2, suggesting one potential mechanism leading to the subsequent accumulation of synaptic CP-AMPARs and increased synaptic strength. Here we test this hypothesis by using a whisker stimulation paradigm in PICK1 knock-out mice. We demonstrate that PICK1 facilitates the surface expression of CP-AMPARs and is indispensable for their experience-dependent synaptic insertion. However, the failure to incorporate CP-AMPARs in PICK1 knock-outs does not preclude sensory-induced enhancement of synaptic currents. Our results indicate that synaptic strengthening in the early postnatal cortex does not require PICK1 or the addition of GluR2-lacking AMPARs. Instead, PICK1 permits changes in AMPAR subunit composition to occur in conjunction with synaptic potentiation.
Inducible gene expression appears to be an essential event that couples light to entrainment of the master mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Recently, we reported that light triggers phase-dependent activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, a major regulator of protein synthesis, in the SCN, thus raising the possibility that mTOR-evoked mRNA translation contributes to clock entrainment. Here, we used a combination of cellular, molecular, and behavioral assays to address this question. To this end, we show that the in vivo infusion of the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin led to a significant attenuation of the phase-delaying effect of early-night light. Conversely, disruption of mTOR during the late night augmented the phase-advancing effect of light. To assess the role of mTOR signaling within the context of molecular entrainment, the effects of rapamycin on light-induced expression of PERIOD1 and PERIOD2 were examined. At both the early- and late-night time points, abrogation of mTOR signaling led to a significant attenuation of light-evoked PERIOD protein expression. Our results also reveal that light-induced mTOR activation leads to the translation of mRNAs with a 5'-terminal oligopyrimidine tract such as eukaryotic elongation factor 1A and the immediate early gene JunB. Together, these data indicate that the mTOR pathway functions as potent and selective regulator of light-evoked protein translation and SCN clock entrainment.
Water sensation is a specific taste modality in the fruit fly. Water-induced hypoosmolarity activates specific gustatory receptor neurons; however, the molecular identity of the putative osmolarity sensor in these neurons remains unknown. We found that amiloride and its analogs specifically antagonized the response of water gustatory receptor neurons and the behavior of flies toward water stimulation. Deletion of the gene that encodes the amiloride-sensitive PPK28 channel, a DEG/eNaC (degenerin/epithelial sodium channel) family member, abolished the water-induced activity of water gustatory receptor neurons and greatly diminished the behavioral response of flies to water. Ectopic expression of the PPK28 channel in the bitter cells within the intermediate-type sensilla renders these sensilla responsive to water stimuli. Thus, the amiloride-sensitive PPK28 channel may serve as the osmolarity sensor for gustatory water reception in the fruit fly.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by striatonigral degeneration and olivo-pontocerebellar atrophy. Neuronal degeneration is accompanied by primarily oligodendrocytic accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alphasyn) as opposed to the neuronal inclusions more commonly found in other alpha-synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease. It is unclear how alphasyn accumulation in oligodendrocytes may lead to the extensive neurodegeneration observed in MSA; we hypothesize that the altered expression of oligodendrocyte-derived neurotrophic factors by alphasyn may be involved. In this context, the expression of a number neurotrophic factors reportedly expressed by oligodendrocytes [glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), as well as basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (bFGF2), reportedly astrocyte derived] were examined in transgenic mouse models expressing human alphasyn (halphasyn) under the control of either neuronal (PDGFbeta or mThy1) or oligodendrocytic (MBP) promoters. Although protein levels of BDNF and IGF-1 were altered in all the alphasyn transgenic mice regardless of promoter type, a specific decrease in GDNF protein expression was observed in the MBP-halphasyn transgenic mice. Intracerebroventricular infusion of GDNF improved behavioral deficits and ameliorated neurodegenerative pathology in the MBP-halphasyn transgenic mice. Consistent with the studies in the MBP-halphasyn transgenic mice, analysis of GDNF expression levels in human MSA samples demonstrated a decrease in the white frontal cortex and to a lesser degree in the cerebellum compared with controls. These results suggest a mechanism in which alphasyn expression in oligodendrocytes impacts on the trophic support provided by these cells for neurons, perhaps contributing to neurodegeneration.
Post-synaptic density protein PSD-95 is emerging as a valid target for modulating nociception in animal studies. Based on the key role of PSD-95 in neuronal plasticity and the maintenance of pain behavior, we predicted that CN2097, a peptide-based macrocycle of nine residues that binds to the PSD-95 Discs large, Zona occludens 1 (PDZ) domains of PSD-95, would interfere with physiologic phenomena in the spinal cord related to central sensitization. Furthermore, we tested whether spinal intrathecal injection of CN2097 attenuates thermal hyperalgesia in a rat model of sciatic neuropathy. Results demonstrate that spinal CN2097 reverses hyperexcitability of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the dorsal horn of neuropathic rats and decreases their evoked responses to peripheral stimuli (brush, low caliber von Frey and pressure), whereas CN5125 (&quot;negative control&quot;) has no effect. CN2097 also blocks C-fiber long-term potentiation (LTP) in the dorsal horn, which is linked to neuronal plasticity and central sensitization. At a molecular level, CN2097 attenuates the increase in phosphorylated p38 MAPK, a key intracellular signaling pathway in neuropathic pain. Moreover, spinal injection of CN2097 blocks thermal hyperalgesia in neuropathic rats. We conclude that CN2097 is a small molecule peptide with putative anti-nociceptive effects that modulates physiologic phenomena related to central sensitization under conditions of chronic pain.
Lampreys are useful models for studying the evolution of the nervous system of vertebrates. Here we used immunofluorescence and tract-tracing methods to study new aspects of the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-ir) system in larval sea lampreys. NPY-ir neurons were observed in brain nuclei that contain NPY-ir cells in other lamprey species. Moreover, a group of NPY-ir cells that migrated away the periventricular layer was observed in the lateral part of the dorsal hypothalamus, which suggests a role for NPY in feeding behavior in lampreys. We also report NPY-ir cells in the dorsal column nucleus, which appears to be unique among vertebrates, and in the habenula. A combination of tract-tracing and immunohistochemical labeling demonstrated the presence of spinal projecting NPY-ir reticular cells in the anterior rhombencephalic reticular formation, and the relationships between the NPY-ir system and the reticulospinal nuclei and some afferent systems. The colocalization of catecholamines and GABA in lamprey NPY-ir neurons was investigated by double immunofluorescence methods. Colocalization of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and NPY immunoreactivities was not observed in any brain neuron, although reported in amphibians and mammals. The frequent presence of NPY-ir terminals on TH-ir cells suggests that NPY modulates the activity of some dopaminergic nuclei in lampreys. Colocalization of NPY and GABA immunoreactivities was frequently observed in neurons of different rhombencephalic and diencephalic NPY-ir populations. These results in lampreys suggest that the coexpression of NPY and GABA in neurons appeared early on in the brains of vertebrates.
Although several pieces of evidence indicate that the endocannabinoid system modulates anxiety-like behaviors and stress adaptation, few studies have investigated the brain sites of these effects. The ventral hippocampus (VHC) has been related to anxiety behaviors and has a high expression of cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptors. Moreover, endocannabinoid signaling in the hippocampus is proposed to regulate stress adaptation. In the present study we investigated the role of previous stressful experience on the effects of AM404, an anandamide uptake inhibitor, microinjected into the VHC of rats submitted to the elevated plus maze (EPM), a widely used animal model of anxiety. Stressed animals were forced restrained for two h 24 h before the test. AM404 (5-50 pmol) microinjection promoted an anxiogenic-like effect in non-stressed rats but decreased anxiety in stressed animals. AM251 (0.01 to 1000 pmol), a CB1 receptor antagonist, failed to change behavior in the EPM over a wide dose range but prevented the effects of AM404. Anxiolytic-like effects of AM404 (5 pmol) intra-VHC injection were also observed in the Vogel conflict test (VCT), another model of anxiety that involves previous exposure to stressful situations (48 h of water deprivation). These results suggest that facilitation of endocannabinoid system neurotransmission in the ventral hippocampus modulates anxiety-like behaviors and that this effect depends on previous stress experience.
Although most anti-epileptic drugs are considered to have a primary molecular target, it is clear that their actions are unlikely to be limited to effects on a single aspect of inhibitory synaptic transmission, excitatory transmission or voltage-gated ion channels. Systemically administered drugs can obviously simultaneously access all possible targets, so we have attempted to determine the overall effect of diverse agents on the balance between GABAergic inhibition, glutamatergic excitation and cellular excitability in neurones of the rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. We used an approach developed for estimating global background synaptic excitation and inhibition from fluctuations in membrane potential obtained by intracellular recordings. We have previously validated this approach in entorhinal cortical neurones [Greenhill and Jones (2007a) Neuroscience 147:884-892]. Using this approach, we found that, despite their differing pharmacology, the drugs tested (phenytoin, lamotrigine, valproate, gabapentin, felbamate, tiagabine) were unified in their ability to increase the ratio of background GABAergic inhibition to glutamatergic excitation. This could occur as a result of decreased excitation concurrent with increased inhibition (phenytoin, lamotrigine, valproate), a decrease in excitation alone (gabapentin, felbamate), or even with a differential increase in both (tiagabine). Additionally, we found that the effects on global synaptic conductances agreed well with whole cell patch recordings of spontaneous glutamate and GABA release (our previous studies and further data presented here). The consistency with which the synaptic inhibition:excitation ratio was increased by the antiepileptic drugs tested was matched by an ability of all drugs to concurrently reduce intrinsic neuronal excitability. Thus, it seems possible that specific molecular targets among antiepileptic drugs are less important than the ability to increase the inhibition:excitation ratio and reduce overall neuronal and network excitability.
Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) is a newly developed noninvasive imaging technique of brain activities. The signal intensity of MEMRI reflects cumulative activities of the neurons. To validate the use of MEMRI technique to investigate the neural mechanisms of learning and memory, we tried to map brain areas involved in the retrieval of conditioned taste aversion (CTA) memory. CTAs were established to saccharin (conditioned stimulus: CS) by pairing its ingestion with an i.p. injection of LiCl (unconditioned stimulus: US). LiCl solutions (as a robust aversion chemical) of 0.15 M were injected i.p. 15 min after drinking the saccharine solution (CS). After the two times conditionings, these rats showed a robust aversion to the saccharine solution (CS). Rats of the control group were injected saline i.p. instead of LiCl solutions. The MRI signal intensities at the gustatory cortex (GC), the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens (NAcC), the shell subregion of the nucleus accumbens (NAcSh), the ventral pallidum (VP), the central nucleus of amygdala (CeA), the lateral hypothalamus (LH), and the basolateral nucleus of amygdala (BLA) of the conditioned group were higher than those of the control group. There were no significant differences between the conditioned and the control groups in the intensities for other regions, such as the striatum area, motor cortex, cingulate cortex, interstitial nucleus of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure and hippocampus. These indicate that the GC, NAcC, NAcSh, VP, CeA, LH and BLA have important roles in the memory retrieval of CTA.
Epidemiological studies have raised the possibility of caffeine serving as a neuroprotective agent in Parkinson's disease (PD). This possibility has gained support from findings that dopaminergic neuron toxicity induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or other neurotoxins is attenuated by co-administration of caffeine in mice. Here we examined the time window of caffeine's neuroprotection as well as the effects of caffeine's metabolites (theophylline and paraxanthine) in the MPTP mouse model of PD. In the first experiment, caffeine pre-treatment (30 mg/kg ip) significantly attenuated MPTP-induced striatal dopamine depletion when it was given 10 min, 30 min, 1 h, or 2 h but not 6 h before MPTP (40 mg/kg ip) treatment. Meanwhile, caffeine post-treatment also significantly attenuated striatal dopamine loss when it was given 10 min, 30 min, 1 h or 2 h but not 4 h, 8 h or 24 h after MPTP injection. In the second experiment, both theophylline (10 or 20 mg/kg) and paraxanthine (10 or 30 mg/kg) administration (10 min before MPTP) significantly attenuated MPTP-induced dopamine depletion in mice, as did caffeine (10 mg/kg) treatment. Thus the metabolites of caffeine also provide neuroprotective effects in this mouse model of PD. The data suggest that if caffeine protects against putative toxin-induced dopaminergic neuron injury in humans, then precise temporal pairing between caffeine and toxin exposures may not be critical because the duration of neuroprotection by caffeine may be extended by protective effects of its major metabolites.
Although pharmacological blockade of both dopamine (DA) and opiate receptors has an inhibiting effect on appetitive motivated behaviors, it is still unclear which physiological mechanisms affected by these treatments underlie the behavioral deficit. To clarify this issue, we examined how pharmacological blockade of either DA (SCH23390+eticlopride at 0.2 mg/kg each) or opioid receptors (naloxone 1 mg/kg) affects motor activity and temperature fluctuations in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), temporal muscle, and facial skin associated with motivated Coca-Cola drinking behavior in rats. In drug-free conditions, presentation of a cup containing 5 ml of Coca-Cola induced locomotor activation and rapid NAcc temperature increases, which both transiently decreased during drinking, and phasically increased again after the cup was emptied. Muscle temperatures followed this pattern, but increases were weaker and more delayed than those in the NAcc. Skin temperature rapidly dropped after cup presentation, remained at low levels during consumption, and slowly restored during post-consumption behavioral activation. By itself, DA receptor blockade induced robust decrease in spontaneous locomotion, moderate increases in brain and muscle temperatures, and a relative increase in skin temperatures, suggesting metabolic activation coupled with adynamia. Following this treatment (approximately 180 min), motor activation to cup presentation and Coca-Cola consumption were absent, but rats showed NAcc and muscle temperature increases following cup presentation comparable to control. Therefore, DA receptor blockade does not affect significantly central and peripheral autonomic responses to appetitive stimuli, but eliminates their behavior-activating effects, thus disrupting appetitive behavior and blocking consumption. Naloxone alone slightly decreased brain and muscle temperatures and increased skin temperatures, pointing at the enhanced heat loss and possible minor inhibition of basal metabolic activity. This treatment (approximately 60 min) had minimal effects on the latencies of drinking, but increased its total duration, with licking interrupted by pauses and retreats. This behavioral attenuation was coupled with weaker than in control locomotor activation and diminished temperature fluctuations in each recording location. Therefore, attenuation of normal behavioral and physiological responses to appetitive stimuli appears to underlie modest inhibiting effects of opiate receptor blockade on motivated behavior and consumption.
Head trauma and acute disorders often instantly compress the cerebral cortex and lead to functional abnormalities. Here we used rat epidural bead implantation model and investigated the immediate changes following acute compression. The dendritic arbors of affected cortical pyramidal neurons were filled with intracellular dye and reconstructed 3-dimensionally for analysis. Compression was found to shorten the apical, but not basal, dendrites of underlying layer III and V cortical pyramidal neurons and reduced dendritic spines on the entire dendritic arbor immediately. Dendrogram analysis showed that in addition to distal, proximal apical dendrites also quickly reconfigured. We then focused on apical dendritic trunks and explored how proximal dendrites were rapidly altered. Compression instantly twisted the microtubules and deformed the membrane contour of dendritic trunks likely a result of the elastic nature of dendrites as immediate decompression restored it and stabilization of microtubules failed to block it. Subsequent adaptive remodeling restored plasmalemma and microtubules to normal appearance in 3 days likely via active mechanisms as taxol blocked the restoration of microtubules and in addition partly affected plasmalemmal reorganization which presumably engaged recycling of excess membrane. In short, the structural dynamics and the associated mechanisms that we revealed demonstrate how compression quickly altered the morphology of cortical output neurons and hence cortical functions consequently.
Reinforcing effects mediated by accumbal CB(1) receptors (CB(1)R) are controversial, as well as their role in the rewarding effects of cocaine. Accumbal glutamate and glutamate receptors have been proposed to be involved in CB(1)R-mediated effects on cocaine reward. Rewarding effects of cocaine can be evaluated with the conditioned place preference or CPP test. Rimonabant, a cannabinoid CB(1)R ligand, lentiviruses aimed at silencing CB(1)R, and selective glutamatergic ligands are good tools for studying the function of accumbal CB(1) and glutamate receptors. The objectives of the present study were (i) to discern the CPP effects of in vivo gene silencing of accumbal CB(1) receptors by means of lentiviruses containing siRNAs; (ii) to discern the CPP effects of intra-accumbens infusions of the cannabinoid CB(1)R ligand rimonabant, and to evaluate whether effects are due to receptor blockade or inverse agonism; (iii) to discern the role of CB(1)R located within the nucleus accumbens shell in the rewarding effects of cocaine, by means of local infusions of rimonabant, and (iv) to discern the role of glutamate receptors (AMPAR, NMDAR, mGluR2/3) in rimonabant-induced effects on CPP in cocaine-treated rats. The findings revealed that in vivo silencing of accumbal CB(1) receptors with Lenti-CB(1)R-siRNAs induced place aversion to cocaine, but intra-accumbal rimonabant induced place preference in its own right, indicating that this compound seems to act as inverse agonist on the CPP. Glutamate receptors participate in rimonabant-mediated place preference because it was abolished after blocking AMPA glutamate receptors, but not NMDAR or mGluR2/3. Finally, in cocaine-treated rats, local rimonabant induced place aversion to the drug (not place preference), and this effect was mediated by glutamate neurotransmission because it was abolished after blockade of AMPA, NMDA or mGlu2/3 receptors, even though only the blockade of mGlu2/3 autoreceptors restored the emergence of place preference to cocaine.
The sigma-1 receptor regulates various ion channel activity and possesses protein chaperone function. Using an antibody against the full sequence of the sigma-1 receptor we detected immunostaining in wild type but not in knockout mice. The receptor was found primarily in motoneurons localized to the brainstem and spinal cord. At the subcellular level the receptor is restricted to large cholinergic postsynaptic densities on the soma of motoneurons and is colocalized with the Kv2.1 potassium channel and the muscarinic type 2 cholinergic receptor. Ultrastructural analysis of the neurons indicates that the immunostained receptor is located close but separate from the plasma membrane, possibly in subsurface cisternae formed from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which are a prominent feature of cholinergic postsynaptic densities. Behavioral testing on a rotorod revealed that Sigma-1 receptor knockout mice remained on the rotorod for significantly less time (a shorter latency period) compared to the wild type mice. Together these data indicate that the sigma-1 receptor may play a role in the regulation of motor behavior.
Phosphorylation is critically involved in synaptic plasticity and memory. Recent studies have shown that another posttranslational modification, acetylation, particularly of histone H3, also plays important roles in long-term potentiation and memory. However, activity-dependent modification of different histones of the nucleosome is not clearly understood. Here we show that depolarization enhances acetylation of histone H2B in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Depolarization-induced H2B acetylation is dependent on calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity. In addition, inhibition of DNA methyltransferase activity also abolishes depolarization-induced increase in H2B acetylation. These results show that acetylation of histone H2B is regulated in an activity-dependent manner by the molecular events important for synaptic plasticity and memory.
The actions of dopamine D1 family receptors (D1R) depend upon a signal transduction cascade that modulates the phosphorylation state of important effector proteins, such as glutamate receptors and ion channels. This is accomplished both through activation of protein kinase A (PKA) and the inhibition of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1). Inhibition of PP1 occurs through PKA-mediated phosphorylation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein 32 kDa (DARPP-32) or the related protein inhibitor-1 (I-1), and the availability of DARPP-32 is essential to the functional outcome of D1R activation in the basal ganglia. While D1R activation is critical for prefrontal cortex (PFC) function, especially working memory, the functional role played by DARPP-32 or I-1 is less clear. In order to examine this more thoroughly, we have utilized immunoelectron microscopy to quantitatively determine the localization of DARPP-32 and I-1 in the neuropil of the rhesus monkey PFC. Both were distributed widely in the different components of the neuropil, but were enriched in dendritic shafts. I-1 label was more frequently identified in axon terminals than was DARPP-32, and DARPP-32 label was more frequently identified in glia than was I-1. We also quantified the extent to which these proteins were found in dendritic spines. DARPP-32 and I-1 were present in small subpopulations of dendritic spines, (4.4% and 7.7% and respectively), which were substantially smaller than observed for D1R in our previous studies (20%). Double-label experiments did not find evidence for colocalization of D1R and DARPP-32 or I-1 in spines or terminals. Thus, at the least, not all prefrontal spines which contain D1R also contain I-1 or DARPP-32, suggesting important differences in D1R signaling in the PFC compared to the striatum.
Converging evidence suggests that the motivation to seek cocaine during the postpartum period is significantly impacted by the competing incentives of offspring, a stimulus unique to this life stage. In the present study, the functional role of the medial preoptic area (mPOA), a critical site involved in maternal responsiveness, on processing incentive value of pup-associated cues and influencing response allocation for pup- over cocaine-associated environments was investigated using a concurrent pup/cocaine choice conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. Early postpartum females with bilateral guide cannulae aimed into the mPOA or into anatomical control sites were conditioned, from postpartum days (PPD) 4 to 7, to associate different uniquely featured environments with pups or cocaine. CPP was tested on PPD8 following intra-mPOA infusions of either 2% bupivacaine or saline vehicle. In two additional experiments, the effects of intra-mPOA infusions of bupivacaine on expression of conditioned responding induced by environments associated with either pups or cocaine were examined separately. Transient inactivation of the mPOA selectively blocked the conditioned preferences for pup-associated environments, significantly contrasting the robust pup-CPP found in non-surgical and intra-mPOA vehicle-treated females. In contrast, mPOA inactivation failed to alter cocaine-CPP in postpartum females. When given a choice between environments associated with pups or cocaine, transient functional inactivation of the mPOA altered choice behavior, biasing the preference of females toward cocaine-associated environments, such that almost all preferred cocaine- and none the pup-associated option. The anatomical specificity was revealed when inactivation of adjacent regions to the mPOA did not affect CPP responses for pups. The findings support a critical role for the mPOA in mediating pup-seeking behavior, and further suggest that the competing properties of pups over alternative incentives, including drugs of abuse, rely on mPOA integrity to provide relevant pup-related information to the circuitry underlying the choice behavior between pups and alternative stimuli.
Microglial cells play an important role in the inflammatory response of a broad range of brain diseases including stroke, brain infection and neurodegenerative diseases. However, there is very little information regarding how to protect microglial cells. Here, we showed that incubation of the C8-B4 mouse microglial cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) induced cytotoxicity as assessed by the amount of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) released from the cells. Preconditioning the cells with morphine for 30 min concentration-dependently reduced LPS plus IFN gamma-induced cell injury. This morphine preconditioning effect was abolished by naloxone, a general opioid receptor antagonist, by naltrindole, a selective delta opioid receptor antagonist and by 7-benzylidenenaltrexone maleate, a selective delta(1) opioid receptor antagonist. However, this protective effect was not affected by beta-funaltrexamine, a selective mu opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, a selective kappa opioid receptor antagonist or naltriben, a selective delta(2) opioid receptor antagonist. LPS plus IFN gamma induced the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), which was not affected by morphine preconditioning. Our results suggest that morphine induced a preconditioning effect in microglial cells. This effect may be mediated by delta 1 opioid receptors and may not be through inhibiting the expression of iNOS, a potentially harmful protein.
In the present work we report the generation of a new line of alpha-synuclein (alpha-SYN) transgenic mice in which the human wild-type alpha-SYN cDNA is expressed under the control of a tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter. We provide evidence that the ectopic protein is found in TH expressing neurons of both central and peripheral nervous systems. The transgene is expressed very early in development coinciding with the activity of the TH promoter and in the adult brain the human protein distributes normally to the nerve endings and cell bodies of dopaminergic nigral neurons without any evidence of abnormal aggregation. Our results indicate that expression of human wild-type alpha-SYN does not affect normal development or maintenance of TH immunoreactive nigral neurons, striatal dopamine content, or locomotor activity. Systemic administration of the parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induces a loss of TH immunoreactive nigral neurons and terminals and of dopamine levels to the same degree in both transgenic and non-transgenic adult mice. Intoxication also results in a similar loss of cardiac noradrenaline in both genotypes. Surprisingly, cultured transgenic ventral mesencephalic fetal dopaminergic neurons exhibit complete resistance to cell death induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) intoxication, without changes in dopamine transporter (DAT) surface levels. Interestingly, this protection is not observed in other populations of catecholaminergic neurons such as peripheral sympathetic neurons, despite their high sensitivity to MPP(+)in vitro.
The nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS) of the brainstem receives sensory afferent inputs, processes that information, and sends projections to a variety of brain regions responsible for influencing autonomic and respiratory output. The nTS sends direct projections to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), an area important for cardiorespiratory reflexes and homeostasis. Since the net reflex effect of nTS processing ultimately depends on the properties of output neurons, we determined the characteristics of these RVLM-projecting nTS neurons using electrophysiological and immunohistochemical techniques. RVLM-projecting nTS neurons were identified by retrograde tracers. Patch clamp analysis in the horizontal brainstem nTS slice demonstrated that RVLM-projecting nTS cells exhibit constant latency solitary tract evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), suggesting they receive strong monosynaptic contacts from visceral afferents. Three distinct patterns of action potential firing, associated with different underlying potassium currents, were observed in RVLM-projecting cells. Following activation of the chemoreflex in conscious animals by 3 h of acute hypoxia, 11.2+/-1.9% of the RVLM-projecting nTS neurons were activated, as indicated by positive Fos-immunoreactivity. Very few RVLM-projecting nTS cells were catecholaminergic. Taken together, these data suggest that RVLM projecting nTS neurons receive strong monosynaptic inputs from sensory afferents and a subpopulation participates in the chemoreflex pathway.
Alcohol affects gene expression in several brain regions. The amygdala is a key structure in the brain's emotional system and in recent years the crucial importance of the amygdala in drug-seeking and relapse has been increasingly recognized. In this study gene expression screening was used to identify genes involved in alcoholism in the human basolateral amygdala of male patients. The results show that alcoholism affects a broad range of genes and many systems including genes involved in synaptic transmission, neurotransmitter transport, structural plasticity, metabolism, energy production, transcription and RNA processing and the circadian cycle. In particular, genes involved in the glutamate system were affected in the alcoholic patients. In the amygdala the glutamate system is involved in the acquisition, consolidation, expression and extinction of associative learning, which is a vital part of addiction, and in alcohol abusers it is associated with withdrawal anxiety and neurodegeneration. Downregulation of the excitatory amino acid transporters GLAST, GLT-1 and the AMPA glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2) revealed by the microarray were confirmed by Western blots. The decreased expression of GLAST, GLT-1 and GluR2 in the alcoholic patients may increase glutamate tone and activity in the basolateral amygdala and this may contribute to neurodegeneration as well as the expression of associative memories and anxiety which underlie continued drug-seeking and chronic relapse.
Amplitude and phase of steady-state signals recorded in response to amplitude-modulated (AM) sine tones vary over time, suggesting that the steady-state response (SSR) reflects not only stimulus input but also its interaction with other input streams or internally generated signals. Alterations of the interaction between simultaneous SSRs associated with tinnitus were studied by recording the magnetic field evoked by AM-tones with one of three carrier and one of three modulation frequencies. Single AM-tones were presented in single presentation mode and superpositions of three AM-tones differing in carrier and modulation frequency in multiple presentation mode. Modulation frequency-specific SSR components were recovered by bandpass filtering. Compared with single mode, in multiple mode SSR amplitude was reduced in healthy controls, but increased in tinnitus patients. Thus, while in controls multiple response components seem to reciprocally inhibit one another, in tinnitus reciprocal facilitation seems to predominate. Reciprocal inhibition was unrelated to the phase coherence among SSR components, but was correlated with the frequency of phase slips, indicating that the lateral interaction among SSR components acts in a quasi-paroxysmal manner and manifests itself in terms of a random train of phase reset events. Phase slips were more frequent in patients than controls both in single and multiple mode. Together, these findings indicate that lateral or surround inhibition of single units in auditory cortex is reduced and suggest that in-field inhibition is increased in tinnitus.
Somatostatin (SST) neurons in the ventral respiratory column (VRC) are essential for the generation of normal breathing. Little is known about the neuromodulatory role of SST on ventral respiratory neurons other than that local administration induces apnoea. Here, we describe the cardiorespiratory effects of microinjecting SST into the preBtzinger and Btzinger complexes which together elaborate a normal inspiratory augmenting and expiratory respiratory pattern, and on spinally projecting respiratory subnuclei (rostral ventral respiratory group; rVRG). Microinjections (20-50 nl) of SST (0.15, 0.45, 1.5 mM) were made into respiratory subnuclei of urethane-anaesthetized, paralysed, vagotomized and artificially ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats (n=46). Unilateral microinjection of SST into the Btzinger complex converted the augmenting activity of phrenic nerve discharge into a square-wave apneustic pattern associated with a lengthening of inspiratory period and shortening of expiratory time. Following bilateral microinjection the apneusis became pronounced and was associated with a dramatic variability in inspiratory duration. Microinjection of SST into the Btzinger complex also abolished the post-inspiratory (post-I) motor activity normally observed in vagal and sympathetic nerves. In the preBtzinger complex SST caused bradypnoea and with increasing dose, apnoea. In the rVRG SST reduced phrenic nerve amplitude, eventually causing apnoea. In conclusion, SST powerfully inhibits respiratory neurons throughout the VRC. Of particular interest is the finding that chemical inhibition of the Btzinger complex with SST ablates the post-I activity that is normally seen in respiratory activity and leads to apneusis. This loss of post-I activity is a unique feature of inhibition with SST and is not seen following inhibition with other agents such as galanin, GABA and endomorphin. The effect seen on post-I activity is similar to the effect of inhibiting the Klliker-Fuse nucleus in the pons. The mechanism by which SST exerts this effect on Btzinger neurons remains to be determined.
Selective attention is a crucial component of all sensory processing. Here we test the role of dopamine in attentional selection and in the maintenance of attention. Pigeons were trained on a moving-dot paradigm comparable to the shell game. In this paradigm, pigeons had to select a target among distractors and maintain attention to the target. Target and distractors consisted of white dots, moving at random on a touch-screen. In this task, the demand on attention was modulated by varying the number of distractors and the duration of motion. Both manipulations affected performance equally. In the next step, we investigated the contribution of dopamine to attention. Intracranial injections of D1-antagonist (Sch23390) before testing led to decrements in performance that equally affected trials with different attentional demand. This drop in performance cannot be attributed to altered motivation or motor performance. We conclude that dopamine has a critical role in attention. It is involved in the selection of targets for attention and in the stabilization of attention against interference. This is comparable to the role dopamine plays in working memory and argues for similar mechanisms underlying selective attention and working memory.
Cerebral hypoxia is one of the main causes of cerebral injury. This study was conducted to investigate the potential protective effect of H(2)S in in vitro hypoxic models by subjecting SH-SY5Y cells to either oxygen-glucose deprivation or Na(2)S(2)O(4) (an oxygen scavenger) treatment. We found that treatment with NaHS (an H(2)S donor, 10-100 microM) 15 min prior to hypoxia increased cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Time-course study showed that NaHS was able to exert its protective effect even when added 8 h before or less than 4 h after hypoxia induction. Interestingly, endogenous H(2)S level was markedly reduced by hypoxia induction. Over-expression of cystathionine-beta-synthase prevented hypoxia induced cell apoptosis. Blockade of ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channels with glibenclamide and HMR-1098, protein kinase C (PKC) with its three specific inhibitors (chelerythrine, bisindolylmaleide I and calphostin C), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) with PD98059 and heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) with geldanamycin and radicicol significantly attenuated the protective effects of NaHS. Western blots showed that NaHS significantly stimulated ERK1/2 activation and Hsp90 expression. In conclusion, H(2)S exerts a protective effect against cerebral hypoxia induced neuronal cell death via K(ATP)/PKC/ERK1/2/Hsp90 pathway. Our findings emphasize the important neuroprotective role of H(2)S in the brain during cerebral hypoxia.
One of the most important symptoms in chronic pancreatitis (CP) is constant and recurrent abdominal pain. However, there is still no ideal explanation and treatment on it. Previous studies indicated that pain in CP shared many characteristics of neuropathic pain. As an important mechanism underlying neuropathic pain, astrocytic activation is probably involved in pain of CP. Based on the trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induce rat CP model, we performed pancreatic histology to assess the severity of CP with semiquantitative scores and tested the nociceptive behaviors following induction of CP. Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expressions in the thoracic spinal cord were observed by immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Meanwhile, we injected intrathecally astrocytic specific inhibitor l-alpha-aminoadipate (LAA) and observed its effect on nociception induced by CP. Compared to the naive and sham group, TNBS produced long lasting pancreatitis, and persistent mechanical hypersensitivity in the abdomen that was evident 1 week after TNBS infusion and persisted up to 5 weeks. Compared with naive or sham operated rats, GFAP staining was significantly increased 5 weeks after CP induction. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that GFAP expression was significantly increased in TNBS treated rats compared to the sham group. TNBS-induced astrocytic activation was significantly attenuated by LAA, compared with the saline control. Treatment with LAA significantly, even though not completely, attenuated the allodynia. Our results provide for the first time that astrocytes may play a critical role in pain of CP. Some actions could be taken to prevent astrocytic activation to treat pain in CP patients.
Recent evidence suggests a major role for ionic fluxes in apoptotic cell death and apoptotic volume decrease. Cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) undergo apoptosis when they are treated with staurosporine or camptothecin (CPT) or when cells are transferred from high extracellular potassium (25 mM KCl [K(+)](e), K25) to low potassium concentration (5 mM KCl [K(+)](e), K5). In this study we described that all three apoptotic conditions induced apoptotic volume decrease in CGN and that two different potassium channel blockers, cesium (Cs(+)) and tetraethylammonium (TEA(+)), prevented the apoptotic volume decrease, caspase-3 activation, nuclear condensation and cell death induced by K5 and CPT, but not by staurosporine. Cs(+) and TEA(+) also blocked membrane currents generated in K5 conditions in CGN. On the other hand, non specific Cl(-) channel blockers such as 4,4'-diisothiocyanato-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS) prevented loss of cell volume induced by K5 or staurosporine. Only the Cl(-) channels blocker but not the K(+) channels blockers protected from staurosporine-induced death of CGN. These data suggest that ionic fluxes play a key role in the activation of the apoptotic volume decrease and apoptotic death of CGN, but the fine mechanism seems to depend on the apoptotic condition.
Addictive drugs including opioids activate signal transduction pathways that regulate gene expression in the brain. However, changes in CNS gene expression following morphine exposure are poorly understood. We determined changes in gene expression following short- and long-term morphine treatment in the hypothalamus and pituitary using genome-wide DNA microarray analysis and confirmed those alterations in gene expression by real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. In the hypothalamus, short-term morphine administration up-regulated (at least twofold) 39 genes and down-regulated six genes. Long-term morphine treatment up-regulated 35 genes and down-regulated 51 genes. In the pituitary, short-term morphine administration up-regulated 110 genes and down-regulated 29 genes. Long-term morphine treatment up-regulated 85 genes and down-regulated 37 pituitary genes. Microarray analysis uncovered several genes involved in food intake (neuropeptide Y, agouti-related protein, and cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript) whose expression was strongly altered by morphine exposure in either the hypothalamus or pituitary. Subsequent RT-PCR analysis confirmed similar regulation in expression of these genes in the hypothalamus and pituitary. Finally, we found functional correlation between morphine-induced alterations in food intake and regulation of genes involved in this process. Changes in genes related to food intake may uncover new pathways related to some of the physiological effects of opioids.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) efficacy in the treatment of major depression has been shown in both low frequency right-sided and high frequency left-sided stimulation over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the hypothesis of an additive effect of bilateral stimulation compare to sequential to unilateral stimulation. Sixty patients with treatment-resistant depression were assigned to receive either low-frequency rTMS over the right DLPFC (140 s x 1 Hz) followed by controlateral sham (unilateral group, n=20), low frequency right DLPFC rTMS followed by left DLPFC high frequency rTMS (5 s x 10 Hz) (bilateral group, n=20), or bilateral sham (sham group, n=20) in a 3 weeks double-blind, randomized trial. The primary outcome variable was the score on Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D). Low frequency right-sided and sequential bilateral stimulation showed different antidepressant efficacy at 3 weeks and across the full duration of the study, only the unilateral method appearing significantly more effective than sham at the end of the trial, and correlated to the higher percent of remitters (30% of the group vs. 10% -bilateral- and 5% -sham). Unilateral stimulation, but not bilateral, showed higher antidepressant efficacy compared to sham stimulation. The data suggest that right-sided low frequency stimulation may be a first line treatment alternative in resistant depression. To confirm and extend these findings further studies require a longer follow-up period, supported by biological observation and replication.
In this study we investigate on the effect of amyloid-beta1-40 (A beta 1-40) on the oxotremorine (OXO)-induced release of [(3)H] dopamine (DA), [(3)H]GABA and [(3)H]acetylcholine (ACh) from synaptosomes in the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc). OXO in presence of himbacine (HIMBA) was able to increase the basal release of [(3)H]GABA. The OXO-elicited [(3)H]GABA overflow was significantly antagonized by atropine (A; 94%), by the M3 antagonists DAU5884 (96%) and 4-DAMP (70%), and by A beta 1-40 (65%). Exposure of NAc synaptosomes to OXO produced a dose-dependent increase of [(3)H]DA overflow which was antagonized by A, partially inhibited by A beta 1-40 (100 nM) but unaffected by DAU5884 and 4-DAMP. The K(+)-evoked [(3)H]ACh overflow was inhibited by OXO. This effect was counteracted by the M2 antagonist AFDX-116 but not by the selective M4 antagonist mamba toxin 3 (MT3). The K(+)-evoked [(3)H]GABA overflow was also inhibited by OXO but conversely, this effect was counteracted by MT3 and not by AFDX-116. A beta 1-40 (100 nM) did not modify the inhibitory effect of OXO both on the K(+)-evoked [(3)H]ACh and [(3)H]GABA overflow. The results show that in the rat NAc, A beta 1-40 selectively inhibits the function of the muscarinic subtypes which stimulate neurotransmitter release and not those which modulate negatively the stimulated release.
Expression profiling of post-mortem human brain tissue has been widely used to study molecular changes associated with neuropsychiatric diseases as well as normal processes such as aging. Changes in expression associated with factors such as age, gender or postmortem interval are often more pronounced than changes associated with disease. Therefore in addition to being of interest in their own right, careful consideration of these effects are important in the interpretation of disease studies. We performed a large meta-analysis of genome-wide expression studies of normal human cortex to more fully catalogue the effects of age, gender, postmortem interval and brain pH, yielding a &quot;meta-signature&quot; of gene expression changes for each factor. We validated our results by showing a significant overlap with independent gene lists extracted from the literature. Importantly, meta-analysis identifies genes which are not significant in any individual study. Finally, we show that many schizophrenia candidate genes appear in the meta-signatures, reinforcing the idea that studies must be carefully controlled for interactions between these factors and disease. In addition to the inherent value of the meta-signatures, our results provide critical information for future studies of disease effects in the human brain.
The development of neuromuscular junctions exhibits profound remodeling that brings from an immature state characterized by multiple motoneuronal inputs per muscle fiber, to a mature mononeuronal innervation. This striking elimination process occurs both perinatally and during adult reinnervation, and is also widely present in the developing CNS. The accelerating influence of the amount of impulse activity on this process, has been shown by various studies, but a more subtle role of the time correlation of action potential firing in the competing inputs, has also been suggested. Here we explore the latter influence using a rat adult model of neuromuscular junction formation, that is reinnervation following a motor nerve crush. This shares all important features with perinatal development, especially the strict juxtaposition of the competing inputs. In fact the regenerating axons converge on a single cluster of postsynaptic receptors, that is the original endplate of each muscle fiber. This focus on the spatial aspect of competition between nerve endings was missing in our previous experiments employing a similar paradigm. We impose a chronic synchronous firing to the competing terminals, by in vivo electrical stimulation of their axons distal to a sciatic nerve conduction block. Control preparations, with similar post-crush reinnervation, are left with their natural impulse activity unperturbed. We find that the experimental muscles display a prolonged duration of polyneuronal innervation with respect to controls, indicating that hebbian mechanisms participate in the synapse elimination process. Another aspect dealt with in our study is the genuine nature of the polyneuronal innervation occurring during adult muscle reinnervation, because it is supported by both confocal microscopy and by appropriate electrophysiological tests that exclude electrical coupling of myofibers by gap junctions.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is the source of dopaminergic projections innervating cortical structures and ventral forebrain. Dysfunction of this mesocorticolimbic system is critically involved in psychiatric disorders such as addiction and schizophrenia. Changes in VTA dopamine (DA) neuronal activity can alter neurotransmitter release at target regions which modify information processing in the reward circuit. Here we studied the effect of alpha-2 noradrenergic receptor activation on the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (I(h)) in DA neurons of the rat VTA. Brain slice preparations using whole-cell current and voltage-clamp techniques were employed. Clonidine and UK14304 (alpha-2 receptor selective agonists) were found to decrease I(h) amplitude and to slow its rate of activation indicating a negative shift in the current's voltage dependence. Two non-subtype-selective alpha-2 receptor antagonists, yohimbine and RS79948, prevented the effects of alpha-2 receptor activation. RX821002, a noradrenergic antagonist specific for alpha-2A and alpha-2D did not prevent I(h) inhibition. This result suggests that clonidine might be acting via an alpha-2C subtype since this receptor is the most abundant variant in the VTA. Analysis of a second messenger system associated with the alpha-2 receptor revealed that I(h) inhibition is independent of cyclic AMP (cAMP) and resulted from the activation of protein kinase C. It is suggested that the alpha-2 mediated hyperpolarizing shift in I(h) voltage dependence can facilitate the transition from pacemaker firing to afferent-driven burst activity. This transition may play a key role on the changes in synaptic plasticity that occurs in the mesocorticolimbic system under pathological conditions.
Continuous proliferation occurs in the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles throughout life. In the SVZ, progenitor cells differentiate into neuroblasts, which migrate tangentially along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to reach their final destination in the olfactory bulb. These progenitor cells mature and integrate into the existing neural network of the olfactory bulb. Long distance migration of neuroblasts in the RMS requires a highly dynamic cytoskeleton with the ability to respond to surrounding stimuli. Radixin is a member of the ERM (Ezrin, Radixin, Moesin) family, which connect the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix through transmembrane proteins. The membrane-cytoskeleton linker proteins of the ERM family may regulate cellular events with a high demand on cytoskeleton plasticity, such as cell motility. Recently, specific expression of the ERM protein ezrin was shown in the RMS. Radixin however has not been characterized in this region. Here we used immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to examine the expression of radixin in the different cell types of the adult subventricular zone niche and in the RMS. Our findings indicate that radixin is strongly expressed in neuroblasts of the adult RMS and subventricular zone, and also in Olig2-positive cells. We also demonstrate the presence of radixin in the cerebral cortex, striatum, cerebellum, thalamus, hippocampus as well as the granular and periglomerular layers of the olfactory bulb. Our studies also reveal the localization of radixin in neurosphere culture studies and we reveal the specificity of our labeling using Western blotting. The expression pattern demonstrated here suggests a role for radixin in neuronal migration and differentiation in the adult RMS. Understanding how adult neuronal migration is regulated is of importance for the development of new therapeutic interventions using endogenous repair for neurodegenerative diseases.
Memantine is classified as an NMDA receptor antagonist. We recently reported that memantine promoted the proliferation of neural progenitor cells and the production of mature granule neurons in the adult hippocampus. However, the molecular mechanism responsible for the memantine-induced promotion of cellular proliferation remains unknown. In this study we searched for a factor that mediates memantine-induced cellular proliferation, and found that pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), a broad-acting neurotrophic factor, is up-regulated in the dentate gyrus of adult mice after the injection of memantine. PEDF mRNA expression increased significantly by 3.5-fold at 1 day after the injection of memantine. In addition, the expression level of PEDF protein also increased by 1.8-fold at 2 days after the injection of memantine. Immunohistochemical study using anti-PEDF antibody showed that the majority of the PEDF-expressing cells were protoplasmic and perivascular astrocytes. Using a neurosphere assay, we confirmed that PEDF enhanced cellular proliferation under the presence of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) but was not involved in the multilineage potency of hippocampal progenitor cells. Over expression of PEDF by adeno-associated virus, however, did not stimulate cellular proliferation, suggesting PEDF per se does not promote cellular proliferation in vivo. These findings suggest that the memantine induced PEDF up-regulation is involved in increased proliferation of hippocampal progenitor cells.
Bupivacaine is one of the amide type local anesthetics and is widely used for epidural anesthesia and blockade of nerves. Bupivacaine administration locally could result in neuron injury showing transient neurologic symptoms. Dexamethasone is a synthetic glucocorticoid and may exert cytoprotective properties against damage induced by some stimuli. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of dexamethasone on bupivacaine-induced toxicity in mouse neuroblastoma N2a cells. N2a cells were exposed to bupivacaine in the presence or absence of dexamethasone. After treatment, the cell viability, nuclear condensation, and lactate dehydrogenase levels were evaluated. Mitochondrial potential and Akt (threonine-serine protein kinase B) activation were also examined. In a separate experiment, we examined the effect of Akt inhibition by triciribine on cell viability following dexamethasone treatment. We also investigated whether dexamethasone could prevent lidocaine-induced neurotoxicity. Treatment of N2a cells with bupivacaine resulted in significant cell injury as evidenced by morphological changes, LDH leakage, and nuclear condensation. Pretreatment of the cells with dexamethasone significantly attenuated bupivacaine- and lidocaine-induced cell injury. Dexamethasone treatment prevented the decline of mitochondrial potential caused by bupivacaine and increased the levels of Akt phosphorylation. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of Akt abolished the protective effect of dexamethasone against bupivacaine-induced cell injury. Our data suggest that pretreatment of neuroblastoma cells with dexamethasone exerts a protective effect on bupivacaine-induced neuronal cell injury. The mechanisms involve activating the Akt signaling pathway.
Mutations that diminish the function of the extracellular matrix receptor Dystroglycan (DG) result in muscular dystrophies, with associated neuronal migration defects in the brain and mental retardation e.g. Muscle Eye Brain Disease. To gain insight into the function of DG in the nervous system we initiated a study to examine its contribution to development of the eye of Drosophila melanogaster. Immuno-histochemistry showed that DG is concentrated on the apical surface of photoreceptors (R) cells during specification of cell-fate in the third instar larva and is maintained at this location through early pupal stages. In point mutations that are null for DG we see abortive R cell elongation during differentiation that first appears in the pupa and results in stunted R cells in the adult. Overexpression of DG in R cells results in a small but significant increase in their size. R cell differentiation defects appear at the same stage in a deficiency line Df(2R)Dg(248) that affects Dg and the neighboring mitochondrial ribosomal gene, mRpL34. In the adult, these flies have severely disrupted R cells as well as defects in the lens and ommatidia. Expression of an mRpL34 transgene rescues much of this phenotype. We conclude that DG does not affect neuronal commitment but functions R cell autonomously to regulate neuronal elongation during differentiation in the pupa. We discuss these findings in view of recent work implicating DG as a regulator of cell metabolism and its genetic interaction with mRpL34, a member of a class of mitochondrial genes essential for normal metabolic function.
Human perception of ambiguous sensory signals is biased by prior experiences. It is not known how such prior information is encoded, retrieved and combined with sensory information by neurons. Previous authors have suggested dynamic encoding mechanisms for prior information, whereby top-down modulation of firing patterns on a trial-by-trial basis creates short-term representations of priors. Although such a mechanism may well account for perceptual bias arising in the short-term, it does not account for the often irreversible and robust changes in perception that result from long-term, developmental experience. Based on the finding that more frequently experienced stimuli gain greater representations in sensory cortices during development, we reasoned that prior information could be stored in the size of cortical sensory representations. For the case of auditory perception, we use a computational model to show that prior information about sound frequency distributions may be stored in the size of primary auditory cortex frequency representations, read-out by elevated baseline activity in all neurons and combined with sensory-evoked activity to generate a perception that conforms to Bayesian integration theory. Our results suggest an alternative neural mechanism for experience-induced long-term perceptual bias in the context of auditory perception. They make the testable prediction that the extent of such perceptual prior bias is modulated by both the degree of cortical reorganization and the magnitude of spontaneous activity in primary auditory cortex. Given that cortical over-representation of frequently experienced stimuli, as well as perceptual bias towards such stimuli is a common phenomenon across sensory modalities, our model may generalize to sensory perception, rather than being specific to auditory perception.
Generic substitution of antiepileptic drugs (EAD) have limited use because epilepsy is a chronic disease, seizure recurrence has an important impact of the quality of life and the potential risk of accidents. EADs have a narrow therapeutic window, non negligible side effects and complex interactions. Bioavailability of generic EADs, tested in healthy men during a limited period of time must be within the 90% IC, in which means that serum levels can range from 80% to 125% of the original drug. A slight drop in serum level could increase the risk of seizure recurrence, as indicated by several publications. Although no formal studies regarding cost effectiveness and the rate of seizure recurrence is available yet, the prevailing consensus recommends not to replace an original antiepileptic drug by a generic, due to the harmful risk of seizure recurrence.
Treatment-Resistant Depression (TRD) represents a source of ongoing clinical and nosological controversy and confusion. While no univocal consensus on its definition and specific correlation with major mood disorders has been reached to date, a progressively greater number of evidences tend to suggest a revision of current clinical nosology. Since a better assessment of TRD should be considered mandatory in order to achieve the most appropriate clinical management, this narrative review aims to briefly present current most accepted definitions of the phenomenon, speculating on its putative bipolar diathesis for some of the cases originally assessed as unipolar depression.

The basal ganglia and cerebellum are major subcortical structures that influence not only movement, but putatively also cognition and affect. Both structures receive input from and send output to the cerebral cortex. Thus, the basal ganglia and cerebellum form multisynaptic loops with the cerebral cortex. Basal ganglia and cerebellar loops have been assumed to be anatomically separate and to perform distinct functional operations. We investigated whether there is any direct route for basal ganglia output to influence cerebellar function that is independent of the cerebral cortex. We injected rabies virus (RV) into selected regions of the cerebellar cortex in cebus monkeys and used retrograde transneuronal transport of the virus to determine the origin of multisynaptic inputs to the injection sites. We found that the subthalamic nucleus of the basal ganglia has a substantial disynaptic projection to the cerebellar cortex. This pathway provides a means for both normal and abnormal signals from the basal ganglia to influence cerebellar function. We previously showed that the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum has a disynaptic projection to an input stage of basal ganglia processing, the striatum. Taken together these results provide the anatomical substrate for substantial two-way communication between the basal ganglia and cerebellum. Thus, the two subcortical structures may be linked together to form an integrated functional network.
Mammalian sweet, bitter, and umami taste is mediated by a single transduction pathway that includes a phospholipase C (PLC)beta and one cation channel, TRPM5. However, in insects such as the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, it is unclear whether different tastants, such as bitter compounds, are sensed in gustatory receptor neurons (GRNs) through one or multiple ion channels, as the cation channels required in insect GRNs are unknown. Here, we set out to explore additional sensory roles for the Drosophila TRPA1 channel, which was known to function in thermosensation. We found that TRPA1 was expressed in GRNs that respond to aversive compounds. Elimination of TRPA1 had no impact on the responses to nearly all bitter compounds tested, including caffeine, quinine, and strychnine. Rather, we found that TRPA1 was required in a subset of avoidance GRNs for the behavioral and electrophysiological responses to aristolochic acid. TRPA1 did not appear to be activated or inhibited directly by aristolochic acid. We found that elimination of the same PLC that leads to activation of TRPA1 in thermosensory neurons was also required in the TRPA1-expressing GRNs for avoiding aristolochic acid. Given that mammalian TRPA1 is required for responding to noxious chemicals, many of which cause pain and injury, our analysis underscores the evolutionarily conserved role for TRPA1 channels in chemical avoidance.
Glutamate receptor ion channels (iGluRs) are excitatory neurotransmitter receptors with a unique molecular architecture in which the extracellular domains assemble as a dimer of dimers. The structure of individual dimer assemblies has been established previously for both the isolated ligand-binding domain (LBD) and more recently for the larger amino terminal domain (ATD). How these dimers pack to form tetrameric assemblies in intact iGluRs has remained controversial. Using recently solved crystal structures for the GluK2 kainate receptor ATD as a guide, we performed cysteine mutant cross-linking experiments in full-length tetrameric GluK2 to establish how the ATD packs in a dimer of dimers assembly. A similar approach, using a full-length AMPA receptor GluA2 crystal structure as a guide, was used to design cysteine mutant cross-links for the GluK2 LBD dimer of dimers assembly. The formation of cross-linked tetramers in full-length GluK2 by combinations of ATD and LBD mutants which individually produce only cross-linked dimers suggests that subunits in the ATD and LBD layers swap dimer partners. Functional studies reveal that cross-linking either the ATD or the LBD inhibits activation of GluK2 and that, in the LBD, cross-links within and between dimers have different effects. These results establish that kainate and AMPA receptors have a conserved extracellular architecture and provide insight into the role of individual dimer assemblies in activation of ion channel gating.
Cerebellar neurons are generated from two germinal neuroepithelia: the ventricular zone (VZ) and rhombic lip. Signaling mechanisms that maintain the proliferative capacity of VZ resident progenitors remain elusive. We reveal that Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling is active in the cerebellar VZ and essential to radial glial cell proliferation and expansion of GABAergic interneurons. We demonstrate that the cerebellum is not the source of Shh that signals to the early VZ, and suggest a transventricular path for Shh ligand delivery. In agreement, we detected the presence of Shh protein in the circulating embryonic cerebrospinal fluid. This study identifies Shh as an essential proliferative signal for the cerebellar ventricular germinal zone, underscoring the potential contribution of VZ progenitors in the pathogenesis of cerebellar diseases associated with deregulated Shh signaling, and reveals a transventricular source of Shh in regulating neural development.
The output of the cerebellar cortex is controlled by two main inputs, (i.e., the climbing fiber and mossy fiber-parallel fiber pathway) and activations of these inputs elicit characteristic effects in its Purkinje cells: that is, the so-called complex spikes and simple spikes. Target neurons of the Purkinje cells in the cerebellar nuclei show rebound firing, which has been implicated in the processing and storage of motor coordination signals. Yet, it is not known to what extent these rebound phenomena depend on different modes of Purkinje cell activation. Using extracellular as well as patch-clamp recordings, we show here in both anesthetized and awake rodents that simple and complex spike-like train stimuli to the cerebellar cortex, as well as direct activation of the inferior olive, all result in rebound increases of the firing frequencies of cerebellar nuclei neurons for up to 250 ms, whereas single-pulse stimuli to the cerebellar cortex predominantly elicit well-timed spiking activity without changing the firing frequency of cerebellar nuclei neurons. We conclude that the rebound phenomenon offers a rich and powerful mechanism for cerebellar nuclei neurons, which should allow them to differentially process the climbing fiber and mossy fiber inputs in a physiologically operating cerebellum.
Cell based therapies may be promising options for treating ALS. These therapies aim at neuronal replacement or they may prevent dysfunctional motor neurons from dying. Conflicting results on transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) in ALS mouse models indicate that this technique is not yet ready to progress to clinical trials. A Chinese group has nevertheless treated ALS patients with OECs. We carried out a prospective study of seven patients who underwent OEC treatment in China, following them from four months before departure until one year after treatment. Muscle strength, level of daily functioning and respiratory capacity were measured at regular intervals. Three patients reported subjective positive effects directly after treatment. No individual objective improvement was measured, and outcome measures gradually declined in all patients. Two patients had severe side-effects. Based on our findings in these ALS patients who underwent experimental OEC treatment, we conclude that there are no indications that this treatment is beneficial.
The prevalence of psychiatric disorders in primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is currently unknown. In the present study, we compared the prevalence of psychiatric illness in patients with PLS and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We hypothesized that if the psychosocial stress of motor neuron disease predisposes patients to depressive disorders, patients with ALS (with a poorer prognosis and more disability than patients with PLS) should have a higher prevalence of depressive disorders than patients with PLS. We administered the gold standard of psychiatric assessment, the SCID, to 19 PLS and 13 ALS patients. We found a prevalence of current depressive disorders in PLS patients that was, by a non-significant trend, lower than that of ALS patients. The prevalence of current depressive disorders in the ALS patients was higher than previously reported and similar to that observed in non-neurological medical disorders. Other psychiatric disorders were rare. In conclusion, depressive disorders were the most commonly observed psychiatric disorders in both PLS and ALS. By a non-significant trend, the PLS patients had a lower current prevalence of depressive disorders than the ALS patients. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the psychosocial stress of MND is a risk factor for depression.
A previously unreported association of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and ocular flutter is presented. It is hypothesized that initial loss of brainstem inhibitory interneurons resulted in disinhibition of burst interneurons and that the ocular flutter subsequently disappeared as burst interneurons also became affected by the disease process. The association adds clinical evidence of involvement of brainstem interneurons to other evidence of involvement of neurons other than motor neurons in the disease process.
We describe the rare case of a young woman with hereditary neuropathy with liability to compression palsy (HNPP), who developed a rapidly progressive ALS. We suggest that underexpression of PMP22 protein in the nervous system might interfere with motor neuron function by impairing myelin formation and exposure of the axon to injury. Patients with ALS and evidence of demyelination should be screened for HNPP.
Herein we report a detailed description of the structure-activity relationships for a novel series of &quot;C-linked&quot; 1,2,4-triazolylazabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes. These derivatives are endowed with very high in vitro affinity and selectivity for the dopamine D(3) receptor. An optimization with respect to undesired affinity toward the hERG potassium channel is also reported. Members of this compound series also show excellent in vitro and in vivo pharmacokinetic properties.
The internal membranes of eukaryotic cells are all twists and bends characterized by high curvature. During recent years it has become clear that specific proteins sustain these curvatures while others simply recognize membrane shape and use it as &quot;molecular information&quot; to organize cellular processes in space and time. Here we discuss this new important recognition process termed membrane curvature sensing (MCS). First, we review a new fluorescence-based experimental method that allows characterization of MCS using measurements on single vesicles and compare it to sensing assays that use bulk/ensemble liposome samples of different mean diameter. Next, we describe two different MCS protein motifs (amphipathic helices and BAR domains) and suggest that in both cases curvature sensitive membrane binding results from asymmetric insertion of hydrophobic amino acids in the lipid membrane. This mechanism can be extended to include the insertion of alkyl chain in the lipid membrane and consequently palmitoylated and myristoylated proteins are predicted to display similar curvature sensitive binding. Surprisingly, in all the aforementioned cases, MCS is predominantly mediated by a higher density of binding sites on curved membranes instead of higher affinity as assumed so far. Finally, we integrate these new insights into the debate about which motifs are involved in sensing versus induction of membrane curvature and what role MCS proteins may play in biology.
Stem cells, such as embryonic stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells, neural stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells, and very small embryonic-like stem cells, are undifferentiated cells that are endowed with a high potential for proliferation and the capacity for self-renewal with retention of pluri/multipotency to differentiate into their progenies. Recently, studies regarding the biological functions of glycolipids and cell surface microdomains (caveolae, lipid rafts, or glycolipid-enriched microdomains) in stem cells are emerging. In this review, we introduce the expression patterns of glycolipids and the functional roles of cell surface microdomains in stem cells.
Excitatory synapses on dendritic spines are dynamic structures whose stability can vary from hours to years. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating spine persistence remain essentially unknown. In this study, we combined repetitive imaging and a gain and loss of function approach to test the role of N-cadherin (NCad) on spine stability. Expression of mutant but not wild-type NCad promotes spine turnover and formation of immature spines and interferes with the stabilization of new spines. Similarly, the long-term stability of preexisting spines is reduced when mutant NCad is expressed but enhanced in spines expressing NCad-EGFP clusters. Activity and long-term potentiation (LTP) induction selectively promote formation of NCad clusters in stimulated spines. Although activity-mediated expression of NCad-EGFP switches synapses to a highly stable state, expression of mutant NCad or short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of NCad prevents LTP-induced long-term stabilization of synapses. These results identify NCad as a key molecular component regulating long-term synapse persistence.


We present a case of spinal cord compression in a 33-year-old male due to a T6-T7 paravertebral mass extending through the intervertebral foramen into the vertebral canal. Histopathological feature was consistent with an intra-vascular papillary endothelial hyperplasia. Differential diagnosis of the lesion and review of the literature are presented.
The aberrant accumulation of aggregated beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta) as plaques is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology and reduction of Abeta has become a leading direction of emerging experimental therapies for the disease. The mechanism(s) whereby Abeta is involved in the pathophysiology of the disease remain(s) poorly understood. Initially fibrils, and subsequently oligomers of extracellular Abeta have been viewed as the most important pathogenic form of Abeta in AD. More recently, the intraneuronal accumulation of Abeta has been described in the brain, although technical considerations and its relevance in AD have made this a controversial topic. Here, we review the emerging evidence linking intraneuronal Abeta accumulation to the development of synaptic pathology and plaques in AD, and discuss the implications of intraneuronal beta-amyloid for AD pathology, biology, diagnosis and therapy.
Although neurodegeneration is the pathological substrate of progression in multiple sclerosis (MS), the underlying mechanisms remain unresolved. Abnormal phosphorylation of tau, implicated in the aetiopathogenesis of a number of classic neurodegenerative disorders, has also recently been described in secondary progressive MS (SPMS). In contrast to SPMS, primary progressive MS (PPMS) represents a significant subset of patients with accumulating neurological disability from onset. The neuropathological relationship between SPMS and PPMS is unknown. Against this background, we investigated tau phosphorylation status in five cases of PPMS using immunohistochemical and biochemical methods. We report widespread abnormal tau hyperphosphorylation of the classic tau phospho-epitopes occurring in multiple cell types but with a clear immunohistochemical glial bias. In addition, biochemical analysis revealed abnormally phosphorylated insoluble tau in all cases. These findings establish a platform for further study of the role of insoluble tau formation, including determining the relevance of glial tau pathology, in the neurodegenerative phase of MS.


Research into the perceptual and cognitive effects of playing video games is an area of increasing interest for many investigators. Over the past decade, expert video game players (VGPs) have been shown to display superior performance compared to non-video game players (nVGPs) on a range of visuospatial and attentional tasks. A benefit of video game expertise has recently been shown for task switching, suggesting that VGPs also have superior cognitive control abilities compared to nVGPs. In two experiments, we examined which aspects of task switching performance this VGP benefit may be localized to. With minimal trial-to-trial interference from minimally overlapping task set rules, VGPs demonstrated a task switching benefit compared to nVGPs. However, this benefit disappeared when proactive interference between tasks was increased, with substantial stimulus and response overlap in task set rules. We suggest that VGPs have no generalized benefit in task switching-related cognitive control processes compared to nVGPs, with switch cost reductions due instead to a specific benefit in controlling selective attention.
A Swedish web-based service (www.escreen.se) offers self-assessment and self-monitoring of alcohol and drug use via on-line screening with the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Drug Use Disorders Identification Test (DUDIT) as well as in-depth risk assessment using extended versions of both tests (Alcohol-E and DUDIT-E). Users receive individualized feedback concerning their alcohol and drug consumption and can follow their alcohol and drug use over time in personal diagrams and by writing in an electronic diary. This study describes user characteristics, service utilization patterns, and psychometric test properties for 2361 individuals who created a valid account over 20 months starting in February 2007. Problematic alcohol use according to AUDIT criteria was indicated for 67.4%, while 46.0% met DUDIT criteria for problematic drug use. Men and women accessed the service equally, with a mean age of 23 years. Internal consistency reliability figures were 0.90 for 1846 first-time AUDIT users and 0.97 for 1211 first-time DUDIT users; among 213 second-time AUDIT users reliability was 0.93, and 0.96 for 97 second-time DUDIT users. Internet-based alcohol and drug monitoring could function as a self-help tool or as a complement to substance abuse treatment.



Developmental ethanol exposure damages the hippocampus, causing long-lasting learning and memory deficits. Synaptic plasticity mechanisms (e.g., long-term potentiation [LTP]) contribute to synapse formation and refinement during development. We recently showed that acute ethanol exposure inhibits glutamatergic synaptic transmission and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent LTP in the CA1 hippocampal region of postnatal day (P)7-9 rats. The objective of this study was to further characterize the effect of ethanol on LTP in the developing CA1 hippocampus during the third trimester equivalent. To more closely model human ethanol exposure during this period, rat pups were exposed to ethanol vapor (2 or 4.5 g/dL in air, serum ethanol concentrations=96.6-147.2 or 322-395.6 mg/dL) from P2-9 (4h/d). Brain slices were prepared immediately after the end of the 4-h exposure on P7-9 and extracellular electrophysiological recordings were performed 1-7h later under ethanol-free conditions to model early withdrawal. LTP was not different than group-matched controls in the 96.6-147.2mg/dL group; however, it was impaired in the 322-395.6 mg/dL group. Neither alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor (AMPAR)/NMDAR function nor glutamate release were affected in the 322-395.6 mg/dL ethanol exposure group. These data suggest that repeated in vivo exposure to elevated ethanol doses during the third trimester-equivalent period impairs synaptic plasticity, which may alter maturation of hippocampal circuits and ultimately contribute to the long-lasting cognitive deficits associated with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

The Clinical Core of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) has provided clinical, operational, and data management support to ADNI since its inception. This article reviews the activities and accomplishments of the core in support of ADNI aims. These include the enrollment and follow-up of more than 800 subjects in the three original cohorts: healthy controls, amnestic mild cognitive impairment (now referred to as late MCI, or LMCI), and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the first phase of ADNI (ADNI 1), with baseline longitudinal, clinical, and cognitive assessments. These data, when combined with genetic, neuroimaging, and cerebrospinal fluid measures, have provided important insights into the neurobiology of the AD spectrum. Furthermore, these data have facilitated the development of novel clinical trial designs. ADNI has recently been extended with funding from an NIH Grand Opportunities (GO) award, and the new ADNI GO phase has been launched; this includes the enrollment of a new cohort, called early MCI, with milder episodic memory impairment than the LMCI group. An application for a further 5 years of ADNI funding (ADNI 2) was recently submitted. This funding would support ongoing follow-up of the original ADNI 1 and ADNI GO cohorts, as well as additional recruitment into all categories. The resulting data would provide valuable data on the earliest stages of AD, and support the development of interventions in these critically important populations.



Empirical evidence from clinical, nonhuman animal, and in vitro studies point to links between immune function and gonadal steroids, including potential androgenic immunosuppression and estrogenic immunoenhancement. This study was designed to test links between steroids and one marker of mucosal humoral immunity-immunoglobulin A (IgA) in healthy individuals, to facilitate comparisons with other species and clinical populations, as there are few existing studies with healthy humans that also allow gender/sex investigations. Participants (86 women, 91 men) provided a saliva sample for measurement of testosterone (T), estradiol (E(2)), and IgA. Results showed that E(2) was significantly and positively correlated with IgA in women, and group analyses by E(2) quartile showed that this association was linear. No significant correlations or nonlinear associations were seen between T and IgA in men or women, or E(2) and IgA in men. Evidence from this study indicates that IgA and E(2) are significantly associated in healthy premenopausal women.
When Ayres first presented the theory of sensory integration (SI), she grounded it in the neuroscience literature. Neuroplasticity was then, and is today, considered to be at the heart of this theory. This evidence-based review sought to critically examine the basic science literature to specifically identify evidence for the assumptions and tenets of Ayres' theory of SI. We reviewed literature between 1964 and 2005, within psychological, physiological, and biomedical areas, addressing neuroplasticity. The review focused on sensorimotor-based neuroplasticity; explored the data that addressed the links among sensory input, brain function, and behavior; and evaluated its relevance in terms of supporting or refuting the theoretical premise of occupational therapy using an SI framework (OT/SI) to treatment. Although direct application from basic science to OT/SI is not feasible, we concluded that there was a basis for the assumptions of Ayes' SI theory.

Evidence of marked variability in response among people exposed to the same environmental risk implies that individual differences in genetic susceptibility might be at work. The study of such Gene-by-Environment (GxE) interactions has gained momentum. In this article, the authors review research about one of the most extensive areas of inquiry: variation in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4; also known as 5-HTT) and its contribution to stress sensitivity. Research in this area has both advanced basic science and generated broader lessons for studying complex diseases and traits. The authors evaluate four lines of evidence about the 5-HTT stress-sensitivity hypothesis: 1) observational studies about the serotonin transporter linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR), stress sensitivity, and depression in humans; 2) experimental neuroscience studies about the 5-HTTLPR and biological phenotypes relevant to the human stress response; 3) studies of 5-HTT variation and stress sensitivity in nonhuman primates; and 4) studies of stress sensitivity and genetically engineered 5-HTT mutations in rodents. The authors then dispel some misconceptions and offer recommendations for GxE research. The authors discuss how GxE interaction hypotheses can be tested with large and small samples, how GxE research can be carried out before as well as after replicated gene discovery, the uses of GxE research as a tool for gene discovery, the importance of construct validation in evaluating GxE research, and the contribution of GxE research to the public understanding of genetic science.

The ability to perceive biological motion (BM) has been demonstrated in a number of species including humans but the few studies of non-human primates have been relatively inconclusive. We investigated whether common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are able to perceive biological motion, using a novel method to test non-human primates. Marmosets (7 male and 7 female) were trained to remove a cover from a container and look inside it, revealing a computer screen. Then they were presented with images on this computer screen consisting of a novel BM pattern (a walking hen) and 4 manipulations of that pattern (a static frame of this pattern and inverted, scrambled, and rotating versions of the pattern). The behavioural responses of the marmosets were recorded and used to assess discrimination between stimuli. BM was attended to by females but not males, as shown by active inspection behaviour, mainly movement of the head towards the stimulus. Females paid significantly less attention to all of the other stimuli. This indicates the females' ability to attend to biological motion. Females showed slightly more attention to the inverted BM than to the static, scrambled, and rotating patterns. The males were less attentive to all of the stimuli than were the females and, unlike the females, responded to all stimuli in a similar manner. This sex difference could be due to an inability of males to recognise BM altogether or to a lesser amount of curiosity. Considered together with the findings of previous studies on chicks and humans, the results of the present study support the notion of a common mechanism across species for the detection of BM.
Kisspeptins are a series of overlapping peptides encoded by the Kiss1 gene that are required for central activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis at puberty. Mutations that interfere with kisspeptin signalling prevent normal pubertal development in humans and mice. Mutations in the kisspeptin receptor GPR54, cause infertility and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism in humans. The failure of the Gpr54 and Kiss1 mutant mice to ovulate has led to the suggestion that kisspeptin signalling may be required for the preovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge. Although kisspeptin signalling has been shown to have an important central role in regulating the physiology of the ovary, the expression profile of Kiss1 and Gpr54 suggests that they may also have direct functions in the ovary and the placenta.
Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is caused by expansion of GAA repeats in the frataxin (FXN) gene on chromosome 9q13-q21.1. We analysed the origin of FRDA in 21 North Indian (NI) and eight South Indian (SI) families using five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and a microsatellite marker spanning the GAA repeats. The NI and SI families were derived from Indo-European and Dravidian linguistic backgrounds respectively. The frequency of large normal (LNs) alleles of the GAA repeat correlate with the overall lower prevalence of FRDA in India compared to the European population. All of the expanded alleles in the Indian population share a common core haplotype suggesting a founder effect. The expanded alleles in the NI population demonstrate more similarity to those of Europeans in terms of age of GAA repeat expansion (15975 +/- 2850 years) and association of LNs with expanded alleles. FRDA seems to have been introduced recently in the South Indian population since the average estimated age of the mutation in SI is 5425 +/- 1750 years and unlike NI some of the haplotypes of LNs are not associated with the expanded alleles.

Three hundred years have passed since the first description of the toxicity of hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S). Three papers in 1989 and 1990 described relatively high concentrations of sulfide in the brain. In 1996 we demonstrated that cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) is a H(2)S producing enzyme in the brain and that H(2)S enhances the activity of NMDA receptors and facilitates the induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a synaptic model of memory. In the following year, we demonstrated that another H(2)S producing enzyme, cystathionine gamma-lyase is in the thoracic aorta, portal vein, and the ileum, and that H(2)S relaxes these tissues. Based on these observations we proposed H(2)S as a neuromodulator as well as a smooth muscle relaxant. We recently demonstrated that the third H(2)S-producing enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) produces H(2)S in the brain as well as in vascular endothelium. Various functions in many tissues have been proposed. H(2)S protects neurons and cardiac muscle from oxidative stress. H(2)S has pro- and anti-inflammatory effects, nociceptive effects, the regulatory function of insulin release, and is even involved in longevity. Recent progress in the studies of physiological functions of H(2)S in neurons and smooth muscle was described.
Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has long been associated with the gastrointestinal tract, especially the bacteria-derived H(2)S present in flatus. Along with evidence from other organ systems, the finding that gastrointestinal tissues are capable of endogenous production of H(2)S has led to the hypothesis that H(2)S is an endogenous gaseous signaling molecule. In this review, the criteria of gasotransmitters are reexamined, and evidence from the literature regarding H(2)S as a gaseous signaling molecule is discussed. H(2)S is produced enzymatically by gastrointestinal tissues, but evidence is lacking on whether H(2)S production is regulated. H(2)S causes well-defined physiologic effects in gastrointestinal tissues, but evidence for a receptor for H(2)S is lacking. H(2)S is inactivated through enzymatic oxidation, but evidence is lacking on whether manipulating H(2)S oxidation alters endogenous cell signaling. Remaining questions regarding the role of H(2)S as a gaseous signaling molecule in the gastrointestinal tract suggest that H(2)S currently remains a molecule in search of a physiologic function.
Actinomycetes isolated from Iran soil habitats were tested for the capacity to produce compounds which can protect neurons from cell death generated by oxidative stress in NT2 neurons. Confirmation of our initial hit was accomplished via the determination of amyloid beta level using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test. The most interesting amyloid beta formation inhibitor discovered in our study was a secondary metabolite which was produced by strain HM45. This bioactive strain was identified as a strain of Streptomyces antibioticus DSM 40234 using polyphasic approach. The strain HM45 was deposited in Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen as S. antibioticus DSM 41955 and University of Tehran Microorganisms Sollection as S. antibioticus UTMC 00105. This work is the first report on efficiency of an actinomycete metabolite in prohibition of neurons death caused by amyloid beta formation.
Thioredoxin-1 is a ubiquitous protein involved in phenotypical and functional changes in dendritic cells (DC). We investigated the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), skin sensitizers, and irritants on thioredoxin-1 by Western blot and immunofluorescence and on mRNA by real-time PCR. As DC models, we used a skin DC line and DC derived from human blood monocytes. We observed that all tested chemicals increased thioredoxin-1 expression, which is only transient for irritants, being the strongest effect observed for LPS (63 +/- 15%). To address the involvement of thioredoxin-1 in DC maturation, we analysed the effect of an activator of thioredoxin-1 expression, hydrogen peroxide, on CD86 expression, a marker of DC maturation. We found that hydrogen peroxide increases thioredoxin-1 and CD86 expression reinforcing thioredoxin-1 involvement in DC maturation. Because mitogen-activated protein kinases and PI3K are activated upon DC maturation, we also analysed their involvement in thioredoxin-1 modulation. We verified that LPS-induced upregulation of thioredoxin-1 expression was dependent on PI3K pathway.
Immediate early genes (IEG) such as c-Fos and Fos-related antigens (FRA) have been used as markers of neuronal activation. In this study, we determined whether the expression of c-Fos/FRAs is increased in the brains of adult male Acheta domesticus crickets following agonistic interactions. We looked for c-Fos/FRA proteins in the brain of un-fought, control male crickets and of dominant and subordinate male crickets sacrificed at different time periods following an agonistic interaction. Using immunoblot analysis, we found four different c-Fos/FRA-like proteins in the adult cricket brain. Continuous agonistic interaction increased c-Fos/FRA protein expression in the brains of subordinate males compared to control and dominant males. In addition, direct electrical stimulation of the male cricket antennae increased c-Fos/FRA-like protein in the brain. We identified the specific brain regions that exhibit c-Fos/FRA-like immunoreactivity in crickets. We detected c-Fos/FRA-like cellular immunoreactivity in different functional regions of the adult brain including the pars intercerebralis, protocerebrum, deutocerebrum, and the cortex of the mushroom bodies.




To examine emotional face processing in mothers of different attachment representations, event-related potentials were recorded from 16 mothers during presentation of infant emotion faces with positive, negative or neutral emotional expressions within a three-stimulus oddball paradigm, and frontal asymmetries were assessed. Insecure mothers, as compared to secure ones, showed a more pronounced negativity in the face-sensitive N170 component and a smaller N200 amplitude. Regarding the P300 component, secure mothers showed a stronger response to face stimuli than insecure mothers. No differences were found for frontal asymmetry scores. The results indicate that attachment differences may be related to neuropsychological functioning.
Previous evidence suggests that attention can operate on object-based representations. It is not known whether these representations encode depth information and whether object depth, if encoded, is in viewer- or object-centered coordinates. To examine these questions, we employed a spatial cuing paradigm in which one corner of a 3-D object was exogenously cued with 75% validity. By rotating the object in depth, we can determine whether validity effects are modulated by 2-D or 3-D cue-target distance and whether validity effects depend on the position of the viewer relative to the object. When the image of a 3-D object was present (Experiments 1A and 1B), validity effects were not modulated by changes in 2-D cue-target distance, and shifting attention toward the viewer led to smaller validity effects than did shifting attention away from the viewer. When there was no object in the display (Experiments 2A and 2B), validity effects increased linearly as a function of 2-D cue-target distance. These results demonstrate that attention spreads across representations of perceived objects that encode depth information and that the object's orientation in depth is encoded in viewer-centered coordinates.
A recent study published in the Journal of Neuroscience by Nishiyama et al., has revisited an autophagy-neurodegeneration model of lurcher (Lc) mice and promoted further discussion regarding the &quot;autophagic cell death&quot; hypothesis. While the study confirmed the previous report by Yue et al., that GluRD2Lc induces autophagy both in vitro and in vivo, it also suggests that GluRD2 (Lc)-mediated autophagy and cell death occur via pathways outside the nPIST-Beclin 1 pathway. For example, the study makes an interesting observation that GluRD2 (Lc)-induced degeneration is associated with energy crisis and an aberrant AMPK activity. The result provides insight into the downstream events induced by GluRD2 (Lc); however, it is not surprising considering that constitutive ion influx caused by the Lc mutation is expected to cause activation of multiple cellular pathways or responses. In conclusion, the authors state that &quot;constitutive ion flux causes cell death with, but not by, autophagy.&quot; The conclusion appears consistent with the primary function of autophagy, from an evolutionary point of view, as a survival mechanism.
We evaluated the effects of conjugated enzyme-nerve agent product resulting from the inhibition of bioscavenger human serum butyrylcholinesterase (Hu BChE) by nerve agents soman or VX. Rats were trained on a multiple Fixed-Ratio 32, Extinction 30 sec. (FR32, Ext30) schedule of food reinforcement and then injected (i.m.) with Hu BChE (30 mg/kg), equivalent amounts of Hu BChE-soman conjugate (GDC), Hu BChE-VX conjugate, oxotremorine (OXO) (0.316 mg/kg) or vehicle (n = 8, each group). On the day of injection and on 10 subsequent daily sessions, performance was evaluated on the FR32, Ext30 schedule. Neither conjugates nor Hu BChE produced a performance deficit under the schedule. OXO produced a substantial decrease in responding on the day of administration, with complete recovery observed on subsequent sessions. None of the treatments affected circulating acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity when evaluated 24-72 hr after injection. The dose of Hu BChE produced a 20,000-fold increase above baseline in circulating BChE activity. Pathological evaluation of organ systems approximately 2 weeks following administration of conjugates or Hu BChE alone did not show toxicity. Taken together, these results suggest that Hu BChE - nerve agent conjugates produced following bioscavenger protection against nerve agents soman and VX do not appear to be particularly toxic. These results add to the safety assessment of Hu BChE as a bioscavenger countermeasure against nerve agent exposure.
The left auditory cortex (AC) in humans is involved in the processing of the temporal parameters of acoustical signals, specifically in speech perception, whereas the right AC plays the dominant role in pitch and melody perception. The hemispheric lateralization of acoustical signal processing in non-human mammals is less explored. The present study examined the ability of rats to detect or discriminate a series of gaps in continuous noise under conditions of unilateral or bilateral reversible inactivation of the AC. The results showed that muscimol-induced reversible inactivation of the left AC suppresses the ability of rats to discriminate between acoustical stimuli of different temporal parameters (duration or repetition rate), whereas inactivation of the right AC results in no change or only a mild decrease in discrimination ability. Hemispheric asymmetry was observed only in the case of gap discrimination tasks, but not in a gap detection task. Our findings demonstrate that, similarly as in humans, the left AC in the rat plays the dominant role in temporal discrimination. These data provide further evidence for the functional asymmetry of the mammalian brain, which appears in a relatively early phase of evolution.
The aim of this study was to characterize APPC100.V717F transgenic (TgC100.V717F) mice which over-express a mutant C100 fragment of the amyloid precursor protein. The mice were compared to TgC100 wild type mice (TgC100.WT) and non-transgenic controls at 4-9 and 16-22 months of age. TgC100.V717F mice showed behavioural hyperactivity, particularly at a younger age, as shown by increased numbers of elevated plus maze arm entries and Y-maze arm entries, enhanced baseline locomotor activity in the open field, and enhanced amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion. This hyperactivity was less pronounced in TgC100.WT which only displayed significant differences to non-transgenic controls at a younger age for the number of Y-maze arm entries and baseline locomotor activity in the open field. In addition, TgC100.V717F mice, but not TgC100.WT, demonstrated cognitive deficits, as shown by reduced spontaneous alternation in the Y-maze and markedly reduced retention in a passive avoidance test. At an older age, TgC100.V717F mice showed enhanced startle and increased immobility time in the forced swim test. In the TgC100.V717F mice, but not TgC100.WT, the behavioural changes were paralleled by a significant reduction in the expression of hippocampal NMDA receptor subunits types 1 and 2A. Concomitantly, we detected axonal disruption and apoptosis in the hippocampus of TgC100.V717F mice. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that the mutant C100 fragment is an effector of biochemical and both cognitive and non-cognitive behaviours. These transgenic mice may be a model for the psychotic features associated with early Alzheimer's disease.
The classical twin design (CTD) uses observed covariances from monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs to infer the relative magnitudes of genetic and environmental causes of phenotypic variation. Despite its wide use, it is well known that the CTD can produce biased estimates if its stringent assumptions are not met. By modeling observed covariances of twins' relatives in addition to twins themselves, extended twin family designs (ETFDs) require less stringent assumptions, can estimate many more parameters of interest, and should produce less biased estimates than the CTD. However, ETFDs are more complicated to use and interpret, and by attempting to estimate a large number of parameters, the precision of parameter estimates may suffer. This paper is a formal investigation into a simple question: Is it worthwhile to use more complex models such as ETFDs in behavioral genetics? In particular, we compare the bias, precision, and accuracy of estimates from the CTD and three increasingly complex ETFDs. We find the CTD does a decent job of estimating broad sense heritability, but CTD estimates of shared environmental effects and the relative importance of additive versus non-additive genetic variance can be biased, sometimes wildly so. Increasingly complex ETFDs, on the other hand, are more accurate and less sensitive to assumptions than simpler models. We conclude that researchers interested in characterizing the environment or the makeup of genetic variation should use ETFDs when possible.


We dissociated ERP markers of semantic (numerical distance) vs. syntactic (place value) incongruence in the domain of arithmetic. Participants verified additions with four-digit numbers. Semantic incongruencies elicited the N400 ERP effect. A centro-parietal (putative P600) effect to place value violations was not related to arithmetic syntax. Rather, this effect was an enlarged P3b reflecting different surprise values of place value vs. non-place value violations. This potential confound should be considered in numerical cognition experiments. The latency of the N400 and P3a effects were differentially affected by place value analysis. The amplitude of the P3a and that of a fronto-central positive effect (FP600) was sensitive to place value analysis and digit content. Results suggest that ERPs can index the syntactical analysis of multi-digit numbers. Both ERP and behavioral data confirmed that multi-digit numbers were decomposed into their constituent digits, rather than evaluated holistically.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is associated with hippocampal volume deficits, but the effects of alcohol use on hippocampal volume in PTSD are unclear. We meta-analytically examined the relationship between alcohol use, PTSD, and hippocampal volume deficits. Studies were initially searched through electronic databases. Twelve studies reporting data for the right hippocampal volume and 11 studies with data for the left hippocampal volume met initial inclusion criteria. In the meta-analysis of the studies in which subjects had no lifetime history of alcoholism, both the left and right hippocampal volumes were smaller in PTSD subjects compared to controls. Meta-regression using a continuous trial-level covariate showed that a lifetime history of alcoholism further moderates left and right hippocampal volume in PTSD. PTSD is associated with hippocampal volume deficits independent of a lifetime history of alcoholism, but alcoholism further contributes to the hippocampal volume deficits associated with PTSD.
Resilience refers to the ability to cope with stressful events. Variation in the activity of the stress-responsive sympatho-adrenal-medullary and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axes is particularly important for adaptive stress responses and thus may give rise to individual differences in resilience. Here, we investigated whether cardiac vagal tone and adult attachment style are related to psychophysiological stress resilience by exposing a sample of healthy young men and women (n=68) to a laboratory stress test while monitoring autonomic (heart rate, salivary alpha-amylase), hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (salivary cortisol), and psychological stress levels. Our results demonstrate that adult attachment style did not influence autonomic, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal, or psychological stress responses. In contrast, higher resting cardiac vagal tone was associated with stress-induced increases in cortisol. This suggests a role for sympathetic influences on heart rate regulation in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress responses, and extends previous observations of a link between vagal tone and stress resilience.
Many studies have described biomaterial devices (conduits and scaffolds) that can be implanted into experimental lesions and which support axonal growth. However, a disadvantage of such pre-formed devices is that tissue needs to be excised to allow their insertion. In this study we have therefore examined four biomaterials that can be injected into an injury site and which gel in situ; namely collagen, viscous fibronectin, fibrin, and fibrin + fibronectin (FB/FN). The materials were tested in an experimental knife-cut cavity in the rat spinal cord, and evaluated at 1 week and 4 weeks survival for their biocompatibility, neuroprotective efficacy, and permissiveness for axonal growth. At one week, all four materials showed good integration with the host spinal cord and supported some degree of axonal ingrowth, which was associated with infiltration of Schwann cells and deposition of laminin. However axon growth in the collagen implants was uneven because implants contained dense inclusions which were not penetrated by axons. At 4 weeks, axon growth was greatest in the fibronectin and FB/FN implants, however the fibronectin implants had large cavities at the interface between the implant and host spinal cord. The fibronectin implants also had fewer surviving neurons in the intact spinal cord adjoining the implant site. The FB/FN mixture thus had the best combination of properties in that it was easy to handle, integrated with the host spinal cord tissue, and supported robust growth of axons. It therefore has promise as an injectable biomaterial for filling cavities at spinal cord injury sites.
Curcumin, which can exist in an equilibrium between keto and enol tautomers, binds to beta-amyloid (Abeta) fibrils/aggregates. The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between the tautomeric structures of curcumin derivatives and their Abeta-binding activities. Curcumin derivatives with keto-enol tautomerism showed high levels of binding to Abeta aggregates but not to Abeta monomers. The binding activity of the keto form analogue of curcumin to Abeta aggregates was found to be much weaker than that of curcumin derivatives with keto-enol tautomerism. The color of a curcumin derivative with keto-enol tautomerism, which was substituted at the C-4 position, changed from yellow to orange within 30 min of being combined with Abeta aggregates in physiological buffer. This resulted from a remarkable increase in the enol form with extended conjugation of double bonds upon binding. These findings suggest that curcumin derivatives exist predominantly in the enol form during binding to Abeta aggregates, and that the enolization of curcumin derivatives is crucial for binding to Abeta aggregates. The keto-enol tautomerism of curcumin derivatives may be a novel target for the design of amyloid-binding agents that can be used both for therapy and for amyloid detection in Alzheimer's disease.



AMPA receptors consist of a family of hetero-oligomeric (tetrameric) receptors arising from four genes, each of which encodes a distinct receptor subunit (GluA1-4). Recombinant homo-tetrameric AMPA receptors, comprising four identical subunits, are functionally active and have been used in in vitro assays. However, the many different subunit permutations make possible the functional and anatomical diversity of AMPA receptors throughout the CNS. Furthermore, AMPA receptor subunit stoichiometry influences the biophysical and functional properties of the receptor. A number of chemically diverse positive modulators of AMPA receptor have been identified which potentiate AMPA receptor-mediated activity in vitro as well as improving cognitive performance in rodents and non-human primates with several being taken further in the clinic. This review article summarizes the current status in the research on positive allosteric modulation of AMPA receptors and outlines the challenges involved in identifying a chemically distinct series of AMPA receptor positive modulators, addressing the challenges created by the heterogeneity of the AMPA receptor populations and the development of structure-activity relationships driven by homomeric, recombinant systems on high-throughput platforms. We also review the role of X-ray crystallography in the selection and prioritization of targets for lead optimization for AMPA receptor positive modulators.

This commentary on 'The interaction of attention and action: From seeing action to acting on perception' by Humphreys et al. (2010) considers selection-for-action in relation to the role of parietal cortex corollary discharge in the 'mastery of sensori-motor contingencies' that O'Regan and Noe (2001) suggest gives rise to visual awareness.


Polymicrogyria is one of the most common malformations of cortical development and is associated with a variety of clinical sequelae including epilepsy, intellectual disability, motor dysfunction and speech disturbance. It has heterogeneous clinical manifestations and imaging patterns, yet large cohort data defining the clinical and imaging spectrum and the relative frequencies of each subtype are lacking. The aims of this study were to determine the types and relative frequencies of different polymicrogyria patterns, define the spectrum of their clinical and imaging features and assess for clinical/imaging correlations. We studied the imaging features of 328 patients referred from six centres, with detailed clinical data available for 183 patients. The ascertainment base was wide, including referral from paediatricians, geneticists and neurologists. The main patterns of polymicrogyria were perisylvian (61%), generalized (13%), frontal (5%) and parasagittal parieto-occipital (3%), and in 11% there was associated periventricular grey matter heterotopia. Each of the above patterns was further divided into subtypes based on distinguishing imaging characteristics. The remaining 7% were comprised of a number of rare patterns, many not described previously. The most common clinical sequelae were epileptic seizures (78%), global developmental delay (70%), spasticity (51%) and microcephaly (50%). Many patients presented with neurological or developmental abnormalities prior to the onset of epilepsy. Patients with more extensive patterns of polymicrogyria presented at an earlier age and with more severe sequelae than those with restricted or unilateral forms. The median age at presentation for the entire cohort was 4 months with 38% presenting in either the antenatal or neonatal periods. There were no significant differences between the prevalence of epilepsy for each polymicrogyria pattern, however patients with generalized and bilateral forms had a lower age at seizure onset. There was significant skewing towards males with a ratio of 3:2. This study expands our understanding of the spectrum of clinical and imaging features of polymicrogyria. Progression from describing imaging patterns to defining anatomoclinical syndromes will improve the accuracy of prognostic counselling and will aid identification of the aetiologies of polymicrogyria, including genetic causes.
Functional weakness describes weakness which is both internally inconsistent and incongruent with any recognizable neurological disease. It may be diagnosed as a manifestation of conversion disorder or dissociative motor disorder. Other names include psychogenic or 'non-organic' paralysis. We aimed to describe the incidence, demographic and clinical characteristics of cases with functional weakness of less than 2 years duration, and to compare these with controls with weakness attributable to neurological disease. Both cases and controls were recruited from consultant neurologists in South East Scotland. Participating patients underwent detailed assessments which included: physical examination, structured psychiatric interview (Structured Clinical Interview for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), measures of symptoms, disability and distress [Short Form (36) Health Survey, Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale], and assessment of their illness beliefs using an augmented version of the Illness Perception Questionnaire. In total, 107 cases (79% female, mean age 39 years, median duration of illness 9 months) were recruited. This number suggests a minimum annual incidence of 3.9/100 000. Forty-six controls (83% female, median age 39 years, duration 11 months) were also recruited. Compared to controls, cases had similar levels of disability but more physical symptoms, especially pain. They had a higher frequency of psychiatric disorders, especially current major depression (32 versus 7%, P &lt; 0.0001), generalized anxiety disorder (21 versus 2%, P &lt; 0.005), panic disorder (36 versus 13%, P &lt; 0.001) and somatization disorder (27 versus 0%, P &lt; 0001). There was no difference in median self-rated anxiety and depression scores. Paradoxically, they were less likely than controls to agree that stress was a possible cause of their illness (24 versus 56%, P &lt; 0.001). Cases were twice as likely as controls to report that they were not working because of their symptoms (65 versus 33%, P &lt; 0.0005). Functional weakness is a commonly encountered clinical problem. Patients with this symptom are as disabled as patients with weakness of similar duration due to neurological disease. There is a paradox between the frequency of depression and anxiety diagnoses and the patient's willingness to accept these as potentially relevant to their symptoms. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of these findings for the concept of conversion disorder.
Evidence indicates that the monoamine neurotransmitter noradrenaline elicits anti-inflammatory actions in the central nervous system (CNS), and consequently may play a neuroprotective role where inflammatory events contribute to CNS pathology. Here we examined the ability of pharmacologically enhancing central noradrenergic tone to induce expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines in rat brain. Administration of the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor reboxetine (15mg/kg; ip) combined with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (1mg/kg; ip) induced interleukin-10 (IL-10) expression in rat cortex and hippocampus. In addition, these drug treatments induced IL-10 signaling as indicated by increased STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS-3) mRNA expression. In contrast to the profound increase in IL-10 induced by the reboxetine/idazoxan combination, the other two broad spectrum anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and TGF-beta were not induced by this treatment. The ability of combined treatment with reboxetine and idazoxan to induce IL-10 and SOCS3 expression was mediated by beta-adrenoceptor activation, as their induction was blocked by pre-treatment with the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol. Moreover, administration of the brain penetrant beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol induced a time- and dose-dependent increase in central IL-10 and SOCS3 expression, and the ability of clenbuterol to induce IL-10 and SOCS-3 expression was blocked by the centrally acting beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, propranolol, and was mimicked by the highly selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol. In all, these data indicate that increasing central noradrenergic tone induces IL-10 production and signaling in the CNS, which may protect against neurodegeneration.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a mouse model for multiple sclerosis, where disease is mediated by autoantigen-specific T cells. Although there is evidence linking CD4(+) T cells that secrete IL-17, termed Th17 cells, and IFN-gamma-secreting Th1 cells with the pathogenesis of EAE, the precise contribution of these T cell subtypes or their associated cytokines is still unclear. We have investigated the infiltration of CD4(+) T cells that secrete IFN-gamma, IL-17 or both cytokines into CNS during development of EAE and have examined the role of T cells in microglial activation. Our findings demonstrate that Th17 cells and CD4(+) T cells that produce both IFN-gamma and IL-17, which we have called Th1/Th17 cells, infiltrate the brain prior to the development of clinical symptoms of EAE and that this coincides with activation of CD11b(+) microglia and local production of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IL-6 in the CNS. In contrast, significant infiltration of Th1 cells was only detected after the development of clinical disease. Co-culture experiments, using mixed glia and MOG-specific T cells, revealed that T cells that secreted IFN-gamma and IL-17 were potent activators of pro-inflammatory cytokines but T cells that secrete IFN-gamma, but not IL-17, were less effective. In contrast both Th1 and Th1/Th17 cells enhanced MHC-class II and co-stimulatory molecule expression on microglia. Our findings suggest that T cells which secrete IL-17 or IL-17 and IFN-gamma infiltrate the CNS prior to the onset of clinical symptoms of EAE, where they may mediate CNS inflammation, in part, through microglial activation.
The central nervous system (CNS) does not regenerate partly due to the slow clearance of debris from the degenerated myelin sheath by Wallerian degeneration. The mechanism underlying the inefficiency in myelin clearance is not clear. Here we showed that endogenous proBDNF may inhibit the infiltration of ED1+ inflammatory cells after spinal cord injury. After injury, proBDNF and its receptors sortilin and p75NTR are expressed in the spinal cord as determined by Western blots and immunocytochemistry. ProBDNF and mature BDNF were released from macrophages in vitro. Macrophages in vivo (ED1+) and isolated in vitro (CD11b+) express moderate levels of proBDNF, sortilin and p75NTR. ProBDNF suppressed the migration of isolated macrophages in vitro and the antibody to proBDNF enhanced the migration. Suppression of proBDNF in vivo by administering the antiserum to the prodomain of BDNF after spinal cord injury (SCI) increased the infiltration of macrophages and increased number of neurons in the injured cord. BBB tests showed that the treatment of the antibody to proBDNF improved the functional recovery after spinal cord injury. Our data suggest that proBDNF is a suppressing factor for macrophage migration and infiltration and may play a detrimental role after SCI.
Microglia are innate immune cells of the CNS, that act as antigen-presenting cells (APC) for antigen-specific T cells and respond to inflammatory stimuli, such as amyloid-beta (Abeta), resulting in the release of neurotoxic factors and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Astrocytes can also act as APC and modulate the function of microglia. However, the role of distinct T cell subtypes, in particular Th17 cells, in glial activation and subsequent modulatory effects of Th2 cells are poorly understood. Here, we generated Abeta-specific Th1, Th2, and Th17 cells and examined their role in modulating Abeta-induced activation of microglia in a mixed glial culture, a preparation which mimics the complex APC types in the brain. We demonstrated that mixed glia acted as an effective APC for Abeta-specific Th1 and Th17 cells. Addition of Abeta-specific Th2 cells suppressed the Abeta-induced IFN-gamma production by Th1 cells and IL-17 production by Th17 cells with glia as the APC. Co-culture of Abeta-specific Th1 or Th17 cells with glia markedly enhanced Abeta-induced pro-inflammatory cytokine production and expression of MHC class II and co-stimulatory molecules on the microglia. Addition of Abeta-specific Th2 cells inhibited Th17 cell-induced IL-1beta and IL-6 production by mixed glia and attenuated Th1 cell-induced CD86 and CD40 expression on microglia. The modest enhancement of MHC class II and CD86 expression on astrocytes by Abeta-specific Th1 and Th17 was not attenuated by Th2 cells. These data indicate that Abeta-specific Th1 and Th17 cells induce inflammatory activation of glia, and that this is in part regulated by Th2 cells.
We describe a 18-year-old female with 22q13.3 deletion syndrome characterized by an alteration of SHANK3/PROSAP2 and severe mental retardation, intense psychomotor agitation and aggressive behaviour. When the patient was given risperidone, different therapeutic results were observed: at a 6 mg dose, risperidone had no therapeutic effect and the patient's behavioural problems increased; at a low dose (1mg), risperidone treatment resulted in rapid improvement of mood and behaviour. Recent findings suggest that risperidone exerts dose-dependent effects on Glu receptors in developing rats. An altered preset of the glutamate receptors, due to the presence of a haploinsufficiency of SHANK3/PROSAP2, could explain the different results of risperidone therapy observed in our patient with 22q13.3 deletion syndrome.
A 46-year-old woman was diagnosed with having idiopathic aqueductal stenosis for which she underwent ventriculoperitoneal (V-P) shunting. One year after the surgery, she developed acute parkinsonism and sylvian aqueduct syndrome. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal any signs of hydrocephalus and fluorodopa positron emission tomography (PET) did not reveal any decrease in accumulation of fluorodopa at the striatum. On admission, the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) (Part III) score was 30 points. The preliminary diagnosis was parkinsonism associated with V-P shunting: therefore, the levodopa dosage was increased from 200 mg/day to 600 mg/day. Thereafter, the symptoms of parkinsonism and the sylvian aqueduct syndrome markedly improved, and the UPDRS (Part III) score decreased. If such a patient presents without signs of hydrocephalus or shunt malfunction, dopaminergic medication should be used as the initial treatment.

The concept of the tripartite synapse proposes that in addition to the presynapse and the postsynaptic membrane closely apposed processes of astrocytes constitute an integral part of the synapse. Accordingly, astrocytes may influence synaptic activity by various ways. Thus glia- and neuron-derived neurotrophins, cytokines and metabolites influence neuronal survival, synaptic activity and plasticity. Beyond these facts, the past years have shown that astrocytes are required for synaptogenesis, the structural maintenance and proper functioning of synapses. In particular, astrocytes seem to play a key role in the organization of the brain's extracellular matrix (ECM) - most prominently the so-called perineuronal nets (PNNs), complex macromolecular assemblies of ECM components. Due to progress in cellular and molecular neurosciences, it has been possible to decipher the composition of ECM structures and to obtain insight into their function(s) and underlying mechanisms. It appears that PNN-related structures are involved in regulating the sprouting and pruning of synapses, which represents an important morphological correlate of synaptic plasticity in the adult nervous system. Perturbation assays and gene elimination by recombinant techniques have provided clear indications that astrocyte-derived ECM components, e.g. the tenascins and chondroitinsulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) of the lectican family participate in these biological functions. The present review will discuss the glia-derived glycoproteins and CSPGs of the perisynaptic ECM, their neuronal and glial receptors, and in vitro assays to test their physiological functions in the framework of the synapse, the pivotal element of communication in the central nervous system.
One of the most intriguing discoveries during the last decade of developmental neurobiology is the fact that both in the developing and adult nervous system neural stem cells often turn out to have a glial identity: Radial glia generates neurons in the developing telencephalon of fish, birds and mammals and astro/radial glial stem cells in specialized neurogenic zones give rise to new neurons throughout life. What are the extrinsic signals acting on and the intrinsic signals acting within these glial populations endowing these with a neurogenic potential, whilst most other glia seemingly lack it? Studies on postnatal astroglia shed interesting light on this question as they are the intermediate between neurogenic radial glia and mature parenchymal astrocytes. At least in vitro their decision to acquire a glial fate is not yet irrevocable as forced expression of a single neurogenic transcription factor enables them to transgress their lineage and to give rise to fully functional neurons acquiring specific subtype characteristics. But even bona fide non-neurogenic glia in the adult nervous system can regain some of their radial glial heritage following injury as exemplified by reactive astroglia in the cerebral cortex and Mller glia in the retina. In this review first we will follow the direction of the physiological times' arrow, along which radial glia become transformed on one side into mature astrocytes gradually losing their neurogenic potential, while some of them seem to escape this dire destiny to settle in the few neurogenic oases of the adult brain where they generate neurons and glia throughout life. But we will also see how pathophysiological conditions partially can reverse the arrow of time reactivating the parenchymal astroglia to re-acquire some of the hallmarks of neural stem cells or progenitors. We will close this review with some thoughts on the surprising compatibility of the co-existence of a neural stem cell and glial identity within the very same cell from the perspective of the concept of transcriptional core networks.
The ability to investigate the electrophysiological properties of individual cells in acute brain tissue led to the discovery that many glial cells have the capacity to respond rapidly to neuronal activity. In particular, a distinct class of neuroglial cells known as NG2 cells, which exhibit many of the properties that have been described for glial subtypes such as complex cells, polydendrocytes, synantocytes and GluR cells, express ionotropic receptors for glutamate and GABA. In both gray and white matter, NG2 cells form direct synaptic junctions with axons, which enable transient activation of these receptors. Electrophysiological analyses have shown that these neuron-glia synapses exhibit all the hallmarks of 'classical' neuron-neuron synapses, including rapid activation, quantized responses, facilitation and depression, and presynaptic inhibition. Electron microscopy indicates that axons form morphologically distinct junctions at discrete sites along processes of NG2 cells, suggesting that NG2 cells are an overt target of axonal projections. AMPA receptors expressed by NG2 cells exhibit varying degrees of Ca(2+) permeability, depending on the brain region and stage of development, and in white matter NG2 cells have also been shown to express functional NMDA receptors. Ca(2+) influx through AMPA receptors following repetitive stimulation can trigger long term potentiation of synaptic currents in NG2 cells. The expression of receptors with significant Ca(2+) permeability may increase the susceptibility of NG2 cells to excitotoxic injury. Future studies using transgenic mice in which expression of receptors can be manipulated selectively in NG2 cells have to define the functions of this enigmatic neuron-glia signaling in the normal and diseased CNS.
Astrocytes as a cell population are not well defined and comprise a heterogeneous population of cells. There are at least 9 different morphological variants which can coexist within one given brain region. Human astrocytes have a considerably more complex morphology as their rodent counterparts. There are also a number of functional differences depending on brain region and developmental stage in the normal (not pathologic) brain. Astrocytes can differ in functional gap junctional coupling, expression of transmitter receptors, membrane currents, and glutamate transporters. We feel that astrocyte heterogeneity has not yet been thoroughly explored and what we report here will just be a beginning of a new field of research.
The tight spatial and temporal coupling between neuronal activity and blood flow ensures that active brain regions receive an adequate supply of oxygen and energetic metabolites. There clearly is still an enormous amount of experimental and theoretical work to be done to unravel the precise mechanism of neurovascular coupling, but over the last decade significant advances have been made. The most recent studies confirm the original finding that the activation of Ca(2+) elevations in astrocyte endfeet is an essential step but also reveal new levels of complexity in the astrocyte control of neurovascular coupling. The recent evidence for a link between Ca(2+) signalling in astrocytes and local metabolic states of the brain tissue has broad implications for the interpretation of data from functional brain imaging studies. Unraveling the full molecular mechanism of the astrocyte control of cerebral blood flow represents a formidable challenge in neurobiological research in the years to come that might also create opportunities for the development of new therapeutic strategies for cerebrovascular diseases such as ischemic stroke, hypertension and migraine as well as neurodegenerative diseases as Alzheimer's disease.
Synaptogenesis is a decisive process for the development of the brain, its plasticity during adulthood and its regeneration after injury and disease. Despite tremendous progress during the last decades, it remains unclear, whether neurons can form synapses autonomously. In this review, I will summarize recent evidence that this is probably not the case and that distinct phases of synapse development depend on help from glial cells. The results supporting this view come from studies on the central and peripheral nervous system and on different experimental models including cultured cells as well as living flies, worms and mice. Our understanding of synapse-glia interactions in the developing, adult and diseased brain is likely to advance more rapidly as new experimental approaches to identify, visualize and manipulate glial cells in vivo become available.
Epilepsy comprises a group of disorders characterized by the periodic occurrence of seizures. Currently available anticonvulsant drugs and therapies are insufficient to controlling seizure activity in about one third of epilepsy patients. Thus, there is an urgent need for new therapies that prevent the genesis of the disorder and improve seizure control in individuals already afflicted. The vast majority of epileptic cases are of idiopathic origin, and a deeper understanding of the cellular basis of hyperactivity and synchronization is essential. Neurosurgical specimens from patients with temporal lobe epilepsy typically demonstrate marked reactive gliosis. Since recent studies have implicated astrocytes in important physiological roles in the CNS, such as synchronization of neuronal firing, it is plausible that they may also have a role in seizure generation or seizure spread. In support of this view, several membrane channels, receptors and transporters in the astrocytic membrane have been found to be deeply altered in the epileptic brain, and they are now gradually emerging as new potential targets for antiepileptic therapeutic strategies. This review summarizes current evidence regarding astroglial dysfunction in epilepsy and discusses presumed underlying mechanisms.
This study describes cytoarchitectonic criteria to define the prefrontal cortical areas in the mouse brain (C57BL/6 strain). Currently, well-illustrated mouse brain stereotaxic atlases are available, which, however, do not provide a description of the distinctive cytoarchitectonic characteristics of individual prefrontal areas. Such a description is of importance for stereological, neuronal tracing, and physiological, molecular and neuroimaging studies in which a precise parcellation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is required. The present study describes and illustrates: the medial prefrontal areas, i.e., the infralimbic, prelimbic, dorsal and ventral anterior cingulate and Fr2 area; areas of the lateral PFC, i.e., the dorsal agranular insular cortical areas and areas of the ventral PFC, i.e., the lateral, ventrolateral, ventral and medial orbital areas. Each cytoarchitectonically defined boundary is corroborated by one or more chemoarchitectonic stainings, i.e., acetylcholine esterase, SMI32, SMI311, dopamine, parvalbumin, calbindin and myelin staining.
This paper revisits a concept combining the evolution, ontogeny and histophysiology of the cerebral cortex, presented, in a quest to explain cognition and behavior, by the neurobiologist Christfried Jakob (1866-1956) at the Second Annual Meeting of the International Society for Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy, organized by Oskar Vogt (1870-1959) in Munich in 1911. Jakob suggested a dual onto-phylogenetic origin and a ubiquitous cortical function, claiming that most receptive pathways end up in an 'outer fundamental layer', which derives from the rhinencephalic apparatus, whereas the 'inner fundamental layer' contains effector elements and derives from the striatum. With advancing evolution, the two fundamental layers become intermingled. By attributing a functional homogeneity to the cortex, Jakob contradicted the theories of Flechsig and Cajal on 'association' and 'mnemonic' areas. The merit of Jakob's concept rests, a century later, with the current resurgence of biological research at the evolutionary-developmental interface and the broadening anticipated from the re-integration of these two fields, especially by adding a functional dimension to the morphological traits.


Epileptic encephalopathies presenting in early life present a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. These disorders present with multiple seizure types that are treatment resistant and associated with significant abnormalities on electroencephalographic studies. The underlying etiology in many cases may be related to an inborn error of metabolism. Efforts to establish the specific diagnosis of a genetic defect or an inborn error of metabolism often results in requests for a vast array of biochemical and molecular tests leading to an expensive workup. In this review, we present the clinician with information that provides a rationale for a selective and nuanced approach to biochemical assays, and initial treatment strategies while waiting for a specific diagnosis to be established. A careful consideration of the presentation, identification of potentially treatable conditions, and consultation with the biochemical genetics laboratory can lead to a greater measure of success while limiting cost overruns. Such a targeted approach is hoped will lead to an early diagnosis and appropriate interventions.
The substantia nigra was discovered in 1786 by Flix Vicq d'Azyr, but it took more than a century before Paul Blocq and Georges Marinesco alluded to a possible link between this structure and Parkinson's disease. The insight came from the study of a tuberculosis patient admitted in Charcot's neurology ward at la Salptrire because he was suffering from unilateral parkinsonian tremor. At autopsy, Blocq and Marinesco discovered an encapsulated tumor confined to the substantia nigra, contralateral to the affected side, and concluded that tremor in that particular case resulted from a midbrain lesion. This pioneering work, published in 1893, led Edouard Brissaud to formulate, in 1895, the hypothesis that the substantia nigra is the major pathological site in Parkinson's disease. Brissaud's hypothesis was validated in 1919 by Constantin Trtiakoff in a remarkable thesis summarizing a post-mortem study of the substantia nigra conducted in Marinesco's laboratory. Despite highly convincing evidence of nigral cell losses in idiopathic and post-encephalitic Parkinsonism, Trtiakoff's work raised considerable doubts among his colleagues, who believed that the striatum and pallidum were the preferential targets of parkinsonian degeneration. Trtiakoff's results were nevertheless confirmed by detailed neuropathological studies undertaken in the 1930s and by the discovery, in the 1960s, of the dopaminergic nature of the nigrostriatal neurons that degenerate in Parkinson's disease. These findings have strengthened the link between the substantia nigra and Parkinson's disease, but modern research has uncovered the multifaceted nature of this neurodegenerative disorder by identifying other brain structures and chemospecifc systems involved in its pathogenesis.
SNAP-25 is a SNARE protein implicated in exocytosis and in the negative modulation of voltage-gated calcium channels. We have previously shown that GABAergic synapses, which express SNAP-25 at much lower levels relative to glutamatergic ones, are characterized by a higher calcium responsiveness to depolarization and are largely resistant to botulinum toxin A. We show here that silencing of SNAP-25 in glutamatergic neurons, a procedure which increases KCl-induced calcium elevations, confers these synapses with toxin resistance. Since it is known that calcium reverts the efficacy of botulinum A, we investigated whether the lower effectiveness of the toxin in inhibiting GABAergic vesicle cycling might be attributable to higher evoked calcium transients of inhibitory neurons. We demonstrate that either expression of SNAP-25(1-197) or BAPTA/AM treatment, both inhibiting calcium dynamics, facilitate block of GABAergic vesicle exocytosis upon toxin treatment. These data indicate that intrinsic calcium dynamics control botulinum A susceptibility in distinct neuronal populations.
Hypoxia in neonates can lead to biochemical and molecular alterations mediated through changes in neurotransmitters resulting in permanent damage to brain. In this study, we evaluated the changes in the receptor status of GABA(A) in the cerebral cortex and brainstem of hypoxic neonatal rats and hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose and oxygen using binding assays and gene expression of GABA(Aalpha1) and GABA(Agamma5). In the cerebral cortex and brainstem of hypoxic neonatal rats, a significant decrease in GABA(A) receptors was observed, which accounts for the respiratory inhibition. Hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose alone and with glucose and oxygen showed a reversal of the GABA(A) receptors, andGABA(Aalpha1) and GABA(Agamma5) gene expression to control. Glucose acts as an immediate energy source thereby reducing the ATP-depletion-induced increase in GABA and oxygenation, which helps in encountering anoxia. Resuscitation with oxygen alone was less effective in reversing the receptor alterations. Thus, the results of this study suggest that reduction in the GABA(A) receptors functional regulation during hypoxia plays an important role in mediating the brain damage. Glucose alone and glucose and oxygen supplementation to hypoxic neonatal rats helps in protecting the brain from severe hypoxic damage.

During forebrain development, Mash1 directs gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neuron differentiation ventrally in the ganglionic eminences. Repression of Mash1 in the cortex is necessary to prevent the formation of GABAergic interneurons. Negative regulation of Mash1 has been attributed to members of the Neurogenin family; the genetic ablation of Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) leads to the derepression of Mash1 and the formation of ectopic GABAergic neurons in the cortex. We have developed an in vitro system to clarify the importance of NeuroD proteins in the Mash1 regulatory pathway. Using a neurosphere culture system, we show that the downstream effectors of the Ngn2 pathway NeuroD1 and NeuroD2 can abrogate GABAergic differentiation directed by Mash1. The ectopic expression of either of these genes in Mash1-expressing cells derived from the lateral ganglionic eminence, independently downregulate Mash1 expression without affecting expression of distal less homeodomain genes. This results in a complete loss of the GABAergic phenotype. Moreover, we demonstrate that ectopic expression of Mash1 in cortical progenitors is sufficient to phenocopy the loss of Ngn2 and strongly enhances ectopic GABAergic differentiation. Collectively, our results define the compensatory and cross-regulatory mechanisms that exist among basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors during neuronal fate specification.
We examined the extent of the ferret prefrontal cortex (PFC) and its reciprocal connections with the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD) by anterograde and retrograde labeling in 6- to 14-week-old male ferrets. Our results indicate that in the ferret, as in other species, MD projects heavily to the PFC although it also projects to other cortical and subcortical structures. The MD projection to PFC terminates largely in layer IV with lighter innervation of layers II, III, V, and VI. The cells projecting back to MD are mostly in layer VI. The parvocellular component of MD projects to and receives projections from the more caudal and dorsomedial component of the PFC, whereas the magnocellular portion of MD projects to and receives projections from the more rostral and lateral component of the PFC. With these results we have localized the ferret PFC, defined as a frontal cortical region with heavy reciprocal connections with the MD.
The progesterone receptor (PR) is transiently expressed in the rat cortex during development and its expression is initiated in the developmentally critical layer, the subplate. As subplate neurons pioneer thalamocortical and corticofugal connectivity, the expression of PR in this layer suggests an important function for PR in cortical development. Using immunocytochemistry for PR, the present study determined the precise ontogeny of PR expression in subplate neurons. The number of cells containing PR immunoreactivity (PRir) within the subplate was quantified from embryonic day (E) 17 through postnatal day (P) 14. The subplate was positively identified by the marker calretinin and by BrDU birthdating. The results demonstrate that PRir is undetectable in fetal cortex on E17, but is first observed in the subplate on E18. The number of PRir cells peaks on P2 and then steadily declines, until PRir is once again not detectable in subplate by P14. This developmental window of PR expression within the subplate coincides with establishment of early cortical circuitry and the gradual demise of subplate cells, suggesting that PR may play a critical role in mediating these fundamental developmental processes.
Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) is a light-gated ion channel that is successfully used in neurosciences to depolarize cells with blue light. In this regard control of membrane voltage with light opens new perspectives for the characterization of ion channels and the search for inhibitors or modulators. Here, we report a control of membrane potential with ChR2 and the potassium channel mTrek for the purpose of screening for ion channel specific drugs. To verify principle we have chosen the voltage gated calcium channel Ca(V)3.2 as potential drug target. For this purpose we transfected the ChR2 gene into a HEK293T-cell line that permanently expresses Ca(V)3.2 and the K-channel mTrek. The resting potential was adjusted with low concentration of extracellular potassium ions whereas transient depolarization was achieved by activation of ChR2 with short pulses of blue light. Calcium ion influx through Ca(V)3.2 was monitored by observing fura-2 fluorescence. This approach allowed a repetitive activation of Ca(V)3.2. The Ca(2+) influx was specifically blocked by the inhibitor mibefradil. Since this assay is genetically-encoded, it may be employed for a variety of voltage-gated calcium channels and should be applicable to multi-well reader formats for high-throughput screening.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels (h channels) form the molecular basis for the hyperpolarization-activated current, I(h), and modulation of h channels contributes to changes in cellular properties critical for normal functions in the mammalian brain and heart. Numerous mechanisms underlie h channel modulation during both physiological and pathological conditions, leading to distinct changes in gating, kinetics, surface expression, channel conductance or subunit composition of h channels. Here we provide a focused review examining mechanisms of h channel regulation, with an emphasis on recent findings regarding interacting proteins such as TRIP8b. This review is intended to serve as a comprehensive resource for physiologists to provide potential molecular mechanisms underlying functionally important changes in I(h) in different biological models, as well as for molecular biologists to delineate the predicted h channel changes associated with complex regulatory mechanisms in both normal function and in disease states.
We previously used bioassay-guided fractionation to identify phycoerythrobilin (1) and its monomethyl ester, aplysioviolin (2), as components in the ink secretion of a marine gastropod, the sea hare Aplysia californica, that act as chemical deterrents against predatory blue crabs. This was the first report of 1 as a natural product. Compound 2 was previously reported as a natural product from three species of Aplysia (A. fasciata, A. dactylomela, and A. parvula), but the reported structure and composition of stereoisomers of 2 are different among these species. Sea hares are thought to produce 2 from phycoerythrin, a photosynthetic pigment in their red-algal diet composed of a phycobiliprotein covalently linked to the chromophore 1, by cleavage of the covalent bond and methylation of 1, but neither the sequence nor the anatomical location of the cleavage and methylation is known. In this study, we clarify the structure of 1 and 2 in ink secretion of A. californica, and describe the distribution of 1 and 2 in the tissues of sea hares. We conclude that cleavage of the covalent bond in phycoerythrin occurs first, forming 1 in the digestive gland, followed by methylation of 1 to yield 2 in the ink gland.
What processes do infants employ in categorizing? Infants might categorize on line as they encounter category-related entities; alternatively, infants might depend on prior experience with entities in formulating categories. These alternatives were tested in forty-four 5-month-olds. Infants who were familiarized in the laboratory with a category of never-before-seen objects subsequently treated novel objects of the same category as familiar-they categorized on line-just as did infants who were exposed to objects from the same category at home for 2 months leading to their laboratory assessment of object categorization. Infants with home experience also recognized novel category objects as familiar from the outset-that is, prior experience with category exemplars was brought to bear in laboratory tasks.



Abstract Several drug candidates for Alzheimer's disease are being evaluated in clinical trials, with the goal of finding a drug with disease-modifying effects. When such a drug finally reaches the market, there will be a demand for accurate diagnostic tools useful for early detection of disease and for monitoring biochemical effects. The core cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers amyloid peptides (Abeta42), total-tau and phospo-tau are promising in this respect. However, inter-center variation (caused by pre-analytical, analytical and post-analytical factors), and inter-laboratory variation (caused by analytical factors), particularly for CSF Abeta42, lowers their utility in multicenter studies. Here, we discuss the causes of these variations, and present a global quality control program to overcome them.

1. Coordinated oscillations in diameter occur spontaneously in cerebral vessels and depend on the opening of voltage dependent calcium channels. However, the mechanism that induces the initial depolarisation has remained elusive. We investigated the involvement of canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) channels, which encode nonselective cation channels passing Na(+) and Ca(2+) currents, by measuring changes in diameter, intracellular Ca(2+) and membrane potential in branches of juvenile rat basilar arteries. 2. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) abolished vasomotion and relaxed arteries, but paradoxically produced depolarisation. 3. Decrease in temperature to 24 degrees C or inhibition of phospholipase C (PLC) abolished vasomotion, hyperpolarised and relaxed arteries and decreased intracellular Ca(2+). 4. Reduction in the driving force for Na(+) through decrease in extracellular Na(+) produced similar effects and prevented the depolarisation elicited by removal of extracellular Ca(2+). 5. Nonselective TRP channel blockers, SKF96365 and gadolinium, mimicked the effects of inhibition of the PLC pathway. 6. Depolarisation of vessels in which TRP channels were blocked with SKF96365 reinstated vascular tone and vasomotion. 7. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction revealed TRPC1 as the predominantly expressed TRPC subtype. 8. Incubation with a function blocking TRPC1 antibody delayed the onset of vasomotion. 9. We conclude that nonselective cation channels contribute to vasoconstriction and vasomotion of cerebral vessels by providing an Na(+)-induced depolarisation that activates voltage dependent calcium channels. Our antibody data suggest the involvement of TRPC1 channels that might provide a target for treatment of therapy-refractory vasospasm.
A 51-year-old right-handed woman initially presented with generalized tonic-clonic seizures. MRI showed abnormal signal hyperintensity of the right temporal lobe that was thought to be consistent with ischemic stroke. Three years later, she developed an intensely enhancing centrally necrotic tumor in the right temporal-parietal lobes. A craniotomy was performed with gross total resection of the tumor followed by chemotherapy and radiation treatments. Histological examination demonstrated a gliosarcoma. A year later, she had a recurrence of the intra-axial gliosarcoma requiring a second craniotomy for tumor resection and placement of Gliadel wafers. Postoperatively, she developed plural effusions. A pulmonary workup revealed lung lesions that were biopsied and found to be gliosarcoma. After the second surgery, she underwent pleurodesis and one cycle of modified mesna, doxorubicin, ifosfamide, and dacarbazine (MAID) chemotherapy, but died 5 months later from progression of the lung metastases. There are fewer than 20 reported cases of extracranial metastases of gliosarcoma. This is the first report of gliosarcoma with prolonged survival (over 2 years) and death from non-CNS metastatic gliosarcoma.

Since the first description of sound-evoked short-latency myogenic reflexes recorded from neck muscles, vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs) have become an important part of the neuro-otological test battery. VEMPs provide a means of assessing otolith function: stimulation of the vestibular system with air-conducted sound activates predominantly saccular afferents, while bone-conducted vibration activates a combination of saccular and utricular afferents. The conventional method for recording the VEMP involves measuring electromyographic (EMG) activity from surface electrodes placed over the tonically-activated sternocleidomastoid (SCM) muscles. The &quot;cervical VEMP&quot; (cVEMP) is thus a manifestation of the vestibulo-collic reflex. However, recent research has shown that VEMPs can also be recorded from the extraocular muscles using surface electrodes placed near the eyes. These &quot;ocular VEMPs&quot; (oVEMPs) are a manifestation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Here we describe the historical development and neurophysiological properties of the cVEMP and oVEMP and provide recommendations for recording both reflexes. While the cVEMP has documented diagnostic utility in many disorders affecting vestibular function, relatively little is known as yet about the clinical value of the oVEMP. We therefore outline the known cVEMP and oVEMP characteristics in common central and peripheral disorders encountered in neuro-otology clinics.

What differentiates those who are able to adapt well to adverse life events (i.e., persons who are resilient) from those who are not (e.g., persons who develop post-traumatic stress symptoms)? Previous work suggests that enhanced autobiographical integration of trauma memories is associated with more severe post-traumatic stress symptoms. Extending this line of work, the present study looked at whether the integration of trauma memories, repressive coping and cognitive reactivity are related to post-traumatic stress symptomatology following negative life events among otherwise healthy young adults (N = 213). Results show that while enhanced integration of trauma memories and high levels of dissociation are related to elevated levels of post-traumatic stress, people who generally engage in repressive coping report fewer post-traumatic stress symptoms.

For many centuries, philosophers and scientists have pondered the origins and nature of human intuitions about the properties of points, lines, and figures on the Euclidean plane, with most hypothesizing that a system of Euclidean concepts either is innate or is assembled by general learning processes. Recent research from cognitive and developmental psychology, cognitive anthropology, animal cognition, and cognitive neuroscience suggests a different view. Knowledge of geometry may be founded on at least two distinct, evolutionarily ancient, core cognitive systems for representing the shapes of large-scale, navigable surface layouts and of small-scale, movable forms and objects. Each of these systems applies to some but not all perceptible arrays and captures some but not all of the three fundamental Euclidean relationships of distance (or length), angle, and direction (or sense). Like natural number (Carey, 2009), Euclidean geometry may be constructed through the productive combination of representations from these core systems, through the use of uniquely human symbolic systems.
Determining how axon guidance receptors transmit signals to allow precise pathfinding decisions is fundamental to our understanding of nervous system development and may suggest new strategies to promote axon regeneration after injury or disease. Signaling mechanisms that act downstream of four prominent families of axon guidance cues--netrins, semaphorins, ephrins, and slits--have been extensively studied in both invertebrate and vertebrate model systems. Although details of these signaling mechanisms are still fragmentary and there appears to be considerable diversity in how different guidance receptors regulate the motility of the axonal growth cone, a number of common themes have emerged. Here, we review recent insights into how specific receptors for each of these guidance cues engage downstream regulators of the growth cone cytoskeleton to control axon guidance.
Historically basic neuroscience research has made several important contributions to the cell biology of the nucleus, in particular the elucidation of nuclear structures and compartments. As research progressed towards elucidating the mechanism of neurological disease at the cellular and molecular levels, it is now providing insight into the importance and basis of coordination of nuclear pathways within the nucleus and with other cellular compartments. Ataxias, lethal neurodegenerative diseases that are distinguished by a progressive loss of motor coordination, stem from disruption of nuclear function.
Facial symmetry, masculinity and shoulder-to-hip ratios in men convey information to mates about reproductive/genetic quality, the so-called &quot;good genes&quot; hypothesis. On the other hand waist-to-hip ratio conveys important reproductive information about women to men. Here using fMRI, men showed activation in neural reward centers when they viewed and rated the attractiveness of surgically optimally configured female bodies.
The biogenic amines are widespread regulators of physiological processes, and play an important role in regulating heart rate in diverse organisms. Here, we present the first pharmacological evidence for a role of the biogenic amines in the regulation of dorsal blood vessel pulse rate in an aquatic oligochaete, Lumbriculus variegatus (Mller, 1774). Bath application of octopamine to intact worms resulted in an acceleration of pulse rate, but not when co-applied with the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor MDL-12,330a. The phosphodiesterase inhibitor theophylline mimicked the effects of OA, but the polar adenosine receptor antagonist 8(p-sulphophenyl)theophylline was significantly less potent than theophylline. Pharmacologically blocking synaptic reuptake of the biogenic amines using the selective 5-HT reuptake blocker fluoxetine or various tricyclic antidepressants also accelerated heart rate. Depletion of the biogenic amines by treatment with the monoamine vesicular transporter blocker reserpine dramatically depressed pulse rate. Pulse rate was partially restored in amine-depleted worms after treatment with octopamine or dopamine, but fully restored following treatment with serotonin. This effect of 5-HT was weakly mimicked by 5-methoxytryptamine, but not by alpha-methylserotonin; it was completely blocked by clozapine and partially blocked by cyproheptadine. Because they are known to orchestrate a variety of adaptive behaviors in invertebrates, the biogenic amines may coordinate blood flow with behavioral state in L.variegatus.

Tau aggregation is an appealing target for therapeutic intervention. However, conformational change or aggregation needs to be targeted without inhibiting the normal biology of tau and its role in microtubule stabilization. The number of compound classes being tested at this time are very limited and include Congo red derivatives [2], anthraquinones (Pickhardt et al. 2005 [3], disputed in Crowe et al. 2007 [4]), 2,3-di(furan-2-yl)-quinoxalines , phenylthiazolyl-hydrazide (PTH) [5], polyphenols and porphyrins [6] and cyanine dyes [1, 7, 8]. Herein we have utilized a member of the cyanine dye family (C11) in an organotypic slice culture model of tangle formation. Our results demonstrate that C11 is capable of affecting tau polymerization in a biphasic, dose dependent manner. At submicromolar concentrations (0.001 microM) C11 reduced levels of aggregated tau. However, higher doses resulted in an increase in tau polymerization. These effects can also be seen at the level of individual filaments with changes in filament length and number mirroring the pattern seen via immunoblotting. In addition, this effect is achieved without altering levels of phosphorylation at disease and microtubule binding relevant epitopes.
The accumulation of the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) continues to emerge as a central factor in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In recent years attention has been drawn to clearance mechanisms of Abeta as evidence suggests reduced clearance may be linked to late-onset AD. Direct degradation of Abeta by endopeptidases has emerged as one critical pathway of clearance. Of particular interest are endopeptidases that are sensitive to the neprilysin inhibitors thiorphan and phosphoramidon (i.e. &quot;NEP-like&quot;) as these inhibitors induce a dramatic increase in Abeta levels resulting in rapid plaque formation in wild-type rodents. This review focuses on neprilysin (NEP) and on another NEP-like endopeptidase termed neprilysin-2 (NEP2). The involvement of these endopeptidases in AD and the state of their therapeutic development are discussed.
The MCI construct aims to investigate the grey area existing between normal aging and dementia, in order to identify it in the preclinical stage patients at risk of developing dementia. The construct of the MCI has been proposed by taking the neuropathological staging of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) as reference and providing an explicit set of identifying criteria, but it has raised two main problems: (a) the variability of estimates concerning the actual rate of conversion from MCI to dementia, and (b) the number of subjects who return to normality. These problems stem in part from the operational difficulties met by the MCI identifying criteria concerned with: the memory tests used, the cut-off adopted to identify patients with an 'objective' memory disorder, the assessment of subjective memory disorders, and the integrity of daily living activities. After a short discussion of these operational difficulties, I will pass to shortly survey the laboratory data providing additional predictive value for the conversion of MCI to dementia (ApoE4, CSF biomarkers, Neuroimaging data, and Vascular risk factors) and some recent attempts to identify pre-MCI patients, with a purely subjective cognitive impairment. I will conclude my review by asking if we have a single MCI or a family of MCI constructs, each of whom could play a preferential role in specific clinical contexts.

Inhibitory and excitatory synapses play a fundamental role in information processing in the brain. Excitatory synapses usually are situated on dendritic spines, small membrane protrusions that harbor glutamate receptors and postsynaptic density components and help transmit electrical signals. In recent years, it has become evident that spine morphology is intimately linked to synapse function--smaller spines have smaller synapses and support reduced synaptic transmission. The relationship between synaptic signaling, spine shape, and brain function is never more apparent than when the brain becomes dysfunctional. Many psychiatric and neurologic disorders, ranging from mental retardation and autism to Alzheimer's disease and addiction, are accompanied by alterations in spine morphology and synapse number. In this review, we highlight the structure and molecular organization of synapses and discuss functional effects of synapse pathology in brain disease.
Stroke rehabilitation is evolving into a clinical field based on the neuroscience of recovery and restoration. There has been substantial growth in the number and quality of clinical trials performed. Much effort now is directed toward motor restoration and is being led by trials of constraint-induced movement therapy. Although the results do not necessarily support that constraint-induced movement therapy is superior to other training methods, this treatment has become an important vehicle for developing clinical trial methods and studying the physiology underlying activity-based rehabilitation strategies. Other promising interventions include robotic therapy delivery, magnetic and electrical cortical stimulation, visualization, and constraint-driven aphasia therapies. Amphetamine has not been demonstrated to be effective, and studies of other pharmacologic agents are still preliminary. Future studies will incorporate refinements in clinical trial methods and improved activity- and technology-based interventions.
Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide and the number one cause of adult disability in the United States and Europe. A subtype of stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), accounts for 7% of all strokes each year and claims one of the highest mortalities and morbidities. Many therapeutic interventions have been used to treat brain injury following SAH but none have reached the level of effectiveness needed to clinically reduce mortality. Ginsenoside Rb1 (GRb1), a major component of the Chinese traditional medicine Panax Ginseng, has been shown to reduce ischemic brain injury and myocardial injury via anti-apoptotic pathways. In the present study, we investigated the use of GRb1 on SAH induced brain injury in rats. Four groups were used: sham, vehicle (SAH), low dose treatment (SAH+ 5mg/kg GRb1), and high dose treatment (SAH+ 20mg/kg GRb1). Post assessment included wall thickness and mean cross-section area of basilar artery were measured for evaluating cerebral vasospasm, Evans blue extravasations to assess blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability, immunohistochemistry and Western Blot analysis looking for specific pro-apoptotic markers, and tunnel staining for cell death assessment. In addition, mortality, neurological function and brain edema were investigated. The results showed that high dose GRb1 treatment significantly enlarged mean cross-sectional area and decreased wall thickness of basilar artery, reduced neurological deficits, brain edema, BBB disruption, and TUNEL positive cell expression. Same time, we found that the proteins expression of P53, Bax and Caspase-3 were significantly reduced, whereas the expression of bcl-2 was up-regulated in Rb1 treatment. The results of this study suggest that GRb1 could relieve cerebral vasospasm and potentially provide neuroprotection in SAH victims. The underlying mechanisms may be partly related to inhibition of P53 and Bax dependent proapoptosis pathway. More studies will be needed to confirm these results and determine its potential as a long term agent.



The burden of atherosclerosis is particularly high in western countries in terms of mortality and disability. The cerebral arteries (stroke or transient ischemic attack [TIA]), coronary arteries (myocardial infarction [MI]) and peripheral arteries (intermittent claudication [IC], ischemic limb) can be affected. Atherosclerosis may involve different mechanisms such as inflammation, platelet activation, endothelial damage, balance between proliferation and apoptosis of smooth muscle cells and oxidative stress. Research is focused to counteract each of these aspects. Many antithrombotic drugs are currently available and most of them act as inhibitors of platelet function. Aspirin, ticlopidine, clopidogrel and the combination of aspirin plus dipyridamole are widely used for primary (in high-risk patients) and secondary prevention of atherosclerotic diseases. Research of new pharmacological strategies is driven by the need to reduce the risk of bleeding associated with the use of antiplatelet drugs. In this context cilostazol, a type III phosphodiesterase inhibitor, has demonstrated antiplatelet and vasodilator effects with low rate of bleeding complications. This review will focus on the pharmacological properties of cilostazol and its use in the management of atherothrombotic vascular diseases.

Galphai proteins play major roles in the developing and mature nervous system, ranging from the control of cellular proliferation to modulating synaptic plasticity. Although best known for transducing signals from activated seven transmembrane G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) when bound to GTP, key cellular functions for Galphai-GDP are beginning to emerge. Here, we show that Galphai2 is expressed in motor neuron progenitors that are differentiating to form postmitotic motor neurons in the developing spinal cord. Ablation of Galphai2 causes deficits in motor neuron generation but no changes in motor neuron progenitor patterning or specification, consistent with a function for Galphai2 in regulating motor neuron differentiation. We show that Galphai2 function is mediated in part by its interaction with GDE2, a known regulator of motor neuron differentiation, and that disruption of the GDE2/Galphai2 complex in vivo causes motor neuron deficits analogous to Galphai2 ablation. Galphai2 preferentially associates with GDE2 when bound to GDP, invoking GPCR-independent functions for Galphai2 in the control of spinal motor neuron differentiation.
The basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein Hand2 has critical functions in cardiac development both in neural crest-derived and mesoderm-derived structures. Targeted deletion of Hand2 in the neural crest has allowed us to genetically dissect Hand2-dependent defects specifically in outflow tract and cardiac cushion independent of Hand2 functions in mesoderm-derived structures. Targeted deletion of Hand2 in the neural crest results in misalignment of the aortic arch arteries and outflow tract, contributing to development of double outlet right ventricle (DORV) and ventricular septal defects (VSD). These neural crest-derived developmental anomalies are associated with altered expression of Hand2-target genes we have identified by gene profiling. A number of Hand2 direct target genes have been identified using ChIP and ChIP-on-chip analyses. We have identified and validated a number of genes related to cell migration, proliferation/cell cycle and intracellular signaling whose expression is affected by Hand2 deletion in the neural crest and which are associated with development of VSD and DORV. Our data suggest that Hand2 is a multifunctional DNA binding protein affecting expression of target genes associated with a number of functional interactions in neural crest-derived cells required for proper patterning of the outflow tract, generation of the appropriate number of neural crest-derived cells for elongation of the conotruncus and cardiac cushion organization. Our genetic model has made it possible to investigate the molecular genetics of neural crest contributions to outflow tract morphogenesis and cell differentiation.
We review the application of Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system to understand key aspects of stem cell biology. The only bona fide stem cells in C. elegans are those of the germline, which serves as a valuable paradigm for understanding how stem-cell niches influence maintenance and differentiation of stem cells and how somatic differentiation is repressed during germline development. Somatic cells that share stem cell-like characteristics also provide insights into principles in stem-cell biology. The epidermal seam cell lineages lend clues to conserved mechanisms of self-renewal and expansion divisions. Principles of developmental plasticity and reprogramming relevant to stem-cell biology arise from studies of natural transdifferentiation and from analysis of early embryonic progenitors, which undergo a dramatic transition from a pluripotent, reprogrammable condition to a state of committed differentiation. The relevance of these developmental processes to our understanding of stem-cell biology in other organisms is discussed.
Social and physical deprivation during adolescence has detrimental consequences for brain maturation and cognitive functions. To test the hypothesis that social and physical deprivation during mouse adolescence would disrupt activity and exploration behavior, we exposed mice either to deprived or enriched rearing (postnatal days 21-60) and assessed activity and exploration of adult mice individually or in mixed treatment groups. In automated group compartments, deprived-reared mice displayed higher locomotor activity, reduced explorative behavior and shifted activity timing compared to enriched-reared mice. Contrastingly, distance and timing of wheel running were largely unaffected by deprived rearing. Our results demonstrate that postweaning social and physical deprivation has measurable effects on mouse locomotor and exploratory behavior, and that such effects may be discernable depending on the activity type studied. Our results further emphasize the importance of the sensitive postweaning period for shaping adult behavioral profiles.
Phillips-Silver and Trainor (2005) demonstrated a link between movement and the metrical interpretation of rhythm patterns in 7-month-old infants. Infants bounced on every second beat of a rhythmic pattern with no auditory accents later preferred to listen to an accented version of the pattern with accents every second beat (duple or march meter), whereas infants bounced on every third beat of the same rhythmic pattern preferred to listen to a version with accents every third beat (triple or waltz meter). The present study compared infants participating in Kindermusik classes with infants not participating in music classes. In Kindermusik classes infants receive enriched experience moving to music. Following Western musical norms, the majority of the music samples in the classes are in duple meter. During the preference test, Kindermusik infants listened longer overall, indicating heightened interest in musical rhythms. Both groups listened longer to the accented version that matched how they had been bounced, but only the Kindermusik group showed a stronger preference in the case of duple bouncing than in the case of triple bouncing. We conclude that musical classes for infants can accelerate the development of culture-specific metrical perception.
While there is evidence for an association between the development of reading and arithmetic, the precise locus of this relationship remains to be determined. Findings from cognitive neuroscience research that point to shared neural correlates for phonological processing and arithmetic as well as recent behavioral evidence led to the present hypothesis that there exists a highly specific association between phonological awareness and single-digit arithmetic with relatively small problem sizes. The present study examined this association in 37 typically developing fourth and fifth grade children. Regression analyses revealed that phonological awareness was specifically and uniquely related to arithmetic problems with a small but not large problem size. Further analysis indicated that problems with a high probability of being solved by retrieval, but not those typically associated with procedural problem-solving strategies, are correlated with phonological awareness. The specific association between phonological awareness and arithmetic problems with a small problem size and those for which a retrieval strategy is most common was maintained even after controlling for general reading ability and phonological short-term memory. The present findings indicate that the quality of children's long-term phonological representations mediates individual differences in single-digit arithmetic, suggesting that more distinct long-term phonological representations are related to more efficient arithmetic fact retrieval.
Stephen Wilson is Professor of Developmental Genetics at University College, London, UK. He was recently awarded the Remedios Caro Almela Prize for Research in Developmental Neurobiology. We interviewed Steve to find out about how he started on the road to developmental biology research, how he got interested in the brain, his achievements and future challenges.
The Hunchback/Ikaros family of zinc-finger transcription factors is essential for specifying the anterior/posterior body axis in insects, the fate of early-born pioneer neurons in Drosophila, and for retinal and immune development in mammals. Hunchback/Ikaros proteins can directly activate or repress target gene transcription during early insect development, but their mode of action during neural development is unknown. Here, we use recombineering to generate a series of Hunchback domain deletion variants and assay their function during neurogenesis in the absence of endogenous Hunchback. Previous studies have shown that Hunchback can specify early-born neuronal identity and maintain 'young' neural progenitor (neuroblast) competence. We identify two conserved domains required for Hunchback-mediated transcriptional repression, and show that transcriptional repression is necessary and sufficient to induce early-born neuronal identity and maintain neuroblast competence. We identify pdm2 as a direct target gene that must be repressed to maintain competence, but show that additional genes must also be repressed. We propose that Hunchback maintains early neuroblast competence by silencing a suite of late-expressed genes.
A major challenge of the post-genomic era is coding phenotype data from humans and model organisms such as the mouse, to permit the meaningful translation of phenotype descriptions between species. This ability is essential if we are to facilitate phenotype-driven gene function discovery and empower comparative pathobiology. Here, we review the current state of the art for phenotype and disease description in mice and humans, and discuss ways in which the semantic gap between coding systems might be bridged to facilitate the discovery and exploitation of new mouse models of human diseases.

Opioid receptors are critical therapeutic targets for medications development relevant to the treatment of drug dependence and pain. With recent advances in molecular neurobiology, it has become evident that the functional activity of opioid receptors, as ligand-regulated protein complexes, is modulated by multifarious intracellular and extracellular events, that there is genetic variation in coding for receptors, and that the activity of endogenous opioid systems may underlie actions common to other addictive disorders. This supplemental issue of Drug and Alcohol Dependence, arising from an invited symposium at the 71st Annual Meeting of the College on Problems of Drug Dependence, provides a series of contemporary reviews focused on recent advances in opioid neuropharmacology. Each speaker provides herein an invited comprehensive review of the state of knowledge on a specific topic in opioid neuropharmacology. Evans and colleagues describe the multi-faceted control of the opioid G-protein coupled receptor as a dynamic &quot;sensor&quot; complex and identify novel targets for drug development. von Zastrow focuses on opioid receptor-mediated events regulated by endocytosis and membrane trafficking through the endocytic pathway and differential responses to opioid agonists. Blendy and colleague provide a review of human association studies on the functional relevance of the mu opioid receptor variant, A118G, and presents data from the A112G knock-in model, an analogous mouse variant to A118G. Finally, Maldonado and colleagues provide a broader systems review from genetic, pharmacologic and behavioral studies implicating the endogenous opioid systems as a substrate for the mediation of substance use disorders spanning pharmacological classes.


This open trial of Family-Based Treatment for Anorexia Nervosa was completed in order to assess the dissemination of this treatment, including effectiveness, fidelity, and acceptability. Fourteen adolescents with Anorexia Nervosa were recruited with mean age 14.0+1.5 years (range 12-17 years). Therapists were trained using a workshop, manual and weekly supervision. Sessions were videotaped and rated for treatment fidelity. Pre- and post- treatment assessments were compared. Weight was significantly increased by an average of 7.8 kg. Dietary restraint showed significant improvement, as did interoceptive deficits and maturity fears. Of the 9 participants who had secondary amenorrhea at baseline, 8 had regained menstrual function. Treatment fidelity was rated as at least considerable 72% of the time in phase I of the treatment. Adolescents and parents found the treatment to be acceptable. This preliminary investigation of the dissemination of Family-Based Treatment for adolescents with Anorexia Nervosa indicates that this treatment is effective not only for weight restoration, but also in improving some psychological symptoms including dietary restraint, interoceptive deficits, and maturity fears. In addition, this treatment was adopted with considerable fidelity and was acceptable to adolescents and parents.
A lipoprivic control of feeding has been proposed based on the finding that appetite is stimulated by drugs such as beta-mercaptoacetate (MA) that reduce fatty acid oxidation. The adipose-derived hormone, leptin, has effects on feeding and fat oxidation that are opposite those produced by MA. However, effects of this hormone on MA-induced feeding are not known. Here we examined the effects of endogenous leptin levels and of acute central and peripheral leptin administration on MA-induced feeding. We also examined leptin-induced changes in feeding, body weight, and plasma fuels after capsaicin-induced deletion of the lipoprivic control. MA-induced feeding was not altered under any of these conditions, and leptin's effects were not altered by capsaicin. We then examined MA-induced feeding during chronic leptin treatment. Because chronic leptin produces several distinct metabolic states as body adiposity is reduced, we tested MA before, during, and after leptin treatment at times that coincided with these states. MA-induced feeding was unchanged on d 3 of leptin treatment when rats were in a lipolytic state and rapidly metabolizing body fat stores but reduced on d 10 when they were adipose deplete and their level of fat oxidation was reduced. Together results suggest that the lipoprivic control is normally less active in the fat deplete state than during states associated with fat availability. If so, its insensitivity to leptin would enable the lipoprivic control to operate when dietary fat, adiposity, and leptin levels are elevated. The role played by the lipoprivic control under such conditions remains uncertain.
Epilepsy and pregnancy registries have been operational for more than 10 years, have accrued considerable experience, and collected an impressive amount of data. As findings have been published, it has become important to understand how observations from the different registries are comparable, especially since their methodologies differ somewhat. In September 2008, representatives of the UK Epilepsy and Pregnancy Register, the North American AED Pregnancy Registry (NAAPR), and the European and International Registry of Antiepileptic Drugs in Pregnancy (EURAP) met for a workshop. Their objectives were to exchange information on their methodologies and to discuss areas where harmonization might be possible. This report summarizes these discussions.


Epilepsy often requires life-long treatment with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). For clinicians to meet the challenges of patient management, data on AED performance based on clearly defined and consistently applied outcome measures are needed. Ideally, the design of AED clinical trials should be relevant to real-world settings, providing reliable, valid, and comprehensive information on efficacy, tolerability, and quality of life (QOL). Several types of outcome parameters have been employed: percent seizure reduction, responder rate based on &gt; or =50% seizure reduction, seizure-free rate, time to first seizure, time to Nth seizure, adverse events, QOL, retention, and compliance. Each provides important information about a drug's performance. Here we define and review endpoints for measuring AED treatment success and explore the concepts of efficacy, tolerability, QOL, retention, and compliance as well as their usefulness as clinical trial endpoints.

Ganaxolone (3alpha-hydroxy-3beta-methyl-5alpha-pregnan-20-one), a synthetic analog of the endogenous neurosteroid allopregnanolone and a positive allosteric modulator of GABAA receptors, may represent a new treatment approach for epilepsy. Here we demonstrate that pretreatment with ganaxolone (1.25-20 mg/kg, s.c.) causes a dose-dependent suppression of behavioral and electrographic seizures in fully amygdala-kindled female mice, with nearly complete seizure protection at the highest dose tested. The ED50 for suppression of behavioral seizures was 6.6 mg/kg. The seizure suppression produced by ganaxolone was comparable to that of clonazepam (ED50, 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.). To the extent that amygdala kindling represents a model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, this study supports the utility of ganaxolone in the treatment of patients with temporal lobe seizures.
Whether physiological and pathological electroencephalographic (EEG) spindling phenomena are generated by similar mechanisms remains unknown. We studied four different types of spindling events analysing the behaviour of 19 brain regions during these events in the intact brain of freely behaving rats hypothesising similar generation with a leading role of thalamus or cortex for the dominant rhythm of the spindles with a hierarchy of time delays for propagation throughout the brain led by these structures. Autoregressive analysis revealed that all structures studied were capable of leading a spindle, although some did so infrequently. The highest incidence of significant leadership was shown by hindlimb cortex with a proportion of 0.38 during picrotoxin spindles. Contralateral time delays within bilateral structures were extremely small demonstrating synchronous activity with no dominant hemisphere for any of the spindling activities (range: 0.1+/-0.4 ms for frontal cortex to 10.0+/-1.6 ms for piriform cortex). Between different structures, time delays demonstrated that spindling activity occurred in all structures almost simultaneously (range: 0.2+/-1.4 ms between frontal cortex and piriform cortex to 12.3+/-1.2 ms between hindlimb cortex and amygdala). We conclude that different spindle types appear to be subtle alterations of a single phenomenon, during which many brain regions briefly synchronise.
The management of the mandible when dealing with oral cavity cancer is still controversial. In this article, we present our experience with marginal mandibulectomy over a 13-year period. We retrospectively evaluated 56 patients who underwent marginal mandibulectomy between 1990 and 2002. Mean age at surgery was 60.3 + or - 9.5 SD years. Neither intraoperative nor perioperative deaths were observed. Infiltration of the resected bone was detected in only one patient (1.8%). Fracture of the mandible was a complication in only one patient (1.8%). Eight patients (14.3%) presented a local and/or regional recurrence. Distant metastases were diagnosed in two patients (3.6%). The 5-year overall and disease-specific survival rates were 60.7 and 77.3%, respectively. Marginal mandibulectomy allows to conduct the resection in a safe tissue or to excise tumors of the floor of the mouth with a limited involvement of the alveolar periosteum. Whenever the tumor is close to the mandible or when it adheres to the alveolar periosteum, marginal mandibulectomy offers the possibility to perform an oncologically sound procedure.
The contribution of cationic conductances in shaping the rod photovoltage was studied in light adapted cells recorded under whole-cell voltage- or current-clamp conditions. Depolarising current steps (of size comparable to the light-regulated current) produced monotonic responses when the prepulse holding potential (V (h)) was -40 mV (i.e. corresponding to the membrane potential in the dark). At V (h) = -60 mV (simulating the steady-state response to an intense background of light) current injections &lt;35 pA (mimicking a light decrement) produced instead an initial depolarisation that declined to a plateau, and voltage transiently overshot V (h) at the stimulus offset. Current steps &gt;40 pA produced a steady depolarisation to approximately -16 mV at both V (h). The difference between the responses at the two V (h) was primarily generated by the slow delayed-rectifier-like K(+) current (I (Kx)), which therefore strongly affects both the photoresponse rising and falling phase. The steady voltage observed at both V (h) in response to large current injections was instead generated by Ca-activated K(+) channels (I (KCa)), as previously found. Both I (Kx) and I (KCa) oppose the cation influx, occurring at the light stimulus offset through the cGMP-gated channels and the voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels (I (Ca)). This avoids that the cation influx could erratically depolarise the rod past its normal resting value, thus allowing a reliable dim stimuli detection, without slowing down the photovoltage recovery kinetics. The latter kinetics was instead accelerated by the hyperpolarisation-activated, non-selective current (I (h)) and I (Ca). Blockade of all K(+) currents with external TEA unmasked a I (Ca)-dependent regenerative behaviour.
We reviewed the evidence for emotion-related disturbances in anorexia nervosa (AN) from behavioural, cognitive, biological and genetic domains of study. These domains were brought together within the framework of an integrative neuroscience model that emphasizes the role of emotion and feeling and their regulation, in brain organization. PsychInfo and Medline searches were performed to identify published peer-reviewed papers on AN within each domain. This review revealed evidence for 'Emotion', 'Thinking and Feeling' and 'Self-regulation' disturbances in AN that span non-conscious to conscious processes. An integrative neuroscience framework was then applied to develop a model of AN, from which hypotheses for empirical investigation are generated. We propose that AN reflects a core disturbance in emotion at the earliest time stage of information processing with subsequent effects on the later stages of thinking, feeling and self-regulation.
Many genetic studies in autism have been performed, resulting in the identification of multiple linkage regions and cytogenetic aberrations, but little unequivocal evidence for the involvement of specific genes exists. By identifying novel symptoms in these patients, enhanced phenotyping of autistic individuals not only improves understanding and diagnosis but also helps to define biologically more homogeneous groups of patients, improving the potential to detect causative genes. Supported by recent copy number variation findings in autism, we hypothesized that for some susceptibility loci, autism resembles a contiguous gene syndrome, caused by aberrations within multiple (contiguous) genes, which jointly increases autism susceptibility. This would result in various different clinical manifestations that might be rather atypical, but that also co-occur with autism. To test this hypothesis, 13 susceptibility loci, identified through genetic linkage and cytogenetic analyses, were systematically analyzed. The Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man database was used to identify syndromes caused by mutations in the genes residing in each of these loci. Subsequent analysis of the symptoms expressed within these disorders allowed us to identify 33 symptoms (significantly more than expected, P=0.037) that were over-represented in previous reports mapping to these loci. Some of these symptoms, including seizures and craniofacial abnormalities, support our hypothesis as they are already known to co-occur with autism. These symptoms, together with ones that have not previously been described to co-occur with autism, might be considered for use as inclusion or exclusion criteria toward defining etiologically more homogeneous groups for molecular genetic studies of autism.

Optic flow is the stream of retinal information generated when an observer's body, head or eyes move relative to their environment, and it plays a defining role in many influential theories of active perception. Traditionally, studies of optic flow have used artificially generated flow in the absence of the body-based cues typically coincident with self-motion (e.g. proprioceptive, efference copy, and vestibular). While optic flow alone can be used to judge the direction, speed and magnitude of self-motion, little is known about the precise extent to which it is used during natural locomotor behaviours such as walking. In this study, walked distances were estimated in an open outdoor environment. This study employed two novel complementary techniques to dissociate the contributions of optic flow from body-based cues when estimating distance travelled in a flat, open, outdoor environment void of distinct proximal visual landmarks. First, lenses were used to magnify or minify the visual environment. Second, two walked distances were presented in succession and were either the same or different in magnitude; vision was either present or absent in each. A computational model was developed based on the results of both experiments. Highly convergent cue-weighting values were observed, indicating that the brain consistently weighted body-based cues about twice as high as optic flow, the combination of the two cues being additive. The current experiments represent some of the first to isolate and quantify the contributions of optic flow during natural human locomotor behaviour.
Audiotactile integration has been studied using various experimental setups but so far crossmodal congruency effects (CCEs) have not been found for tactile targets paired with auditory distractors. In the present study we investigated whether audiotactile CCEs exist and, if so, whether these CCEs have similar characteristics to those found by previous authors with visual distractors. We measured audiotactile CCEs by attaching four vibrators to the backs of participants and presented auditory stimuli from four loudspeakers placed, in separate blocks, at different distances in front of or behind the participant's body. Participants discriminated the elevation of tactile stimuli while ignoring the auditory distractors. CCEs were found only when participants were provided with noninformative vision of their own body, as seen from behind via a camera and head-mounted display; they were absent when participants did not view their body. Furthermore, in contrast to visuotactile CCEs, audiotactile CCEs did not depend on whether the distractors were presented on the same or different side as the tactile targets. The present study provides the first demonstration of an audiotactile CCE: incongruent auditory distractors impaired performance on a tactile elevation discrimination task relative to performance with congruent distractors. We show that audiotactile CCEs differ from visuotactile CCEs as they do not appear to be as sensitive to the spatial relations between the distractors and the tactile stimuli. We also show that these CCEs are modulated by vision of the body.
Audiovisual speech has a stereotypical rhythm that is between 2 and 7 Hz, and deviations from this frequency range in either modality reduce intelligibility. Understanding how audiovisual speech evolved requires investigating the origins of this rhythmic structure. One hypothesis is that the rhythm of speech evolved through the modification of some pre-existing cyclical jaw movements in a primate ancestor. We tested this hypothesis by investigating the temporal structure of lipsmacks and teeth-grinds of macaque monkeys and the neural responses to these facial gestures in the superior temporal sulcus (STS), a region implicated in the processing of audiovisual communication signals in both humans and monkeys. We found that both lipsmacks and teeth-grinds have consistent but distinct peak frequencies and that both fall well within the 2-7 Hz range of mouth movements associated with audiovisual speech. Single neurons and local field potentials of the STS of monkeys readily responded to such facial rhythms, but also responded just as robustly to yawns, a nonrhythmic but dynamic facial expression. All expressions elicited enhanced power in the delta (0-3Hz), theta (3-8Hz), alpha (8-14Hz) and gamma (&gt; 60 Hz) frequency ranges, and suppressed power in the beta (20-40Hz) range. Thus, STS is sensitive to, but not selective for, rhythmic facial gestures. Taken together, these data provide support for the idea that that audiovisual speech evolved (at least in part) from the rhythmic facial gestures of an ancestral primate and that the STS was sensitive to and thus 'prepared' for the advent of rhythmic audiovisual communication.
Previously, we have shown that spatial attention to a visual stimulus can spread across both space and modality to a synchronously presented but task-irrelevant sound arising from a different location, reflected by a late-onsetting, sustained, negative-polarity event-related potential (ERP) wave over frontal-central scalp sites, probably originating in part from the auditory cortices. Here we explore the influence of cross-modal conflict on the amplitude and temporal dynamics of this multisensory spreading-of-attention activity. Subjects attended selectively to one of two concurrently presented lateral visually-presented letter streams to perform a sequential comparison task, while ignoring task-irrelevant, centrally presented spoken letters that could occur synchronously with either the attended or unattended lateral visual letters and could be either congruent or incongruent with them. Extracted auditory ERPs revealed that, collapsed across congruency conditions, attentional spreading across modalities started at approximately 220 ms, replicating our earlier findings. The interaction between attentional spreading and conflict occurred beginning at approximately 300 ms, with attentional-spreading activity being larger for incongruent trials. Thus, the increased processing of an incongruent, task-irrelevant sound in a multisensory stimulation appeared to occur some time after attention has spread from the attended visual part to the ignored auditory part, presumably reflecting the conflict detection and associated attentional capture requiring accrual of some multisensory interaction processes at a higher-level semantic processing stage.
The brain processes multisensory features of an object (e.g., its sound and shape) in separate cortical regions. A key question is how representations of these features bind together to form a coherent percept (the 'binding problem'). Here we tested the hypothesis that the determination of an object's visuospatial boundaries is paramount to the linking of its multisensory features (i.e., that the refinement of attended space through the formation of visual boundaries establishes the boundaries for multisensory feature integration). We recorded both scalp and intracranial electrophysiological data in response to Kanizsa-type illusory contour stimuli (in which pacman-like elements give the impression of a single object), their non-illusory counterparts, and auditory stimuli. Participants performed a visual task and ignored sounds. Enhanced processing of task-irrelevant sounds when paired with attended visual stimuli served as our metric for multisensory feature integration [e.g., Busse et al. (2005) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 102: 18751-18756]. According to our hypothesis, task-irrelevant sounds paired with Kanizsa-type illusory contour stimuli (which have well-defined boundaries) should receive enhanced processing relative to task-irrelevant sounds paired with non-illusory contour stimuli (which have ambiguous boundaries). The scalp data clearly support this prediction and, combined with the intracranial data, advocate for an important extension of models for multisensory feature integration. We propose a model in which (i) the visual boundaries of an object are established through processing in occipitotemporal cortex, and (ii) attention then spreads to cortical regions that process features that fall within the object's established visual boundaries, including its task-irrelevant multisensory features.

Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) is critical for the expression of a variety of social behaviors in many species. Previous studies have demonstrated that AVP regulates behaviors such as social communication and aggression in Syrian hamsters through the V1a receptor subtype. In male hamsters, AVP injected into the anterior hypothalamus (AH) stimulates aggression, while injection of a V1a receptor antagonist inhibits the behavior. The purpose of the present studies was to determine whether AVP influences aggression by its action in the AH in female hamsters. In the first experiment, we were surprised to find that injection of the V1a receptor antagonist, Manning compound, into the AH of intact female hamsters increased aggression. The second experiment confirmed the ability of the V1a receptor antagonist to increase aggression and found that the largest effects of the antagonist occurred at intermediate concentrations of the compound. The next experiment found that injection of AVP into the AH significantly reduced the latency to attack and the duration of aggression. Finally, we examined whether the effects of AVP and the V1a receptor antagonist on aggression differed in hamsters exposed to long 'summer-like' photoperiods or short 'winter-like' photoperiods, and found that their effects on aggression were not photoperiod dependent. In summary, contrary to what is observed in males, these data suggest that AVP in the AH may play an inhibitory role on aggression in female Syrian hamsters.
Transcriptional regulation of gene expression is thought to play a pivotal role in activity-dependent neuronal differentiation and circuit formation. Here, we investigated the role of histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9), which regulates transcription by histone modification, in the development of neocortical neurons. The translocation of HDAC9 from nucleus to cytoplasm was induced by an increase of spontaneous firing activity in cultured mouse cortical neurons. This nucleocytoplasmic translocation was also observed in postnatal development in vivo. The translocation-induced gene expression and cellular morphology was further examined by introducing an HDAC9 mutant that disrupts the nucleocytoplasmic translocation. Expression of c-fos, an immediately-early gene, was suppressed in the mutant-transfected cells regardless of neural activity. Moreover, the introduction of the mutant decreased the total length of dendritic branches, whereas knockdown of HDAC9 promoted dendritic growth. These findings indicate that chromatin remodeling with nucleocytoplasmic translocation of HDAC9 regulates activity-dependent gene expression and dendritic growth in developing cortical neurons.

Many children with cerebral palsy (CP), especially non-walkers, were previously reported to have cold extremities, pain, sleeping disorders, constipation, and impaired well-being - besides accompanying impairments. Most children had had one or more of these symptoms for more than 1 year, and the symptoms were largely untreated. This study (1) describes mood, health, and daily life experiences of the children's parents; (2) explains impact that the child's impairments and symptoms have on the family; and (3) investigates community services support. Information in this study was gathered from parents of 106 children, ages 5-16, with CP, who lived in northern Sweden. Compared with parents of walkers, parents with non-walking children and several disorders were more frequently anxious for their children's physical and psychological health; often experienced restricted time for themselves; reported frequent daily living interferences; and stated that their health was affected due to the child's health. 10 percent of all families reported that their need of community services support was unmet. To improve health and to provide good community services support for the entire family, regular follow-up and evaluation of the child's treatment and family support are important.
Studies of sensory function following cortical lesions have often included lesions which multiple cortical, white matter, and thalamic structures. We now test the hypothesis that lesions anatomically constrained to particular insular and parietal structures and their subjacent white matter are associated with different patterns of sensory loss. Sensory loss was measured by quantitative sensory testing (QST), and evaluated statistically within patients relative to normal values. All seven subjects with insular and/or parietal lesions demonstrated thermal hypoesthesia, although the etiology of the lesions was heterogeneous. Cold and heat hypoalgesia were only found in the subject with the most extensive parietal and insular lesion, which occurred in utero. Cold allodynia occurred clinically and by thresholds in two subjects with isolated ischemic lesions of the posterior insular/retroinsular cortex, and by thresholds in two subjects with a lesion of parietal cortex with little or no insular involvement. Central pain occurred in the two subjects with clinical allodynia secondary to isolated lesions of the posterior insular/retroinsular cortex, which spared the anterior and posterior parietal cortex. These results suggest that nonpainful cold and heat sensations are jointly mediated by parietal and insular cortical structures so that lesions anywhere in this system may diminish sensitivity. In contrast, thermal pain is more robust requiring larger cortical lesions of these same structures to produce hypoalgesia. In addition, cold allodynia can result from restricted lesions that also produce thermal hypoesthesia, but not from all such lesions.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA) contains a high density of cannabinoid CB1 receptors and is critically involved in pain and fear-related behaviour. We investigated the effects of bilateral intra-BLA administration of the CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, rimonabant, on formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour, fear-conditioned behaviour including analgesia, and associated brain regional alterations in Fos expression in rats. Intra-BLA administration of rimonabant significantly reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour in the absence, but not presence, of conditioned fear. Rimonabant attenuated a formalin-evoked reduction in freezing while emitting 22 kHz ultrasonic vocalisation in the early part of the fear expression trial. Formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour was associated with increased Fos immunoreactivity (FI) in the CA2/3 region of the hippocampus and rostral ventromedial medulla, effects attenuated by intra-BLA rimonabant. Formalin also decreased FI in the cingulate cortex, an effect which was not observed in fear-conditioned rats. Contextually-induced fear was associated with increased FI in the dorsal caudal periaqueductal grey in the absence, but not presence, of formalin-evoked nociceptive tone. In conclusion, bilateral intra-BLA administration of rimonabant reduces nociceptive behaviour in a model of tonic, persistent inflammatory pain, an effect associated with reduced activation of neurons in the CA2/3 hippocampus and rostral ventromedial medulla. The data also provide evidence for differential pain- and fear-related brain regional activity in the presence or absence of contextually-induced aversion and nociceptive tone.
Excessive physical activity plays an important role in the progression of anorexia nervosa (AN) by accelerating weight loss during dietary restriction. To search for mechanisms underlying this trait, a panel of mouse chromosome substitution strains derived from C57BL/6J and A/J strains was exposed to a scheduled feeding paradigm and to voluntary running wheel (RW) access. Here, we showed that A/J chromosomes 4, 12 and 13 contribute to the development of a disrupted RW activity in response to daily restricted feeding. This pattern is characterized by intense RW activity during the habitual rest phase and leads to accelerated body weight loss. Regions on mouse chromosomes 4, 12 and 13 display homology with regions on human chromosomes linked with anxiety and obsessionality in AN cohorts. Therefore, our data open new roads for interspecies genetic studies of AN and for unraveling novel mechanisms and potential effective treatment strategies for these neurobehavioral traits.
Adherence to medication is essential for achieving good outcomes for patients with bipolar affective disorder. This study tested whether treatment and illness beliefs are important predictors of adherence to medication. Results indicate that beliefs are predictive, and may be a suitable target for modification in efforts to change behaviour.

Previous studies have shown that recognition of facial expressions is influenced by the affective information provided by the surrounding scene. The goal of this study was to investigate whether similar effects could be obtained for bodily expressions. Images of emotional body postures were briefly presented as part of social scenes showing either neutral or emotional group actions. In Experiment 1, fearful and happy bodies were presented in fearful, happy, neutral and scrambled contexts. In Experiment 2, we compared happy with angry body expressions. In Experiment 3 and 4, we blurred the facial expressions of all people in the scene. This way, we were able to ascribe possible scene effects to the presence of body expressions visible in the scene and we were able to measure the contribution of facial expressions to the body expression recognition. In all experiments, we observed an effect of social scene context. Bodily expressions were better recognized when the actions in the scenes expressed an emotion congruent with the bodily expression of the target figure. The specific influence of facial expressions in the scene was dependent on the emotional expression but did not necessarily increase the congruency effect. Taken together, the results show that the social context influences our recognition of a person's bodily expression.
Evidence by functional imaging studies suggests the role of left DLPFC in the inhibitory control of nociceptive transmission system. Pain exerts an inhibitory modulation on motor cortex, reducing MEP amplitude, while the effect of pain on motor intracortical excitability has not been studied so far. In the present study, we explored in healthy subjects the effect of capsaicin-induced pain and the modulatory influences of left DLPFC stimulation on motor corticospinal and intracortical excitability. Capsaicin was applied on the dorsal surface of the right hand, and measures of motor corticospinal excitability (test-MEP) and short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and facilitation (ICF) were obtained by paired-pulse TMS on left motor cortex. Evaluations were made before and at different times after capsaicin application in two separate sessions: without and with high-frequency rTMS of left DLPF cortex, delivered 10 min. after capsaicin application. We performed also two control experiments to explore: 1: the effects of Left DLPFC rTMS on capsaicin-induced pain; 2: the modulatory influence of left DLPFC rTMS on motor cortex without capsaicin application. Capsaicin-induced pain significantly reduced test MEP amplitude and decreased SICI leaving ICF unchanged. Left DLPFC rTMS, together with the analgesic effect, was able to revert the effects of capsaicin-induced pain on motor cortex restoring normal MEP and SICI levels. These data support the notion that that tonic pain exerts modulatory influence on motor intracortical excitability; the activation of left DLPFC by hf rTMS could have analgesic effects, reverting also the motor cortex excitability changes induced by pain stimulation.
The afferent volley generated during neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) can increase the excitability of the human corticospinal (CS) pathway. This study was designed to determine the effect of different frequencies of NMES applied over the common peroneal nerve on changes in CS excitability for the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle. We hypothesized that higher frequencies of stimulation would produce larger increases in CS excitability than lower frequencies. NMES was applied at 10, 50, 100, or 200 Hz during separate sessions held at least 48 h apart. The stimulation was delivered in a 20 s on, 20 s off cycle for 40 min using a 1 ms pulse width. The intensity of stimulation was set to evoke an M-wave in response to a single pulse that was 15% of the maximal M-wave. CS excitability was evaluated by the amplitude of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in TA evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation. MEPs were recorded immediately before and after the 40 min of NMES and in each 20 s &quot;off&quot; period. For each subject, MEPs recorded during three successive &quot;off&quot; periods were averaged together (n = 9 MEPs), providing a temporal resolution of 2 min for assessing changes in CS excitability. When delivering NMES at 100 Hz, MEPs became significantly elevated from those evoked before the stimulation at the 24th min, and there was a twofold increase in MEP amplitude after 40 min. NMES delivered at 10, 50, and 200 Hz did not significantly alter MEP amplitude. The amplitude of MEPs evoked in soleus and vastus medialis followed similar patterns as those evoked simultaneously in TA, but these changes were mostly not of statistical significance. There were no changes in the ratio of maximal H-reflex to maximal M-wave in TA or soleus. These experiments demonstrate a frequency-dependent effect of NMES on CS excitability for TA and show that, under the conditions of the present study, 100-Hz stimulation was more effective than 10, 50, and 200 Hz. This effect of NMES on CS excitability was strongest in the stimulated muscle and may be mediated primarily at a supraspinal level. These results contribute to a growing body of knowledge about how the afferent volley generated during NMES influences the CNS and have implications for identifying optimal NMES parameters to augment CS excitability for rehabilitation of dorsiflexion after CNS injury.
Multiple sensory modalities gather information about our surroundings to plan appropriate movements based on the properties of the environment and the objects within it. This study was designed to examine the sensitivity of visual and haptic information alone and together for detecting curvature. When both visual and haptic information were present, temporal delays in signal onset were used to determine the effect of asynchronous sensory information on the interference of vision on the haptic estimate of curvature. Even under the largest temporal delays where visual and haptic information were clearly disparate, the presentation of visual information influenced the haptic perception of curvature. The uncertainty associated with the unimodal vision condition was smaller than that in the unimodal haptic condition, regardless of whether the haptic information was procured actively or under robot assistance for curvature detection. When both visual and haptic information were available, the uncertainty was not reduced; it was equal to that of the unimodal haptic condition. The weighting of the visual and haptic information was highly variable across subjects with some subjects making judgments based largely on haptic information, while others tended to rely on visual information equally or to a larger extent than the haptic information.
Parkinson's disease preferentially affects internally generated movements, e.g., movements recalled from memory, while externally cued movements are relatively preserved. However, L-dopa may have effects on visually guided movements as well as error-related processing. Fourteen Parkinson's disease (PD) subjects (on and off L-dopa medication) as well as ten normal controls performed a tracking task using a joystick. During discrete 30 s blocks, the visual feedback of the actual tracking errors were attenuated, amplified or unaltered. Second order dynamical system models, with the desired trajectory as the input and the actual motor performance as the output, were used to characterize the motor performance by the each subject under each condition. Although the overall root-mean-square tracking error did not significantly differ between groups, the nature of the motor performance differed significantly across groups. A clear dissociation was made between manipulations of error feedback--which altered the natural frequency of the models--and the effects of L-dopa, which affected damping. Compared to normal controls, PD subjects were significantly overdamped before medication and underdamped after medication. We interpret our results as being suggestive of L: -dopa normalization of compensatory overactive cerebellar activity in PD.
Exposure to acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) evokes persistent increase in respiratory activity that lasts up to 60 min after hypoxic episodes have ceased. This persistent increase in phrenic nerve activity (PNA) is known as phrenic long-term facilitation (LTF). AIH-induced phrenic LTF in anesthetized rats is serotonin dependant. The present study was performed to determine whether microinjection of methysergide (4 mM, 20 +/- 5 nl), a broad spectrum 5-HT receptor antagonist, into the caudal raphe nuclei influences phrenic LTF. Peak integrated PNA and respiratory frequency were recorded at 15, 30, and 60 min after five 3-min episodes of normocapnic hypoxia in urethane-anesthetized, vagotomized, paralyzed and ventilated male Sprague-Dawley rats. In control animals, phrenic nerve amplitude was elevated 66.7 +/- 8.6% from baseline 1 h after episodic hypoxia, indicating phrenic LTF. Experimental microinjections of methysergide prior to AIH exposure attenuated phrenic LTF (amplitude increase 2.62 +/- 2.9% over baseline). We conclude that methysergide microinjections into the caudal raphe region attenuated phrenic LTF induced by AIH, indicating involvement of 5-HT receptor activation at a supraspinal level.
The synaptic vesicle is currently the most well-characterized cellular organelle. During neurotransmitter release it undergoes multiple cycles of exo- and endocytosis. Despite this the vesicle manages to retain its protein and lipid composition. How does this happen? Here we provide a brief overview of the molecular architecture of the synaptic vesicle, and discuss recent studies investigating single vesicle behavior and the mechanisms controlling the vesicle's molecular contents.
Evidence is mounting that reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced because of stressful challenges could interfere with the proper functioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, resulting in greater vulnerability to aging and neurodegeneration. Here we tested the hypothesis that p66(Shc-/-) mice, which have been described to have an extended life span and a high resistance to oxidative stress, might be less susceptible to the effects of inflammatory insults at adulthood. Although adrenocortical reactivity in response to bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) did not differ as a function of the genotype, a hyperdrive of the HPA axis was revealed following treatment with a synthetic glucocorticoid agonist. When measuring changes in hippocampal oxidative status following LPS, only wild-type (WT) subjects showed increased levels of F(2)-isoprostanes, an index of lipid peroxidation and free radical formation. At the same time, the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor was selectively increased in WT subjects, while levels of prostaglandin E(2) were decreased in the mutants. Overall, the greater resilience to inflammation-induced changes in the p66(Shc-/-) mutants might underlie the better health status and the longevity characterizing these mice.
Electrical stimulation (ES) of injured peripheral nerves accelerates axonal regeneration in laboratory animals. However, clinical applicability of this intervention has never been investigated in human subjects. The aim of this pilot study was to determine the effect of ES on axonal regeneration after surgery in patients with median nerve compression in the carpal tunnel causing marked motor axonal loss. A randomized control trial was conducted to provide proof of principle for ES-induced acceleration of axon regeneration in human patients. Carpel tunnel release surgery (CTRS) was performed and in the stimulation group of patients, stainless steel electrode wires placed alongside the median nerve proximal to the surgical decompression site for immediate 1 h 20 Hz bipolar ES. Subjects were followed for a year at regular intervals. Axonal regeneration was quantified using motor unit number estimation (MUNE) and sensory and motor nerve conduction studies. Purdue Pegboard Test, Semmes Weinstein Monofilaments, and Levine's Self-Assessment Questionnaire were used to assess functional recovery. The stimulation group had significant axonal regeneration 6-8 months after the CTRS when the MUNE increased to 290+/-140 (mean+/-SD) motor units (MU) from 150+/-62 MU at baseline (p&lt;0.05). In comparison, MUNE did not significantly improve in the control group (p&gt;0.2). Terminal motor latency significantly accelerated in the stimulation group but not the control group (p&gt;0.1). Sensory nerve conduction values significantly improved in the stimulation group earlier than the controls. Other outcome measures showed a significant improvement in both patient groups. We conclude that brief low frequency ES accelerates axonal regeneration and target reinnervation in humans.
The inhibitory growth environment of myelin and extracellular matrix proteoglycans in the central nervous system may be overcome by elevating neuronal cAMP or degrading inhibitory proteoglycans with chondroitinase ABC (ChABC). In this study, we asked whether similar mechanisms operate in peripheral nerve regeneration where effective Wallerian degeneration removes myelin and extracellular proteoglycans slowly. We repaired transected common peroneal (CP) nerve in rats and either elevated cAMP in the axotomized neurons by subcutaneous rolipram, a specific inhibitor of phosphodiesterase IV, and/or promoted degradation of proteoglycans in the distal nerve stump by local ChABC administration. Rolipram treatment significantly increased the number of motoneurons that regenerated axons across the repair site at 1 and 2 weeks, and increased the number of sensory neurons that regenerated axons across the repair site at 2 weeks. Local application of ChABC had a similar effect to rolipram treatment in promoting motor axon regeneration, the effect being no greater when rolipram and ChABC were administered simultaneously. We conclude that blocking inhibitors of axon regeneration by elevating cAMP or degrading proteoglycans in the distal nerve stump promotes peripheral axon regeneration after surgical repair of a transected nerve. It is likely that elevated cAMP is sufficient to encourage axon outgrowth despite the inhibitory growth environment such that simultaneous enzymatic proteoglycan degradation does not promote more axon regeneration than either elevated cAMP or proteoglycan degradation alone.
Identification of the molecule(s) that globally induce a robust regenerative state in sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury remains elusive. A potential candidate is brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the sole neurotrophin upregulated in sensory neurons after peripheral nerve injury. Here we tested the hypothesis that BDNF plays a critical role in the regenerative response of mature rat sensory neurons following peripheral nerve lesion. Neutralization of endogenous BDNF was performed by infusing BDNF antibodies intrathecally via a mini-osmotic pump for 3 days at the level of the fifth lumbar dorsal root ganglion, immediately following unilateral spinal nerve injury. This resulted in decreased expression of the injury/regeneration-associated genes growth-associated protein-43 and Talpha1 tubulin in the injured sensory neurons as compared to injury plus control IgG infused or injury alone animals. Similar results were observed following inhibition of BDNF expression by intrathecal delivery of small interfering RNAs (siRNA) targeting BDNF starting 3 days prior to injury. The reduced injury/regeneration-associated gene expression correlated with a significantly reduced intrinsic capacity of these neurons to extend neurites when assayed in vitro. In contrast, delayed infusion of BDNF antibody for 3 days beginning 1 week post-lesion had no discernible influence on the elevated expression of these regeneration-associated markers. These results support an important role for endogenous BDNF in induction of the cell body response in injured sensory neurons and their intrinsic ability to extend neurites, but BDNF does not appear to be necessary for maintaining the response once it is induced.
Reimplantation of avulsed rat lumbar spinal ventral roots results in poor recovery of function of the denervated hind limb muscles. In contrast, reimplantation of cervical or sacral ventral roots is a successful repair strategy that results in a significant degree of regeneration. A possible explanation for this difference could be that following lumbar root avulsion, axons have to travel longer distances towards their target muscles, resulting in prolonged denervation of the distal nerve and a diminished capacity to support regeneration. Here we present a detailed spatio-temporal analysis of motoneuron survival, axonal regeneration and neurotrophic factor expression following unilateral avulsion and implantation of lumbar ventral roots L3, L4, and L5. Reimplantation prolongs the survival of motoneurons up to one month post-lesion. The first regenerating motor axons entered the reimplanted ventral roots during the first week and large numbers of fibers gradually enter the lumbar plexus between 2 and 4 weeks, indicating that axons enter the reimplanted roots and plexus over an extended period of time. However, motor axon counts show that relatively few axons reach the distal sciatic nerve in the 16 week post-lesion period. The observed initial increase and subsequent decline in expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor correlate with the apparent spatio-temporal decline in the regenerative capacity of motor axons, indicating that the distal nerve is losing its capacity to support regenerating motor axons following prolonged denervation. These findings have important implications for future strategies to promote long-distance regeneration through distal, chronically denervated peripheral nerves.
Pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines play an important role in Wallerian degeneration (WD) after peripheral nerve injury. These pro-inflammatory signals are &quot;turned-off&quot; in a timely manner to ensure that the inflammatory response in the injured nerve is limited. The factors that regulate the turning-off of the pro-inflammatory state are not fully understood. The suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins are potential candidates that could limit the inflammatory response by acting to regulate cytokine signaling at the intracellular level. In this work we show that the expression SOCS1 and SOCS3 proteins differ from each other during WD in the mouse sciatic nerve after cut/ligation and crush injuries. SOCS1 is mainly expressed by macrophages and its expression is inversely correlated with phosphorylation of JAK2 and STAT3 signaling proteins and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and TNFalpha. In addition, treatment of cut/ligated nerves, which express lower levels of SOCS1 as compared to crush injury, with a SOCS1 mimetic peptide leads to a decrease in macrophage numbers at 14 days post-injury and reduces IL-1beta mRNA expression 1 day post-injury. In contrast, SOCS3 expression is restricted mainly to Schwann cells and is negatively correlated with the expression of IL-6 and LIF. These data suggest that SOCS1 and SOCS3 may play different roles in WD and provide a better understanding of some of the potential regulatory mechanisms that may control inflammation and regeneration in the injured peripheral nerve.
In axotomised regenerating axons, the first step toward successful regeneration is the formation of a growth cone. This requires a variety of dynamic morphological and biochemical changes in the axon, including the appearance of many new cytoskeletal, cell surface and signalling molecules. These changes suggest the activation of coordinated complex cellular processes. A recent development has been the demonstration that the regenerative ability of some axons depends on their capacity to locally synthesise new proteins and degrade others at the injury site autonomously from the cell body. There are also events involving the degradation of cytoskeletal and other molecules, and activation of signalling pathways, with axotomy-induced calcium changes probably being an initiating event. A future challenge will be to understand how this complex network of processes interacts in order to find therapeutic ways of promoting the regeneration of CNS axons.
This review will address new ideas, including several from our laboratory, on the role of local molecules and signaling within the microenvironment of injured peripheral nerve trunks. These include the concepts of axon-Schwann cell (SC) outgrowth partnership such as the secretion of local molecules that may facilitate or inhibit regenerative activity and the role of directional cues secreted by the SCs to guide regrowing axons. Several specific themes along these lines are explored: (i) a role for peptidergic axon synthesis and signaling to SCs; (ii) the expression of molecular regeneration brakes in regenerating axons, specifically activated RHOA GTPase; (iii) the concept of misdirected axon outgrowth, focusing on the prototypic NGF and local TrkA interaction in adult regrowth; (iv) the role of extracellular basement membrane constituents such as laminin, RGD/fibronectin and their integrin receptors. We show that these different themes play an important but not exclusive role in determining regenerative success. Collectively, these individual findings help us appreciate the many facets of regenerative success which depend on the surrounding environment, the expressed receptors, and the internal state of the growing axon.
While peripheral nerves demonstrate the capacity for axonal regeneration, outcome following injury remains relatively poor, especially following prolonged denervation. Since axon-deprived Schwann cells (SCs) in the distal nerve progressively lose their ability to support axonal growth, we took the approach of using skin-derived precursor cells (SKPs) as an accessible source of replacement SCs that could be transplanted into chronically denervated peripheral nerve. In this study, we employed a delayed cross-reinnervation paradigm to assess regeneration of common peroneal nerve axons into the chronically denervated rodent tibial nerve following delivery of SKP-derived SC (SKP-SCs). SKP-SC treated animals exhibited superior axonal regeneration to media controls, with significantly higher counts of regenerated motorneurons and histological recovery similar to that of immediately repaired nerve. Improved axonal regeneration correlated with superior muscle reinnervation, as measured by compound muscle action potentials and wet muscle weights. We therefore conclude that SKPs represent an easily accessible, autologous source of stem cell-derived Schwann cells that show promise in improving regeneration through chronically injured nerves.
As functional recovery following peripheral nerve injury is dependent upon successful repair and regeneration, treatments that enhance different regenerative events may be advantageous. Using a rat facial nerve crush axotomy model, our lab has previously investigated the effects of a combinatorial treatment strategy, consisting of electrical stimulation (ES) of the proximal nerve stump and testosterone propionate (TP) administration. Results indicated that the two treatments differentially enhance facial nerve regenerative properties, whereby ES reduced the delay before sprout formation, TP accelerated the overall regeneration rate, and the combinatorial treatment had additive effects. To delineate the molecular mechanisms underlying such treatments, the present study investigated the effects of ES and TP on expression of specific regeneration-associated genes. Following a right facial nerve crush at the stylomastoid foramen, gonadectomized adult male rats were administered only ES, only TP, a combination of both, or left untreated. Real time RT-PCR analysis was used to assess fold changes in mRNA levels in the facial motor nucleus at 0 h, 6 h, 1 d, 2 d, 7 d, and 21 d post-axotomy. The candidate genes analyzed included two tubulin isoforms (alpha(1)-tubulin and beta(II)-tubulin), 43-kiloDalton growth-associated protein (GAP-43), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), and neuritin (candidate plasticity-related gene 15). The two treatments have differential effects on gene expression, with ES leading to early but transient upregulation and TP producing late but steady increases in mRNA levels. In comparison to individual treatments, the combinatorial treatment strategy has the most enhanced effects on the transcriptional program activated following injury.



VAPB (vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident tail-anchored adaptor protein involved in lipid transport. A dominantly inherited mutant, P56S-VAPB, causes a familial form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and forms poorly characterized inclusion bodies in cultured cells. To provide a cell biological basis for the understanding of mutant VAPB pathogenicity, we investigated its biogenesis and the inclusions that it generates. Translocation assays in cell-free systems and in cultured mammalian cells were used to investigate P56S-VAPB membrane insertion, and the inclusions were characterized by confocal imaging and electron microscopy. We found that mutant VAPB inserts post-translationally into ER membranes in a manner indistinguishable from the wild-type protein but that it rapidly clusters to form inclusions that remain continuous with the rest of the ER. Inclusions were induced by the mutant also when it was expressed at levels comparable to the endogenous wild-type protein. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that the inclusions represent a novel form of organized smooth ER (OSER) consisting in a limited number of parallel cisternae (usually 2 or 3) interleaved by a approximately 30 nm-thick electron-dense cytosolic layer. Our results demonstrate that the ALS-linked VAPB mutant causes dramatic ER restructuring that may underlie its pathogenicity in motoneurons.
Methanolic extracts of six species of Salvia (S. hydrangea, S. lachnocalyx, S. macilenta, S. multicalis, S. sclarea and S. xanthocheila) were analyzed for their antioxidant properties, ability to prevent DNA damage by free radicals, and neuroprotective effects. Several biochemical assays were used to evaluate their antioxidant properties: DPPH(), FRAP, beta-carotene bleaching and TEAC assays. The amounts of phenolics and flavonoids were also determined. Comparison study of Salvia species showed that extracts from S. hydrangea and S. macilenta are strong antioxidants and that from S. lachnocalyx is a weak one. Furthermore, extracts from all of these species can at high concentrations (50mug/ml) inhibit DNA damage by free radicals. Furthermore, these species not only showed no cytotoxic effects in nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells, they also protected them against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death. Thus these plants may be candidates for treating neurodegenerative diseases.
(S)-cis-verbenol, a natural metabolite from (-)-alpha-pinene of host pine tree, has been suggested to have anti-ischemic activity. However, the exact mechanism for the anti-ischemic activity of (S)-cis-verbenol remains unclear yet. In the present study, (S)-cis-verbenol reduced cerebral ischemic injury caused by 1.5-h middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 24-h reperfusion. Furthermore, (S)-cis-verbenol significantly prevented neuronal cell death caused by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD, 1 h) and subsequent re-oxygenation (5 h). While (S)-cis-verbenol did not inhibit the NMDA-stimulated calcium influx, it reduced the intracellular level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) elevated by OGD/re-oxygenation. ORAC assay indicated that (S)-cis-verbenol potently eliminated peroxyl radicals. In DPPH and DHR123 fluorescence assays, however, (S)-cis-verbenol did not show a direct ROS scavenging effect. Furthermore, (S)-cis-verbenol reduced the expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in ischemic brain and immunostimulated glial cells. The present results indicate that (S)-cis-verbenol may be a useful therapeutic agent due to its anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory activities.
During the last 20 years, our understanding of the mechanisms underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) has considerably improved, in part owing to both in vitro and in vivo model systems. Studies in mice expressing both human amyloid precursor protein and human tau have provided clear evidence that amyloid-beta and tau interact in the pathogenesis of AD. Moreover, amyloid-beta toxicity has been shown to be tau-dependent since reducing tau levels prevents behavioral deficits and sudden death in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. As tau pathology preferentially develops in specific sites and spreads in a predictable manner across the brain, understanding the mechanism underlying tau dysfunction should be a focus in AD mouse modeling. A defined effort must be made to develop therapies that directly address the impact of tau dysfunction in the pathogenesis of AD. Finally, early diagnosis of AD is essential and this must be made possible by identification of early biomarkers, behavioral changes or use of novel imaging techniques.
Progressive multifocal encephalopathy (PML) is a fatal demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), caused by the lytic infection of oligodendrocytes by a human polyomavirus, JC virus (JCV). PML is rare disease but mostly develops in patients with underlying immunosuppressive conditions, including Hodgkin's lymphoma, lymphoproliferative diseases, in those undergoing antineoplastic therapy and AIDS. However, consistent with the occurrence of PML under immunocompromised conditions, this disease seems to be also steadily increasing among autoimmune disease patients (multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease), who are treated with antibody-based regimens (natalizumab, efalizumab and rituximab). This unexpected occurrence of the disease among such a patient population reconfirms the existence of a strong link between the underlying immunosuppressive conditions and development of PML. These recent observations have generated a new interest among investigators to further examine the unique biology of JCV.
Unsupported sitting requires postural stability of the trunk which is also necessary for almost all activities in daily living, yet there is a lack of research dealing with the persistence of trunk impairment post-stroke using quantitative methodologies. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate unsupported sitting in individuals with chronic stroke by analyzing center of pressure (COP) signals from a force platform. Ten healthy control subjects and ten chronic stroke subjects sat on a chair without a footrest that was placed on top of a force platform. Trials consisted of eyes closed, staring at a target, and COP feedback. COP signals were analyzed using spatial and temporal techniques. Compared to controls, stroke group had larger sway area and larger displacements in all conditions (p&lt;0.05) and less sample entropy (p&lt;0.05) in eyes closed and target conditions. In feedback conditions, both groups had decreased sway area and maximum displacements along with stroke group having increased sample entropy (p&lt;0.05). Our data suggest that trunk control, necessary for unsupported sitting, is impaired well into the chronic stage of stroke onset. Further investigations of sitting should be conducted for better understanding balance deficits under conditions localized to the trunk musculature.


Ovariectomy (OVX) leads to hyperphagia and weight gain in rats, which can be prevented by estradiol (E2) replacement; however, the role of endogenous E2 on feeding and energy homeostasis in female mice has not been well characterized. The primary goal of this study was to assess the relative contribution of increased energy intake and decreased energy expenditure to OVX-induced weight gain in female rats and mice. OVX led to hyperphagia in rats, but did not produce daily, nor cumulative, hyperphagia in mice. OVX decreased mass-specific metabolic rate in mice, but not in rats. OVX decreased home cage locomotor activity in both species. Pair-feeding attenuated OVX-induced weight gain in rats and produced both short- and long-term changes in expression of key hypothalamic genes involved in food intake and energy homeostasis, i.e., the anorexigenic neuropeptide pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and the orexigenic neuropeptides: melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and agouti-related peptide (AgRP). No differences in hypothalamic gene expression were observed between OVX'd and sham mice. The results suggest that OVX-induced weight gain is mediated by hyperphagia and reduced locomotor activity in rats, but that in mice, it is primarily mediated by reduced locomotor activity and metabolic rate.
The identification of axon growth-promoting genes, and overexpression of these genes in central nervous system (CNS) neurons projecting to the spinal cord, has emerged as one potential approach to enhancing CNS regeneration. Assessment of the regenerative potential of candidate genes usually requires axonal tracing of spinal projections, ideally limited to neurons that express the candidate gene. Alternatively, coexpression of a reporter gene such as enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) from an internal ribosomal entry site can be used to identify neurons expressing the candidate gene, but this strategy does not label corticospinal axons in the spinal cord. We therefore developed a dual promoter lentiviral vector in which a potentially therapeutic transgene is expressed from the cytomegalovirus-enhanced chicken beta-actin promoter and the fluorescent protein copGFP is expressed from the elongation factor-1alpha promoter. The vector was constructed to be compatible with the Gateway recombination system for efficient introduction of transgenes through entry shuttle vectors. We show both simultaneous expression of a candidate and reporter gene in corticospinal and red nucleus neurons, and efficient labeling of their axons after lesions in the cervical spinal cord. This expression system is therefore an accurate and efficient means of screening candidate genes in vivo for enhancement of axonal growth.
Neuroinflammation, as defined by activation of local glial cells and production of various inflammatory mediators, is an important feature of many neurological disorders. Expression of pro-inflammatory mediators produced by glial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) is considered to contribute to the neuropathology observed in those diseases. To diminish the production or action of pro-inflammatory mediators, we have used lentiviral (LV) vector-mediated encoding rat interleukin-10 (rIL-10) or rat interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (rIL-1ra) to direct the local, long-term expression of these anti-inflammatory cytokines in the CNS. We have shown that cultured macrophages or astroglia transduced with LV-rIL-10 or LV-rIL-1ra produced far less tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha or IL-6, respectively in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli. Moreover, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of LV-rIL-10 or LV-rIL-1ra resulted in transduction of glial cells and macrophages and, subsequently reduced TNFalpha, IL-6 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in various brain regions induced by inflammatory stimuli, whereas peripheral expression of these mediators remained unaffected. In addition, expression levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-4 and transforming growth factor-beta were not altered in either brain or pituitary gland. Furthermore, i.c.v. administration of LV-rIL-10 or LV-rIL-1ra given during the remission phase of chronic-relapsing experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis, improved the clinical outcome of the relapse phase. Thus, local application of LV vectors expressing anti-inflammatory cytokines could be of therapeutic interest to counteract pro-inflammatory processes in the brain without interfering with the peripheral production of inflammatory mediators.
Several causal missense mutations in the protein kinase Cgamma (gammaPKC) gene have been found in spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously showed that mutant gammaPKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to aggregation and causes apoptosis. Aggregation of misfolded proteins is generally involved in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases. Growing evidence indicates that macroautophagy (autophagy) is important for the degradation of misfolded proteins and the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we examined whether autophagy is involved in the degradation of the mutant gammaPKC that causes SCA14. Mutant gammaPKC-GFP was transiently expressed in SH-SY5Y cells by using an adenoviral tetracycline-regulated system. Subsequently, temporal changes in clearance of aggregates and degradation of gammaPKC-GFP were evaluated. Rapamycin, an autophagic inducer, accelerated clearance of aggregates and promoted degradation of mutant gammaPKC-GFP, but it did not affect degradation of wild-type gammaPKC-GFP. These effects of rapamycin were not observed in embryonic fibroblast cells from Atg5-deficient mice, which are not able to perform autophagy. Furthermore, lithium, another type of autophagic inducer, also promoted the clearance of mutant gammaPKC aggregates. These results indicate that autophagy contributes to the degradation of mutant gammaPKC, suggesting that autophagic inducers could provide therapeutic potential for SCA14.
Schwann cells transplantation has considerable promise in spinal cord trauma to bridge the site of injury and for remyelination in demyelinating conditions. They support axonal regeneration and sprouting by secreting growth factors and providing a permissive surface and matrix molecules while shielding axons from the inhibitory environment of the central nervous system. However, following transplantation Schwann cells show limited migratory ability and they are unable to intermingle with the host astrocytes. This in turn leads to formation of a sharp boundary and an abrupt transition between the Schwann cell graft and the host tissue astrocytes, therefore preventing regenerating axons from exiting the graft. The objective of this study was to identify inhibitory elements on astrocytes involved in restricting Schwann cell migration. Using in vitro assays of cell migration, we show that aggrecan produced by astrocytes is involved in the inhibition of Schwann cell motility on astrocytic monolayers. Knockdown of this proteoglycan in astrocytes using RNAi or digestion of glycosaminglycan chains on aggrecan improves Schwann cell migration. We further show aggrecan mediates its effect by disruption of integrin function in Schwann cells, and that the inhibitory effects of aggrecan can overcome by activation of Schwann cell integrins.
Microglia are the primary immune surveillance cells in the brain, and when activated they play critical roles in inflammatory reactions and tissue repair in the damaged brain. Microglia rapidly extend their processes toward the damaged areas in response to stimulation of the metabotropic ATP receptor P2Y(12) by ATP released from damaged tissue. This chemotactic response is a highly important step that enables microglia to function properly at normal and pathological sites in the brain. To investigate the molecular pathways that underlie microglial process extension, we developed a novel method of modeling microglial process extension that uses transwell chambers in which the insert membrane is coated with collagen gel. In this study, we showed that ATP increased microglial adhesion to collagen gel, and that the ATP-induced process extension and increase in microglial adhesion were inhibited by integrin blocking peptides, RGD, and a functional blocking antibody against integrin-beta1. An immunoprecipitation analysis with an antibody against the active form of integrin-beta1 showed that P2Y(12) mediated the integrin-beta1 activation by ATP. In addition, time-lapse imaging of EGFP-labeled microglia in mice hippocampal slices showed that RGD inhibited the directional process extension toward the nucleotide source, and immunohistochemical staining showed that integrin-beta1 accumulated in the tips of the microglial processes in rat hippocampal slices stimulated with ADP. These findings indicate that ATP induces the integrin-beta1 activation in microglia through P2Y(12) and suggest that the integrin-beta1 activation is involved in the directional process extension by microglia in brain tissue.
Previous work indicated that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), through the trkB receptor, increases DNA synthesis in oligodendrocyte (OLG) progenitor cells (OPCs) and differentiation of postmitotic OLGs of the basal forebrain (BF). In the present studies, BDNF knockout animals were used to investigate BDNF's effects on OLG lineage cells (OLCs) in vivo. OLCs of the BF were found to express the trkB receptor, suggesting they are responsive to BDNF. Immunohistochemistry using NG2 and CC1 antibodies was utilized to examine the numbers of NG2+ OPCs and CC1+ postmitotic BF OLGs. At embryonic day 17 (E17), BDNF-/- animals display reduced NG2+ cells. This reduction was also observed in BDNF+/- mice at E17 and at postnatal day 1 (P1), P14, and adult stage, suggesting that BDNF plays a role in OPC development. BDNF+/- mice do not exhibit deficits in numbers of CC1+ OLGs. However, myelin basic protein, myelin associated glycoprotein, and proteolipid protein are reduced in BDNF+/- mice, suggesting that BDNF plays a role in differentiation. These data indicate that progenitor cells and myelin proteins may be affected in vivo by a decrease in BDNF.
D-(-)-Lentiginosine [(-)-4], the nonnatural enantiomer of the iminosugar indolizidine alkaloid L-(+)-lentiginosine, acts as apoptosis inducer on tumor cells of different origin, in contrast to its natural enantiomer. Although D-(-)-4 exhibited a proapoptotic activity towards tumor cells at level lower than the chemotherapeutic agent, SN38, it was less proapoptotic towards normal cells and less cytotoxic. Apoptosis induced by D-(-)-4 was caspase-dependent, as shown by the increased expression and activity of caspase-3 and -8 in treated cells, and by inhibition following treatment with the pan caspase inhibitor, ZVAD-FMK. This study highlighted how a natural iminosugar alkaloid and its synthetic enantiomer, which were simply known for their inhibition against a fungal glucoamylase, could behave in a complete different way when tested towards cell growth and death of cells of different origin.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is an essential neurotrophin and regulation of its expression is complex due to multiple 5' untranslated exons which are separately spliced to a common coding exon to form unique mRNA transcripts. Disruption of BDNF gene expression is a key to the development of symptoms in Huntington's disease (HD), a fatal neurodegenerative condition. Abnormal epigenetic modifications are associated with reduced gene expression in late-stage HD but such regulation of BDNF gene expression has yet to be investigated. We hypothesized that BDNF gene expression is altered in the HD hippocampus of pre-motor symptomatic R6/1 transgenic HD mice, correlating with a change in the DNA methylation profile. The effects of wheel-running and environmental enrichment on wild-type mice, in association with a proposed environment-mediated correction of BDNF gene expression deficits in HD mice, were also investigated. Using real-time PCR, levels of total BDNF mRNA were found to be reduced in the hippocampus of both male and female HD mice. Wheel-running significantly increased total BDNF gene expression in all groups of mice except male HD mice. In contrast, environmental enrichment significantly increased expression only in male wild-type animals. Further quantification of BDNF exon-specific transcripts revealed sex-specific changes in relation to the effect of the HD mutation and differential effects on gene expression by wheel-running and environmental enrichment. The HD-associated reduction of BDNF gene expression was not due to increased methylation of the gene sequence. Furthermore, environment-induced changes in BDNF gene expression in the wild-type hippocampus were independent of the extent of DNA methylation. Overall, the results of this study provide new insight into the role of BDNF in HD pathogenesis in addition to the mechanisms regulating normal BDNF gene expression.
This article describes the SRI24 atlas, a new standard reference system of normal human brain anatomy, that was created using template-free population registration of high-resolution magnetic resonance images acquired at 3T in a group of 24 normal control subjects. The atlas comprises anatomical channels (T1, T2, and proton density weighted), diffusion-related channels (fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity, longitudinal diffusivity, mean diffusion-weighted image), tissue channels (CSF probability, gray matter probability, white matter probability, tissue labels), and two cortical parcellation maps. The SRI24 atlas enables multichannel atlas-to-subject image registration. It is uniquely versatile in that it is equally suited for the two fundamentally different atlas applications: label propagation and spatial normalization. Label propagation, herein demonstrated using diffusion tensor image fiber tracking, is enabled by the increased sharpness of the SRI24 atlas compared with other available atlases. Spatial normalization, herein demonstrated using data from a young-old group comparison study, is enabled by its unbiased average population shape property. For both propagation and normalization, we also report the results of quantitative comparisons with seven other published atlases: Colin27, MNI152, ICBM452 (warp5 and air12), and LPBA40 (SPM5, FLIRT, AIR). Our results suggest that the SRI24 atlas, although based on 3T MR data, allows equally accurate spatial normalization of data acquired at 1.5T as the comparison atlases, all of which are based on 1.5T data. Furthermore, the SRI24 atlas is as suitable for label propagation as the comparison atlases and detailed enough to allow delineation of anatomical structures for this purpose directly in the atlas.
Gene therapies for retinal degeneration have relied on subretinal delivery of viral vectors carrying therapeutic DNA. The subretinal injection is clearly not ideal as it limits the viral transduction profile to a focal region at the injection site and negatively affects the neural retina by detaching it from the supportive retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). We assessed changes in adeno-associated virus (AAV) dispersion and transduction in the degenerating rat retina after intravitreal delivery. We observed a significant increase in AAV-mediated gene transfer in the diseased compared with normal retina, the extent of which depends on the AAV serotype injected. We also identified key structural changes that correspond to increased viral infectivity. Particle diffusion and transgene accumulation in normal and diseased retina were monitored via fluorescent labeling of viral capsids and quantitative PCR. Viral particles were observed to accumulate at the vitreoretinal junction in normal retina, whereas particles spread into the outer retina and RPE in degenerated tissue. Immunohistochemistry illustrates remarkable changes in the architecture of the inner limiting membrane, which are likely to underlie the increased viral transduction in diseased retina. These data highlight the importance of characterizing gene delivery vectors in diseased tissue as structural and biochemical changes can alter viral vector transduction patterns. Furthermore, these results indicate that gene delivery to the outer nuclear layer may be achieved by noninvasive intravitreal AAV administration in the diseased state.
A defect of CD4(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Besides Treg, CD8(+) T cells also can suppress the immune response. Forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) is known to program the acquisition of suppressive capacities in CD4(+) T cells and recent studies showed that in vitro antigen activation leads to Foxp3 expression in CD8(+) T cells, gaining of suppressive activity. By flow cytometry we found a lower percentage of circulating CD8(+)Foxp3(+) T cells in relapsing than in remitting patients with MS and in controls. No significant differences were observed in CD8(+)Foxp3(+) T cell percentage between healthy subjects and patients in remission. Our data suggest that peripheral CD8(+)Foxp3(+) T cells may play a role in the maintenance of tolerance in MS.
Mutations in the gene encoding fused in sarcoma (FUS) were recently identified as a novel cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), emphasizing the genetic heterogeneity of ALS. We sequenced the genes encoding superoxide dismutase (SOD1), TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TARDBP) and FUS in 99 sporadic and 17 familial ALS patients ascertained at Mayo Clinic. We identified two novel mutations in FUS in two out of 99 (2.0%) sporadic ALS patients and established the de novo occurrence of one FUS mutation. In familial patients, we identified three (17.6%) SOD1 mutations, while FUS and TARDBP mutations were excluded. The de novo FUS mutation (g.10747A&gt;G; IVS13-2A&gt;G) affects the splice-acceptor site of FUS intron 13 and was shown to induce skipping of FUS exon 14 leading to the C-terminal truncation of FUS (p.G466VfsX14). Subcellular localization studies showed a dramatic increase in the cytoplasmic localization of FUS and a reduction of normal nuclear expression in cells transfected with truncated compared to wild-type FUS. We further identified a novel in-frame insertion/deletion mutation in FUS exon 12 (p.S402_P411delinsGGGG) which is predicted to expand a conserved poly-glycine motif. Our findings extend the mutation spectrum in FUS leading to ALS and describe the first de novo mutation in FUS.
PRPF8-retinitis pigmentosa is said to be severe but there has been no overview of phenotype across different mutations. We screened RP patients for PRPF8 mutations and identified three new missense mutations, including the first documented mutation outside exon 42 and the first de novo mutation. This brings the known RP-causing mutations in PRPF8 to nineteen. We then collated clinical data from new and published cases to determine an accurate prognosis for PRPF8-RP. Clinical data for 75 PRPF8-RP patients were compared, revealing that while the effect on peripheral retinal function is severe, patients generally retain good visual acuity in at least one eye until the fifth or sixth decade. We also noted that prognosis for PRPF8-RP differs with different mutations, with p.H2309P or p.H2309R having a worse prognosis than p.R2310K. This correlates with the observed difference in growth defect severity in yeast lines carrying the equivalent mutations, though such correlation remains tentative given the limited number of mutations for which information is available. The yeast phenotype is caused by lack of mature spliceosomes in the nucleus, leading to reduced RNA splicing function. Correlation between yeast and human phenotypes suggests that splicing factor RP may also result from an underlying splicing deficit.
ATP-sensitive potassium channels couple cell excitability to energy metabolism, thereby providing life-saving protection of stressed cardiomyocytes. The signaling for ATP-sensitive potassium channel expression is still unknown. We tested involvement of biochemical and biophysical parameters and potential transcription factors Forkhead box (FOX) and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1alpha). Right atrial tissues were obtained during surgery from 28 children with heart disease. Expression of K(+)-inward-rectifier subunits Kir6.1/Kir6.2; sulfonyl urea receptors (SURs) SUR1A/B and SUR2A/B; and FOX class O (FOXO) 1, FOXO3, FOXF2, and HIF-1alpha were related to 31 parameters, including personal data, blood chemistry, and echocardiography. Venous hypoxemia (but not other ischemia indicators, such as venous hypercapnia or low glucose) predicts increased Kir6.1 (P&lt;0.003) and Kir6.2 (P&lt;0.03) protein. Kir6.1 associates with SUR2A/B mRNA (P&lt;0.05) and correlates with FOXOs (P&lt;0.002). FOXOs correlate with HIF-1alpha (P&lt;0.01) and HIF-1alpha with venous hypoxemia (P&lt;0.003). Electrophoretic mobility-shift assays suggest causal links among hypoxia, HIF-1alpha, FOXO1, and Kir6.1. To mimic mild ischemia encountered in some patients, cultured rat atrial myocytes were tested in hypoxia, hypercapnia, or low glucose, with normal conditions serving as the control. Mild hypoxia (24-hour) increases expression of HIF-1alpha, FOXO1, and SUR2A/B/Kir6.1 in culture (P&lt;0.01), whereas hypercapnia and low glucose have no or opposite effects. Gene knockdown of HIF-1alpha or FOXO1 by small-interfering RNAs abolishes hypoxia-induced expression of FOXO1 and SUR2A/B/Kir6.1. These results suggest that low tissue oxygen determines increased expression of the atrial SUR2A/B/Kir6.1 gene via activation of HIF-1alpha-FOXO1. Because increased SUR2A/B/Kir6.1 has known survival benefits, this pathway offers novel therapeutic targets for children with heart disease.
Data sets imaged with modern electron microscopes can range from tens of terabytes to about one petabyte. Two new tools, Ssecrett and NeuroTrace, support interactive exploration and analysis of large-scale optical-and electron-microscopy images to help scientists reconstruct complex neural circuits of the mammalian nervous system.
This paper proposes a methodology for the robust classification of neurophysiological data into four emotional states collected during passive viewing of emotional evocative pictures selected from the International Affective Picture System. The proposed classification model is formed according to the current neuroscience trends, since it adopts the independency of two emotional dimensions, namely arousal and valence, as dictated by the bidirectional emotion theory, whereas it is gender-specific. A two-step classification procedure is proposed for the discrimination of emotional states between EEG signals evoked by pleasant and unpleasant stimuli, which also vary in their arousal/intensity levels. The first classification level involves the arousal discrimination. The valence discrimination is then performed. The Mahalanobis (MD) distance-based classifier and support vector machines (SVMs) were used for the discrimination of emotions. The achieved overall classification rates were 79.5% and 81.3% for the MD and SVM, respectively, significantly higher than in previous studies. The robust classification of objective emotional measures is the first step toward numerous applications within the sphere of human-computer interaction.

A French speech intelligibility screening test in noise that applies digit triplets as stimuli has been developed and evaluated for both telephone and broadband headphone use. After optimizing the speech material based on the intelligibility of the individual digits, norms for normal-hearing subjects were established. speech reception thresholds (SRTs) of -6.4 +/- 0.4 and -10.5 +/- 0.3 dB SNR, and slopes of 17.1 and 27.1 %/dB were obtained for telephone and broadband headphone presentation, respectively. The French digit triplet test by telephone was then implemented as an automatic self-screening test by home telephone, and further evaluated in normal-hearing and hearing-impaired listeners. A test-retest variability of 0.7 dB was found and the correlation between SRT and pure-tone average (PTA(0.5,1,2,4)) was 0.77. One month after launching the test, 20,000 calls were registered. It can be concluded that both versions of the newly developed test have steep slopes and small SRT differences across normal-hearing listeners. The screening test by telephone is highly reliable and proves to fulfill the need for an easily accessible and objective hearing screening.
Repeated brief seizures, such as those induced by electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), markedly elevate neurotrophic factor levels in the adult rat brain, but it is not known whether a similar response to seizures occurs in immature animals. To address this question, we evoked brief seizures with electroconvulsive shock (ECS) in rat pups at different stages of postnatal development and examined basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), nerve growth factor (NGF), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) proteins in selected brain regions in which these trophic factors are known to increase in the adult rat following ECS-induced seizures. ECS treatments were administered daily (3 episodes/day) over 7 days to rat pups of three different ages: postnatal day (P)1-7, P7-13, or P14-20. Protein levels were measured 6h after the last ECS using Western blotting for FGF-2 in rhinal cortex, ELISA for BDNF and NGF in hippocampus, and NGF in frontal cortex. 7 days of repeated ECS-induced seizures during P1-7 did not alter protein levels for BDNF, FGF-2, or NGF. The repeated seizures during P7-13 affected only BDNF protein, causing a significant elevation of 40% in hippocampus over sham-treated controls. In P14-20 pups, the repeated seizures resulted in a significant increase in BDNF in hippocampus (162% over controls) and FGF-2 in rhinal cortex (34% over controls), while NGF protein did not show a significant change in either hippocampus or frontal cortex. The results suggest that during the first postnatal week there is a resistance to seizure-induced increase in neurotrophic factors, but by the third postnatal week, both BDNF and FGF-2 are elevated substantially in response to repeated seizures. This time-dependent profile suggests that synthesis of these proteins is initially activity-independent, becoming subject to activity-dependent regulation by 3 weeks of age. This maturation of seizure-evoked changes in trophic factors may be important for understanding the impact of ECT and seizures in childhood.
Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of ouabain (a potent Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor) in rats resulted in manic-like effects. There is an emerging body of data indicating that major neuropsychiatric disorders, such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, are associated with increased oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the effects of ICV ouabain injection on oxidative stress parameters in total tissue of rat brain. Our findings demonstrated that ICV injection increased thiobarbituric acid reactive species levels and protein carbonyl generation in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of rats. Moreover, the activity of the antioxidants enzymes catalase and superoxide dismutase was altered in several areas of the rat brain and cerebrospinal fluid of ICV ouabain-subjected rats. These results showed that Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibition can lead to oxidative stress in the brain of rats.
We previously demonstrated that prenatal alcohol exposure results in brain defects at different embryonic stages. This study is aimed at characterizing the influence of prenatal alcohol exposure on the levels of several neurotransmitters at early embryonic stage 13 (E13). Pregnant C57BL/6 mice were exposed to either a 25% ethanol derived calorie diet (ALC) or pair-fed (PF) liquid diet from E7 to E13. At E13, fetal brains were collected from dams of the ALC and PF groups. Liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was then used to evaluate neurotransmitter levels. This approach involved the use of an LC column in conjunction with multiple-reaction monitoring mass spectrometry. Quantitative analyses of catecholamines, idolamine, and amino acid neurotransmitters revealed significant reductions in the levels of dopamine (p=0.004), norepinephrine (p=0.0009), epinephrine (p=0.0002), serotonin (p=0.004), and GABA (p=0.002) in the ALC group compared to the PF group. However, there was no significant change in the levels of glutamate in E13 fetal brains. These findings demonstrate that prenatal alcohol exposure reduces the concentrations of some catecholamines, idolamine, and amino acid neurotransmitters in E13 fetal brains. This study suggests that alterations of selective neurotransmitters may be the cause of abnormalities in brain function and behavior found in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
Fetal asphyxic insults in the brain are known to be associated with developmental and neurological problems like neuromotor disorders and cognitive deficits. Little is known, however, about the long-term consequences of fetal asphyxia contributing to the development of different neurological diseases common in the adult or the aging brain. For that reason the present study aimed to investigate the long-term effects of fetal asphyxia on synaptic organization within the adult rat brain. Fetal asphyxia was induced at embryonic day 17 by 75-min clamping of the uterine and ovarian arteries. Presynaptic bouton densities and numbers were analyzed in the striatum and prefrontal cortex at the age of 19 months. A substantial decrease in presynaptic bouton density and number was observed in the striatum of fetal asphyxia rats compared to control rats, while an increase was found in the fifth layer of the prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that fetal asphyxia can have long-lasting effects on synaptic organization that might contribute to a developmental etiology of different neurological disorders and aging.
Young adult (N = 96) university students who varied in their binge drinking history were assessed by electroencephalography (EEG) recording during passive viewing. Groups consisted of male and female non-binge drinkers (&gt;1 to 5/4 drinks/ounces in under two hours), low-binge drinkers (5/4-7/6 drinks/ounces in under two hours), and high-binge drinkers (&gt;or= 10 drinks/ounces in under two hours), who had been drinking alcohol at their respective levels for an average of 3 years. The non- and low-binge drinkers exhibited less spectral power than the high-binge drinkers in the delta (0-4 Hz) and fast-beta (20-35 Hz) bands. Binge drinking appears to be associated with a specific pattern of brain electrical activity in young adults that may reflect the future development of alcoholism.


The atypical antipsychotic aripiprazole has been demonstrated to reduce symptoms of bipolar mania. To further profile the antimanic-like properties of aripiprazole in relevant preclinical models, we examined its efficacy in d-amphetamine-based behavioural models of acute mania in rats. The effects of acute and repeated administration of aripiprazole were assessed in the facilitation of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) and hyperlocomotion after acute d-amphetamine, and in the sensitized facilitation of ICSS function and hyperlocomotion after repeated d-amphetamine. Acutely, aripiprazole (0.75, 1.5 and 2.5 mg/kg i.p.) increased ICSS thresholds, attenuated the reward-facilitating effects of d-amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), decreased motor activity and prevented d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion. Co-administration of aripiprazole and d-amphetamine for 7 d resulted in aripiprazole counteracting the d-amphetamine-induced sensitization in facilitation of brain reward function and hyperlocomotion. These results indicate the efficacy of aripiprazole in d-amphetamine-based preclinical models of acute mania that are characterized by increased motivational drive and/or hyperfunction of brain reward.
Epidemiological studies suggest that early life infections may contribute to the development of neuropsychiatric disorders later in life. Experimental studies employing infections during neonatal life support this notion by reporting persistent changes in the behaviour of adult animals, including deficits in sensorimotor gating. We have previously described an induction of the kynurenine pathway in neonatal wild-type (WT) mice following a systemic infection with neurotropic influenza A/WSN/33 virus. Here, we use the same model of infection in both WT and Tap1-/- mice (expressing reduced levels of MHC class I) and study long-term effects of the infection on sensorimotor gating, as determined by measuring prepulse inhibition (PPI). Moreover, transcription of genes encoding enzymes in the kynurenine pathway and levels of kynurenic acid (KYNA), in the brain of Tap1-/- mice were investigated. In mice infected on postnatal day (P)3 or P4, the levels of several transcripts in the kynurenine pathway were altered at P7, P13 and P24. Transcripts encoding indoleamine-pyrrole 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), degrading tryptophan in the first step of the kynurenine pathway were consistently up-regulated at all time-points investigated. The changes in transcript levels were accompanied by a transient elevation of KYNA in the brain of infected mice at P13. At age 5-6 months, neonatally infected Tap1-/-, but not WT, mice exhibited a reduction in PPI. The present data show that a neonatal infection targeting the brain can induce the kynurenine pathway and that such an infection can disrupt sensorimotor gating in adulthood in genetically vulnerable mice.
Odor identification ability is sensitive to prefrontal lobe dysfunction and preliminary evidence suggests that this capacity may decline with prolonged wakefulness. We hypothesized that declines in odor identification during a single night of sleep loss might, therefore, be predictive of prefrontal lobe executive function deficits following an additional night of sleep deprivation. Change scores between two administrations of the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (SIT) during 24 hr of sleep deprivation were used to predict performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) following 45 hr of wakefulness in 54 healthy adults. Declines in SIT performance predicted poorer performance on the WCST following an additional night of sleep loss. These findings suggest that individual differences in vulnerability to the effects of sleep loss on odor identification ability are predictive of deficits in executive functioning following additional wakefulness. Odor identification ability may provide an unobtrusive method for assessing vulnerability to sleep deprivation.
In the present study, we explore the operational architectonics of alpha activity in different normal and pathological brain states. Aggregated analysis of a set of diverse previously conducted EEG/MEG experimental studies was performed within the same methodological and conceptual framework. It was shown that the characteristics of short alpha activity periods (segments), as well as the spatial structural synchrony of alpha activity, changed considerably in accordance with the type of brain functional state, stimulation, cognitive task, pharmacological influence, and the type of pathology. The results of this study suggest that particular neurophysiological pattern(s) of cortex alpha activity indicates a resting state network, which is characterized by well-defined structure in both the temporal as well as the spatial domain. The optimal functional state of the brain depends upon a delicate metastable balance between local specialized processes and their global integration. Excess or lack of either component would be a deviation from the optimal condition and can lead to pathology. The fact that all observed results were significantly different from surrogate EEG data reflects a non-occasional nature of spatio-temporal dynamics in the operational architectonics of alpha activity. Better understanding of the specific ways in which disrupted dynamics of different characteristics of alpha-generating neuronal assemblies (and their functional connectivity) may underlie neuro/psychopathology might suggest new targets for therapeutic agents.


Binding of drugs to plasma proteins is an important determinant for their efficacy because it modulates drug availability to the intended target. Co-administered drugs may bind to the same protein site or to different functionally linked clefts following competitive and allosteric mechanisms. Here, we report a thermodynamic and computational characterization of the binding mode of apomorphine and benserazide, two therapeutic agents co-administered in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, to human serum albumin (HSA). Apomorphine binds to HSA with a simple equilibrium (K(d) = 3.1 x 10(-6) M). Conversely, benserazide binds to HSA with two independent equilibria (K(d1)&lt; or = 10(-6) M and K(d2) = 5.0 x 10(-5) M). Values of K(d) and K(d2) increase to 1.5 x 10(-5) M and 5.0 x 10(-4) M, respectively, in the presence of heme. Accordingly, the K(d) value for heme binding to HSA increases from 5.0 x 10(-7) M to 4.8 x 10(-6) M and 9.2 x 10(-7) M, in the presence of saturating amounts of apomorphine and benserazide, respectively. The K(d1) value for benserazide binding to HSA is not affected by heme binding, whereas apomorphine and benserazide inhibit warfarin binding to HSA, and vice versa. Therefore, apomorphine and the second benserazide molecule bind to the warfarin site, allosterically linked to the heme site. Simulated docking of apomorphine and benserazide into the warfarin site provides favorable values of intermolecular energy (-23.0 kJ mol(-1) and -15.2 kJ mol(-1), respectively). Considering the apomorphine, benserazide, and HSA-heme plasma levels and the possible co-administration of warfarin, these results appear relevant in the management of patients affected by Parkinson's disease.



Top-down proteomics characterizes protein primary structures with unprejudiced descriptions of expressed and processed gene products. Gene sequence polymorphisms, protein post-translational modifications, and gene sequence errors can all be identified using top-down proteomics. Saliva offers advantages for proteomic research because of availability and the noninvasiveness of collection and, for these reasons, is being used to search for disease biomarkers. The description of natural protein variants, and intra- and inter-individual polymorphisms, is necessary for a complete description of any proteome, and essential for the discovery of disease biomarkers. Here, we report a striking example of natural protein variants with the discovery by top-down proteomics of two new variants of Peptide P-C. Intact mass measurements, and collisionally activated-, infrared multiphoton-, and electron capture-dissociation, were used for characterization of the form predicted from the gene sequence with an average mass 4371 Da, a form postulated to result from a single nucleotide polymorphism of mass 4372 Da, and another form of mass 4370 Da postulated to arise from a novel protein sequence polymorphism. While the biological significance of such subtle variations in protein structure remains unclear, their importance cannot be assigned without their characterization, as is reported here for one of the major salivary proteins.
The aim of this study was to establish the relative distribution of resilient, remitted, chronic and reactivated posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in a population of survivors from a major civilian disaster. Residual PTSD symptoms were explored to identify predictors of future reactivation. Symptoms were measured by the Impact of Event Scale (IES) 5.5 months, 14 months and 5 years after the disaster. Forty-eight survivors (79%) were interviewed after 27 years. PTSD status was determined by using the Structural Clinical Interview for DSM-IV axis I Disorders (SCID-I). The distributions were: 58.3% resilient, 14.6% remitted, 8.3% chronic, and 18.8% reactivated PTSD. Number of residual symptoms from intrusion and avoidance 14 months and 5 years past trauma predicted later reactivation. Intrusion symptoms in general, and sleep related intrusions in particular, were the most consistent predictors deserving special attention.
Capsaicin-sensitive lung vagal afferents (CSLVAs) are important in detecting pulmonary reactive oxygen species (ROS). We investigated the mechanisms underlying the stimulation of CSLVAs by inhaled cigarette smoke (CS) in 216 anesthetized rats. In spontaneously breathing rats, CS evoked a CSLVA-mediated reflex bradypnea that was prevented by N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC; an antioxidant), HC-030031 [a transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) receptor antagonist], and iso-pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',5'-disulfonate (iso-PPADS; a P2X receptor antagonist). In paralyzed, artificially ventilated rats, CS evoked an increase in CSLVA fiber activity (DeltaFA) that was abolished by NAC and was attenuated by HC-030031, iso-PPADS, indomethacin (Indo; a cyclooxygenase inhibitor), and a combination of apyrase and adenosine deaminase (ADA) (ATP scavengers); the response to CS was reduced to 11.7+/-4.0%, 39.5+/-10.0%, 52.9+/-14.4%, 68.7+/-10.1%, and 47.2+/-12.9% of control, respectively. The suppressive effect on this afferent response was not improved by a combination of HC-030031 and Indo (DeltaFA=39.5+/-10.1% of control) compared with that induced by HC-030031 alone. In contrast, the suppressive effect was enhanced by a combination of HC-030031 and apyrase+ADA (DeltaFA=5.3+/-4.9% of control) or a combination of iso-PPADS and Indo (DeltaFA=23.3+/-7.7% of control) compared with that induced by HC-030031 alone or iso-PPADS alone. This afferent response was not altered by the vehicles for these drugs. These results suggest that activations of TRPA1 receptors by cyclooxygenase metabolites and P2X receptors by ATP are both necessary for the ROS-mediated stimulation of CSLVA fibers by CS in rats.
Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) are widely used to treat cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension, angina pectoris, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and supraventricular tachycardia. CCBs selectively inhibit the inward flow of calcium ions through voltage-gated calcium channels, particularly Cav1.2, that are expressed in the cardiovascular system. Changes to the molecular structure of Cav1.2 channels could affect sensitivity of the channels to blockade by CCBs. Recently, extensive alternative splicing was found in Cav1.2 channels that generated wide phenotypic variations. Cardiac and smooth muscles express slightly different, but functionally important Cav1.2 splice variants. Alternative splicing could also modulate the gating properties of the channels and giving rise to different responses to inhibition by CCBs. Importantly, alternative splicing of Cav1.2 channels may play an important role to influence the outcome of many cardiovascular disorders. Therefore, the understanding of how alternative splicing impacts Cav1.2 channels pharmacology in various diseases and different organs may provide the possibility for individualized therapy with minimal side effects.
Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is the most widely used method for mapping neural activity in the brain. The interpretation of altered BOLD signals is problematic when cerebral blood flow (CBF) or cerebral blood volume change because of aging and/or neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, a recently developed quantitative arterial spin labeling (ASL) approach, bolus-tracking ASL (btASL), was applied to an fMRI experiment in the rat brain. The mean transit time (MTT), capillary transit time (CTT), relative cerebral blood volume of labeled water (rCBV(lw)), relative cerebral blood flow (rCBF), and perfusion coefficient in the forelimb region of the somatosensory cortex were quantified during neuronal activation and in the resting state. The average MTT and CTT were 1.939+/-0.175 and 1.606+/-0.106 secs, respectively, in the resting state. Both times decreased significantly to 1.616+/-0.207 and 1.305+/-0.201 secs, respectively, during activation. The rCBV(lw), rCBF, and perfusion coefficient increased on average by a factor of 1.123+/-0.006, 1.353+/-0.078, and 1.479+/-0.148, respectively, during activation. In contrast to BOLD techniques, btASL yields physiologically relevant indices of the functional hyperemia that accompanies neuronal activation.
Isoflurane and related anesthetics are widely used to anesthetize children, ranging from premature babies to adolescents. Concerns have been raised about the safety of these anesthetics in pediatric patients, particularly regarding possible negative effects on cognition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of repeated isoflurane exposure of juvenile and mature animals on cognition and neurogenesis. Postnatal day 14 (P14) rats and mice, as well as adult (P60) rats, were anesthetized with isoflurane for 35 mins daily for four successive days. Object recognition, place learning and reversal learning as well as cell death and cytogenesis were evaluated. Object recognition and reversal learning were significantly impaired in isoflurane-treated young rats and mice, whereas adult animals were unaffected, and these deficits became more pronounced as the animals grew older. The memory deficit was paralleled by a decrease in the hippocampal stem cell pool and persistently reduced neurogenesis, subsequently causing a reduction in the number of dentate gyrus granule cell neurons in isoflurane-treated rats. There were no signs of increased cell death of progenitors or neurons in the hippocampus. These findings show a previously unknown mechanism of neurotoxicity, causing cognitive deficits in a clearly age-dependent manner.
Erythropoietin (EPO) has shown promise as a neuroprotectant in animal models of ischemic stroke. EPO is thought not only to protect neurons from cell death, but also to promote regeneration after stroke. Here, we report a systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy of EPO in animal models of focal cerebral ischemia. Primary outcomes were infarct size and neurobehavioral outcome. Nineteen studies involving 346 animals for infarct size and 425 animals for neurobehavioral outcome met our inclusion criteria. Erythropoietin improved infarct size by 30.0% (95% CI: 21.3 to 38.8) and neurobehavioral outcome by 39.8% (33.7 to 45.9). Studies that randomized to treatment group or that blinded assessment of outcome showed lower efficacy. Erythropoietin was tested in animals with hypertension in no studies reporting infarct size and in 7.5% of the animals reporting neurobehavioral outcome. These findings show efficacy for EPO in experimental stroke, but when the impact of common sources of bias are considered, this efficacy falls, suggesting we may be overestimating its potential benefit. As common human co-morbidities may reduce therapeutic efficacy, broader testing to delineate the range of circumstances in which EPO works best would be beneficial.
[(11)C]NNC112 (8-chloro-7-hydroxy-3-methyl-5-(7-benzofuranyl)-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-IH-3-benzazepine), a selective positron-emission tomography (PET) ligand for the D(1) receptor (R) over the 5-HT(2A) R in vitro, has shown lower selectivity in vivo, hampering measurement of D(1) R in the cortex. [(11)C]NNC112 PET and intravenous (i.v) ketanserin challenge were used to (1) confirm the previous findings of [(11)C]NNC112 in vivo D(1) R selectivity, and (2) develop a feasible methodology for imaging cortical D(1) R without contamination by 5-HT(2A) R. Seven healthy volunteers underwent [(11)C]NNC112 PET scans at baseline and after a 5-HT(2A) R-blocking dose of ketanserin (0.15 mg/kg, i.v.). Percent BP(ND) change between the post-ketanserin and baseline scans was calculated. Irrespective of the quantification method used, ketanserin pretreatment led to significant decrease of BP(ND) in the cortical (approximately 30%) and limbic regions (approximately 20%) but not in the striatum, which contains a much lower amount of 5-HT(2A) R. Therefore, ketanserin allows D(1) R signal to be detected by [(11)C]NNC112 PET without significant 5-HT(2A) R contamination. These data confirm the presence of a significant 5-HT(2A) R contribution to cortical [(11)C]NNC112 signal, and call for caution in the interpretation of published [(11)C]NNC112 PET findings on cortical D(1) R in humans. In the absence of more selective ligands, [(11)C]NNC112 PET with ketanserin can be used for cortical D(1) R imaging in vivo.

Ejaculated mammalian sperm must undergo a maturation process called capacitation before they are able to fertilize an egg. Several studies have suggested a role for members of the secreted phospholipase A2 (sPLA2) family in capacitation, acrosome reaction (AR), and fertilization, but the molecular nature of these enzymes and their specific roles have remained elusive. Here, we have demonstrated that mouse group X sPLA2 (mGX) is the major enzyme present in the acrosome of spermatozoa and that it is released in an active form during capacitation through spontaneous AR. mGX-deficient male mice produced smaller litters than wild-type male siblings when crossed with mGX-deficient females. Further analysis revealed that spermatozoa from mGX-deficient mice exhibited lower rates of spontaneous AR and that this was associated with decreased in vitro fertilization (IVF) efficiency due to a drop in the fertilization potential of the sperm and an increased rate of aborted embryos. Treatment of sperm with sPLA2 inhibitors and antibodies specific for mGX blocked spontaneous AR of wild-type sperm and reduced IVF success. Addition of lysophosphatidylcholine, a catalytic product of mGX, overcame these deficiencies. Finally, recombinant mGX triggered AR and improved IVF outcome. Taken together, our results highlight a paracrine role for mGX during capacitation in which the enzyme primes sperm for efficient fertilization and boosts premature AR of a likely phospholipid-damaged sperm subpopulation to eliminate suboptimal sperm from the pool available for fertilization.
Bradykinin is the most potent endogenous inducer of acute pain. However, the way in which it excites nociceptive sensory nerve endings is still unclear. In an article recently published in the JCI, Liu et al. suggest a new mechanism via which bradykinin induces acute spontaneous pain. The authors report that the stimulation of B2 bradykinin receptors by bradykinin triggers the release of intracellular calcium ions from nociceptive sensory neurons of rat dorsal root ganglia. This depolarizes the sensory nerve endings by simultaneously closing M-type potassium channels and opening TMEM16A chloride channels, resulting in the production of nociceptive signals. Here, we discuss the relationship between this effect and a previously described mechanism for pain sensitization and evaluate its potential significance for therapeutic pain control. A separate study by Patwardhan et al. in this issue of the JCI identifies oxidized linoleic acid metabolites as novel mediators of thermally induced pain.
A retro-odontoid pseudotumor (ROP) is commonly associated with atlantoaxial subluxation (AAS). Here, we report a patient with ROP but without AAS. The patient was a 72-year-old man who did not have a history of rheumatoid arthritis or trauma to the head and neck. The patient was admitted to our hospital with gait disturbance, progressive motor weakness in both upper extremities and sensory disturbance in all four extremities. MRI showed a retro-odontoid mass with severe compression of the cervical spinal cord. A CT scan showed spondylotic changes in C5, C6, and C7 and bilateral facet fusion between C3 and C4. Dynamic radiography showed no evidence of AAS; there was loss of mobility at C2-C7 and excessive mobility at C1. Intraoperative pathological examination revealed that the lesion was a pseudotumor; therefore, posterior C1-C2 fixation was performed. MRI performed 6 months after the operation revealed that the pseudotumor was markedly reduced. To the best of our knowledge, patients with ROP without AAS are uncommon.
This study investigates the potential pharmacokinetic interactions between an antimicrobial agent, moxifloxacin, and 2 immunosuppressant drugs, cyclosporine and tacrolimus, in kidney transplant recipients. Twenty-two kidney transplant patients needing antibiotic therapy for urinary tract infections are enrolled. Eleven patients are under cyclosporine treatment and the other 11 patients are under tacrolimus treatment. Because the urinary tract infections are caused by gram-negative aerobes sensitive to moxifloxacin, this antibiotic is administered by oral route at a dose of 400 mg/d for 1 week; in each patient pharmacokinetic studies are carried out before and at the seventh day of therapy. For both immunosuppressors, none of the pharmacokinetic parameters investigated show statistically significant differences between values obtained before and during treatment with moxifloxacin. In fact, the concentration-time profiles of monoclonal cyclosporine, polyclonal cyclosporine, and tacrolimus are not significantly different before and during the antimicrobial therapy. The results of the present study rule out interference of moxifloxacin with both cyclosporine and tacrolimus kinetics and indicate that the concomitant administration of the fluoroquinolone and cyclosporine or tacrolimus does not require modifications of the dosages of 2 immunosuppressant drugs.

Herpes zoster (HZ; shingles)--a reactivation of the latent varicella zoster virus (VZV)--can cause significant morbidity. Its major complication is pain, particularly post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). We will review the current management strategies available for the treatment of both acute HZ and PHN, including antiviral drugs, analgesic agents, anticonvulsants, tricyclic antidepressants and topical therapies. New molecules in development that show improved activity against VZV are also covered, and new drug targets are outlined. The role of translational neuroscience in moving towards a goal of finding disease-modifying treatments will be examined.
Some objects in the visual field are more likely to attract attention because they are either intrinsically eye catching or relevant in the context of a particular task. These two factors, known as stimulus-driven and goal-directed factors, respectively, are thought to be integrated into a unique salience map, possibly located in the frontal or the parietal cortex. However, the distinct contribution of these two regions to salience representation is difficult to establish experimentally and remains debated. In an attempt to address this issue, we designed several dual tasks composed of a letter reporting task and a visual search task, allowing us to quantify the salience of each visual item by measuring its probability to be selected by attention. In Experiment 1, the salience of the visual search items depended on a combination of conspicuity and relevance factors, whereas in Experiment 2, stimulus-driven and goal-directed factors were tested separately. Then, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation to interfere transiently with the function of the right angular gyrus (ANG) or right FEFs in healthy subjects performing these dual tasks. We found that interfering with the ANG and the FEF function specifically altered the influence of salience on the letter report rate without affecting the overall letter reporting rate, suggesting that these areas are involved in salience representation. In particular, the present study suggests that ANG is involved in goal-directed salience representation, whereas FEF would rather house a global salience map integrating both goal-directed and stimulus-driven factors.
Decision-making about affective value may occur after the reward value of a stimulus is represented and may involve different brain areas to those involved in decision-making about the physical properties of stimuli, such as intensity. In an fMRI study, we delivered two odors separated by a delay, with instructions on different trials to decide which odor was more pleasant or more intense or to rate the pleasantness and intensity of the second odor without making a decision. The fMRI signals in the medial prefrontal cortex area 10 (medial PFC) and in regions to which it projects, including the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and insula, were higher when decisions were being made compared with ratings, implicating these regions in decision-making. Decision-making about affective value was related to larger signals in the dorsal part of medial area 10 and the agranular insula, whereas decisions about intensity were related to larger activations in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dorsolateral PFC), ventral premotor cortex, and anterior insula. For comparison, the mid orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) had activations related not to decision-making but to subjective pleasantness ratings, providing a continuous representation of affective value. In contrast, areas such as medial area 10 and the ACC are implicated in reaching a decision in which a binary outcome is produced.
The capacity to reason about complex information is a central characteristic of human cognition. An important component of many reasoning tasks is the need to integrate multiple mental relations. Several researchers have argued that rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) plays a key role in relational integration. If this hypothesis is correct, then RLPFC should play a key role in transitive inference, which requires the integration of multiple relations to reach a conclusion. Thus far, however, neuroscientific research on transitive inference has focused primarily on the hippocampus. In this fMRI study, we sought to compare the roles of RLPFC and the hippocampus on a novel transitive inference paradigm. Four relations between colored balls were presented on the screen together with a target relation. Participants were asked to decide whether the target relation was correct, given the other indicated relations between balls. RLPFC, but not the hippocampus, exhibited stronger activation on trials that required relational integration as compared with trials that involved relational encoding without integration. In contrast, the hippocampus exhibited a pattern consistent with a role in relational encoding, with stronger activation on trials requiring encoding of relational predicate-argument structure as compared with trials requiring encoding of item-item associations. Functional connectivity analyses give rise to the hypothesis that RLPFC draws on hippocampal representations of mental relations during the process of relational integration.
LeDoux [LeDoux, J. E. The emotional brain. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1996] motivated the direct route in his dual-pathway model by arguing that the ability to switch rapidly between different modes of behavior is highly adaptive. This motivation was supported by evolutionary simulations [den Dulk, P., Heerebout, B. T., &amp; Phaf, R. H. A computational study into the evolution of dual-route dynamics for affective processing. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 15, 194-208, 2003], in which foraging agents, controlled by simple inheritable neural networks, navigated an artificial world while avoiding predation. After many generations, a dual-processing architecture evolved that enabled a rapid switch to avoidance behavior when a predator appeared. We added recurrent connections to a new &quot;context&quot; layer in the indirect pathway to provide the agents with a working memory of previous input (i.e., a &quot;context&quot;). Unexpectedly, agents with oscillating networks emerged that had a much higher fitness than agents without oscillations. Oscillations seemed to have similar effects on switching speed as the dual-processing architecture, but they enhanced switching efficacy to a much larger degree. There has been much neurobiological speculation on the function, if any, of neural oscillations. These findings suggest that the facilitation of switching behavior is a likely candidate. Moreover, the strongly improved adaptation in the simulations contradicts the position that neural oscillations are merely a by-product of cell firing and have no functional value [Pareti, G., &amp; De Palma, A. Does the brain oscillate? The dispute on neuronal synchronization. Neurological Sciences, 25, 41-47, 2004].
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a myoglobin-like (Mb) heme-globin, belonging the globin family located only in neuronal tissue of the central nervous system. Ngb has been shown to be upregulated in and to protect neurons from hypoxic and ischemic injury, but the function of Ngb-in particular how Ngb may protect neurons-remains largely elusive. We have previously described the localization of Ngb in the rat brain and found it to be expressed in areas primarily involved in sleep/wake, circadian, and food regulation. The present study was undertaken, using immunohistochemistry, to characterize the localization, colocalization, innervation, and response to light of Ngb-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Our results demonstrate that the majority of Ngb-expressing neurons in the SCN belong to a cell group not previously characterized by neurotransmitter content; only a small portion was found to co-store GRP in the ventral SCN. Furthermore, some Ngb-containing neurons were responsive to light stimulation at late night evaluated by the induction of cFOS and only a few cells were found to express the core clock gene PER1 during the 24-hour light/dark cycle. The Ngb-containing cells received input from neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing nerve fibers of the geniticulo-hypothalamic tract (GHT), whereas no direct input from the eye or the midbrain raphe system was demonstrated. The results indicate that the Ngb could be involved in both photic and nonphotic entrainment via input from the GHT.
Many arthropods including insects and spiders exploit skylight polarization for navigation. One of the four eye pairs of the spider Drassodes cupreus is dedicated to detect skylight polarization. These eyes are equipped with a tapetum that strongly plane-polarizes reflected light. This effectively enhances the polarization-sensitivity of the photoreceptors, improving orientation performance. With a multidisciplinary approach, we demonstrate that D. cupreus exploits reflective elements also present in non-polarizing tapetal eyes of other species such as Agelena labyrinthica. By approximately orthogonal arrangement of two multilayer reflectors consisting of reflecting guanine platelets, the tapetum uses the mechanism of polarization by reflection for polarizing reflected light.

Insects use visual estimates of flight speed for a variety of behaviors, including visual navigation, odometry, grazing landings and flight speed control, but the neuronal mechanisms underlying speed detection remain unknown. Although many models and theories have been proposed for how the brain extracts the angular speed of the retinal image, termed optic flow, we lack the detailed electrophysiological and behavioral data necessary to conclusively support any one model. One key property by which different models of motion detection can be differentiated is their spatiotemporal frequency tuning. Numerous studies have suggested that optic-flow-dependent behaviors are largely insensitive to the spatial frequency of a visual stimulus, but they have sampled only a narrow range of spatial frequencies, have not always used narrowband stimuli, and have yielded slightly different results between studies based on the behaviors being investigated. In this study, we present a detailed analysis of the spatial frequency dependence of the centering response in the bumblebee Bombus impatiens using sinusoidal and square wave patterns.
The cichlid fish radiations of the African Great Lakes are an important model for evolutionary biology. Cichlids have diverse colour vision systems and predominately express three cone visual pigments. However, rare populations of spectrally distinct cones have been found in a number of species, but it is not known whether they contribute to spectral sensitivity. Adult Nile tilapia, Oreochromis niloticus, an ancestral outgroup to the cichlid radiations in the Great Lakes, have three cone types: short-wavelength sensitive (SWS), medium-wavelength sensitive (MWS) and long-wavelength sensitive (LWS) cones, but evidence from microspectrophotometry and cone opsin gene expression suggests they may also have violet-sensitive (VS) cones. We used electrophysiology to assess spectral sensitivity in this species and found evidence of four sensitivity peaks in the ranges 380-420, 440-480, 500-600 and 600-680 nm, with maximal sensitivity at longer wavelengths. The continued presence of a 380-420 nm peak under long-wavelength chromatic adapting backgrounds indicates that this is due to a VS cone mechanism not the beta-band of the LWS cone mechanism. Differences in spectral sensitivity curves recorded at different times of year revealed evidence of A1/A2 shifts. The presence of notches in the sensitivity curves and a multiple-mechanisms model used to assess cone contributions indicated that the curves are the result of four cone mechanisms (VS, SWS, MWS and LWS cones) and that chromatically opponent processes occur between mechanisms. The spectral transmittance of the lens steeply declines between 410-380 nm, limiting the short-wavelength limb of the VS cone. As adults, Nile tilapia appear to possess the necessary retinal mechanisms for colour vision. While maximal sensitivity to longer wavelengths is an adaptation to the wavelengths of light predominantly available in their natural habitats, their broad sensitivity range suggests that Nile tilapia possess a flexible, generalised visual system able to adapt to changes in visual environment in their highly variable natural habitat.
A spatial reference frame is a system of axes that assigns coordinate values to objects and regions in a given space and can serve as a means for specifying spatial information such as orientation and position. A longstanding literature has focused on the encoding of spatial position, examining what and how that information is encoded. The set of articles selected for this special section present current research on these two themes and are distinguished by their integration of cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience approaches.

In Italy, the &quot;silent-consent&quot; principle of donor's willingness regulates organ donation for postmortem transplantation, but civil incompetence excludes it. We investigated decisional capacity for organ donation for transplantation of 30 controls and 30 nonincompetent patients with schizophrenia as related to clinical symptoms, cognition, and functioning. Assessments were carried out through the Competence for Donation Assessment Scale (CDAS), Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS), Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, Life Skills Profile (LSP), Raven's Colored Progressive Matrices (RCPM), Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Rey RI, Rey RD, and Visual Search. Patients and controls differed on the CDAS Understanding and Choice Expression areas. Patients showed significant inverse bivariate correlations between CDAS Understanding and scores on total BPRS, LSP self-care scale, and RCPM cognitive test. Our results show that decisional capacity for participating in research does not predict decisional capacity for postmortem organ donation in patients with schizophrenic or schizoaffective psychosis; hence, before judging consent for donation, patients must be provided with enhanced information to better understand this delicate issue.
Old and unneeded intracellular macromolecules are delivered through autophagy to lysosomes that degrade macromolecules into bioactive monomers such as amino acids. Autophagy is conserved in eukaryotes and is essential for the maintenance of cellular metabolism. Currently, more than 30 autophagy-related genes (Atgs) have been identified in yeast. Of these genes, the18 that are essential for autophagosome formation are also conserved in mammalian cells. Atg9 is the only transmembrane Atg protein required for autophagosome formation. Although the subcellular localization of the Atg9A protein (Atg9Ap) has been examined, little is known about its precise cell and tissue distribution. To determine this, we produced an antibody specific to mouse Atg9Ap. The antibody recognized both non-glycosylated and glycosylated Atg9Ap, which have molecular masses of approximately 94 kDa and 105 kDa, respectively. Although Atg9Ap was ubiquitously detected, it was highly expressed in neurons of the central nervous system. In Purkinje cells, Atg9Ap immunoreactivity was localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), trans-Golgi network (TGN), lysosomes/late endosomes, and in axon terminals. These results suggest that Atg9Ap may be involved in autophagosome formation in the ER and axon terminals of neurons, the TGN, and lysosomes/late endosomes.
Reactive gliosis surrounding amyloid beta (Abeta) plaques is an early feature of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis and has been postulated to represent activation of the innate immune system in an apparently ineffective attempt to clear or neutralize Abeta aggregates. To evaluate the role of IFN-gamma-mediated neuroinflammation on the evolution of Abeta pathology in transgenic (Tg) mice, we have expressed murine IFN-gamma (mIFN-gamma) in the brains of Abeta precursor protein (APP) Tg mice using recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 1. Expression of mIFN-gamma in brains of APP TgCRND8 mice results in robust noncell autonomous activation of microglia and astrocytes, and a concomitant significant suppression of Abeta deposition. In these mice, mIFN-gamma expression upregulated multiple glial activation markers, early components of the complement cascade as well as led to infiltration of Ly-6c positive peripheral monocytes but no significant effects on APP levels, APP processing or steady-state Abeta levels were noticed in vivo. Taken together, these results suggest that mIFN-gamma expression in the brain suppresses Abeta accumulation through synergistic effects of activated glia and components of the innate immune system that enhance Abeta aggregate phagocytosis.
Chronic wounds remain a medical challenge, where well-coordinated cellular and molecular processes required by optimal healing are impaired by diabetes, aging, or other diseases. In determining mechanisms that regulate wound healing, we found that wounding induced formation of novel endogenous 14S,21S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,10Z,12E,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acids (14S,21S-diHDHA);14R,21R-diHDHA; 14S,21R-diHDHA; and/or 14R,21S-diHDHA. 12-lipoxygenase and cytochrome P450 catalysis in tandem converted docosahexaenoic acid to 14S,21R-diHDHA and 14S,21S-diHDHA through the intermediacy of 14S-HDHA; P450 also converted 14R-HDHA to novel 14R,21R-diHDHA and 14R,21S-diHDHA. Macrophages function as the combination of 12-lipoxgenase and P450 to generate these 14,21-diHDHA stereoisomers, as well as their intermediates 14S-HDHA, 14R-HDHA, and 21-HDHA. The structure and formation pathways of 14,21-diHDHA stereoisomers were further confirmed by macrophage biosynthesis of 14,21-diHDHA-21,22,22,22-d(4) stereoisomers, 14S-HDHA-d(5), 14R-HDHA-d(5), and 21-HDHA-d(4) from DHA-21,21,22,22,22-d(5). We found that 14S,21-diHDHA and 14R,21-diHDHA enhanced wound closure, reepithelialization, granulation tissue growth, and capillary vasculature formation of murine wounds. 14S,21-diHDHA and 14R,21-diHDHA produced by macrophages may partially represent the molecular mechanisms for macrophage pro-healing function. Taken together, 14,21-dihydroxy-DHA stereoisomers and their formation pathways may represent a novel mechanism in the orchestration of wound healing processes, which may provide new insight for developing novel therapeutic modalities that counteract impairments to wound healing.
Corneal injury induces an inflammatory reaction and damages the sensory nerves that exert trophic influences in the corneal epithelium. Alterations in normal healing disrupt the integrity and function of the tissue with undesirable consequences, ranging from dry eye and loss of transparency to ulceration and perforation. Lipids play important roles in this complex process. Whereas lipid mediators such as platelet activating factor (PAF) and cyclooxygenease-2 metabolites contribute to tissue damage and neovascularization, other mediators, such as the lipoxygenase (LOX) derivatives from arachidonic acid, 12- and 15-hydroxy/hydroperoxyeicosatetraenoic acids, and lipoxin A4, act as second messengers for epidermal growth factor to promote proliferation and repair. Stimulation of the cornea with pigment epithelial derived factor in the presence of docosahexaenoic acid gives rise to the synthesis of neuroprotectin D1, a derivative of LOX activity, and increases regeneration of corneal nerves. More knowledge about the role that lipids play in corneal wound healing can provide insight into the development of new therapeutic approaches for treating corneal injuries. PAF antagonists, lipoxins, and neuroprotectins can be effective therapeutic tools for maintaining the integrity of the cornea.
Expression of the human polyomavirus JCV genome in several experimental animals induces a variety of neural origin tumors. The viral proteins, T-antigen and Agnoprotein, contribute to the oncogenesis of JCV by associating with several tumor suppressor proteins and dysregulating signaling pathways, which results in uncontrolled cell proliferation. In addition, T-antigen and Agnoprotein have been associated with DNA damage and interfering with DNA repair mechanisms. In this study, we have utilized commercially available tissue arrays of human tumors of various origins and demonstrated the expression of both T-antigen and Agnoprotein in some, but not all, tumors of neural and non-neural origin. Most notably, more than 40% of human glioblastomas and greater than 30% of colon adenocarcinomas express viral proteins. The detection of viral transforming proteins, T-antigen and Agnoprotein in the absence of viral capsid proteins suggests a role for JCV in the development and/or progression of human tumors. These results invite further large-scale investigation on the role of polyomaviruses, particularly JCV in the pathogenesis of human cancer.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a heritable disorder characterized by ectopic calcification of connective tissue in skin, Bruch's membrane of the eye, and walls of blood vessels. PXE is caused by mutations in the ABCC6 gene, but the exact etiology is still unknown. While observations on patients suggest that high calcium intake worsens the clinical symptoms, the patient organization PXE International has published the dietary advice to increase calcium intake in combination with increased magnesium intake. To obtain more data on this controversial issue, we examined the effect of dietary calcium and magnesium in the Abcc6(-/-) mouse, a PXE mouse model which mimics the clinical features of PXE. Abcc6(-/-) mice were placed on specific diets for 3, 7, and 12 months. Disease severity was measured by quantifying calcification of blood vessels in the kidney. Raising the calcium content in the diet from 0.5% to 2% did not change disease severity. In contrast, simultaneous increase of both calcium (from 0.5% to 2.0%) and magnesium (from 0.05% to 0.2%) slowed down the calcification significantly. Our present findings that increase in dietary magnesium reduces vascular calcification in a mouse model for PXE should stimulate further studies to establish a dietary intervention for PXE.
Maternal morphine consumption has been shown to result in physical and neurobehavioral defects in fetus and offspring, but the underlying molecular mechanisms of these defects remain unclear. Regarding the critical role of apoptosis in normal development of central nervous system, the present study was designed to investigate the effect of intrauterine morphine exposure on programmed cell death of neuroblasts during the early development of neural system. Pregnant Wistar rats received morphine sulfate through drinking water at the concentration of 0.01 mg/ml (20 ml water per day for each rat) from the first day of gestation to the time of sampling. Control groups received tap water. Control and morphine-treated pregnant rats, each in five separated groups, were killed on gestational days 9.5 to 13.5, and the embryos were taken out, fixed, and embedded in paraffin. Immunohistochemical assay was used to reveal the protein expression of Bax, Bcl2, and the activation of caspase 3. The results showed a significant increase in Bax immunoreactivity in all of the mentioned embryonic days (E9.5 to E13.5) and a significant decrease in Bcl-2 immunoreactivity at days E10.5 and E12.5 in morphine-treated groups compared with control. Data analysis revealed that Bax/Bcl2 ratio was increased in all of the morphine-exposed groups. Consistent with these results, immunostaining of cleaved caspase 3 showed a significant increase at days E11.5 to E13.5. These findings suggest that morphine exposure during the first embryonic days may enhance the susceptibility of neuroblasts to apoptosis by upregulating the ratio of Bax to Bcl-2 protein expression and increasing downstream caspase-3 activity. The increased probability of neuroblast apoptosis may be the cause of morphine-induced defects in the central nervous system development and its structural and neurobehavioral consequences.
Voltage-dependent anion channels (VDAC) are pore-forming proteins found in the outer mitochondrial membrane of eukaryotes. VDACs are known to play an essential role in cellular metabolism and in early stages of apoptosis. In mammals, three VDAC isoforms have been identified. A proteomic approach was exploited to study the expression of VDAC isoforms in rat, bovine, and chicken brain mitochondria. Given the importance of mitochondrially bound hexokinase in regulation of aerobic glycolysis in brain, we studied the possibility that differences in the relative expression of VDAC isoforms may be a factor in determining the species-dependent ratio of type A/type B hexokinase binding sites on brain mitochondria. The spots were characterized, and the signal intensities among spots were compared. VDAC1 was the most abundantly expressed of the three isoforms. Moreover the expression of VDAC1 plus VDAC2 was significantly higher in bovine than in rat brain. Chicken brain mitochondria showed the highest VDAC1 expression and the lowest of VDAC2. Bovine brain mitochondria had the highest VDAC2 levels. We concluded that the nature of hexokinase binding site is not determined by the expression of a single VDAC isoform.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder and remains incurable. Many potential compensatory mechanisms have now been proposed; these are both dopaminergic, focused on enhancing effects or exposure to existing dopamine, and non-dopaminergic, being focused on reducing activity of the indirect striatal output pathway. In the present study, the effects of serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and bone marrow cell supplementation intranigrally to the substantia nigra on unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-infused rats were analyzed individually. Dopaminergic binding parameters were done by Scatchard analysis of dopamine D(1) receptor-binding assay using [(3)H]SCH 23390. In the corpus striatum, 6-hydroxydopamine-infused rats showed a significant decrease in B (max) (P &lt; 0.001), and in cerebral cortex, they showed a significant increase in B (max) (P &lt; 0.001) compared to control. Real-time polymerase chain reaction amplification of dopamine D(1) was downregulated (P &lt; 0.001) in the corpus striatum of 6-hydroxydopamine-infused rats compared to control, whereas in the cerebral cortex, it showed a significant upregulation (P &lt; 0.001). Behavioral studies were carried out to confirm the biochemical and molecular studies. Serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid supplementation reversed these changes to control. The bone marrow cell-treated group of our studies does not show much significant change as compared to the serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid-supplemented groups. The alterations in dopamine D(1) receptor-binding parameters and gene expression during Parkinson's model were reversed by serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid supplementation in our experiments, which has clinical significance in the management of the disease.

Transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurones has shown promise for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), but this approach is limited by the poor survival of the transplanted cells. Exogenous dopaminergic neurotrophic factors such as growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) have been found to enhance the survival of transplanted dopaminergic neurones. However, this approach is limited by the rapid degradation of such factors in vivo; thus, methods for long-term delivery of these factors are under investigation. The present study shows, using optimised lipid-mediated transfection procedures, that overexpression of GDF5 significantly improves the survival of dopaminergic neurones in cultures of embryonic day (E) 13 rat ventral mesencephalon (VM) and protects them against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced toxicity. In another experiment, E13 VM cells were transfected with GDF5 after 1 day in vitro (DIV), then transplanted into 6-OHDA-lesioned adult rat striata after 2 DIV. The survival of these E13 VM dopaminergic neurones after transfection and transplantation was as least as high as that of freshly dissected E14 VM dopaminergic neurones, demonstrating that transfection was not detrimental to these cells. Furthermore, GDF5-overexpressing E13 VM transplants significantly reduced amphetamine-induced rotational asymmetry in the lesioned rats. This study shows that lipid-mediated transfection in vitro prior to transplantation is a valid approach for the introduction of neurotrophic proteins such as GDF5, as well as lending further support to the potential use of GDF5 in neuroprotective therapy for PD.
Lysophosphatidic acid receptor (LPA(1)) signaling initiates neuropathic pain through demyelination of the dorsal root (DR). Although LPA is found to cause down-regulation of myelin proteins underlying demyelination, the detailed mechanism remains to be determined. In the present study, we found that a single intrathecal injection of LPA evoked a dose- and time-dependent down-regulation of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) in the DR through LPA(1) receptor. A similar event was also observed in ex vivo DR cultures. Interestingly, LPA-induced down-regulation of MAG was significantly inhibited by calpain inhibitors (calpain inhibitor X, E-64 and E-64d) and LPA markedly induced calpain activation in the DR. The pre-treatment with calpain inhibitors attenuated LPA-induced neuropathic pain behaviors such as hyperalgesia and allodynia. Moreover, we found that sciatic nerve injury activates calpain activity in the DR in a LPA(1) receptor-dependent manner. The E-64d treatments significantly blocked nerve injury-induced MAG down-regulation and neuropathic pain. However, there was no significant calpain activation in the DR by complete Freund's adjuvant treatment, and E-64d failed to show anti-hyperalgesic effects in this inflammation model. The present study provides strong evidence that LPA-induced calpain activation plays a crucial role in the manifestation of neuropathic pain through MAG down-regulation in the DR.
The hypothalamus is a prominent target of nicotine action. We have previously shown that acute systemic nicotine treatment induces Fos expression in the lateral hypothalamus and perifornical area (LH/PFA), with orexin/hypocretin neurons being particularly responsive. However, the neurochemical correlates of acute nicotine treatment in the LH/PFA have not been described. Anatomical studies have revealed that this area receives afferents from cholinergic, glutamatergic, and GABAergic telencephalic brain regions, suggesting a potential role for these neurotransmitters in mediating the hypothalamic component of nicotine effects on homeostatic phenomena, such as arousal and appetite. Here, we used in vivo microdialysis to determine the effect of acute systemic or local nicotine on glutamate, acetylcholine, and GABA efflux in the LH/PFA of rats. Local administration of nicotine significantly increased acetylcholine and glutamate, but not GABA, in the LH/PFA. Thus, we further tested the role of afferent sources of glutamate and acetylcholine in mediating acute nicotine-induced activation of orexin neurons by unilaterally lesioning the prefrontal cortex or basal forebrain cholinergic regions. Lesioned animals showed reduced Fos-positive orexin neurons following nicotine treatment. These data suggest that both acetylcholine and glutamate may mediate the effects of acute nicotine on the activity of hypothalamic neurons, including orexin/hypocretin cells. Changes in cholinergic or glutamatergic transmission in this region with chronic nicotine may contribute to long-term alterations in functions mediated by LH/PFA neurons, including feeding and arousal.
Inflammation is regarded as a main obstacle to brain regeneration. Major detrimental effects are attributed to microglial/macrophagic products, such as TNF-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6. The role of cytokines of the IL-1 family, particularly of IL-1alpha, in the modulation of neural precursor cell (NPC) properties is less characterized. IL-1alpha is one of the most abundant cytokines released upon acute stimulation of microglia with lipopolysaccharide and is down-regulated upon chronic stimulation. As we recently demonstrated, acutely activated microglia reduces NPC survival, prevent neuronal differentiation and promote glial differentiation. Chronically activated microglia are instead permissive to NPC survival and neuronal differentiation, and less effective in promoting astrocytic differentiation. We thus investigated whether IL-1alpha could contribute to the effects of acutely activated microglia on NPC. We found that NPC express functional IL-1 receptors and that exposure to recombinant IL-1alpha strongly enhances NPC differentiation into astrocytes, without affecting cell viability and neuronal differentiation. In the same conditions, recombinant IL-1beta has pro-gliogenic effects at concentrations 10-fold higher than those found in activated microglial conditioned media. Interestingly, immunodepletion of IL-1alpha in activated microglial conditioned media fails to revert microglial pro-gliogenic action and slightly enhances neuronal differentiation, revealing that other microglial-derived factors contribute to the modulation of NPC properties.
Many hemoglobin-derived peptides are present in mouse brain, and several of these have bioactive properties including the hemopressins, a related series of peptides that bind to cannabinoid CB1 receptors. Although hemoglobin is a major component of red blood cells, it is also present in neurons and glia. To examine whether the hemoglobin-derived peptides in brain are similar to those present in blood and heart, we used a peptidomics approach involving mass spectrometry. Many hemoglobin-derived peptides are found only in brain and not in blood, whereas all hemoglobin-derived peptides found in heart were also seen in blood. Thus, it is likely that the majority of the hemoglobin-derived peptides detected in brain are produced from brain hemoglobin and not erythrocytes. We also examined if the hemopressins and other major hemoglobin-derived peptides were regulated in the Cpe(fat/fat) mouse; previously these mice were reported to have elevated levels of several hemoglobin-derived peptides. Many, but not all of the hemoglobin-derived peptides were elevated in several brain regions of the Cpe(fat/fat) mouse. Taken together, these findings suggest that the post-translational processing of alpha and beta hemoglobin into the hemopressins, as well as other peptides, is up-regulated in some but not all Cpe(fat/fat) mouse brain regions.
EphA4 null mice have impaired astrocytic gliosis following spinal cord injury. This may be because of altered cytoskeletal regulation and is examined herein using cultured astrocytes from wildtype and EphA4 null mice. Under basal conditions EphA4 null astrocytes appeared relatively normal but following stimuli resulting in cytoskeletal rearrangement, EphA4 null cells responded more slowly. When F-actin stress fibers were collapsed using the Rho kinase inhibitor HA1077, fewer EphA4 null cells showed stress fiber collapse in response to HA1077 and recovered stress fibers more slowly following HA1077 removal. EphA4 null astrocytes were less adherent and had smaller focal adhesions, while activation of Eph receptors with ephrin-A5-Fc increased the numbers of focal adhesions in both wildtype and knockout astrocytes following serum starvation. Using scratch wound assays, EphA4 null astrocytes invading the scratch showed impaired glial fibrillary acidic protein expression, particularly in proliferative cells. Astrocytes did not express Ephexin, a major Eph-interacting Rho guanine exchange factor, but they expressed Vav proteins, with lower levels of phospho-Vav in EphA4 null compared to wildtype astrocytes. This may contribute to the slower cytoskeletal responses generally observed in the EphA4 null astrocytes. Eph receptor signaling therefore regulates astrocyte reactivity through modulation of cytoskeletal responses.
The glial glutamate transporter EAAT2 (excitatory amino acid transporter 2) is the major mediator of glutamate clearance that terminates glutamate-mediated neurotransmission. Loss of EAAT2 and associated glutamate uptake function has been reported in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously reported that EAAT2 is associated with lipid raft microdomains of the plasma membrane. In the present study, we demonstrated that association of EAAT2 with lipid rafts is disrupted in AD brains. This abnormality is not a consequence of neuron degeneration, oxidative stress, or amyloid beta toxicity. In AD brains, cholesterol 24S-hydroxylase (CYP46), a key enzyme in maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis in the brain, is markedly increased in astrocytes but decreased in neurons. We demonstrated that increased expression of CYP46 in primary astrocytes results in a reduction of membrane cholesterol levels and leads to the dissociation of EAAT2 from lipid rafts and the loss of EAAT2 and associated glutamate uptake function. These results suggest that a disturbance of cholesterol metabolism may contribute to loss of EAAT2 in AD.
The expression of A1 and A2a adenosine receptors is developmentally regulated in the chick retina, but little is known about the factors important for this regulation. Here, we show that cell aggregation and cAMP analogs promote a dramatic increase in A1 receptor expression. Importantly, a long-term stimulation of A2a receptors also promotes an increase of A1 receptor expression accompanied by a down-regulation of A2a receptors. Chick embryo retina cultures grown in the form of aggregates or dispersed cells accumulate cAMP when stimulated with dopamine or the adenosine agonist 2-chloroadenosine. However, inhibition of dopamine-dependent cAMP accumulation by 2-chloroadenosine was observed in aggregate cultures but not in dispersed cell cultures. Accordingly, A1 receptor binding sites were detected in aggregate cultures, but were low or absent from dispersed cell cultures. Interestingly, an increase of A1 binding sites was detected when dispersed cell cultures were treated for 5 days with permeable cAMP analogs, the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin or A2a receptor agonists. Although a significant amount of A1 receptor protein was detected in dispersed cell cultures by western blot or immunocytochemistry, the long-term stimulation of A2a receptors also promoted an increase of the A1 receptor protein and mRNA, indicating that A2a receptors and cAMP were regulating transcription and/or translation of A1 receptors. We also found an increase of A1 receptors in locations in or near the membrane after treatment with A2a agonist. The long-term stimulation of retinal explants with A2a agonist also promoted an increase of A1 receptor protein. The results indicate that A2a receptors and the cAMP-dependent protein kinase pathway are involved in the regulation of A1 receptor expression during retinal development.
We have shown that neuropeptide Y (NPY), a peptide neurotransmitter released by hippocampal interneurons, is proliferative for hippocampal neural stem progenitor cells (NSPCs) via the Y1 receptor. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) 2, released predominantly by astrocytes, is also a powerful mitogen for postnatal and adult NSPCs, via the FGFR1 receptor. Knockout studies show that NPY and FGF2 are individually necessary, but not sufficient, for seizure-induced neurogenesis, suggesting a possible interaction. Here, we examined for interactions between NPY and FGF2 on NSPCs from the postnatal hippocampus and report that the combination of NPY and FGF2 significantly shortens the cell cycle time of nestin positive NSPCs, more than either factor alone. This augmentation of proliferation rate is NPY Y1 receptor mediated, and Y1 receptor activation increases both FGFR1 mRNA and protein in NSPC cultures. NSPCs immunostain for both Y1 and FGFR1 receptors and the interaction is specific for dentate NSPCs. This is the first report of a proliferative factor that augments the proliferative effect of FGF2 and is the first evidence of a positive proliferative interaction between a glial growth factor and a neuronal transmitter, identifying a novel neural activity driven mechanism for modulating the proliferation of hippocampal NSPCs.
Mitochondrial diseases are due to impairment of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. A plausible pathogenic mechanism leading to cellular dysfunction and phenotypic expression is oxidative stress, but there are surprisingly few clinical studies on this subject. Glutathione (GSH) deficiency has been reported in mitochondrial diseases, and the biosynthesis of glutathione depends on cysteine availability. We have examined oxidative stress biomarkers [advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP) and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP)] in blood samples from 27 patients and 42 controls. AOPP levels were greater in patients than in controls (P value &lt;0.00001). Therefore, we performed a double-blind cross-over study to evaluate if 30-day supplementation with a whey-based cysteine donor could modify these markers, reduce lactate concentration during aerobic exercise, or enhance muscular strength and quality of life. Treatment did not modify lactate concentration, clinical scale (MRC) or quality of life (SF-36), but significantly reduced oxidative stress levels. Our findings reinforce the notions that in mitochondrial diseases oxidative stress is important and can be reduced by administration of a cysteine donor. Oxidative stress biomarkers may be useful to detect redox imbalance in mitochondrial diseases and to provide non-invasive tools to monitor disease status.



Disordered thinking in schizophrenia may be a consequence of the selection of conceptual associates of dominant meanings of ambiguous words despite contextual information suggesting subordinate meanings are more appropriate. Previous work using short sentences showed a large N400 event-related potential to subordinate meaning associates and a behavioral semantic bias, but results were variable. The current experiment used word pairs to simplify the procedure and to less tax memory maintenance. Furthermore, hemispheric responses were compared, as evidence suggests the left hemisphere may select dominant meanings, while the right hemisphere may keep all possible meanings active. Subjects indicated whether two words (CUE, TARGET) were related. The CUE, presented for 1 second, could be an ambiguous or an unambiguous noun, and the TARGET, presented 1.25 seconds after the onset of the CUE, was a dominant or subordinate associate, or a related or an unrelated word, respectively. The N400-effect was calculated from difference waveforms over 400-600 msec. Groups (23 schizophrenia, 25 matched controls) showed significantly different N400-effects to the words (group x word, p =.04). Controls showed a graded response, with dominant &lt; subordinate &lt; unrelated. Schizophrenia patients showed the largest N400-effect to subordinate associates, with less activity to dominant meaning associates and unrelated words. Both groups showed a right hemisphere distribution to unrelated words and substantial left hemisphere activation to subordinate associates (word x hemisphere, p &lt;.001). These data support a semantic bias in schizophrenia. They also demonstrate a special role of the right hemisphere in maintaining broad homograph meaning hierarchies. This hemispheric specialization appears to be intact in schizophrenia.
The aim of the study was to evaluate efficacy, safety and impact on life expectancy of levetiracetam (LEV), oxcarbazepine (OXC) and topiramate (TPM) monotherapy in patients with seizures related to brain metastases. We conducted a prospective observational study on 70 patients with brain metastases. Thirteen patients were excluded because they were in prophylactic therapy with antiepileptics, nine patients did not return to our Center. A total of 48 patients with epilepsy related to brain metastases were enrolled. Patients were treated with LEV, OXC and TPM in monotherapy and followed until their death. Eighteen patients dropped out. Therefore, we followed 30 patients. Mean duration of follow-up was 6.1 months. Upon visiting the patients prior to their death (i.e. last visit preceding the death of the patients), we observed a significant reduction (P &lt; 0.001) in the mean monthly seizure frequency; with 19 patients (63.3%) obtaining complete seizure control in the whole population. A significant improvement of seizure frequency was also observed considering each antiepileptic treatment group separately. Median survival time was similar among the three groups of patients and was similar to Class I of prognostic factors of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Logistic regression showed that systemic treatments did not influence the antiepileptics' efficacy on seizure control (P = 0.614). In conclusion, regarding the use of newer antiepileptics in patients with seizures related to brain metastases, our data indicate that LEV, OXC and TPM significantly reduce seizure frequency (independently of systemic treatment), produce few side effects and appear not to affect life expectancy.
Rods are the pathological hallmark of nemaline myopathy, but they can also occur as a secondary phenomenon in other disorders, including mitochondrial myopathies such as complex I deficiency. The mechanisms of rod formation are not well understood, particularly when rods occur in diverse disorders with very different structural and metabolic defects. We compared the characteristics of rods associated with abnormalities in structural components of skeletal muscle thin filament (3 mutations in the skeletal actin gene ACTA1) with those of rods induced by the metabolic cell stress of adenosine triphosphate depletion. C2C12 and NIH/3T3 cell culture models and immunocytochemistry were used to study rod composition and conformation. Fluorescent recovery after photobleaching was used to measure actin dynamics inside the rods. We demonstrate that not all rods are the same. Rods formed under different conditions contain a unique fingerprint of actin-binding proteins (cofilin and alpha-actinin) and display differences in actin dynamics that are specific to the mutation, to the cellular location of the rods (intranuclear vs cytoplasmic), and/or to the underlying pathological process (i.e. mutant actin or adenosine triphosphate depletion). Thus, rods likely represent a common morphological end point of a variety of different pathological processes, either structural or metabolic.
Pineal parenchymal tumor (PPT) cells usually show immunoreactivity for synaptophysin, neuron-specific enolase, neurofilament protein, class III beta-tubulin, tau protein, PGP9.5, chromogranin, serotonin, retinal S-antigen, and rhodopsin, but these markers are not specific for PPTs. Melatonin is produced and secreted mainly bypineal parenchymal cells; hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) catalyzes the final reaction in melatonin biosynthesis. We hypothesized that HIOMT could serve as a tumor marker of PPTs, and we investigated HIOMT localization and HIOMT expression in samples of normal human tissue and in PPTs, primitive neuroectodermal tumors, and medulloblastomas. In normal tissue, HIOMT was expressed in retinal cells, pineal parenchymal cells, neurons of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, microglia, macrophages, thyroid follicular epithelium, principal and oxyphil cells of parathyroid gland, adrenal cortical cells, hepatic parenchymal cells, renal tubule epithelium, and enteroendocrine cells of stomach and duodenum. The HIOMT was also expressed in all 46 PPTs studied. The proportions of HIOMT-immunoreactive cells successively decreased in the following tumors: pineocytoma, pineal parenchymal tumor of intermediate differentiation, and pineoblastoma. A few HIOMT-immunoreactive cells were observed in one of 6 primitive neuroectodermal tumors and 23 of 42 medulloblastomas. These results indicate that HIOMT immunohistochemistry may be useful for the diagnosis of PPTs and be a prognostic factor in PPTs.
We investigated the control of spinal interneurons by corticospinal and medial brain stem descending tracts in two macaque monkeys. Stimulating electrodes were implanted in the left pyramidal tract (PT), and the right medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF), which contains reticulospinal, vestibulospinal, and some tectospinal fibers. Single unit discharge was recorded from 163 interneurons in the intermediate zone of the right spinal cord (segmental levels C(6)-C(8)) in the awake state; inputs from descending pathways were assessed from the responses to stimulation through the PT and MLF electrodes. Convergent input from both pathways was the most common finding (71/163 cells); responses to PT and MLF stimulation were of similar amplitude. Interneuron discharge was also recorded while the animal performed a reach and grasp task with the right hand; the output connections of the recorded cells were determined by delivering intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) at the recording sites. Convergent input from MLF/PT stimulation was also common when analysis was restricted to cells that increased their rate during grasp (14/23 cells) or to cells recorded at sites where ISMS elicited finger or wrist movements (23/57 cells). We conclude that medial brain stem and corticospinal descending pathways have largely overlapping effects on spinal interneurons, including those involved in the control of the hand. This may imply a more important role for the brain stem in coordinating hand movements in primates than commonly assumed; brain stem pathways could contribute to the restoration of function seen after lesions to the corticospinal tract.
The enzyme nitric oxide (NO) synthase, that produces the signaling molecule NO, has been identified in several cell types in the inner ear. However, it is unclear whether a measurable quantity of NO is released in the inner ear to confer specific functions. Indeed, the functional significance of NO and the elementary cellular mechanism thereof are most uncertain. Here, we demonstrate that the sensory epithelia of the frog saccule release NO and explore its release mechanisms by using self-referencing NO-selective electrodes. Additionally, we investigated the functional effects of NO on electrical properties of hair cells and determined their underlying cellular mechanism. We show detectable amounts of NO are released by hair cells (&gt;50 nM). Furthermore, a hair-cell efferent modulator acetylcholine produces at least a threefold increase in NO release. NO not only attenuated the baseline membrane oscillations but it also increased the magnitude of current required to generate the characteristic membrane potential oscillations. This resulted in a rightward shift in the frequency-current relationship and altered the excitability of hair cells. Our data suggest that these effects ensue because NO reduces whole cell Ca(2+) current and drastically decreases the open probability of single-channel events of the L-type and non L-type Ca(2+) channels in hair cells, an effect that is mediated through direct nitrosylation of the channel and activation of protein kinase G. Finally, NO increases the magnitude of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) currents via direct NO nitrosylation. We conclude that NO-mediated inhibition serves as a component of efferent nerve modulation of hair cells.
Cathodal transcranial DC stimulation (c-tDCS) suppresses excitability of primary motor cortex (M1) controlling contralateral hand muscles. This study assessed whether c-tDCS would have similar effects on ipsi- and contralateral M1 projections to a proximal upper limb muscle. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of left M1 was used to elicit motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in the left and right infraspinatus (INF) muscle immediately before and after c-tDCS of left M1, and at 20 and 40 min, post-c-tDCS. TMS was delivered as participants preactivated each INF in isolation (left, right) or both INF together (bilateral). After c-tDCS, ipsilateral MEPs in left INF and contralateral MEPs in right INF were suppressed in the left task but not in the bilateral or right tasks, indicative of task-dependent modulation. Ipsilateral silent period duration in the left INF was reduced after c-tDCS, indicative of altered transcallosal inhibition. These findings may have implications for the use of tDCS as an adjunct to therapy for the proximal upper limb after stroke.
Cortical sound representations are adapted to the acoustic environment. Early exposure to exponential frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps results in more neurons selective to the experienced sounds. Here we examined the influence of pulsed noise experience on the development of sound representations in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of the rat. In nave animals, FM sweep direction selectivity depends on the characteristic frequency (CF) of the neuron--low CF neurons tend to select for upward sweeps and high CF neurons for downward sweeps. Such a CF dependence was not observed in animals that had received weeklong exposure to pulsed noise in periods from postnatal day 8 (P8) to P15 or from P24 to P39. In addition, AI tonotopicity, tuning bandwidth, intensity threshold, tone-responsiveness, and sweep response magnitude were differentially affected by the noise experience depending on the exposure time windows. These results are consistent with previous findings of feature-dependent multiple sensitive periods. The different effects induced here by pulsed noise and previously by FM sweeps further indicate that plasticity in cortical complex sound representations is specific to the sensory input.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is part of the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system, which is mostly active during waking and rapid-eye movement sleep. The PPN projects to the thalamus and receives cholinergic inputs from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and contralateral PPN. We employed retrograde labeling and whole cell recordings to determine the modulation of GABAergic, glycinergic, and glutamatergic transmission to PPN thalamic projecting neurons, and their postsynaptic responses to the nonspecific cholinergic agonist carbachol. M2 and M4 muscarinic receptor-modulated inhibitory postsynaptic responses were observed in 73% of PPN output neurons; in 12.9%, M1 and nicotinic receptor-mediated excitation was detected; and muscarinic and nicotinic-modulated fast inhibitory followed by slow excitatory biphasic responses were evident in 6.7% of cells. A significant increase in the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and inhibitory postsynaptic currents during carbachol application was observed in 66.2% and 65.2% of efferent neurons, respectively. This effect was blocked by a M1 antagonist or nonselective muscarinic blocker, indicating that glutamatergic, GABAergic, and/or glycinergic neurons projecting to PPN output neurons are excited through muscarinic receptors. Decreases in the frequency of miniature EPSCs, and amplitude of electrical stimulation-evoked EPSCs, were blocked by a M2 antagonist, suggesting the presence of M2Rs at terminals of presynaptic glutamatergic neurons. Carbachol-induced multiple types of postsynaptic responses, enhancing both inhibitory and excitatory fast transmission to PPN thalamic projecting neurons through muscarinic receptors. These results provide possible implications for the generation of different frequency oscillations in PPN thalamic projecting neurons during distinct sleep-wake states.
We have developed an in vivo model for intracellular recording in the adult anesthetized mouse using sharp microelectrode electrodes as a basis for investigations of motoneuron properties in transgenic mouse strains. We demonstrate that it is possible to record postsynaptic potentials underlying identified circuits in the spinal cord. Forty-one motoneurons with antidromic spike potentials (&gt;50 mV) from the sciatic nerve were investigated. We recorded the intrinsic properties of the neurons, including input resistance (mean: 2.4 +/- 1.2 MOmega), rheobase (mean: 7.1 +/- 5.9 nA), and the duration of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP; mean: 55.3 +/- 14 ms). We also measured the minimum firing frequencies (F(min), mean 23.5 +/- 5.7 SD Hz), the maximum firing frequencies (F(max); &gt;300 Hz) and the slope of the current-frequency relationship (f-I slope) with increasing amounts of current injected (mean: 13 +/- 5.7 Hz/nA). Signs of activation of persistent inward currents (PICs) were seen, such as accelerations of firing frequency or jumps in the membrane potential with increasing amounts of injected current. It is likely that the particular anesthetic regime with a mixture of Hypnorm and midazolam is essential for the possibility to evoke PICs. The data demonstrate that mouse spinal motoneurons share many of the same properties that have been demonstrated previously for cat, rat, and human motoneurons. The shorter AHP duration, steeper f-I slopes, and higher F(min) and F(max) than those in rats, cats, and humans are likely to be tailored to the characteristics of the mouse muscle contraction properties.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is now routinely used to map the topographic organization of human visual cortex. Mapping the detailed topography of somatosensory cortex, however, has proven to be more difficult. Here we used the increased blood-oxygen-level-dependent contrast-to-noise ratio at ultra-high field (7 Tesla) to measure the topographic representation of the digits in human somatosensory cortex at 1 mm isotropic resolution in individual subjects. A &quot;traveling wave&quot; paradigm was used to locate regions of cortex responding to periodic tactile stimulation of each distal phalangeal digit. Tactile stimulation was applied sequentially to each digit of the left hand from thumb to little finger (and in the reverse order). In all subjects, we found an orderly map of the digits on the posterior bank of the central sulcus (postcentral gyrus). Additionally, we measured event-related responses to brief stimuli for comparison with the topographic mapping data and related the fMRI responses to anatomical images obtained with an inversion-recovery sequence. Our results have important implications for the study of human somatosensory cortex and underscore the practical utility of ultra-high field functional imaging with 1 mm isotropic resolution for neuroscience experiments. First, topographic mapping of somatosensory cortex can be achieved in 20 min, allowing time for further experiments in the same session. Second, the maps are of sufficiently high resolution to resolve the representations of all five digits and third, the measurements are robust and can be made in an individual subject. These combined advantages will allow somatotopic fMRI to be used to measure the representation of digits in patients undergoing rehabilitation or plastic changes after peripheral nerve damage as well as tracking changes in normal subjects undergoing perceptual learning.
The hippocampus and olfactory regions are anatomically close, and both play a major role in memory formation. However, the way they interact during odor processing is still unclear. In both areas, strong oscillations of the local field potential (LFP) can be recorded, and are modulated by behavior. In particular, in the olfactory system, the beta rhythm (15-35 Hz) is associated with cognitive processing of an olfactory stimulus. Using LFP recordings in the olfactory bulb and dorsal and ventral hippocampus during performance of an olfactory go/no-go task in rats, we previously showed that beta oscillations are also present in the hippocampus, coherent with those in the olfactory bulb, during odor sampling. In this study, we provide further insight into information transfer in the olfacto-hippocampal network by using directional coherence (DCOH estimate), a method based on the temporal relation between two or more signals in the frequency domain. In the theta band (6-12 Hz), coherence between the olfactory bulb (OB) and the hippocampus (HPC) is weak and can be both in the feedback and feedforward directions. However, at this frequency, modulation of the coupling between the dorsal and ventral hippocampus is seen during stimulus expectation versus odor processing. In the beta frequency band (15-35 Hz), analysis showed a strong unidirectional coupling from the OB to dorsal and ventral HPC, indicating that, during odor processing, beta oscillations in the hippocampus are driven by the olfactory bulb.
Experimental advances allowing for the simultaneous recording of activity at multiple sites have significantly increased our understanding of the spatiotemporal patterns in neural activity. The impact of such patterns on neural coding is a fundamental question in neuroscience. The simulation of spike trains with predetermined activity patterns is therefore an important ingredient in the study of potential neural codes. Such artificially generated spike trains could also be used to manipulate cortical neurons in vitro and in vivo. Here, we propose a method to generate spike trains with given mean firing rates and cross-correlations. To capture this statistical structure we generate a point process by thresholding a stochastic process that is continuous in space and discrete in time. This stochastic process is obtained by filtering Gaussian noise through a multivariate autoregressive (AR) model. The parameters of the AR model are obtained by a nonlinear transformation of the point-process correlations to the continuous-process correlations. The proposed method is very efficient and allows for the simulation of large neural populations. It can be optimized to the structure of spatiotemporal correlations and generalized to nonstationary processes and spatiotemporal patterns of local field potentials and spike trains.
Acute hyperosmolarity induced a time-dependent expression of Fos protein in both neurons and astrocytes of the rat supraoptic nucleus, with peak Fos expression occurring at 45 min in astrocytes and at 90 min in neurons after hypertonic stimulation in vivo. To determine whether the two cell types were activated separately or in an integrated manner, animals were pretreated with fluorocitrate, a glial metabolic blocker or carbenoxolone, a gap junction blocker followed by an acute hypertonic stimulation similar to that of the controls. Antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein, connexin 43, vasopressin, and oxytocin were used in serial sections to identify the cellular elements of the supraoptic nucleus. It was found that interruption of astrocyte metabolism with fluorocitrate significantly reduced Fos protein expression in both astrocytes and neurons, whereas blockage of gap junctions with carbenoxolone clearly reduced Fos protein expression in neurons, but not in astrocytes. These results indicate that both neurons and astrocytes in the rat supraoptic nucleus are involved in regulating osmolarity. Astrocytes are activated first, whereas connexin 43 functional hemichannels in SON astrocytes are required for the subsequent activation of the neurons.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critically involved in modeling the developing nervous system and is an important regulator of a variety of crucial functions in the mature CNS. BDNF exerts its action through interactions with two transmembrane receptors, either separately or in concert. BDNF has been implicated in several neurological disorders, and irregularities in BDNF function may have severe consequences. Administration of BDNF as a drug has thus far yielded few practicable results, and the potential side effects when using a multifunctional protein are substantial. In an effort to produce more specific compounds without side effects, small peptides mimicking protein function have been developed. The present study characterized two mimetic peptides, Betrofin 3 and Betrofin 4, derived from the BDNF sequence. Both Betrofins bound the cognate BDNF receptors, TrkB and p75(NTR), and induced neurite outgrowth and enhanced neuronal survival, probably by inducing signaling through tha Akt and MAPK pathways. Distinct, charged residues within the Betrofin sequences were identified as important for generating the neuritogenic response, which was also inhibited when BDNF was added together with either Betrofin, indicating partial agonistic effects of the peptides. Thus, two peptides derived from BDNF induced neurite outgrowth and enhanced neuronal survival, probably through binding to BDNF receptors.

The authors present the case of a patient that demonstrates the long-standing use of megestrol acetate, a progesterone agonist, and its association with multiple intracranial meningioma presentation. Discontinuation of megestrol acetate led to shrinkage of multiple tumors and to the complete resolution of one tumor. Histological examination demonstrated that the largest tumor had high (by &gt; 25% of tumor cell nuclei) progesterone-positive expression, including progesterone receptor (PR) isoform B, compared with low expression of PR isoform A; there was no evidence of estrogen receptor expression and only unaccentuated collagen expression. This is the first clinical report illustrating a causal relationship between exogenous hormones and modulation of meningioma biology in situ.



It has been reported that dietary energy restriction, including intermittent fasting (IF), can protect heart and brain cells against injury and improve functional outcome in animal models of myocardial infarction (MI) and stroke. Here we report that IF improves glycemic control and protects the myocardium against ischemia-induced cell damage and inflammation in rats. Echocardiographic analysis of heart structural and functional variables revealed that IF attenuates the growth-related increase in posterior ventricular wall thickness, end systolic and diastolic volumes, and reduces the ejection fraction. The size of the ischemic infarct 24 h following permanent ligation of a coronary artery was significantly smaller, and markers of inflammation (infiltration of leukocytes in the area at risk and plasma IL-6 levels) were less, in IF rats compared to rats on the control diet. IF resulted in increased levels of circulating adiponectin prior to and after MI. Because recent studies have shown that adiponectin can protect the heart against ischemic injury, our findings suggest a potential role for adiponectin as a mediator of the cardioprotective effect of IF.

We previously reported that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) initiates nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain and its underlying mechanisms. In addition, we recently demonstrated that intrathecal injection of LPA induces de novo LPA production through the action of autotaxin (ATX), which converts lysophosphatidylcholine to LPA. Here, we examined nerve injury-induced de novo LPA production by using a highly sensitive biological titration assay with B103 cells expressing LPA1 receptors. Nerve injury caused high levels of LPA production in the ipsilateral sides of the spinal dorsal horn and dorsal roots, but not in the dorsal root ganglion, spinal nerve, or sciatic nerve. Nerve injury-induced LPA production reached its maximum at 3 h after injury, followed by a rapid decline by 6 h. The LPA production was significantly attenuated in ATX heterozygous mutant mice, whereas the concentration and activity of ATX in cerebrospinal fluid were not affected by nerve injury. On the other hand, the activities of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) and calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2) were enhanced, with peaks at 1 h after injury. Both de novo LPA production and neuropathic pain-like behaviors were substantially abolished by intrathecal injection of arachidonyl trifluoromethyl ketone, a mixed inhibitor of cPLA2 and iPLA2, or bromoenol lactone, an iPLA2 inhibitor, at 1 h after injury. However, administration of these inhibitors at 6 h after injury had no significant effect on neuropathic pain. These findings provide evidence that PLA2- and ATX-mediated de novo LPA production in the early phase is involved in nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.


Transient, non-catastrophic brain ischaemia can induce either a protected state against subsequent episodes of ischaemia (ischaemic preconditioning) or delayed, selective neuronal death. Altered glutamatergic signalling and altered Ca(2+) homeostasis have been implicated in both processes. Here we use simultaneous patch-clamp recording and Ca(2+) imaging to monitor early changes in glutamate release and cytoplasmic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](c)) in an in vitro slice model of hippocampal ischaemia. In slices loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye Fura-2, ischaemia leads to an early increase in [Ca(2+)](c) that precedes the severe ischaemic depolarization (ID) associated with pan necrosis. The early increase in [Ca(2+)](c) is mediated by influx through the plasma membrane and release from internal stores, and parallels an early increase in vesicular glutamate release that manifests as a fourfold increase in the frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). However, the increase in mEPSC frequency is not prevented by blocking the increase in [Ca(2+)](c), and the early rise in [Ca(2+)](c) is not affected by blocking ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Thus, the increase in [Ca(2+)](c) and the increase in glutamate release are independent of each other. Stabilizing actin filaments with jaspamide or phalloidin prevented vesicle release induced by ischaemia. Our results identify several early cellular cascades triggered by ischaemia: Ca(2+) influx, Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores, actin filament depolymerization, and vesicular release of glutamate that depends on actin dynamics but not [Ca(2+)](c). All of these processes precede the catastrophic ID by several minutes, and thus represent potential target mechanisms to influence the outcome of an ischaemic episode.
The peristimulus time histogram (PSTH) and the spike density function (SDF) are commonly used in the analysis of neurophysiological data. The PSTH is usually obtained by binning spike trains, the SDF being a (Gaussian) kernel smoothed version of the PSTH. While selection of the bin width or kernel size is often relatively arbitrary there have been recent attempts to remedy this situation (Shimazaki and Shinomoto, 2007c,b,a). We further develop an exact Bayesian generative model approach to estimating PSTHs (Endres et al., 2008) and demonstrate its superiority to competing methods using data from early (LGN) and late (STSa) visual areas. We also highlight the advantages of our scheme's automatic complexity control and generation of error bars. Additionally, our approach allows extraction of excitatory and inhibitory response latency from spike trains in a principled way, both on repeated and single trial data. We show that the method can be applied to data with high background firing rates and inhibitory responses (LGN) as well as to data with low firing rate and excitatory responses (STSa). Furthermore, we demonstrate on simulated data that our latency extraction method works for a range of signal-to-noise ratios and background firing rates. While further studies are needed to examine the sensitivity of our method to, for example, gradual changes in firing rate and adaptation, the current results suggest that Bayesian binning is a powerful method for the estimation of firing rate and the extraction response latency from neuronal spike trains.
Semi-invasive foramen ovale (Fov) electrodes were used to record electrical activity in the vicinity of the inferior mesial temporal region of epileptic patients, in addition to standard scalp EEG. Third order cumulant analysis was used to measure the phase-coupled frequencies corresponding to non-linear coupling of spectral frequency components, somewhat analogous to frequencies of resonance. On the basis of the distribution of these frequencies, an index of resonance (IR) is defined as the ratio between the number of peaks in the gamma-band (40-55Hz) vs. the number of peaks in the beta-band (15-30Hz). The epileptogenic focus was located in the hemisphere with lower resonant frequencies because these frequencies were characteristic of a spread of the seizure over a broader area. In the case of Fov electrodes IR could differentiate a group of patients affected by a tumor compared to patients with mesial temporal sclerosis. The novel index IR appears as an interesting parameter to evaluate the level of interareal functional connectivity in Fov recordings in epileptic patients, but its usage is likely to be extended in electrophysiological studies.
Primary auditory afferents are usually perceived as passive, timing-preserving, lines of communication. Contrasting this view, a special class of auditory afferents to teleost Mauthner cells, a command neuron that organizes tail-flip escape responses, undergoes potentiation of their mixed (electrical and chemical) synapses in response to high frequency cellular activity. This property is likely to represent a mechanism of input sensitization as these neurons provide the Mauthner cell with essential information for the initiation of an escape response. We review here the anatomical and physiological specializations of these identifiable auditory afferents. In particular, we discuss how their membrane and synaptic properties act in concert to more efficaciously activate the Mauthner cells. The striking functional specializations of these neurons suggest that primary auditory afferents might be capable of more sophisticated contributions to auditory processing than has been generally recognized.
This study examined whether the sympatho-inhibitory response of the heart to acupuncture-like stimulation of a hindlimb in anesthetized rats depends on the sympathetic tone. Observed reductions in both cardiac sympathetic nerve activity and heart rate following short-term acupuncture-like stimulation of a hindlimb were not augmented when the sympathetic tone was high as a result of hypercapnia.
The methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T mutation has been associated to high homocysteine levels and schizophrenia. Since cytokines are altered in schizophrenia and increments of homocysteine could promote an inflammatory response, it was investigated whether interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor alfa (TNFalpha) levels are modulated by the MTHFR genotype. Serum levels of TNFalpha, IL-6, B(12), homocysteine, folate and red blood cell (RBC) folate as well as the MTHFR genotype were determined in a group of schizophrenic patients and compared to those of a control group. RBC folate levels were reduced and homocysteine and the two cytokines' concentrations were elevated in all patients as compared to controls. RBC folate in both heterozygous (CT) and homozygous (TT) patients was significantly different to that of their respective control groups. Homocysteine levels found in patients were significantly higher than those found in controls, only in individuals carrying the TT genotype. Cytokine levels were augmented in the group of patients irrespective of the genotype, and significant differences were found in all cases, except for TNFalpha levels in those subjects carrying the CC genotype. After adjusting for sex, low levels of RBC folate, high levels of homocysteine, both medium and high levels of TNFalpha and high IL-6 levels were associated with schizophrenia. MTHFR genotype was not a risk factor for developing the disease, although a larger sample is required to confirm this finding.

Several methods to experimentally induce panic cause profound acid-base disturbances. Evidence suggests that CO(2) inhalations, lactate infusions and, to a certain extent, voluntary hyperventilation can conceivably lead to a common scenario of brain acidosis in the face of disparate intravascular pH alterations. The importance of this event is reflected in data that support a model in which experimental panic attacks, as proxy to those occurring spontaneously, constitute a response to acute brain acidosis. Given that central CO(2)/H(+) chemoreception is an important drive for ventilation, and many chemosensitive neurons are related to respiration and arousal, this model can explain much of the connection between panic and respiration. We propose that the shared characteristics of CO(2)/H(+) sensing neurons overlap to a point where threatening disturbances in brain pH homeostasis, such as those produced by CO(2) inhalations, elicit a primal emotion that can range from breathlessness to panic.
Although cannabis derivatives produce clear subjective motivational responses in humans leading to drug-seeking behaviour, the reinforcing attributes of these subjective effects are difficult to define in experimental animals. The aim of this study was to examine how exposure to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) will affect reward function and anxiety after acute administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) in rats. Male rats were exposed to either 10 days of CUS or no stressor. Alterations in brain reward function were assessed with the intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) paradigm, and anxiety responses were measured with the elevated plus maze. CUS did not affect baseline brain stimulation reward thresholds. Delta(9)-THC did not exhibit reinforcing actions in the ICSS paradigm neither in nonstressed nor in stressed animals. More importantly, in nonstressed animals, both the low and the high dose of Delta(9)-THC exerted anxiolytic-like effects. In stressed animals, however, only the high dose of THC induced an anxiolytic-like response, whereas the low dose induced anxiogenic effects. The present results provide clear evidence for an anxiolytic effect of Delta(9)-THC both in stressed and in nonstressed animals, and indicate that environmental conditions, such as stressful experiences, do not alter the behavioural effects of Delta( 9)-THC in the ICSS paradigm.
Human experimental models for anxiety may serve as translational tools for translating preclinical psychopharmacological investigations into human studies. For the evaluation of drugs of which pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics are unidentified, repeating measurements after drug administration is necessary for characterising the time course of drug effects. In experiment 1, a threat-of-shock paradigm and adaptations of the Trier mental arithmetic test and the Stroop colour naming test were repeated four times within a day to evaluate whether anxiety responses to this test battery remain stable after repeated testing. This procedure was repeated on 4 days in a second experiment to evaluate suitability of the paradigm for a crossover design with multiple sessions. Results indicate no reductions or changes in fear potentiated startle, the main outcome measure for the threat paradigm, over test sessions or days. Skin conductance responses and subjective ratings under threat-of-shock showed significant fluctuations but also no systematic decline over time. Finally, the threat paradigm and Stroop test resulted in small increases in reported state anxiety while mental arithmetic produced larger effects that diminished after the first test day. It is concluded that especially the startle paradigm could be a useful new instrument for screening new anxiolytic drugs.
Serotonergic antidepressants (SSRIs) are first-line treatments for social anxiety disorder [SAnD], though there is evidence of dopaminergic system dysfunction. Twenty subjects with DSM-IV SAnD, untreated (n = 10) and SSRI-remitted DSM-IV SAnD (n = 10), were administered a single dose of 1) a dopamine agonist (pramipexole 0.5 mg) and 2) a dopamine antagonist (sulpiride 400 mg), followed by anxiogenic challenges (verbal tasks and autobiographical scripts) in a double-blind crossover design, the two test days being one week apart. Anxiety symptoms were measured by self-reported changes in Visual Analogue Scales, specific SAnD scales and anxiety questionnaires. Plasma levels of prolactin were obtained. Untreated SAnD subjects experienced significant increases in anxiety symptoms following behavioural challenges after either sulpiride or pramipexole. Following remission with SSRIs, the socially anxiogenic effect of behavioural provocation was significantly attenuated under pramipexole, whereas under sulpiride effects remained significantly elevated. There appears to be instability of the dopamine system under behavioural stress in social anxiety subjects that is only partly rectified by successful treatment with an SSRI, which may induce a desensitisation of postsynaptic dopamine D(3) receptors.
Voluntary exercise improves stress coping and lowers anxiety. Because of the role of GABA in these processes, we investigated changes in the central GABAergic system in rats with free access to a running wheel for 4 weeks. The control animals had no access to a running wheel. Using insitu hybridisation histochemistry, we studied changes in gene expression of various GABA(A) receptor subunits as well as the GABA-synthesising enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase-67 (GAD67) in the forebrain. There were region-specific decreases in alpha2, beta3 and gamma2 subunit mRNA expression and region-specific increases in beta1 subunit expression. The alpha5 and delta subunits, in the forebrain specifically associated with extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in the hippocampus, showed differential increases in expression levels. Expression of GAD67 mRNA was increased in many forebrain regions including all hippocampal cell layers, peri-paraventricular nucleus, bed nucleus stria terminalis, nucleus accumbens core and motor cortex, suggesting that long-term voluntary exercise enhances forebrain GABA synthesis capacity but in a region-specific manner. Thus, regular performance of exercise results in extensive changes in the forebrain GABAergic system that may be implicated in the changes in stress sensitivity and emotionality observed in exercising subjects.
The growing evidence for a key role of psychophysiological processes in the etiopathogenesis of functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) originates from various sources, including epidemiological, psychometric, physiological, and behavioural studies. Functional neuroimaging has improved our knowledge about central processing of visceral pain, a defining feature of FGID. However, results have been disappointingly inconsistent, often due to psychosocial factors not being controlled for. In this paper, we aim to show that using integrated research strategies, encompassing a number of scientific disciplines, is critical to advancing our understanding of FGID. We will illustrate this by describing recent integrative studies that may serve as good examples. More specifically, future FGID neuroimaging studies should control for psychosocial factors and incorporate methods from other branches of neuroscience outside this field, especially cognitive, affective and autonomic neuroscience. We therefore propose a framework for the development of an integrative cross-disciplinary research strategy based on advancing our understanding of visceral nociceptive physiology in health as well as vulnerability and susceptibility factors for FGID. This approach will allow the identification of factors responsible for the inter-individual differences in visceral pain perception and susceptibility to chronic visceral pain, leading to the description of multidimensional (visceral) pain &quot;endophenotypes.&quot; These may represent the critical steps needed towards a pathophysiological, rather than symptom-based, classification of FGID, which may be more suitable for genetic association studies. This approach may ultimately culminate in individual tailoring of treatment, in addition to disease prevention, thereby improving outcomes for the patient and researcher alike.
Tropomyosin is a two-chained alpha-helical coiled coil that binds along the length of the actin filament and regulates its function. The paper addresses the question of how a &quot;simple&quot; coiled-coil sequence encodes the information for binding and regulating the actin filament, its universal target. Determination of the tropomyosin sequence confirmed Crick's predicted heptapeptide repeat of hydrophobic interface residues and revealed additional features that have been shown to be important for its function: a 7-fold periodicity predicted to correspond to actin binding sites and interruptions of the canonical interface with destabilizing residues, such as Ala. Evidence from published work is summarized, leading to the proposal of a paradigm that binding of tropomyosin to the actin filament requires local instability as well as regions of flexibility. The flexibility derives from bends and local unfolding at regions with a destabilized coiled-coil interface, as well as from the dynamic end-to-end complex. The features are required for tropomyosin to assume the form of the helical actin filament, and to bind to actin monomers along its length. The requirement of instability/flexibility for binding may be generalized to the binding of other coiled coils to their targets.

Leukocyte access into the central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma is tightly regulated by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Leukocyte migration through the endothelial cell wall into the perivascular space is well characterized; however, mechanisms regulating their penetration through the glia limitans into the parenchyma are less well studied, and the role of monocytes relative to neutrophils is poorly defined. Acute viral encephalitis was thus induced in CCL2-deficient (CCL2(-/-)) mice to specifically abrogate monocyte recruitment. Impaired monocyte recruitment prolonged T cell retention in the perivascular space, although no difference in overall CNS accumulation of CD4 or CD8 T cells was detected by flow cytometry. Delayed penetration to the CNS parenchyma was not associated with reduced or altered expression of either matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) or the T cell chemoattractants CXCL10 and CCL5. Nevertheless, decreased parenchymal leukocyte infiltration delayed T cell-mediated control of virus replication as well as clinical disease. These data are the first to demonstrate that the rapid monocyte recruitment into the CNS during viral encephalitis is dispensable for T cell migration across the blood vessel endothelium. However, monocytes facilitate penetration through the glia limitans. Thus, the rapid monocyte response to viral encephalitis constitutes an indirect antiviral pathway by aiding access of effector T cells to the site of viral infection.
Human observers are experts at face recognition, yet a simple 180 degrees rotation of a face photograph decreases recognition performance substantially. A full understanding of this phenomenon-which is believed to be important for clarifying the nature of our expertise in face recognition-is still waiting. According to a long-standing and influential hypothesis, an inverted face cannot be perceived as holistically as an upright face and has to be analyzed local feature by local feature. Here, we tested this holistic perception hypothesis of the face inversion effect by means of a gaze-contingent stimulus presentation. When observers' perception was restricted to one fixated feature at a time by a gaze-contingent window, performance in an individual face matching task was almost unaffected by inversion. However, when a mask covered the fixated feature, preventing the use of local information at high resolution, the decrement of performance with inversion was even larger than in a normal-full view-condition. These observations provide evidence that the face inversion effect is caused by an inability to perceive the individual face as a whole rather than as a collection of specific features and thus support the view that observers' expertise at upright face recognition is due to the ability to perceive an individual face holistically.
Recent studies suggest that the active observer combines optic flow information with extra-retinal signals resulting from head motion. Such a combination allows, in principle, a correct discrimination of the presence or absence of surface rotation. In Experiments 1 and 2, observers were asked to perform such discrimination task while performing a lateral head shift. In Experiment 3, observers were shown the optic flow generated by their own movement with respect to a stationary planar slanted surface and were asked to classify perceived surface rotation as being small or large. We found that the perception of surface motion was systematically biased. We found that, in active, as well as in passive vision, perceived surface rotation was affected by the deformation component of the first-order optic flow, regardless of the actual surface rotation. We also found that the addition of a null disparity field increased the likelihood of perceiving surface rotation in active, but not in passive vision. Both these results suggest that vestibular information, provided by active vision, is not sufficient for veridical 3D shape and motion recovery from the optic flow.
One major challenge in the sensory sciences is to identify the stimulus features on which sensory systems base their computations, and which are predictive of a behavioral decision: they are a prerequisite for computational models of perception. We describe a technique (decision images) for extracting predictive stimulus features using logistic regression. A decision image not only defines a region of interest within a stimulus but is a quantitative template which defines a direction in stimulus space. Decision images thus enable the development of predictive models, as well as the generation of optimized stimuli for subsequent psychophysical investigations. Here we describe our method and apply it to data from a human face classification experiment. We show that decision images are able to predict human responses not only in terms of overall percent correct but also in terms of the probabilities with which individual faces are (mis-) classified by individual observers. We show that the most predictive dimension for gender categorization is neither aligned with the axis defined by the two class-means, nor with the first principal component of all faces-two hypotheses frequently entertained in the literature. Our method can be applied to a wide range of binary classification tasks in vision or other psychophysical contexts.

Over half of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients experience cognitive deficits, including learning and memory dysfunction, and the mechanisms underlying these deficits remain poorly understood. Neuronal injury and synaptic loss have been shown to occur within the hippocampus in other neurodegenerative disease models, and these pathologies have been correlated with cognitive impairment. Whether hippocampal abnormalities occur in MS models is unknown. Using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), we evaluated hippocampal neurodegeneration and inflammation during disease. Hippocampal pathology began early in EAE disease course, and included decreases in CA1 pyramidal layer volume, loss of inhibitory interneurons and increased cell death of neurons and glia. It is interesting to note that these effects occurred in the presence of chronic microglial activation, with a relative paucity of infiltrating blood-borne immune cells. Widespread diffuse demyelination occurred in the hippocampus, but there was no significant decrease in axonal density. Furthermore, there was a significant reduction in pre-synaptic puncta and synaptic protein expression within the hippocampus, as well as impaired performance on a hippocampal-dependent spatial learning task. Our results demonstrate that neurodegenerative changes occur in the hippocampus during autoimmune-mediated demyelinating disease. This work establishes a preclinical model for assessing treatments targeted toward preventing hippocampal neuropathology and dysfunction in MS.
The idea that concepts are embodied by our motor and sensory systems is popular in current theorizing about cognition. Embodied cognition accounts come in different versions and are often contrasted with a purely symbolic amodal view of cognition. Simulation, or the hypothesis that concepts simulate the sensory and motor experience of real world encounters with instances of those concepts, has been prominent in psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Here, with a focus on spatial thought and language, I review some of the evidence cited in support of simulation versions of embodied cognition accounts. While these data are extremely interesting and many of the experiments are elegant, knowing how to best interpret the results is often far from clear. I point out that a quick acceptance of embodied accounts runs the danger of ignoring alternate hypotheses and not scrutinizing neuroscience data critically. I also review recent work from my lab that raises questions about the nature of sensory motor grounding in spatial thought and language. In my view, the question of whether or not cognition is grounded is more fruitfully replaced by questions about gradations in this grounding. A focus on disembodying cognition, or on graded grounding, opens the way to think about how humans abstract. Within neuroscience, I propose that three functional anatomic axes help frame questions about the graded nature of grounded cognition. First, are questions of laterality differences. Do association cortices in both hemispheres instantiate the same kind of sensory or motor information? Second, are questions about ventral dorsal axes. Do neuronal ensembles along this axis shift from conceptual representations of objects to the relationships between objects? Third, are questions about gradients centripetally from sensory and motor cortices towards and within perisylvian cortices. How does sensory and perceptual information become more language-like and then get transformed into language proper?
A new diffusion anisotropy index, ellipsoidal area ratio (EAR), was described recently and proved to be less noise-sensitive than fractional anisotropy (FA) by theory and simulation. Here we show that EAR has higher signal-to-noise ratios than FA in average diffusion tensor imaging data from 40 normal subjects. EAR was also more sensitive than FA in detecting white matter abnormalities in a patient with widespread diffuse axonal injury. Monte Carlo simulation showed that EAR's mean values are more biased by noise than FA when anisotropy is small, both for single fiber tracts and when fiber tracts cross. However, the improved signal-to-noise ratio of EAR relative to FA suggests that EAR may be a superior measure of anisotropy both in quantifying both deep white matter with relatively uniform fiber tracts and pericortical white matter structure with relatively low anisotropy and fiber crossings.

The case study of a patient who developed haemorrhagic stroke after 'cupping' to the cervical area is presented. We consider the various manners in which cupping might induce haemorrhagic or ischemic stroke with particular reference to the relevant pathologies of the major cervical arteries. The other possible causes due to the induced cupping stresses are also examined using a computer based simulation study. Cupping of the cervical area may cause a haemorrhagic stroke by an acute rise in blood pressure. The tensile radial stresses generated by cupping may potentially facilitate the development of a dissection in the presence of an intimal tear. Moreover, the possible presence of micro-inclusions can intensify the local stress concentration for a thin cap.
Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a frequent and disabling condition in school children, with cognitive and behavioral symptoms persisting into adulthood in a majority of patients. Etiology of ADHD is considered multifactorial and heterogenous, with an important contribution of genetic factors. Apart from genetic risk factors, emphasis has been put on the early environment, and prenatal exposure to nicotine, alcohol, prematurity and low birth weight have been associated with subsequent ADHD symptoms. This article reviews recent findings in neurobiology, genetics and neuroimaging of ADHD. Despite their clinical heterogeneity and frequent comorbidities, key symptoms of ADHD, such as impulsivity, hyperactivity and inattention are regularly improved by dopaminergic agonists, leading to consider dopaminergic dysfunction a possibly contributing factor in ADHD. Norepinephrine agonists also have clinical efficacy on ADHD symptoms and several other neurotransmission systems are likely involved in the etiology of ADHD. Dysfunction of neurotransmitter systems have been related to impairments of sustained attention, inhibitory control and working memory. Cognitive tasks focusing on reaction time and verbal working memory fit certain criteria for ADHD endophenotypes, offering a pathway to bridge the gap between observed traits and genetic vulnerability. Despite ADHD being a highly heritable disorder, most candidate genes with replicated findings across association studies only account for a small proportion of genetic variance. Neuroimaging studies using treatment effect or cognitive tasks show differential activation patterns in ADHD patients, with trends towards normalization under treatment. Further insight into neurobiological mechanisms involved in ADHD will arise from collaborative networks and combination of imaging, genetic and neurobiological techniques with consideration of the developmental aspects of ADHD.
PDZ domains are protein-protein interaction modules widely used to assemble membranous signaling complexes including those found in the neuronal synapse. PDZ-containing genes encoded in metazoan genomes vastly outnumber those in prokaryotes, plants, and fungi. By comparing 40 proteomes to track the evolutionary history of the PDZ domain, we observed that the variety of associations between PDZ and other domains expands greatly along the stem leading to metazoans and choanoflagellates. We asked whether the expansion of PDZ domains was due to random or specific sequence changes. Studying the sequence signatures of 58 PDZ lineages that are common to bilaterian animals, we showed that six common amino acid residues are able to classify 96% of PDZ domains to their correct evolutionary lineage. In PDZ domain-ligand cocrystals, four of these &quot;classifying positions&quot; lie in direct contact with the -1 and -3 residues of the ligand. This suggests coevolution of the more flexible regions of the binding interaction as a central mechanism of specialization inherent within the PDZ domain. To identify these positions, we devised two independent algorithms--a metric termed within-clade entropy (WCE) and an average mutual information (AvgMI) score--that both reached similar results. Extending these tools to the choanoflagellate, Monosiga brevicollis, we compared its PDZ domains with their putative metazoan orthologs. Interestingly, the M. brevicollis genes lack conservation at the classifying positions suggesting dissociation between domain organization in multidomain proteins and specific changes within the PDZ domain.
Integral membrane proteins remain a challenge to proteomics because they contain domains with physicochemical properties poorly suited to today's bottom-up protocols. These transmembrane regions may potentially contain post-translational modifications of functional significance, and thus development of protocols for improved coverage in these domains is important. One way to achieve this goal is by using top-down mass spectrometry whereby the intact protein is subjected to mass spectrometry and dissociation. Here we describe top-down high resolution Fourier transform mass spectrometry with collisionally activated dissociation to study post-translationally modified integral membrane proteins with polyhelix bundle and transmembrane porin motifs and molecular masses up to 35 kDa. On-line LC-MS analysis of the bacteriorhodopsin holoprotein yielded b- and y-ions that covered the full sequence of the protein and cleaved 79 of 247 peptide bonds (32%). The experiment proved that the mature sequence consists of residues 14-261, confirming N-terminal propeptide cleavage and conversion of N-terminal Gln-14 to pyrrolidone carboxylic acid (-17.02 Da) and C-terminal removal of Asp-262. Collisionally activated dissociation fragments localized the N(6)-(retinylidene) modification (266.20 Da) between residues 225-248 at Lys-229, the sole available amine in this stretch. Off-line nanospray of all eight subunits of the cytochrome b(6)f complex from the cyanobacterium Nostoc PCC 7120 defined various post-translational modifications, including covalently attached c-hemes (615.17 Da) on cytochromes f and b. Analysis of murine mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel established the amenability of the transmembrane beta-barrel to top-down MS and localized a modification site of the inhibitor Ro 68-3400 at Cys-232. Where neutral loss of the modification is a factor, only product ions that carry the modification should be used to assign its position. Although bond cleavage in some transmembrane alpha-helical domains was efficient, other regions were refractory such that their primary structure could only be inferred from the coincidence of genomic translation with precursor and product ions that spanned them.
Given the complexity of brain and nerve tissues, systematic approaches are essential to understand normal physiological conditions and functional alterations in neurological diseases. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics is increasingly used in neurosciences to determine both basic and clinical differential protein expression, protein-protein interactions, and post-translational modifications. Proteomics approaches are especially useful to understand the mechanisms of nerve regeneration and degeneration because changes in axons following injury or in disease states often occur without the contribution of transcriptional events in the cell body. Indeed, the current understanding of axonal function in health and disease emphasizes the role of proteolysis, local axonal protein synthesis, and a broad range of post-translational modifications. Deciphering how axons regenerate and degenerate has thus become a postgenomics problem, which depends in part on proteomics approaches. This review focuses on recent proteomics approaches designed to uncover the mechanisms and molecules involved in neuronal regeneration and degeneration. It emerges that the principal degenerative mechanisms converge to oxidative stress, dysfunctions of axonal transport, mitochondria, chaperones, and the ubiquitin-proteasome systems. The mechanisms regulating nerve regeneration also impinge on axonal transport, cytoskeleton, and chaperones in addition to changes in signaling pathways. We also discuss the major challenges to proteomics work in the nervous system given the complex organization of the brain and nerve tissue at the anatomical, cellular, and subcellular levels.
The McDonald Criteria for Multiple Sclerosis in general have replaced the Poser criteria. Despite this, many consider that there are still areas of ambiguity. In this study, neurologists completed a questionnaire about familiarity with, usefulness and applicability of the McDonald Criteria for Multiple Sclerosis. Understanding of 'attack'; objective clinical evidence; 'two or more lesions' and their ability to interpret case scenarios was evaluated. Responses were analysed overall and by skill group. Ninety-seven consultants and 30 trainees responded, of whom 37 operated a multiple sclerosis clinic ('experts'). Some (62%) thought the McDonald Criteria for Multiple Sclerosis were useful, and 31% found them confusing or difficult to apply; 38% thought the criteria should be applied universally, others (14-28%) favoured their use for drug trials/research, and 17% rarely used them. Thirty-six (29.1%) thought the McDonald Criteria for Multiple Sclerosis specified two categories: 'MS and not MS', but others considered 'possible' or 'probable' multiple sclerosis were permitted. Experts understood better 'an attack' and 'objective clinical evidence'. All skill groups comprehended poorly what constituted an episode of demyelination, and whether Lhermitte's phenomenon was acceptable as evidence for cervical cord demyelination. A consistent response was given by 44-50% to 'two or more lesions', although this is not well defined. Criteria for primary progressive multiple sclerosis were understood well. We conclude that the McDonald Criteria for Multiple Sclerosis have improved diagnosis but areas of misinterpretation remain, particularly the definition of 'an attack', 'objective clinical evidence' and 'two or more lesions'. There was uncertainty about how many multiple sclerosis categories were permitted and whether the terms 'possible' and 'probable' were allowable. Further clarification might allow the criteria to be applied more consistently.

The mechanisms that regulate the developmental potential of adult neural progenitor populations under physiological and pathological conditions remain poorly defined. Glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65)- and Doublecortin (Dcx)-expressing cells constitute major progenitor populations in the adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ). Under normal physiological conditions, SVZ-derived GAD65-positive and Dcx-positive cells expressed the transcription factor Pax6 and migrated along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb to generate interneurons. After lysolecithin-induced demyelination of corpus callosum, however, these cells altered their molecular and cellular properties and migratory path. Demyelination upregulated chordin in the SVZ, which redirected GAD65-positive and Dcx-positive progenitors from neuronal to glial fates, generating new oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum. Our findings suggest that the lineage plasticity of SVZ progenitor cells could be a potential therapeutic strategy for diseased or injured brain.
During development and aging and in amblyopia, visual acuity is far below the limitations set by the retina. Expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the visual cortex is reduced in these situations. We asked whether neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptor, type 2 (TrkB) regulates cortical visual acuity in adult mice. We found that genetically interfering with TrkB/BDNF signaling in pyramidal cells in the mature visual cortex reduced synaptic strength and resulted in a loss of neural responses to high spatial-frequency stimuli. Responses to low spatial-frequency stimuli were unaffected. This selective loss was not accompanied by a change in receptive field sizes or plasticity, but apparent contrast was reduced. Our results indicate that a dependence on spatial frequency in the Heeger normalization model explains this selective effect of contrast reduction on high-resolution vision and suggest that it involves contrast gain control operating in the visual cortex.
Neurons in the medial superior olive process sound-localization cues via binaural coincidence detection, in which excitatory synaptic inputs from each ear are segregated onto different branches of a bipolar dendritic structure and summed at the soma and axon with submillisecond time resolution. Although synaptic timing and dynamics critically shape this computation, synaptic interactions with intrinsic ion channels have received less attention. Using paired somatic and dendritic patch-clamp recordings in gerbil brainstem slices together with compartmental modeling, we found that activation of K(v)1 channels by dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) accelerated membrane repolarization in a voltage-dependent manner and actively improved the time resolution of synaptic integration. We found that a somatically biased gradient of K(v)1 channels underlies the degree of compensation for passive cable filtering during propagation of EPSPs in dendrites. Thus, both the spatial distribution and properties of K(v)1 channels are important for preserving binaural synaptic timing.
We found that development of obesity was coupled with emergence of a progressively worsening deficit in neural reward responses. Similar changes in reward homeostasis induced by cocaine or heroin are considered to be crucial in triggering the transition from casual to compulsive drug-taking. Accordingly, we detected compulsive-like feeding behavior in obese but not lean rats, measured as palatable food consumption that was resistant to disruption by an aversive conditioned stimulus. Striatal dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs) were downregulated in obese rats, as has been reported in humans addicted to drugs. Moreover, lentivirus-mediated knockdown of striatal D2Rs rapidly accelerated the development of addiction-like reward deficits and the onset of compulsive-like food seeking in rats with extended access to palatable high-fat food. These data demonstrate that overconsumption of palatable food triggers addiction-like neuroadaptive responses in brain reward circuits and drives the development of compulsive eating. Common hedonic mechanisms may therefore underlie obesity and drug addiction.
The importance of intracortical inhibitory circuits in setting the feature-selective spatial organization of primary sensory cortices remains controversial. To address this issue, we examined the strength of interneuron-to-pyramidal cell connections across the rat anterior piriform cortex (aPC) and found a pronounced gradient of increasing pyramidal cell inhibition along the aPC rostro-caudal axis. This functional heterogeneity could govern aPC spatial activation in response to varying odor identities and features.
Sensory experience can elicit long-lasting plasticity of both single neurons and ensemble neural circuit response properties during embryonic development. To investigate their relationship, one must image functional responses of large neuronal populations simultaneously with single-cell resolution. In this protocol, we describe a noninvasive approach to assay functional plasticity of individual neurons and neuronal populations in vivo using targeted infusion of calcium-sensitive dyes, two-photon microscopy and synchronized visual stimuli presentations. This technique allows visualization of approximately 200 neurons while probing visual responses in the optic tectum of awake, immobilized Xenopus laevis tadpoles. The protocol includes visual training paradigms that elicit long-lasting potentiation or depression of functional responses, allowing investigations of population and single-neuron plasticity induced by natural sensory stimuli in the awake, intact, developing brain. Setup time for this protocol, including dye injection and chamber preparation, is approximately 2 h. Excitability probing experiments can then be performed for at least 3 h.
This article provides an overview of the current knowledge relating to the potential use of transplanted stem cells in the treatment of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Two types of stem cells, CNS-derived neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) and bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are considered to provide reproducible and robust therapeutic effects when intravenously or intrathecally injected into both rodents and primates with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Furthermore, preliminary safety data concerning the use of intrathecally injected autologous MSCs in patients with progressive MS are available. We discuss how the data gathered to date challenge the narrow view that the therapeutic effects of NPCs and MSCs observed in the treatment of MS are accomplished solely by cell replacement. Both types of stem cell, when transplanted systemically, might instead influence disease outcome by releasing a plethora of factors that are immunomodulatory or neuroprotective, thereby directly or indirectly influencing the regenerative properties of intrinsic CNS stem/precursor cells.
The myelin sheath wraps large axons in both the CNS and the PNS, and is a key determinant of efficient axonal function and health. Myelin is targeted in a series of diseases, notably multiple sclerosis (MS). In MS, demyelination is associated with progressive axonal damage, which determines the level of patient disability. The few treatments that are available for combating myelin damage in MS and related disorders, which largely comprise anti-inflammatory drugs, only show limited efficacy in subsets of patients. More-effective treatment of myelin disorders will probably be accomplished by early intervention with combinatorial therapies that target inflammation and other processes-for example, signaling pathways that promote remyelination. Indeed, evidence suggests that such pathways might be impaired in pathology and, hence, contribute to the failure of remyelination in such diseases. In this article, we review the molecular basis of signaling pathways that regulate myelination in the CNS and PNS, with a focus on signals that affect differentiation of myelinating glia. We also discuss factors such as extracellular molecules that act as modulators of these pathways. Finally, we consider the few preclinical and clinical trials of agents that augment this signaling.

G protein-gated inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels hyperpolarize neurons in response to activation of many different G protein-coupled receptors and thus control the excitability of neurons through GIRK-mediated self-inhibition, slow synaptic potentials and volume transmission. GIRK channel function and trafficking are highly dependent on the channel subunit composition. Pharmacological investigations of GIRK channels and studies in animal models suggest that GIRK activity has an important role in physiological responses, including pain perception and memory modulation. Moreover, abnormal GIRK function has been implicated in altering neuronal excitability and cell death, which may be important in the pathophysiology of diseases such as epilepsy, Down's syndrome, Parkinson's disease and drug addiction. GIRK channels may therefore prove to be a valuable new therapeutic target.
Complexins facilitate and inhibit neurotransmitter release through distinct domains, and their function was proposed to be coupled to the Ca(2+) sensor synaptotagmin-1 (Syt1). However, the mechanisms underlying complexin function remain unclear. We now uncover an interaction between the complexin N terminus and the SNARE complex C terminus, and we show that disrupting this interaction abolishes the facilitatory function of complexins in mouse neurons. Analyses of hypertonically induced exocytosis show that complexins enhance synaptic-vesicle fusogenicity. Genetic experiments crossing complexin- and Syt1-null mice indicate a functional interaction between these proteins but also show that complexins can promote Ca(2+)-triggered release in the absence of Syt1. We propose that the complexin N terminus stabilizes the SNARE complex C terminus and/or helps release the inhibitory function of complexins, thereby activating the fusion machinery in a manner that may cooperate with Syt1 but does not require Syt1.
Bipolar depression is linked with substantial burden and a high suicide risk, making a rapid and highly efficacious treatment mandatory. However, similar to mania, aspects of long-term treatment should already be considered at treatment initiation. With comparable efficacy, drugs with a beneficial safety and tolerability profile should be preferred. Additional psychotherapy can also noticeably improve both short- and long-term outcome of bipolar depression. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) still has its place in severe, treatment-resistant bipolar depression. Whereas ECT is a domain of specialised centres, correct diagnosis and both pharmacological and psychotherapeutic treatment initiation are essential tasks of primary care practitioners and secondary care psychiatrists.
The temporal waveform of neural activity is commonly estimated by low-pass filtering spike train data through convolution with a gaussian kernel. However, the criteria for selecting the gaussian width sigma are not well understood. Given an ensemble of Poisson spike trains generated by an instantaneous firing rate function lambda(t), the problem was to recover an optimal estimate of lambda(t) by gaussian filtering. We provide equations describing the optimal value of sigma using an error minimization criterion and examine how the optimal sigma varies within a parameter space defining the statistics of inhomogeneous Poisson spike trains. The process was studied both analytically and through simulations. The rate functions lambda(t) were randomly generated, with the three parameters defining spike statistics being the mean of lambda(t), the variance of lambda(t), and the exponent alpha of the Fourier amplitude spectrum 1/f(alpha) of lambda(t). The value of sigma(opt) followed a power law as a function of the pooled mean interspike interval I, sigma(opt) = aI(b), where a was inversely related to the coefficient of variation C(V) of lambda(t), and b was inversely related to the Fourier spectrum exponent alpha. Besides applications for data analysis, optimal recovery of an analog signal waveform lambda(t) from spike trains may also be useful in understanding neural signal processing in vivo.
A model of topographic map refinement is presented which combines both weight plasticity and the formation and elimination of synapses, as well as both activity-dependent and activity-independent processes. The question of whether an activity-dependent process can refine a mapping created by an activity-independent process is addressed statistically. A new method of evaluating the quality of topographic projections is presented which allows independent consideration of the development of the centres and spatial variances of receptive fields for a projection. Synapse formation and elimination embed in the network topology changes in the weight distributions of synapses due to the activity-dependent learning rule used (spike-timing-dependent plasticity). In this model, the spatial variance of receptive fields can be reduced by an activity-dependent mechanism with or without spatially correlated inputs, but the accuracy of receptive field centres will not necessarily improve when synapses are formed based on distributions with on-average perfect topography.
In this study we employed an ELISA assay to measure alpha-synuclein protein in lymphomonocytes from 78 PD patients and 78 controls. We correlated protein levels with demographic and clinical characteristics and with the chymotryptic and tryptic activities of the 20S proteasome. Alpha-synuclein levels were not significantly different between patients and controls. In control subjects, alpha-synuclein protein levels increased significantly with age and were significantly higher in men compared to women. Proteasome activity was not significantly different between cases and controls. In control group, the 20S chymotryptic activity tended to decrease significantly with increasing age, though it was not correlated to alpha-synuclein levels. The 20S tryptic activity was not significantly correlated to age, but was inversely correlated to alpha-synuclein levels. Our findings suggest that alpha-synuclein levels in lymphomonocytes are affected by age, gender, and by the 20S proteasome activity in control subjects, but they are not useful as a diagnostic biomarker for PD.
Noise-induced hearing loss is a highly prevalent occupational injury, yet little is known concerning the signals controlling normal cochlear sensitivity and susceptibility to noise-induced trauma. While the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system is involved in activation of the classic hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, it is also involved in local physiological responses to stress in many tissues, and is expressed in the inner ear. We demonstrate that mice lacking the CRF receptor CRFR2 exhibit a significantly lower auditory threshold than wild type mice, but this gain of function comes at the price of increased susceptibility to acoustic trauma. We further demonstrate that glutamatergic transmission, purinergic signaling, and activation of Akt (PKB) pathways within the cochlea are misregulated, which may underlie the enhanced sensitivity and trauma susceptibility observed in CRFR2(-/-) mice. Our data suggest that CRFR2 constitutively modulates hearing sensitivity under normal conditions, and thereby provides protection against noise-induced hearing loss.
The &quot;ciliopathies&quot; are a newly defined group of disorders characterized by defects in the structure or function of the cellular primary cilium. Patients with these disorders display variably expressive fibrocystic renal disease, retinal blindness, polydactyly, obesity, and brain dysgenesis as well as neurocognitive impairments. Joubert syndrome is a ciliopathy defined by cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, oculomotor apraxia, intermittent hyperventilation, and mental retardation. Recent evidence suggests important roles for the primary cilium in mediating a host of extracellular signaling events such as morphogen, mitogen, homeostatic and polarity signals. Based upon the clinical features of ciliopathies and cilia mediated signaling pathways, the data support a role for the primary cilium in modulating neurogenesis, cell polarity, axonal guidance and possibly adult neuronal function.
The role of the hippocampus in non-spatial memory has been issue of some controversy. To investigate the nature of dorsal hippocampus engagement in spatial and non-spatial memory we performed discrete excitotoxic lesions of this region before mice (C57/BL6) were trained in one of two tasks that required the animals to retrieve a hidden food reward. In the visuospatial task animals had to remember a particular spatial location, independent of odor cues. In contrast, in a non-spatial olfactory task animals had to remember a particular odor, independent of spatial location. The mice were trained in one of these tasks over a period of three days. We found that lesions restricted to the dorsal hippocampus affected performance only in the spatial task. In contrast, lesions that also encompassed a larger portion of the ventral hippocampus caused a moderate deficit in the olfactory task. These results are consistent with the role of the dorsal hippocampus in long-term spatial episodic memory, and support the involvement of larger portions of the hippocampus on the encoding of non-spatial olfactory representations.
Sleep facilitates declarative memory processing. However, we know little about whether sleep plays a role in the processing of a fundamental feature of declarative memory, relational memory - the flexible representation of items not directly learned prior to sleep. Thirty-one healthy participants first learned at 12 pm two sets of face-object photograph pairs (direct associative memory), in which the objects in each pair were common to both lists, but paired with two different faces. Participants either were given approximately 90 min to have a NREM-only daytime nap (n=14) or an equivalent waking period (n=17). At 4:30 pm, participants who napped demonstrated significantly better retention of direct associative memory, as well as better performance on a surprise task assessing their relational memory, in which participants had to associate the two faces previously paired with the same object during learning. Particularly noteworthy, relational memory performance was correlated with the amount of NREM sleep during the nap, with only slow-wave sleep predicting relational memory performance. Sleep stage data did not correlate with direct associative memory retention. These results suggest an active role for sleep in facilitating multiple processes that are not limited to the mere strengthening of rote memories, but also the binding of items that were not directly learned together, reorganizing them for flexible use at a later time.
We combined a feedback-based learning task with a recognition memory paradigm to investigate how reward-based learning affects the event-related potential (ERP) correlates of recognition memory in younger and older adults. We found that positive, but not negative learning improves memory and results in an increased early ERP old-new effect, which is typically associated with familiarity-based memory. This indicates that reward-based learning supports a fast and relatively automatic memory retrieval process. Furthermore, we found age-related impairments in reward-based learning, whereas memory for the learned information was intact in the elderly, suggesting that declarative memory might be less affected by aging.
Earlier post-mortem histological and autoradiographic studies have indicated a reduction of cell numbers in the locus coeruleus (LC) and a corresponding decrease in norepinephrine transporter (NET) in brains obtained from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients as compared to age-matched healthy controls. In order to test the hypothesis that the regional decrease of NET is a disease specific biomarker in AD and as such, it can be used in PET imaging studies for diagnostic considerations, regional differences in the density of NET in various anatomical structures were measured in whole hemisphere human brain slices obtained from AD patients and age-matched control subjects in a series of autoradiographic experiments using the novel selective PET radioligand for NET (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2). (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) appears to be a useful imaging biomarker for quantifying the density of NET in various brain structures, including the LC and the thalamus wherein the highest densities are found in physiological conditions. In AD significant decreases of NET densities can be demonstrated with the radioligand in both structures as compared to age-matched controls. The decreases in AD correlate with the progress of the disease as indicated by Braak grades. As the size of the LC is below the spatial resolution of the PET scanners, but the size of the thalamus can be detected with appropriate spatial accuracy in advanced scanners, the present findings confirm our earlier observations with PET that the in vivo imaging of NET with (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) in the thalamus is viable. Nevertheless, further studies are warranted to assess the usefulness of such an imaging approach for the early detection of changes in thalamic NET densities as a disease-specific biomarker and the possible use of (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) as a molecular imaging biomarker in AD.
Astrocytic excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) regulate excitatory transmission and limit excitotoxicity. Evidence for a functional interface between EAATs and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) relevant to astrocytic morphology led to investigations of actions of transportable (D-Aspartate (D-Asp) and (2S,3S,4R)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (L-CCG-III)) and non-transportable (DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (DL-TBOA)) inhibitors of Glu uptake in murine astrocytes. D-Asp (1 mM), L-CCG-III (0.5 mM) and DL-TBOA (0.5 mM) produced time-dependent (24-72 h) reductions in (3)[H]D-Asp uptake (approximately 30-70%) with little or no gliotoxicity. All drugs induced a profound change in phenotype from cobblestone to stellate morphology and image analysis revealed increases in the intensity of GFAP immunolabelling for L-CCG-III and DL-TBOA. Cytochemistry indicated localized changes in F-actin distribution. Cell surface expression of EAAT2, but not EAAT1, was elevated at 72 h. Blockade of Glu uptake by both types of EAAT inhibitor exerts longer-term effects on astrocytic morphology and a compensatory homeostatic rise in EAAT2 abundance.
Few studies have explored the patterns of clonal evolution in gliomas. Here, we investigate the cytogenetic patterns of intratumoral clonal evolution of gliomas and their impact on tumor histopathology and patient survival. Cytogenetic analysis of 90 gliomas was performed in individual tumor cells (&gt;200 cells/tumor) using multicolor (N = 16 probes) interphase-FISH. Overall, chromosome gains were more frequent than chromosome losses. Gains of chromosome 7 and/or EGFR amplification were detected in 91% of the cases, whereas del(9p21) (77%) and del(10q23) (78%) were the most frequent chromosome losses. Virtually, all cases (99%) showed &gt;or=2 tumor cell clones, with higher numbers among high- versus low-grade gliomas (p = 0.001). Nine different cytogenetic patterns were found in the ancestral tumor clones. In most gliomas, ancestral clones showed abnormalities of chromosome 7, 9p, and/or 10q and cytogenetic evolution consisted of acquisition of additional abnormalities followed by tetraploidization. Conversely, early tetraploidization was associated with low-grade astrocytomas-2/3 pilocytic and 3/6 grade II diffuse astrocytomas-and combined loss of 1p36/19q13 with oligodendrogliomas, respectively; both aberrations were associated with a better patient outcome (p = 0.03). Overall, our results support the existence of different pathways of intratumoral evolution in gliomas.
The finding of TDP-43 as a major component of ubiquitinated protein inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has led to the identification of 30 mutations in the transactive response-DNA binding protein (TARDBP) gene, encoding TDP-43. All but one are in exon 6, which encodes the glycine-rich domain. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of TARDBP mutations in a large cohort of motor neurone disease patients from Northern England (42 non-superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) familial ALS (FALS), nine ALS-frontotemporal dementia, 474 sporadic ALS (SALS), 45 progressive muscular atrophy cases). We identified four mutations, two of which were novel, in two familial (FALS) and two sporadic (SALS) cases, giving a frequency of TARDBP mutations in non-SOD1 FALS of 5% and SALS of 0.4%. Analysis of clinical data identified that patients had typical ALS, with limb or bulbar onset, and showed considerable variation in age of onset and rapidity of disease course. However, all cases had an absence of clinically overt cognitive dysfunction.
As population-based studies may obtain images from scanners with different field strengths, a method to normalize regional brain volumes according to intracranial volume (ICV) independent of field strength is needed. We found systematic differences in ICV estimation, tested in a cohort of healthy subjects (n=5) that had been imaged using 1.5T and 3T scanners, and confirmed in two independent cohorts. This was related to systematic differences in the intensity of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), with higher intensities for CSF located in the ventricles compared with CSF in the cisterns, at 3T versus 1.5T, which could not be removed with three different applied bias correction algorithms. We developed a method based on tissue probability maps in MNI (Montreal Neurological Institute) space and reverse normalization (reverse brain mask, RBM) and validated it against manual ICV measurements. We also compared it with alternative automated ICV estimation methods based on Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM5) and Brain Extraction Tool (FSL). The proposed RBM method was equivalent to manual ICV normalization with a high intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC=0.99) and reliable across different field strengths. RBM achieved the best combination of precision and reliability in a group of healthy subjects, a group of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and can be used as a common normalization framework.
The steady-state auditory evoked magnetic field was recorded in tinnitus patients and controls, both either musicians or non-musicians, all of them with high-frequency hearing loss. Stimuli were AM-tones with two modulation frequencies and three carrier frequencies matching the &quot;audiometric edge&quot;, i.e. the frequency above which hearing loss increases more rapidly, the tinnitus frequency or the frequency 1 1/2 octaves above the audiometric edge in controls, and a frequency 1 1/2 octaves below the audiometric edge. Stimuli equated in carrier frequency, but differing in modulation frequency, were simultaneously presented to the two ears. The modulation frequency-specific components of the dual steady-state response were recovered by bandpass filtering. In both hemispheres, the source amplitude of the response was larger for contralateral than ipsilateral input. In non-musicians with tinnitus, this laterality effect was enhanced in the hemisphere contralateral and reduced in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the tinnitus ear, especially for the tinnitus frequency. The hemisphere-by-input laterality dominance effect was smaller in musicians than in non-musicians. In both patient groups, source amplitude change over time, i.e. amplitude slope, was increasing with tonal frequency for contralateral input and decreasing for ipsilateral input. However, slope was smaller for musicians than non-musicians. In patients, source amplitude was negatively correlated with the MRI-determined volume of the medial partition of Heschl's gyrus. Tinnitus patients show an altered excitatory-inhibitory balance reflecting the downregulation of inhibition and resulting in a steeper dominance hierarchy among simultaneous processes in auditory cortex. Direction and extent of this alteration are modulated by musicality and auditory cortex volume.
Acquisition and quantitative analysis of high resolution images of dendritic spines are challenging tasks but are necessary for the study of animal models of neurological and psychiatric diseases. Currently available methods for automated dendritic spine detection are for the most part customized for 2D image slices, not volumetric 3D images. In this work, a fully automated method is proposed to detect and segment dendritic spines from 3D confocal microscopy images of medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs). MSNs constitute a major neuronal population in striatum, and abnormalities in their function are associated with several neurological and psychiatric diseases. Such automated detection is critical for the development of new 3D neuronal assays which can be used for the screening of drugs and the studies of their therapeutic effects. The proposed method utilizes a generalized gradient vector flow (GGVF) with a new smoothing constraint and then detects feature points near the central regions of dendrites and spines. Then, the central regions are refined and separated based on eigen-analysis and multiple shape measurements. Finally, the spines are segmented in 3D space using the fast marching algorithm, taking the detected central regions of spines as initial points. The proposed method is compared with three popular existing methods for centerline extraction and also with manual results for dendritic spine detection in 3D space. The experimental results and comparisons show that the proposed method is able to automatically and accurately detect, segment, and quantitate dendritic spines in 3D images of MSNs.
Language lateralization based on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is often used in clinical neurological settings. Currently, interpretation of the distribution, pattern and extent of language activation can be heavily dependent on the chosen statistical threshold. The aim of the present study was to 1) test the robustness of adaptive thresholding of fMRI data to yield a fixed number of active voxels, and to 2) develop a largely threshold-independent method of assessing when individual patients have statistically atypical language lateralization. Simulated data and real fMRI data in 34 healthy controls and 4 selected epilepsy patients performing a verbal fluency language fMRI task were used. Dependence of laterality on the thresholding method is demonstrated for simulated and real data. Simulated data were used to test the hypothesis that thresholding based upon a fixed number of active voxels would yield a laterality index that was more stable across a range of signal strengths (study power) compared to thresholding at a fixed p value. This stability allowed development of a method comparing an individual to a group of controls across a wide range of thresholds, providing a robust indication of atypical lateralization that is more objective than conventional methods. Thirty healthy controls were used as normative data for the threshold-independent method, and the remaining subjects were used as illustrative examples. The method could also be used more generally to assess relative regional distribution of activity in other neuroimaging paradigms (for example, one could apply it to the assessment of lateralization of activation in a memory task, or to the assessment of anterior-posterior distribution rather than laterality).
Cooperative social interaction is critical for human social development and learning. Despite the importance of social interaction, previous neuroimaging studies lack two fundamental components of everyday face-to-face interactions: contingent responding and joint attention. In the current studies, functional MRI data were collected while participants interacted with a human experimenter face-to-face via live video feed as they engaged in simple cooperative games. In Experiment 1, participants engaged in a live interaction with the experimenter (&quot;Live&quot;) or watched a video of the same interaction (&quot;Recorded&quot;). During the &quot;Live&quot; interaction, as compared to the Recorded conditions, greater activation was seen in brain regions involved in social cognition and reward, including the right temporoparietal junction (rTPJ), anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), right superior temporal sulcus (rSTS), ventral striatum, and amygdala. Experiment 2 isolated joint attention, a critical component of social interaction. Participants either followed the gaze of the live experimenter to a shared target of attention (&quot;Joint Attention&quot;) or found the target of attention alone while the experimenter was visible but not sharing attention (&quot;Solo Attention&quot;). The right temporoparietal junction and right posterior STS were differentially recruited during Joint, as compared to Solo, attention. These findings suggest the rpSTS and rTPJ are key regions for both social interaction and joint attention. This method of allowing online, contingent social interactions in the scanner could open up new avenues of research in social cognitive neuroscience, both in typical and atypical populations.
Though mice are the dominant model system for studying the genetic and molecular underpinnings of neuroscience, functional neuroimaging in mice remains technically challenging. One approach, Activation-Induced Manganese-enhanced MRI (AIM MRI), has been used successfully to map neuronal activity in rodents. In AIM MRI, manganese(2+) acts a calcium analog and accumulates in depolarized neurons. Because manganese(2+) shortens T1, regions of elevated neuronal activity enhance in MRI. However, because manganese does not cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), the need to osmotically disrupt the BBB has limited the use of AIM MRI, particularly in mice. In this work, the BBB was opened in mice using unfocused, transcranial ultrasound in combination with gas-filled microbubbles. Using this noninvasive technique to open the BBB bilaterally, manganese could be quickly administered to the whole mouse brain. With this approach, AIM MRI was used to map the neuronal response to unilateral mechanical stimulation of the vibrissae in lightly sedated mice. The resultant 3D activation map agreed well with published representations of the vibrissae regions of the barrel field cortex. The anterior portions of the barrel field cortex corresponding to the more rostral vibrissae showed greater activation, consistent with previous literature. Because the ultrasonic opening of the BBB is simple, fast, and noninvasive, this approach is suitable for high-throughput and longitudinal studies in awake mice. This approach enables a new way to map neuronal activity in mice with manganese.
Recently, a related morphometry-based connection concept has been introduced using local mean cortical thickness and volume to study the underlying complex architecture of the brain networks. In this article, the surface area is employed as a morphometric descriptor to study the concurrent changes between brain structures and to build binarized connectivity graphs. The statistical similarity in surface area between pair of regions was measured by computing the partial correlation coefficient across 186 normal subjects of the Cuban Human Brain Mapping Project. We demonstrated that connectivity matrices obtained follow a small-world behavior for two different parcellations of the brain gray matter. The properties of the connectivity matrices were compared to the matrices obtained using the mean cortical thickness for the same cortical parcellations. The topology of the cortical thickness and surface area networks were statistically different, demonstrating that both capture distinct properties of the interaction or different aspects of the same interaction (mechanical, anatomical, chemical, etc.) between brain structures. This finding could be explained by the fact that each descriptor is driven by distinct cellular mechanisms as result of a distinct genetic origin. To our knowledge, this is the first time that surface area is used to study the morphological connectivity of brain networks.
Reported values of D(2) receptor occupancy (RO) achieved by antipsychotic drugs tend to be lower when measured with (123)I-IBZM SPECT than with (11)C-Raclopride PET. Image degrading factors such as attenuation, distance-dependent collimator response and scatter could account for this difference. While attenuation correction is routinely applied to SPECT images, the other degradations are not usually accounted for. The aim of this work was to assess the impact of scatter correction on D(2) RO quantification with (123)I-IBZM SPECT, and to compare the results of both corrected and un-corrected SPECT values with (11)C-Raclopride PET measurements. Phantom experiments as well as within-subject human data from a previous study were used for this purpose. SPECT images were reconstructed using filtered back-projection including attenuation correction (FBP(A)), ordered subsets expectation maximization including attenuation and point spread function corrections (OSEM(A+PSF)) and ordered subsets expectation maximization including attenuation, point spread function and scatter corrections (OSEM(A+PSF+SCT)). PET images were reconstructed using the FBP algorithm and corrected for attenuation, scatter, random coincidences and dead time. Quantification of receptor availability was performed using the tissue ratio at pseudoequilibrium for SPECT, and the simplified reference tissue model (SRTM) for PET. Analysis was performed using both occipital cortex (occ) and cerebellum (cer) as reference regions for both modalities. When images were reconstructed using FBP(A), SPECT D(2) RO values were significantly lower as compared with PET leading to a D(2) RO difference of -20% (CI(95%): -13, -27%) (occ) and -23% (CI(95%): -14, -31%) (cer). When images were reconstructed using OSEM(A+PSF), SPECT D(2) RO values were also lower as compared with PET leading to a D(2) RO difference of -21% (CI(95%): -14, -27%) (occ) and -24% (CI(95%): -18, -30%) (cer). When images were reconstructed using OSEM(A+PSF+SCT), the D(2) RO bias was reduced to -6% (CI(95%): 0, -13%) (occ) and -11% (CI(95%): -4, -18%) (cer). These data suggest that the scatter correction plays a major role in explaining the differences between D(2) RO measurements using (123)I-IBZM SPECT and (11)C-Raclopride PET.
Watching or imagining other people experiencing pain activates the central nervous system's pain matrix in the observer. Without emotion regulation skills, repeated exposure to the suffering of others in healthcare professionals may be associated with the adverse consequences of personal distress, burnout and compassion fatigue, which are detrimental to their wellbeing. Here, we recorded event-related potentials (ERP) from physicians and matched controls as they were presented with visual stimuli depicting body parts pricked by a needle (pain) or touched by a Q-tip (no-pain). The results showed early N110 differentiation between pain and no-pain over the frontal area as well as late P3 over the centro-parietal regions were observed in the control participants. In contrast, no such early and late ERP responses were detected in the physicians. Our results indicate that emotion regulation in physicians has very early effects, inhibiting the bottom-up processing of the perception of pain in others. It is suggested that physicians' down-regulation of the pain response dampens their negative arousal in response to the pain of others and thus may have many beneficial consequences including freeing up cognitive resources necessary for being of assistance.
The resting brain exhibits coherent patterns of spontaneous low-frequency BOLD fluctuations. These so-called resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) networks are posited to reflect intrinsic representations of functional systems commonly implicated in cognitive function. Yet, the direct relationship between RSFC and the BOLD response induced by task performance remains unclear. Here we examine the relationship between a region's pattern of RSFC across participants and that same region's level of BOLD activation during an Eriksen Flanker task. To achieve this goal we employed a voxel-matched regression method, which assessed whether the magnitude of task-induced activity at each brain voxel could be predicted by measures of RSFC strength for the same voxel, across 26 healthy adults. We examined relationships between task-induced activation and RSFC strength for six different seed regions [Fox, M.D., Snyder, A.Z., Vincent, J.L., Corbetta, M., Van Essen, D.C., Raichle, M.E., 2005. The human brain is intrinsically organized into dynamic, anticorrelated functional networks. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 102, 9673-9678.], as well as the &quot;default mode&quot; and &quot;task-positive&quot; resting-state networks in their entirety. Our results indicate that, for a number of brain regions, inter-individual differences in task-induced BOLD activity were predicted by one of two resting-state properties: (1) the region's positive connectivity strength with the task-positive network, or (2) its negative connectivity with the default mode network. Strikingly, most of the regions exhibiting a significant relationship between their RSFC properties and task-induced BOLD activity were located in transition zones between the default mode and task-positive networks. These results suggest that a common mechanism governs many brain regions' neural activity during rest and its neural activity during task performance.
For the past 200 years, neurology has been deeply rooted in the history and neurologic examination, but 21st century advances in neurosurgery, endovascular techniques, and neuropathology, and an explosion in basic neuroscience research and neuroimaging have added exciting new dimensions to the field. Neurology residency training programs face intense governmental regulatory changes and economic pressures, making it difficult to predict the number of neurology residents being trained for the future. The future job outlook for neurologists in the United States, based on recent survey and trends, suggests an increased demand because of the prevalence of neurologic diseases within the aging population, particularly in underserved urban and rural areas. Telemedicine and &quot;teleconsultation&quot; offer a potential solution to bringing virtual subspecialists to underserved areas. The future for neurology and neuroscience research in the United States remains a high priority according to the National Institute of Neurologic Diseases and Stroke, but this may be affected in the long run by budgetary constraints and a growing deficit.
Since the Internet's inception in 1969, neurologists have witnessed a continuous parade of innovative phases. There is tremendous potential for near-instantaneous dissemination of the latest developments in neurologic knowledge, although their value is dependent on the degree of awareness of neurologists and is limited by the reluctance of some sources to make information readily accessible. The encyclopedic nature of the Internet, with its vast resources of online information, may be diminished by issues of access, variable quality and reliability, and a lack of intelligent retrieval systems. A major hindrance, for example, is seen with restrictions on archival, but proprietary, neurologic literature. Neurologic patients and their caregivers use the Internet heavily, but for somewhat different reasons. It is important for neurologists to understand these differences. The emergence of the online Personal Health Record will become increasingly valuable as these sites evolve and more medical providers incorporate electronic applications and medical records into their practices. Online groups for neurologists with similar interests, often referred to as &quot;networks,&quot; have the potential to catalyze the natural organizing tendencies among those seeking solutions to shared problems. Networking can function well for neurologists, neurologic patients, and for focused efforts in an area such as advocacy. These considerations are discussed in this article.
Gangliogliomas are benign lesions that are predominantly temporal in location and present with chronic epilepsy. Intraventricular gangliogliomas are extremely rare and still rarer is intratumoral hemorrhage. Till date only 9 cases of lateral ventricular gangliogliomas have been reported. To the best of our knowledge only 1 case of intratumoral hemorrhage has been reported. We report a rare case of lateral ventricular ganglioglioma with intratumoral hemorrhage in a 27-year-old man.
A case of spontaneous subarachnoid pleural fistula following rupture of a thoracic meningocele into the pleural cavity is described in this article. The patient had symptoms of low-pressure headache and difficulty in breathing. The fistulous opening was closed near the foramina by rotating a vascularized muscle flap. After showing initial improvement the patient had a recurrence of symptoms after 6 weeks, with a small leak at the closure site. A lumbar thecoperitoneal shunt led to permanent cure. In this article we discuss the course of the disease, the symptoms, the diagnostic methods, and the various treatment modalities for subarachnoid pleural fistula.
Alpha dystroglycanopathies are heterogeneous group of disorders both phenotypically and genetically. A subgroup of these patients has characteristic brain imaging findings. Four patients with typical imaging findings of alpha dystroglycanopathy are reported. Phenotypic features included: global developmental delay, contractures, hypotonia and oculomotor abnormalities in all. Other manifestations were consanguinity (3), seizures (3), macrocephaly (1), microcephaly (3), retinal changes (2) and hypogenitalism (2). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed polymicrogyria, white matter changes, pontine hypoplasia, and subcortical cerebellar cysts in all the patients, ventriculomegaly, callosal abnormalities, and absent septum pellucidum in two and Dandy -Walker variant malformation in three. Magnetic resonace imaging of the first cousin of one the patient had the same characteristic imaging features. Brain imaging findings were almost identical despite heterogeneity in clinical presentation and histopathological features. Pattern recognition of MR imaging features may serve as a clue to the diagnosis of alpha dystroglycanopathy.



The potential applications of stem cell therapies for treating neurological disorders are enormous. Many laboratories are focusing on stem cell treatments for CNS diseases, including spinal cord injury, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis, stroke, traumatic brain injury, and epilepsy. Among the many stem cell types under testing for neurological treatments, the most common are fetal and adult brain stem cells, embryonic stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, and mesenchymal stem cells. An expanding toolbox of molecular probes is now available to allow analyses of neural stem cell fates prior to and after transplantation. Concomitantly, protocols are being developed to direct the fates of stem cell-derived neural progenitors, and also to screen stem cells for tumorigenicity and aneuploidy. The rapid progress in the field suggests that novel stem cell and gene therapies for neurological disorders are in the pipeline.
Imaging studies have consistently documented hippocampal volume reductions in depression. Although depressive disorders are traditionally considered to have a neurochemical basis, recent studies suggest that impairments of structural plasticity contribute to the volume reductions and the related cognitive changes. This might result from repeated periods of stress that are a wellknown risk factor for depression. Adult neurogenesis is a prominent example of neuroplasticity that in rodents, is reduced by stress but stimulated by antidepressant drugs. Although reductions in neurogenesis have been proposed to contribute to the etiology of depression, only two studies have so far examined hippocampal cytogenesis in depression, but this was in a limited number of subjects with considerable interindividual variation, and these studies came to different conclusions. We therefore collected hippocampal tissue of 10 elderly control subject and 10 well-matched depressed patients that were highly comparable in terms of age, sex, pH-CSF and postmortem delay, and tested whether the numbers of MCM2-positive progenitors and PH3-positive proliferating cells were altered by depression or antidepressant treatment. A significant reduction was found in MCM2-, but not PH3-immunopositive cells in depression. Although this result is consistent with the concept that structural plasticity is decreased in depression, we could not confirm that antidepressant drugs had a stimulatory effect on these cells. This discrepancy may relate to anatomical differences, in medication, to neurogenesis-independent mechanisms of antidepressant action, or the age of the patients that was higher than in previous studies. Whether the reduction is a cause or consequence of depression awaits to be determined.
Loss of basal forebrain cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus and severe neuronal loss within the hippocampal CA1 region are early hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, and are strongly correlated with cognitive status. Various therapeutic approaches involve attempts to enhance neurotransmission or to provide some level of neuroprotection for remaining cells. An alternative approach may involve the generation of new cells to replace those lost in AD. Indeed, a simple shift in the balance between cell generation and cell loss may slow disease progression and possibly even reverse existing cognitive deficits. One potential neurogenic regulator might be acetylcholine, itself, which has been shown to play a critical role in hippocampal development. Here, we report the effects of various cholinergic compounds on indices of hippocampal neurogenesis, demonstrating a significant induction following pharmacological activation of muscarinic M1 receptors, located on hippocampal progenitors in the adult brain. This is the first report that a small-molecule agonist may induce neurogenesis in the hippocampal CA1 region. Furthermore, such treatment reversed deficits in markers of neurogenesis and spatial working memory triggered by cholinergic denervation in a rodent model. This study suggests the use of small molecule, receptor agonists may represent a novel means to trigger the restoration of specific neuronal populations lost to a variety of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
When healthy individuals are presented with peripheral figures in which small letters are arranged to form a large letter, they are faster to identify the global- than the local-level information, and have difficulty ignoring global information when identifying the local level. The global reaction time (RT) advantage and global interference effect imply preferential processing of global-level information in the normal brain. This contrasts with the local processing bias demonstrated following lesions to the right temporo-parietal junction (TPJ), such as those that lead to hemispatial neglect (neglect). Recent research from our lab demonstrated that visuo-motor adaptation to rightward-shifting prisms, which ameliorates many leftward performance deficits of neglect patients, improved the local processing bias of patients with right TPJ lesions (Bultitude, Rafal, &amp; List, 2009). Here we demonstrate that adaptation to leftward-shifting prisms, which can induce neglect-like performance in neurologically healthy individuals, also reduces the normal global processing bias. Forty-eight healthy participants were asked to identify the global or local forms of hierarchical figures before and after adaptation to leftward- or rightward-shifting prisms. Prior to prism adaptation, both groups had greater difficulty ignoring irrelevant global information when identifying the local level (global interference) compared to their ability to ignore irrelevant local-level information when identifying the global level (local interference). Participants who adapted to leftward-shifting prisms showed a significant reduction in global interference, but there was no change in the performance of the rightward-shifting Prism Group. These results show, for the first time, that in addition to previously demonstrated effects on lateralised attention, prism adaptation can influence non-lateralised spatial attention in healthy individuals.
As we learn new information about the social and moral behaviors of other people, we form and update character judgments of them, and this can profoundly influence how we regard and act towards others. In the study reported here, we capitalized on two interesting neurological patient populations where this process of complex &quot;moral updating&quot; may go awry: patients with bilateral damage to ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and patients with bilateral damage to hippocampus (HC). We predicted that vmPFC patients, who have impaired emotion processing, would exhibit reduced moral updating, and we also investigated how moral updating might be affected by severe declarative memory impairment in HC patients. The vmPFC, HC, and brain-damaged comparison (BDC) participants made moral judgments about unfamiliar persons before and after exposure to social scenarios depicting the persons engaged in morally good, bad, or neutral behaviors. In line with our prediction, the vmPFC group showed the least amount of change in moral judgments, and interestingly, the HC group showed the most amount of change. These results suggest that the vmPFC and hippocampus play critical but complementary roles in updating moral character judgments about others: the vmPFC may attribute emotional salience to moral information, whereas the hippocampus may provide necessary contextual information from which to make appropriate character judgments.
In acute brain damage (e.g., stroke), patients can be left with specific deficits while other domains are unaffected, consistent with the classical 'modular' view of cortical organization. On this view, relearning of impaired function is limited because the remaining brain regions, tuned to other domains, have minimal capacity to assimilate an alternative activity. A clear paradox arises in low-grade glioma where an even greater amount of cortex may be affected and resected without impairment. Using a neurocomputational model we account for the modular nature of normal function as well as the contrasting types of brain insult through the interaction of three computational principles: patterns of connectivity; experience-dependent plasticity; and the time course of damage. This work provides support for a neo-Lashleyan view of cortical organization.
An influential single case study (Calder, Keane, Manes, Antoun, &amp; Young, 2000, Nature Neuroscience, 3, 1077-1078) recently showed a marked multimodal impairment in the recognition and experience of disgust in a patient with a left-hemispheric lesion of the basal ganglia and the insular cortex. Here, we investigated whether a similar deficit will be observed in a patient with a comparable lesion of the insula and basal ganglia in the right hemisphere. Remarkably, the patient showed no impairments in the recognition or experience of disgust and also no notable impairments in the recognition and experience of other emotions, across a range of stimuli, as compared to healthy comparison subjects. Thus, either deficits in disgust processing are not reliably observed in patients with lesion of the insula and basal ganglia regardless of the laterality of the lesion; or right-hemispheric lesions, in contrast to left-hemispheric lesions, do not seem to induce impairments in the processing of disgust.
The neural basis of semantic memory generates considerable debate. Semantic dementia results from bilateral anterior temporal lobe (ATL) atrophy and gives rise to a highly specific impairment of semantic memory, suggesting that this region is a critical neural substrate for semantic processing. Recent rTMS experiments with neurologically-intact participants also indicate that the ATL are a necessary substrate for semantic memory. Exactly which regions within the ATL are important for semantic memory are difficult to detect from these methods (because the damage in SD covers a large part of the ATL). Functional neuroimaging might provide important clues about which specific areas exhibit activation that correlates with normal semantic performance. Neuroimaging studies, however, have not consistently found anterior temporal lobe activation in semantic tasks. A recent meta-analysis indicates that this inconsistency may be due to a collection of technical limitations associated with previous studies, including a reduced field-of-view and magnetic susceptibility artefacts associated with standard gradient echo fMRI. We conducted an fMRI study of semantic memory using a combination of techniques which improve sensitivity to ATL activations whilst preserving whole-brain coverage. As expected from SD patients and ATL rTMS experiments, this method revealed bilateral temporal activation extending from the inferior temporal lobe along the fusiform gyrus to the anterior temporal regions, bilaterally. We suggest that the inferior, anterior temporal lobe region makes a crucial contribution to semantic cognition and utilising this version of fMRI will enable further research on the semantic role of the ATL.
An important principle of human ethics is that individuals are not responsible for actions performed when unconscious. Recent research found that the generation of an action and the building of a conscious experience of that action (agency) are distinct processes and crucial mechanisms for self-consciousness. Yet, previous agency studies have focussed on actions of a finger or hand. Here, we investigate how agents consciously monitor actions of the entire body in space during locomotion. This was motivated by previous work revealing that (1) a fundamental aspect of self-consciousness concerns a single and coherent representation of the entire spatially situated body and (2) clinical instances of human behaviour without consciousness occur in rare neurological conditions such as sleepwalking or epileptic nocturnal wandering. Merging techniques from virtual reality, full-body tracking, and cognitive science of conscious action monitoring, we report experimental data about consciousness during locomotion in healthy participants. We find that agents consciously monitor the location of their entire body and its locomotion only with low precision and report that while precision remains low it can be systematically modulated in several experimental conditions. This shows that conscious action monitoring in locomoting agents can be studied in a fine-grained manner. We argue that the study of the mechanisms of agency for a person's full body may help to refine our scientific criteria of self-hood and discuss sleepwalking and related conditions as alterations in neural systems encoding motor awareness in walking humans.
Whether semantic knowledge is categorically organized or is based in an undifferentiated distributed network within the temporal lobes or it is at least partially organized in property-based networks is still an open issue. With a naming task involving living and nonliving entities, the latter divided according to degree of manipulability, we studied a group of 30 tumour patients with either right, left anterior or left posterior temporal lobes' lesions and a herpes simplex encephalitis patient (MU). Both cross-subject and cross-stimulus analyses were conducted. Left hemisphere patients were overall worse than both right hemisphere patients and controls in the naming task. They moreover named nonliving items worse than living. This effect was larger in left posterior temporal than both right temporal and also left anterior temporal patients and significant both at a cross-subject and cross-stimulus levels of analysis. In addition the left posterior temporal group had more difficulties with highly manipulable objects than left anterior temporal patients, but the effect was significant only on a cross-subject analysis. VLSM lesion analysis revealed that the area most critically associated with the larger naming deficit for manipulable objects was the posterior superior portion of the left temporal lobe, particularly the posterior middle temporal gyrus. These results support a 'property-based networks' account of semantic knowledge rather than an 'undifferentiated network' account. For manipulable objects, this would be a posterior-temporal/inferior-parietal left hemisphere &quot;action/manipulation-property-based&quot; network related to the dorsal pathways which is thought to be important in action control, as suggested by neuroimaging results.
Excessive levels of trait anxiety are a risk factor for psychiatric conditions, including anxiety disorders and substance abuse. High trait anxiety has been associated with altered cognitive functioning, in particular with an attentional bias towards aversive stimuli. Decision-making is a crucial aspect of cognitive functioning that relies on the correct processing and control of emotional stimuli. Interestingly, anxiety and decision-making share underlying neural substrates, involving cortico-limbic pathways, including the amygdala, striatum and medial and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. In the present study, we investigated the relationship between trait anxiety, measured by the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and complex decision-making, measured by the Iowa Gambling Task, in healthy male and female volunteers. The main focus of this study was the inclusion of gender as a discriminative factor. Indeed, we found distinct gender-specific effects of trait anxiety: in men, both low and high anxiety groups showed impaired decision-making compared to medium anxiety individuals, whereas in women only high anxiety individuals performed poorly. Furthermore, anxiety affected decision-making in men early in the task, i.e. the exploration phase, as opposed to an effect on performance in women during the second part of the test, i.e. the exploitation phase. These findings were related to different profiles of trait anxiety in men and women, and were independent of performance in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and cortisol levels. Our data show gender-specific effects of trait anxiety on emotional decision-making. We suggest gender-specific endophenotypes of anxiety to exist, that differentially affect cognitive functioning.
Logic has been intertwined with the study of language and meaning since antiquity, and such connections persist in present day research in linguistic theory (formal semantics) and cognitive psychology (e.g., studies of human reasoning). However, few studies in cognitive neuroscience have addressed logical dimensions of sentence-level language processing, and none have directly compared these aspects of processing with syntax and lexical/conceptual-semantics. We used ERPs to examine a violation paradigm involving &quot;Negative Polarity Items&quot; or NPIs (e.g., ever/any), which are sensitive to logical/truth-conditional properties of the environments in which they occur (e.g., presence/absence of negation in: John hasn't ever been to Paris, versus: John has *ever been to Paris). Previous studies examining similar types of contrasts found a mix of effects on familiar ERP components (e.g., LAN, N400, P600). We argue that their experimental designs and/or analyses were incapable of separating which effects are connected to NPI-licensing violations proper. Our design enabled statistical analyses teasing apart genuine violation effects from independent effects tied solely to lexical/contextual factors. Here unlicensed NPIs elicited a late P600 followed in onset by a late left anterior negativity (or &quot;L-LAN&quot;), an ERP profile which has also appeared elsewhere in studies targeting logical semantics. Crucially, qualitatively distinct ERP-profiles emerged for syntactic and conceptual semantic violations which we also tested here. We discuss how these findings may be linked to previous findings in the ERP literature. Apart from methodological recommendations, we suggest that the study of logical semantics may aid advancing our understanding of the underlying neurocognitive etiology of ERP components.

Impairments in attention are a major component of the cognitive symptoms of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Using an operant sustained attention task (SAT), including a distractor condition (dSAT), we assessed the putative pro-attentional effects of the selective alpha4beta2(*) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonist S 38232 in comparison with the non-selective agonist nicotine. Neither drug benefited SAT performance. However, in interaction with the increased task demands implemented by distractor presentation, the selective agonist, but not nicotine, enhanced the detection of signals during the post-distractor recovery period. This effect is consistent with the hypothesis that second-long increases in cholinergic activity ('transients') mediate the detection of cues and that nAChR agonists augment such transients. Electrochemical recordings of prefrontal cholinergic transients evoked by S 38232 and nicotine indicated that the alpha4beta2(*) nAChR agonist evoked cholinergic transients that were characterized by a faster rise time and more rapid decay than those evoked by nicotine. Blockade of the alpha7 nAChR 'sharpens' nicotine-evoked transients; therefore, we determined the effects of co-administration of nicotine and the alpha7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine on dSAT performance. Compared with vehicle and nicotine alone, this combined treatment significantly enhanced the detection of signals. These results indicate that compared with nicotine, alpha4beta2(*) nAChR agonists significantly enhance attentional performance and that the dSAT represents a useful behavioral screening tool. The combined behavioral and electrochemical evidence supports the hypothesis that nAChR agonist-evoked cholinergic transients, which are characterized by rapid rise time and fast decay, predict robust drug-induced enhancement of attentional performance.
The underlying neurobiology of major depression (MD) is likely to represent an interaction between genetic susceptibility and environmental factors such as stress. We investigated, in a multimodal high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) genetic study, whether reduced hippocampal volumes and other brain alterations are associated with the tri-allelic polymorphism of the serotonin transporter and childhood stress in patients with MD and healthy subjects. Patients with MD and healthy participants were investigated using high-resolution MRI and genotyping for serotonin transporter polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4, 5-HTTLPR). Region of interest analysis of the hippocampus, whole-brain voxel-based morphometry (VBM), and assessment of childhood stress were carried out. Patients carrying the risk S-allele developed smaller hippocampal volumes when they had a history of emotional neglect compared with patients who only had one risk factor (environmental or genetic). In patients, childhood stress also predicted further hippocampal white matter alterations independently from the genotype. Moreover, the left prefrontal cortex was smaller in patients, whereby childhood stress resulted in larger prefrontal volumes in those subjects carrying the non-risk L-allele, suggesting preventive effects. The findings indicate that subjects with both environmental and genetic risk factors are susceptible to stress-related hippocampal changes. Structural brain changes due to stress represent part of the mechanism by which the illness risk and outcome might be genetically mediated.
Depressed patients show cognitive deficits that may depend on an abnormal reaction to positive and negative feedback. The precise neurochemical mechanisms responsible for such cognitive abnormalities have not yet been clearly characterized, although serotoninergic dysfunction is frequently associated with depression. In three experiments described here, we investigated the effects of different manipulations of central serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) levels in rats performing a probabilistic reversal learning task that measures response to feedback. Increasing or decreasing 5-HT tone differentially affected behavioral indices of cognitive flexibility (reversals completed), reward sensitivity (win-stay), and reaction to negative feedback (lose-shift). A single low dose of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram (1 mg/kg) resulted in fewer reversals completed and increased lose-shift behavior. By contrast, a single higher dose of citalopram (10 mg/kg) exerted the opposite effect on both measures. Repeated (5 mg/kg, daily, 7 days) and subchronic (10 mg/kg, b.i.d., 5 days) administration of citalopram increased the number of reversals completed by the animals and increased the frequency of win-stay behavior, whereas global 5-HT depletion had the opposite effect on both indices. These results show that boosting 5-HT neurotransmission decreases negative feedback sensitivity and increases reward (positive feedback) sensitivity, whereas reducing it has the opposite effect. However, these effects depend on the nature of the manipulation used: acute manipulations of the 5-HT system modulate negative feedback sensitivity, whereas long-lasting treatments specifically affect reward sensitivity. These results parallel some of the findings in humans on effects of 5-HT manipulations and are relevant to hypotheses of altered response to feedback in depression.
Antipsychotic-induced weight gain has emerged as a serious complication in the treatment of patients with atypical antipsychotic drugs. The cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) is expressed centrally in the hypothalamic region and associated with appetite and satiety, as well as peripherally. An antagonist of CNR1 (rimonabant) has been effective in causing weight loss in obese patients indicating that CNR1 might be important in antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Twenty tag SNPs were analyzed in 183 patients who underwent treatment (with either clozapine, olanzapine, haloperidol, or risperidone) for chronic schizophrenia were evaluated for antipsychotic-induced weight gain for up to 14 weeks. The polymorphism rs806378 was nominally associated with weight gain in patients of European ancestry treated with clozapine or olanzapine. 'T' allele carriers (CT+TT) gained more weight (5.96%), than the CC carriers (2.76%, p=0.008, FDR q-value=0.12). This translated into approximately 2.2 kg more weight gain in patients carrying the T allele than the patients homozygous for the CC genotype (CC vs CT+TT, 2.21+/-4.51 vs 4.33+/-3.89 kg; p=0.022). This was reflected in the allelic analysis (C vs T allele, 3.84 vs 5.83%, p=0.035). We conducted electrophoretic mobility shift assays which showed that the presence of the T allele created a binding site for arylhydrocarbon receptor translocator (ARNT), a member of the basic helix-loop-helix/Per-Arnt-Sim protein family. In this study, we provide evidence that the CNR1 gene may be associated with antipsychotic-induced weight gain in chronic schizophrenia patients. However, these observations were made in a relatively small patient population; therefore these results need to be replicated in larger sample sets.
Psychomotor stimulants and typical antipsychotic drugs have powerful but opposite effects on mood and behavior, largely through alterations in striatal dopamine signaling. Exactly how these drug actions lead to behavioral change is not well understood, as previous electrophysiological studies have found highly heterogeneous changes in striatal neuron firing. In this study, we examined whether part of this heterogeneity reflects the mixture of distinct cell types present in the striatum, by distinguishing between medium spiny projection neurons (MSNs) and presumed fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs), in freely moving rats. The response of MSNs to both the stimulant amphetamine (0.5 or 2.5 mg/kg) and the antipsychotic eticlopride (0.2 or 1.0 mg/kg) remained highly heterogeneous, with each drug causing both increases and decreases in the firing rate of many MSNs. By contrast, FSIs showed a far more uniform, dose-dependent response to both drugs. All FSIs had decreased firing rate after high eticlopride. After high amphetamine most FSIs increased firing rate, and none decreased. In addition, the activity of the FSI population was positively correlated with locomotor activity, whereas the MSN population showed no consistent response. Our results show a direct relationship between the psychomotor effects of dopaminergic drugs and the firing rate of a specific striatal cell population. Striatal FSIs may have an important role in the behavioral effects of these drugs, and thus may be a valuable target in the development of novel therapies.


During the early post-natal phases the brain is experience-seeking and provided by a considerable plasticity which allows a fine tuning between the external environment and the developing organism. Since the early work of Seymour Levine, an impressive amount of research has clearly shown that stressful experiences exert powerful effects on the brain and body development. These effects can last throughout the entire life span influencing brain function and increasing the risk for depression and anxiety disorders. The mechanisms underlying the effects of early stress on the developing organism have been widely studied in rodents through experimental manipulations of the post-natal environment, such as handling, which have been shown to exert important effects on the emotional phenotype and the response to stress. In the present paper we review the relevant literature and present some original data indicating that, compared to handling, which imposes an external manipulation on the mother-infant relationship, social enrichment, in the form of communal rearing, in mice has very profound effects on animal's emotionality and the response to stress. These effects are also accompanied by important changes in central levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. The present data indicate that communal rearing has more pervasive effects than handling, strengthening previous data suggesting that it is a good animal model of reduced susceptibility to depression-like behavior. Overall, the availability of ever more sophisticated animal models represents a fundamental tool to translate basic research data into appropriate interventions for humans raised under traumatic or impoverished situations.
Several studies have investigated the neural correlates of self-reflection. In the paradigm most commonly used to address this concept, a subject is presented with trait adjectives or sentences and asked whether they describe him or her. Functional neuroimaging research has revealed a set of regions known as Cortical Midline Structures (CMS) appearing to be critically involved in self-reflection processes. Furthermore, it has been shown that patients suffering damage to the CMS, have difficulties in properly evaluating the problems they encounter and often overestimate their capacities and performance. Building on previous work, a meta-analysis of published fMRI and PET studies on self-reflection was conducted. The results showed that two areas within the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) are important in reflective processing, namely the ventral (v) and dorsal (d) MPFC. In this paper a model is proposed in which the vMPFC is responsible for tagging information relevant for 'self', whereas the dMPFC is responsible for evaluation and decision-making processes in self- and other-referential processing. Finally, implications of the model for schizophrenia and lack of insight are noted.
Electrophysiological recordings during visual tasks can shed light on the temporal dynamics of the subjective experience of seeing, visual awareness. This paper reviews studies on electrophysiological correlates of visual awareness operationalized as the difference between event-related potentials (ERPs) in response to stimuli that enter awareness and stimuli that do not. There are three candidates for such a correlate: enhancement of P1 around 100 ms, enhancement of early posterior negativity around 200 ms (visual awareness negativity, VAN), and enhancement of late positivity (LP) in the P3 time window around 400 ms. Review of studies using different manipulations of awareness suggests that VAN is the correlate of visual awareness that most consistently emerges across different manipulations of visual awareness. VAN emerges also relatively independent of manipulations of nonspatial attention, but seems to be dependent on spatial attention. The results suggest that visual awareness emerges about 200 ms after the onset of visual stimulation as a consequence of the activation of posterior occipito-temporal and parietal networks.

It is known that emotion and reward motivation promote long-term memory formation. It remains unclear, however, how and where emotion and reward are integrated during episodic memory encoding. In the present study, subjects were engaged in intentional encoding of photographs under four different conditions that were made by combining two factors (emotional valence, negative or neutral; and monetary reward value, high or low for subsequent successful recognition) during H2 15O positron emission tomography (PET) scanning. As for recognition performance, we found significant main effects of emotional valence (negative&gt;neutral) and reward value (high value&gt;low value), without an interaction between the two factors. Imaging data showed that the left amygdala was activated during the encoding conditions of negative pictures relative to neutral pictures, and the left orbitofrontal cortex was activated during the encoding conditions of high reward pictures relative to low reward pictures. In addition, conjunction analysis of these two main effects detected right hippocampal activation. Although we could not find correlations between recognition performance and activity of these three regions, we speculate that the right hippocampus may integrate the effects of emotion (processed in the amygdala) and monetary reward (processed in the orbitofrontal cortex) on episodic memory encoding.


3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an inhibitor of mitochondrial complex II, leads to metabolic impairment and neurodegeneration. In this study, we investigated the roles of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) in the dysregulation of transcription factors and histone modifying enzymes induced by 3-NP in primary cortical neurons. BDNF prevented the 3-NP-induced decrease in cAMP response-element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and CREB-binding protein levels. Both NGF and BDNF counteracted the increase in the levels of histone H3 and H4 acetylations and reduced histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity induced by 3-NP. BDNF further led to hyperphosphorylation of HDAC2. Our results support an important role for neurotrophins, particularly BDNF, in preventing detrimental changes in transcription factors and histone acetylation states in cortical neurons that have been subjected to selective mitochondrial inhibition.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive degenerative disorder characterized by the presence of amyloid deposits, neurofibrillary tangles and neuron loss. Emerging evidence indicates that antioxidants could be useful either for the prevention or treatment of AD. Tacrine and melatonin are well-known drugs which act as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and a free radical scavenger, respectively. In this study, we evaluated the effects of a new tacrine-melatonin hybrid on behavior and the biochemical and neuropathologic changes observed in amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/Ps1) transgenic mice. Our findings showed that direct intracerebral administration of this hybrid decreased amyloid beta peptide (Abeta)-induced cell death and amyloid burden in the brain parenchyma of APP/Ps1 mice. This reduction in Abeta pathology was accompanied by a recovery in cognitive function. Since this tacrine-melatonin hybrid apparently reduces brain Abeta and behavioral deficits, we believe this drug has remarkable and significant neuroprotective effects and might be considered a potential therapeutic strategy in AD.
Chemotherapy is the most common method to treat cancer. The use of certain antineoplastic drugs, however, is associated with the development of peripheral neuropathy that can be dose-limiting. Excitotoxic glutamate release, leading to excessive glutamatergic neurotransmission and activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, is associated with neuronal damage and death in several nervous system disorders. N-Acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) is an abundant neuropeptide widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous system which is physiologically hydrolyzed by the enzyme glutamate carboxypeptidase into N-Acetyl-aspartyl (NAA) and glutamate. Pharmacological inhibition of glutamate carboxypeptidase results in decreased glutamate and increased endogenous NAAG and has been shown to provide neuroprotection in several preclinical models. Here, we report the neuroprotective effect of an orally available glutamate carboxypeptidase inhibitor on three well-established animal models of chemotherapy (cisplatin, paclitaxel, bortezomib)-induced peripheral neuropathy. In all cases, glutamate carboxypeptidase inhibition significantly improved the chemotherapy-induced nerve conduction velocity deficits. In addition, morphological and morphometrical alterations induced by cisplatin and bortezomib in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were improved by glutamate carboxypeptidase inhibition. Our data support a novel approach for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
The higher risk for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) among professional soccer players, recently reported in Italy, has stimulated investigations in the search for environmental factors that may be at the origin of the increased susceptibility to the disease. Here we studied if high concentrations of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), widely used among athletes as dietary integrators to improve physical performance, may be related to an excitotoxic neuronal cell damage. Our results show that (i) high concentrations of BCAAs are neurotoxic and increase excitotoxicity in cortical neurons; (ii) neurotoxicity is brain area specific, being detected in cortical, but not in hippocampal neurons; (iii) it is related to NMDA receptor overstimulation, since it is abolished in the presence of MK-801, a specific NMDA channel blocker; (iv) it depends on the presence of astrocytes. We describe here a possible biological link between an environmental factor (high dietary intake of BCAAs) and the increased risk of ALS among soccer players.
Magnetic resonance histology (MRH) has become a widespread tool to examine brain morphology in situ or ex vivo. Samples are routinely fixed and stained to allow for longer scan times with increased contrast and resolution. Although the zebrafish is an important model for neuroscience, to date most MRH studies have focused almost exclusively on mice. In this paper, we examined, for the first time, the zebrafish brain using MRH. We compared a range of fixatives, contrast agents, and fixation/staining durations to determine optimal imaging of the zebrafish brain. By quantifying the T(1), T(2), and T(2)* relaxation values, we demonstrated that ethanol and potassium permanganate are unviable for imaging and significant differences exist between mono and di-aldehydes. Furthermore, we compared two commercially available gadolinium-based contrast agents, Magnevist and Optimark, at five different concentrations. For both contrast agents, a concentration of 0.5% was determined to be ideal as it significantly shortened the T(1) but maintained a relatively long T(2) and T(2)*. Subsequently, we analyzed the duration of fixation/staining and established a period of 12h, which best minimized T(1) values but maintained T(2) and T(2)* values. Finally, using this optimized fixation and staining protocol, we performed a gradient-echo T(2)*-weighted imaging to obtain an image set of the adult zebrafish brain at an isotropic resolution of 10m.

Mammalian inosine triphosphatase encoded by ITPA gene hydrolyzes ITP and dITP to monophosphates, avoiding their deleterious effects. Itpa(-) mice exhibited perinatal lethality, and significantly higher levels of inosine in cellular RNA and deoxyinosine in nuclear DNA were detected in Itpa(-) embryos than in wild-type embryos. Therefore, we examined the effects of ITPA deficiency on mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Itpa(-) primary MEFs lacking ITP-hydrolyzing activity exhibited a prolonged doubling time, increased chromosome abnormalities and accumulation of single-strand breaks in nuclear DNA, compared with primary MEFs prepared from wild-type embryos. However, immortalized Itpa(-) MEFs had neither of these phenotypes and had a significantly higher ITP/IDP-hydrolyzing activity than Itpa(-) embryos or primary MEFs. Mammalian NUDT16 proteins exhibit strong dIDP/IDP-hydrolyzing activity and similarly low levels of Nudt16 mRNA and protein were detected in primary MEFs derived from both wild-type and Itpa(-) embryos. However, immortalized Itpa(-) MEFs expressed significantly higher levels of Nudt16 than the wild type. Moreover, introduction of silencing RNAs against Nudt16 into immortalized Itpa(-) MEFs reproduced ITPA-deficient phenotypes. We thus conclude that NUDT16 and ITPA play a dual protective role for eliminating dIDP/IDP and dITP/ITP from nucleotide pools in mammals.
It has been suggested that for overweight and obese individuals high-calorie foods are more reinforcing than for normal-weight individuals. It has already been shown that in contrast to sedentary activities, snack food is more reinforcing for obese women, relative to normal-weight women. However, it is unclear whether overweight/obese individuals are more sensitive to the reinforcing value of food in general or more specifically to the reinforcing value of high-calorie foods. This was tested in the present study, with overweight/obese and normal-weight individuals performing a concurrent schedules task, which measures how hard someone is prepared to work for high-calorie snacks compared to low-calorie foods (e.g., fruits, vegetables), when both foods are equally liked. By gradually increasing the amount of work required to earn snacks, the relative-reinforcing value of snacks was determined. As hypothesized, overweight/obese individuals work harder for high-calorie snacks compared to normal-weight individuals.

The role of ion channels expressed in sensory neurons on mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia was examined in a rat model of cisplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy. The rats were injected with 3mg/kg of cisplatin intraperitoneally once per week for five consecutive weeks. The von Frey test, pin-prick test and plantar test were performed to examine any noxious sensitivity of the skin. The Randall-Selitto test of the gastrocnemius muscle (GM) and the measurement of grip forces were performed to quantify muscle hyperalgesia. Coordination/motor was assessed by Rota-rod testing. Expressions of the ion channels TRPV1, TRPV2, P2X(3) and ASIC3 were examined in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and the muscle afferent neurons innervating GM. Effects of antagonists against either P2X(3) or ASICs on behavioral responses were evaluated. Mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia of both skin and muscle were observed in cisplatin-treated animals. Expressions of TRPV2, P2X(3), and ASIC3 increased in all DRG neurons. In addition, expressions of P2X(3) and ASIC3 also increased in muscle afferent neurons in DRGs. Antagonists against P2X(3,2/3) and ASICs showed a suppressive effect on both skin and muscle hyperalgesia induced by cisplatin administration. Upregulation of TRPV2, P2X(3), and ASIC3 may play important roles in the mechanical hyperalgesia induced by cisplatin. Furthermore, cisplatin treatment also induced muscle hyperalgesia in muscle afferent neurons in connection with the upregulation of P2X(3) and ASIC3.
Extended viewing of movements of the intact hand in a mirror as well as motor imagery has been shown to decrease pain in phantom pain patients. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess the neural correlates of mirrored, imagined and executed hand movements in 14 upper extremity amputees - 7 with phantom limb pain (PLP) and 7 without phantom limb pain (non-PLP) and 9 healthy controls (HC). Executed movement activated the contralateral sensorimotor area in all three groups but ipsilateral cortex was only activated in the non-PLP and HC group. Mirrored movements activated the sensorimotor cortex contralateral to the hand seen in the mirror in the non-PLP and the HC but not in the PLP. Imagined movement activated the supplementary motor area in all groups and the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex in the non-PLP and HC but not in the PLP. Mirror- and movement-related activation in the bilateral sensorimotor cortex in the mirror movement condition and activation in the sensorimotor cortex ipsilateral to the moved hand in the executed movement condition were significantly negatively correlated with the magnitude of phantom limb pain in the amputee group. Further research must identify the causal mechanisms related to mirror treatment, imagined movements or movements of the other hand and associated changes in pain perception.
Non-invasive, movement-based models were used to investigate muscle pain. In rats, the masseter muscle was rapidly stretched or electrically stimulated during forced lengthening to produce eccentric muscle contractions (EC). Both EC and stretching disrupted scattered myofibers and produced intramuscular plasma extravasation. Pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were elevated in the masseter 24h following EC. At 48h, neutrophils increased and ED1 macrophages infiltrated myofibers while ED2 macrophages were abundant at 4d. Mechanical hyperalgesia was evident in the ipsilateral head 4h-4d after a single bout of EC and for 7d following multiple bouts (1 bout/d for 4d). Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) mRNA increased in the trigeminal ganglion 24h following EC while immunoreactive CGRP decreased. By 2d, CGRP-muscle afferent numbers equaled naive numbers implying that CGRP is released following EC and replenished within 2d. EC elevated P2X(3) mRNA and increased P2X(3) muscle afferent neuron number for 12d while electrical stimulation without muscle contraction altered neither CGRP nor P2X(3) mRNA levels. Muscle stretching produced hyperalgesia for 2d whereas contraction alone produced no hyperalgesia. Stretching increased CGRP mRNA at 24h but not CGRP-muscle afferent number at 2-12d. In contrast, stretching significantly increased the number of P2X(3) muscle afferent neurons for 12d. The sustained, elevated P2X(3) expression evoked by EC and stretching may enhance nociceptor responsiveness to ATP released during subsequent myofiber damage. Movement-based actions such as EC and muscle stretching produce unique tissue responses and modulate neuropeptide and nociceptive receptor expression in a manner particularly relevant to repeated muscle damage.
Symptomatological prediction of Intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) mortality is a simple and effective method compared to pathological predictors. In this study we considered consciousness level as an easily measurable predictor and compared it to haemorrhage location, intraventricular penetration and haemorrhage size derived from Computerized Tomography (CT) to predict mortality using a parametric survival analysis model. Two hundred and thirty eight ICH patients from a neurology hospital ward were enrolled into this comparative study. Patient history was documented with respect to mortality and a questionnaire outlining background variables and medical history was completed for them. Consciousness level was clinically evaluated by a physician while haemorrhage size and location were determined via computerized tomographic scanning reports. Data were entered into the computer and analyzed according to the Weibull parametric survival analysis model using STATA 8 statistical software. Males constituted 47.1% of the 238 patients, 52.9% were females. The age range of the patients varied from 13 to 88 years, with a mean age of 62.4 +/- 13.6 (Mean +/- SD). Half of the patients survived more than 20 days. Using the Weibull regression model, the only significant independent symptomatological predictor of mortality was found to be the level of consciousness. Cumulative hazard during the 90 days was compared for different levels of consciousness. Application of Weibull to pathological predictors of ICH mortality showed that the two independent predictors were haemorrhage size and intraventricular penetration. Results of statistical modelling didn't provide evidence of priority for pathological predictors of survival compared to easily measurable levels of consciousness as a symptomatological predictor. Easily measurable symptoms of level of consciousness can be used as a survival predictor of stroke due to intra-cerebral haemorrhage when compared to pathological indicators.

Preterm and critically ill newborns admitted to a NICU undergo repeated skin-breaking procedures that are necessary for their survival. Sucrose is rapidly becoming the accepted clinical standard nonpharmacologic intervention for managing acute procedural pain for these infants. Although shown to be safe in single doses, only 4 studies have evaluated the effects of repeated doses of sucrose over relatively short periods of time. None has examined the use of sucrose throughout the NICU stay, and only 1 study evaluated the neurodevelopmental outcomes after repeated doses of sucrose. In that study, infants born at &lt;31 weeks' gestational age and exposed to &gt;10 doses per day in the first week of life were more likely to show poorer attention and motor development in the early months after discharge from the NICU. Results of studies in animal models have suggested that the mechanism of action of sucrose is through opioid pathways; however, in human infants, little has been done to examine the physiologic mechanisms involved, and the findings reported thus far have been ambiguous. Drawing from the growing animal literature of research that has examined the effects of chronic sugar exposure, we describe alternative amine and hormone pathways that are common to the processing of sucrose, attention, and motor development. In addition, a review of the latest research to examine the effects of repeated sucrose on pain processing is presented. These 2 literatures each can inform the other and can provide an impetus to initiate research to examine not only the mechanisms involved in the calming mechanisms of sucrose but also in the long-term neurodevelopmental effects of repeated sucrose in those infants born extremely preterm or critically ill.
Alcohol use continues to be a major problem from preadolescence through young adulthood in the United States. Results of recent neuroscience research have substantiated the deleterious effects of alcohol on adolescent brain development and added even more evidence to support the call to prevent and reduce underaged drinking. Pediatricians should be knowledgeable about substance abuse to be able to recognize risk factors for alcohol and other substance abuse among youth, screen for use, provide appropriate brief interventions, and refer to treatment. The integration of alcohol use prevention programs in the community and our educational system from elementary school through college should be promoted by pediatricians and the health care community. Promotion of media responsibility to connect alcohol consumption with realistic consequences should be supported by pediatricians. Additional research into the prevention, screening and identification, brief intervention, and management and treatment of alcohol and other substance use by adolescents continues to be needed to improve evidence-based practices.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) regulates various biological functions by selectively activating the NPS receptor (NPSR). Previous studies demonstrated that the non-peptide molecule SHA 68 acts as a selective NPSR antagonist. In the present study the pharmacological profile of SHA 68 has been further investigated in vitro and in vivo. In cells expressing the mouse NPSR SHA 68 was inactive per se up to 10microM while it antagonized NPS-stimulated calcium mobilization in a competitive manner showing a pA(2) value of 8.06. In the 10-50mg/kg range of doses, SHA 68 counteracted the stimulant effects elicited by NPS, but not those of caffeine, in mouse locomotor activity experiments. In the mouse righting reflex assay SHA 68 fully prevented the arousal-promoting action of the peptide. The anxiolytic-like effects of NPS were slightly reduced by SHA 68 in the mouse open field, fully prevented in the rat elevated plus maze and partially antagonized in the rat defensive burying paradigm. Finally, SHA 68 was found poorly active in antagonizing the NPS inhibitory effect on palatable food intake in rats. In all assays SHA 68 did not produce any effect per se. In conclusion, the present study demonstrated that SHA 68 behaves as a selective NPSR antagonist that can be used to characterize the in vivo actions of NPS. However the usefulness of this research tool is limited by its poor pharmacokinetic properties.

Recent research findings suggest possible increases in risk of suicidal behaviors among patients treated with anticonvulsants. The available evidence appears to support such a risk more clearly for patients diagnosed with epilepsy rather than with primary psychiatric disorders. However, the studies involved are limited by providing associational findings that may be confounded by several uncontrolled variables. Such limitations should be considered in future research on adverse effects of anticonvulsants and other centrally acting drugs. For now, however, clinical prudence calls for routine, ongoing assessment of mood and suicidal thoughts among neurological or psychiatric patients, whether or not treated with particular drugs.
Repeated exposure to ethanol may produce increased sensitivity to its acute locomotor stimulant actions, a process referred to as locomotor sensitization. Neuroadaptation within certain brain circuits, including those possessing GABA(A) receptors, may underlie locomotor sensitization to ethanol. Indeed, GABA(A) receptors are documented mediators of ethanol's cellular and behavioral actions. Moreover, because subunit composition of this receptor is predictive of its pharmacology, it is possible that alterations in subunit composition contribute to the expression of locomotor sensitization to ethanol. The goal of the present study was to determine if alterations in GABA(A) subunit composition are associated with the expression of locomotor sensitization in DBA/2J mice, a strain known to be particularly susceptible to the development of this behavioral phenomenon. Following a modified 14day sensitization procedure (Phillips et al., 1994) relative changes in GABA(A) subunit gene expression were assessed in discrete mesolimbic brain regions. To determine if the observed changes in gene expression produced functional changes in the locomotor responses to drugs known to either preferentially or generally activate GABA(A) receptors normally possessing the significantly altered subunits, separate cohorts of animals were challenged with one of several low doses of zolpidem (alpha1-selective), etomidate (beta2/3-selective), or flurazepam (gamma2-directed) and assessed for locomotor alterations. Sensitized animals displayed increased expression of the alpha1, beta2, and gamma2 (v1) subunits in the Nucleus Accumbens (NAc) but not Ventral Tegmental Area (VTA). Additionally, sensitized animals displayed altered sensitivity to the locomotor actions of etomidate and flurazepam. These results support the hypothesis that neuroadaptive changes in GABA(A) subunit composition participate in the expression of locomotor sensitization.
Bilateral olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) in rodents produces behavioral and neurochemical changes associated clinically with depression and schizophrenia. Most notably, OBX induces hyperlocomotion in response to the stress of exposure to a novel environment. We examined the role of the endocannabinoid system in regulating this locomotor response in OBX and sham-operated rats. In our study, OBX-induced hyperactivity was restricted to the first 3 min of the open field test, demonstrating the presence of novelty (0-3 min) and habituation (3-30 min) phases of the open field locomotor response. Levels of the endocannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide were decreased in the ventral striatum, a brain region deafferented by OBX, whereas cannabinoid receptor densities were unaltered. In sham-operated rats, 2-AG levels in the ventral striatum were negatively correlated with distance traveled during the novelty phase. Thus, low levels of 2-AG are reflected in a hyperactive open field response. This correlation was not observed in OBX rats. Conversely, 2-AG levels in endocannabinoid-compromised OBX rats correlated with distance traveled during the habituation phase. In OBX rats, pharmacological blockade of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors with either AM251 (1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) or rimonabant (1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) increased distance traveled during the habituation phase. Thus, blockade of endocannabinoid signaling impairs habituation of the hyperlocomotor response in OBX, but not sham-operated, rats. By contrast, in sham-operated rats, effects of CB(1) antagonism were restricted to the novelty phase. These findings suggest that dysregulation in the endocannabinoid system, and 2-AG in particular, is implicated in the hyperactive locomotor response induced by OBX. Our studies suggest that drugs that enhance 2-AG signaling, such as 2-AG degradation inhibitors, might be useful in human brain disorders modeled by OBX.
In this paper, we use computational models of varying complexity to investigate the role of synaptic modifications for cortical network properties. In particular, we study how the dynamics can be regulated by neuromodulators, intrinsic noise and chemical agents. We focus on the complex neurodynamics and its modulation, and how this is related to the neural circuitry, where connectivity enhancement and pruning is considered. The emphasis is on the overall network structures, with feedforward and feedback loops between excitatory and inhibitory neurons at several layers and distances, and less details at the synaptic level. Our models aim at linking processes at a molecular and cellular (microscale), with processes at a network level (mesoscale), which in turn are linked to the mental processes and cognitive functions (macroscale). We also discuss the relevance of these results for clinical and experimental neuroscience, with applications to learning, memory, arousal, and mental disorders.
We review the evolution of synapse models over the last sixty-five years in terms of the changing paradigms: initially, the synapse was modelled only as part of a neuronal system, both as a number (weight of an edge in a connectionist network) and as a channel in a conductance-based model. With the availability of more structural and kinetic data, it came to be seen as a full-fledged biochemical network, accompanied by a shift from the previous &quot;top-down&quot; approach to a more &quot;bottom-up&quot; network reconstruction. Most recently, the synapse is seen as a geometric 3-dimensional space with various processes driving the dynamics. A particular focus is placed on models of the dopamine synapse and their connections to schizophrenia. The advances of detailed modelling on the synaptic level have highlighted the challenges of integrating the various functional levels, which are tightly coupled with processes on different scales in time and space. On the other hand, this effort will contribute to bridging the currently perceived gap between computational neuroscience and (computational) systems biology.
Understanding the synapse and its role in the development of psychiatric disorders is not only a demanding but a highly relevant challenge for neuroscience. With the advancement of modern high-throughput technologies, the amount of data collected becomes incomprehensible and the volume of information intractable for the individual scientist. Why Systems Biology opens alternatives to organize information and to deduce knowledge that can be scrutinized by rationally designed experiments? We discuss some of the fundamental ideas why Systems Biology is indeed an alternative to reductionism and show an example how semantics may help to exploit the rich source of the scientific literature to generate qualitative models of functional modules.
Low-level light therapy (LLLT) increases survival of cultured cells, improves behavioral recovery from neurodegeneration and speeds wound healing. These beneficial effects are thought to be mediated by upregulation of mitochondrial proteins, especially the respiratory enzyme cytochrome oxidase. However, the effects of in vivo LLLT on cytochrome oxidase in intact skeletal muscle have not been previously investigated. We used a sensitive method for enzyme histochemistry of cytochrome oxidase to examine the rat temporalis muscle 24 h after in vivo LLLT. The findings showed for the first time that in vivo LLLT induced a dose- and fiber type-dependent increase in cytochrome oxidase in muscle fibers. LLLT was particularly effective at enhancing the aerobic capacity of intermediate and red fibers. The findings suggest that LLLT may enhance the oxidative energy metabolic capacity of different types of muscle fibers, and that LLLT may be used to enhance the aerobic potential of skeletal muscle.

Describe and define the concept of central fatigue, as well as discuss the behavioral and neuroimaging studies that attempt its assessment and measurement. A brief description of how fatigue can be differentiated from psychiatric symptoms and from sleepiness is also provided. Promising directions for future research will be outlined in the final portion of this review. Despite its popular clinical use as a descriptor of certain symptomatology, fatigue is not a unitary construct. Describing central fatigue as distinct from peripheral fatigue represents one way of understanding the underlying neural and behavioral concomitants of fatigue.
Noxious stimuli can usually cause the aversive sensations, pain and itch. The initial integration of such noxious information occurs in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord (SDH), which is very important for understanding pain sensation and developing effective analgesic strategies. The circuits formed by pools of neurons and terminals within SDH are accepted as the platform for such complicated integrations and are highly plastic under conditions of inflammatory or neuropathic pain. Recent literature offers a complicated, yet versatile view of SDH intrinsic circuits with both inhibitory and excitatory components. However, our knowledge about the adaptative regulation of SDH local circuits is still far from sufficient due to the incomplete understanding of their organization as they are intermingled with primary afferent fibers (PAFs), poorly understood or identified SDH neurons, somehow contradictory data for descending control systems. A more positive view emphasizes abundant modern data on SDH neuron morphology and physiology riding on the back of significant technological advancements used in neuroscience. Reviewing the current literature on this topic thus produced an integrated understanding of SDH neurons and the SDH local circuits involved in noxious transmission and modulation.
Various combinations of subunits assemble to form the NMDA-type glutamate receptor (NMDAR), generating diversity in its functions. Here we review roles of the unique NMDAR subunit, NR3A, which acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress receptor activity. NR3A-containing NMDARs display striking regional and temporal expression specificity, and, unlike most other NMDAR subtypes, they have a low conductance, are only modestly permeable to Ca(2+), and pass current at hyperpolarized potentials in the presence of magnesium. While glutamate activates triheteromeric NMDARs composed of NR1/NR2/NR3A subunits, glycine is sufficient to activate diheteromeric NR1/NR3A-containing receptors. NR3A dysfunction may contribute to neurological disorders involving NMDARs, and the subunit offers an attractive therapeutic target given its distinct pharmacological and structural properties.
Down syndrome (DS) is the leading cause of genetically-defined intellectual disability and congenital birth defects. Despite being one of the first genetic diseases identified, only recently, thanks to the phenotypic analysis of DS mouse genetic models, we have begun to understand how trisomy may impact cognitive function. Cognitive disabilities in DS appear to result mainly from two pathological processes: neurogenesis impairment and Alzheimer-like degeneration. In DS brain, suboptimal network architecture and altered synaptic communication arising from neurodevelopmental impairment are key determinants of cognitive defects. Hypocellularity and hypoplasia start at early developmental stages and likely depend upon impaired proliferation of neuronal precursors, resulting in reduction of numbers of neurons and synaptic contacts. The impairment of neuronal precursor proliferation extends to adult neurogenesis and may affect learning and memory. Neurodegenerative mechanisms also contribute to DS cognitive impairment. Early onset Alzheimer disease occurs with extremely high incidence in DS patients and is causally-related to overexpression of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP), which is one of the triplicated genes in DS. In this review, we will survey the available findings on neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative changes occurring in DS throughout life. Moreover, we will discuss the potential mechanisms by which defects in neurogenesis and neurodegenerative processes lead to altered formation of neural circuits and impair cognitive function, in connection with findings on pharmacological treatments of potential benefit for DS.
Cell death induced by over-activation of glutamate receptors occurs in different neuropathologies. Cholesterol depletors protect from neurotoxic over-activation of glutamate receptors, and we have recently reported that this neuroprotection is associated with a reduction of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors in detergent-resistant membrane domains (DRM). In the present study we used comparative proteomics to further identify which proteins, besides the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, change its percentage of association to DRM after treatment of neurons with simvastatin. We detected 338 spots in neuronal DRM subjected to 2-DE; eleven of these spots changed its intensity after treatment with simvastatin. All 11 differential spots showed reduced intensity in simvastatin-treated samples and were identified as adipocyte plasma membrane associated protein, enolase, calretinin, coronin 1a, f-actin capping protein alpha1, f-actin capping protein alpha2, heat shock cognate protein 71, malate dehydrogenase, n-myc downregulated gene 1, prohibitin 2, Rab GDP dissociation inhibitor, translationally controlled tumor protein and voltage dependent anion selective channel protein 1. The proteins tested colocalized with the lipid raft marker caveolin-1. Interestingly, the proteins we have identified in the present study had been previously reported to play a role in cell fate and, thus, they might represent novel targets for neuroprotection.

Integrating ideas from Mikulincer and Shaver's (2003) process model of attachment and Nelson and Panksepp's (1998) neurobiological theory of an integrated social emotion system, we predicted novel attachment-related learning effects. In two experiments, we tested for a unique form of conditioning based on the social regulation of emotion. Consistent with this theoretical integration, the results indicated that people develop more positive and less negative associations with faces of people who display genuine smiles if those faces have been implicitly paired with a distressing stimulus (e.g., a striking snake). These findings could have broad implications and should be of interest to researchers who study attachment, social and affective neuroscience, emotion, learning and memory, attitudes, and interpersonal relationships.



To carry out tasks with the highest possible efficiency we have developed executive mechanisms that monitor task performance and optimize cognitive processing. It has been hypothesized that these executive mechanisms operate even without conscious awareness to maximize their sensitivity to task-relevant outcomes. To test this hypothesis the present study examined the error-related negativity (ERN), an electrophysiological index of the performance-monitoring neural circuitry, during masked visual search. The findings show that representations of target objects that are processed perceptually, but not to the level of awareness, fail to elicit an ERN despite the ability of these targets to elicit a shift of attention. These findings indicate that the performance-monitoring mechanism indexed by the ERN requires target information to be processed to the level of awareness for a mismatch between stimulus and response to be detected.
The prevalence of stress disorders differs between men and women. An understanding of how men and women vary in acute stress responses may help to understand these sex differences. We compared responses to the TSST and a control task in healthy men (N=28) and women tested in two phases (Follicular N=29, Luteal N=23) of the menstrual cycle. Men exhibited greater cortisol responses to stress than women in either phase. Luteal women exhibited the greatest subjective and allopregnanolone responses to stress, whereas follicular women exhibited blunted noradrenaline responses. Partial correlations controlling for group differences revealed that individuals who were most sensitive to the subjective effects of stress exhibited the largest salivary cortisol, noradrenaline, and allopregnanolone responses and the smallest progesterone responses to stress. We discuss our findings in the context of sex differences in the prevalence of stress-linked disorders.

Neurologically intact individuals show a spatial processing bias in perception tasks, specifically showing a bias towards the left in bisecting lines. We present evidence for a novel finding that a leftwards bias occurs in short-term memory for recently presented arbitrary bindings of visual features. Three experiments are reported, two of which involve a total of over 60,000 participants with a small number of trials for each. Experiment 3 involved a larger number of trials for each of 144 participants. Participants reproduced from immediate memory arrays of shape-colour-location bindings. In all three experiments, significantly more errors were observed in reproduction of items presented on the right of the array than on the left. Results could not be accounted for by perceptual errors, or by order of presentation or order of reproduction. Findings suggest that items presented on the left are better remembered, indicating a spatial asymmetry in forming or retrieving feature bindings in visual short-term memory.
This study aimed to assess eventual disturbances of spatial memory in patients suffering from generalized epilepsy in order to better grasp these patients' attitudes so as to keep track their neuropsychological accompaniments. 70 patients presenting generalized epilepsy have taken part in spatial memory test. The test consists in studying the arrangement, the designation and the evocation of images in the course of spatial disposition learning test. Over the 70 patients, 51% of the cases passed the test with performances similar to witnesses, 29% passed the test with late learning. Eventually 20% of patients failed to the test.


MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous single-stranded RNA molecules of about 21 nucleotides in length that are fundamental post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression. Although the transcriptional and processing events involved in the generation of miRNAs have been extensively studied, very little is known pertaining to components that regulate the stability of individual miRNAs. All RNAs have distinct inherent half-lives that dictate their level of accumulation and miRNAs would be expected to follow a similar principle. Here we demonstrate that although most miRNA appear to be stable, like mRNAs, miRNAs possess differential stability in human cells. In particular, we found that miR-382, a miRNA that contributes to HIV-1 provirus latency, is unstable in cells. To determine the region of miR-382 responsible for its rapid decay, we developed a cell-free system that recapitulated the observed cell-based-regulated miR-382 turnover. The system utilizes in vitro-processed mature miRNA derived from pre-miRNA and follows the decay of the processed miRNA. Using this system, we demonstrate that instability of miR-382 is driven by sequences outside its seed region and required the 3' terminal seven nucleotides where mutations in this region increased the stability of the RNA. Moreover, the exosome 3'-5' exoribonuclease complex was identified as the primary nuclease involved in miR-382 decay with a more modest contribution by the Xrn1 and no detectable contribution by Xrn2. These studies provide evidence for an miRNA element essential for rapid miRNA decay and implicate the exosome in this process. The development of a biochemically amendable system to analyze the mechanism of differential miRNA stability provides an important step in efforts to regulate gene expression by modulating miRNA stability.
Epidemiological studies suggest that auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) occur in approximately 10%-15% of the general population, of whom only a small proportion has a clinically relevant psychotic disorder. It is unclear whether these hallucinations occur as an isolated phenomenon or if AVH in nonclinical individuals are part of a more general susceptibility to schizophrenia. For this study, 103 healthy individuals with frequent AVH were compared with 60 controls matched for sex, age, and education. All participants were examined by a psychiatrist using standardized diagnostic interviews and questionnaires. The individuals with AVH did not have clinically defined delusions, disorganization, or negative or catatonic symptoms, nor did they meet criteria for cluster A personality disorder. However, their global level of functioning was lower than in the controls and there was a pronounced increase on all subclusters of the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) and the Peters Delusion Inventory, indicating a general increased schizotypal and delusional tendency in the hallucinating subjects. History of childhood trauma and family history of axis I disorders were also more prevalent in these individuals. We showed that higher SPQ scores, lower education, and higher family loading for psychiatric disorders, but not presence of AVH, were associated with lower global functioning. Our data suggest that AVH in otherwise healthy individuals are not an isolated phenomenon but part of a general vulnerability for schizophrenia.
Auditory hallucinations are generally defined as false perceptions. Recent developments in auditory neuroscience have rapidly increased our understanding of normal auditory perception revealing (partially) separate pathways for the identification (&quot;what&quot;) and localization (&quot;where&quot;) of auditory objects. The current review offers a reexamination of the nature of auditory hallucinations in schizophrenia using this object-based framework. First, the structural and functional organization of auditory what and where pathways is briefly described. Then, using recent functional neuroimaging data from healthy subjects and patients with schizophrenia, key phenomenological features of hallucinations are linked to abnormal processing both within and between these pathways. Finally, current cognitive explanations of hallucinations, based on intrusive cognitions and impaired source memory, are briefly outlined and set within this framework to provide an integrated cognitive neuropsychological model of auditory hallucinations.
Schizophrenia is associated with cognitive processing deficits, including deficits in executive processing, that represent a core component of the disorder. In the Task Switching Test, subjects view ambiguous stimuli and must alternate between competing rules to generate correct responses. Subjects show worse performance (prolonged response time and/or increased error rates) on the first response after a switch than on subsequent responses (&quot;switch costs&quot;), as well as performing worse when stimuli are incongruent as opposed to congruent (&quot;congruence costs&quot;). Finally, subjects show worse performance in the dual vs single task condition (&quot;mixing costs&quot;). In monkeys, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist ketamine has been shown to increase congruence but not switch costs. Here, subjects viewed colored letters and had to respond alternately based upon letter (X vs O) or color (red vs blue). Switch, congruence and mixing costs were calculated. Patients with schizophrenia (n = 16) and controls (n = 17) showed similar switch costs, consistent with prior literature. Patients nevertheless showed increased congruence and mixing costs. In addition, relative to controls, patients showed worse performance across conditions in the letter vs color tasks, suggesting deficits in form vs color processing. Overall, while confirming executive dysfunction in schizophrenia, this study indicates that not all aspects of executive control are impaired and that the task switching paradigm may be useful for evaluating neurochemical vs neuroanatomic hypotheses of schizophrenia.
Individuals with schizophrenia show reliable deficits in the ability to recognize emotions from vocal expressions. Here, we examined emotion recognition ability in 23 schizophrenia patients relative to 17 healthy controls using a stimulus battery with well-characterized acoustic features. We further evaluated performance deficits relative to ancillary assessments of underlying pitch perception abilities. As predicted, patients showed reduced emotion recognition ability across a range of emotions, which correlated with impaired basic tone matching abilities. Emotion identification deficits were strongly related to pitch-based acoustic cues such as mean and variability of fundamental frequency. Whereas healthy subjects' performance varied as a function of the relative presence or absence of these cues, with higher cue levels leading to enhanced performance, schizophrenia patients showed significantly less variation in performance as a function of cue level. In contrast to pitch-based cues, both groups showed equivalent variation in performance as a function of intensity-based cues. Finally, patients were less able than controls to differentiate between expressions with high and low emotion intensity, and this deficit was also correlated with impaired tone matching ability. Both emotion identification and intensity rating deficits were unrelated to valence of intended emotions. Deficits in both auditory emotion identification and more basic perceptual abilities correlated with impaired functional outcome. Overall, these findings support the concept that auditory emotion identification deficits in schizophrenia reflect, at least in part, a relative inability to process critical acoustic characteristics of prosodic stimuli and that such deficits contribute to poor global outcome.
Emotion regulation processes, such as reappraisal, are thought to operate through interactions between prefrontal emotion-control regions and subcortical emotion-generation regions such as the amygdala. Impairments in emotional processing and regulation have been reported in schizophrenia and at-risk populations. Psychometric measures may be used to detect vulnerability to schizophrenia in non-clinical samples, or psychosis proneness (PP). It has been shown that individuals with PP have a more than tenfold increased risk of developing a schizophrenia-spectrum disorder. In the present study, we used fMRI to examine the neural dynamics underlying reappraisal in such a sample. 600 undergraduate students completed the Community Assessment of Psychic Experiences Questionnaire (CAPE), positive subscale. Two groups were subsequently formed from the extremes of the distribution (total N=34). Blood-oxygenated-level-dependent activity elicited with a task involving 3 conditions was analyzed: viewing neutral pictures, viewing negative pictures, and reappraising negative pictures. Subjects reported the strength of experienced negative affect after each trial. Functional connectivity between prefrontal control regions and amygdala was investigated. At the behavioral level, both groups reported successful diminishment of experienced negative emotion. However, high psychosis-prone subjects showed stronger activation than low subjects in a number of prefrontal regions during reappraisal, relative to attending to negative pictures. The amygdala response to negative stimuli was decreased through reappraisal only in the low group. Functional connectivity analysis revealed less prefrontal-amygdala coupling in high psychosis-prone subjects. Thus, reduced cognitive control of emotion at a neural level appeared to be associated with PP. These findings extend the hypothesis of emotion dysregulation in schizophrenia to PP, and suggest that emotion regulation difficulties may be at the core of a vulnerability to psychosis.

Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) tends to replicate in the temporal cortex and can damage the limbic system. The presence of serum antibodies to HSV-1 is associated with cognitive impairment in adults with schizophrenia, suggesting that cerebral gray matter abnormalities might distinguish patient subgroups defined by HSV-1 exposure. We assessed 43 adult outpatients with schizophrenia. The assessment included clinical interviews, neurocognitive testing, anatomic brain magnetic resonance imaging and measures of serum IgG antibodies specific to herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2. We then compared 25 patients who tested positive for antibodies to HSV-1 with 15 who were seronegative for both HSV-1 and HSV-2. The seropositive patients performed significantly worse than the seronegative patients on four neuropsychological measures of psychomotor speed, executive functioning, and explicit verbal memory. Voxel-based morphometric analyses revealed that the same patients showed reduced gray matter volume in the anterior cingulate and areas of the cerebellum. Finally, performance on the test of psychomotor speed and executive functioning that showed the largest between- group effect size correlated with reduced gray matter volume in some of the same brain regions (cingulate and cerebellum) that distinguished the two HSV-1 subgroups. In these outpatients with schizophrenia, HSV-1 seropositivity and performance on a cognitive test that is highly sensitive to it co-localize to closely overlapping brain regions.

A link between celiac disease and schizophrenia has been postulated for several years, based primarily on reports of elevated levels of antibody to gliadin in patients. We sought to examine the proposed connection between schizophrenia and celiac disease by characterizing the molecular specificity and mechanism of the anti-gliadin immune response in a subset of individuals with schizophrenia. Blood samples from individuals with schizophrenia and elevated anti-gliadin antibody titer were examined for celiac disease-associated biomarkers, including antibodies to transglutaminase 2 (TG2) enzyme and deamidated gliadin peptides, as well as the HLA-DQ2 and -DQ8 MHC genes. The anti-gliadin antibody response was further characterized through examination of reactivity towards chromatographically separated gluten proteins. Target proteins of interest were identified by peptide mass mapping. In contrast to celiac disease patients, an association between the anti-gliadin immune response and anti-TG2 antibody or HLA-DQ2 and -DQ8 markers was not found in individuals with schizophrenia. In addition, the majority of individuals with schizophrenia and anti-gliadin antibody did not exhibit antibody reactivity to deamidated gliadin peptides. Further characterization of the antibody specificity revealed preferential reactivity towards different gluten proteins in the schizophrenia and celiac disease groups. These findings indicate that the anti-gliadin immune response in schizophrenia has a different antigenic specificity from that in celiac disease and is independent of the action of transglutaminase enzyme and HLA-DQ2/DQ8. Meanwhile, the presence of elevated levels of antibodies to specific gluten proteins points to shared immunologic abnormalities in a subset of schizophrenia patients. Further characterization and understanding of the immune response to gluten in schizophrenia may provide novel insights into the etiopathogenesis of specific disease phenotypes.

This study was designed to investigate the effects of alpha-synuclein on toxicity induced by long-term exposure to relatively low concentrations of rotenone. Compared with the control groups, the inhibition of cell viability which overexpressed alpha-synuclein (SH-SY5Y-Syn) improved after 1 and 2 weeks of rotenone treatment. The complex I activity was greater and the mitochondrial membrane swelling intensity was reduced after 1 and 2 weeks of treatment, which indicated that alpha-synuclein, at least in part, resists the rotenone-induced oxidative stress. The results indicate that alpha-synuclein has a dual effect on toxicity of rotenone according to exposure time in human SH-SY5Y cells.



Ewing's sarcoma, which accounts for 6 to 9% of malignant bone neoplasms in children, typically affects the trunk and long bones and less often affects the skull (i.e., maxilla, frontal, parietal, ethmoid, temporal bones). Adding to literature of five previously reported cases, we now describe the case of the oldest child, a 16-year-old boy, with a primary Ewing's sarcoma of the petrous temporal bone. When this patient presented after 1 week of right-sided facial paralysis and new-onset headache, imaging studies showed a mass that originated in the right petrous temporal bone. During biopsy and surgical excision, the mass was found to involve the facial nerve, which then required nerve grafting. Postoperatively, he then underwent radiotherapy with both induction and adjuvant chemotherapy. Although an uncommon tumor of the temporal bone, physicians should consider Ewing's sarcoma in the differential diagnosis of children and adolescents who present with facial nerve paralysis.
Extraordinary strides have been made toward understanding the complexities and regulatory mechanisms of sleep over the past two decades thanks to the help of rapidly evolving technologies. At its most basic level, mammalian sleep is a restorative process of the brain and body. Beyond its primary restorative purpose, sleep is essential for a number of vital functions. Our primary research interest is to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of sleep and its cognitive functions. Here I will reflect on our own research contributions to 50 years of extraordinary advances in the neurobiology of slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep regulation. I conclude this review by suggesting some potential future directions to further our understanding of the neurobiology of sleep.


Neurogenesis occurs throughout the life in the mammalian brain. The hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) is one of the major regions of the adult neurogenesis, where neural stem/progenitor cells continuously generate new granule neurons, although molecular mechanisms underlying generation and maintenance of newly born neurons are still elusive. Here we show that ephrin-A5, a ligand for Eph receptor tyrosine kinases, plays multiple roles in both neurogenesis and vascular formation in the adult hippocampus. In mice lacking ephrin-A5 function, cell proliferation and survival of newborn neurons were severely reduced in the hippocampus DG. Furthermore, ephrin-A5-deficient mice exhibited altered distribution of EphA4 receptor in the vascular endothelial cells and increased narrower capillaries in the hippocampus DG. EphA/ephrin-A signaling thus plays crucial roles in the establishment and/or maintenance of the brain vascular system, as an essential constituent of the adult neurogenic niche.

Rhythmic oscillatory activities at the theta frequency (3-12 Hz) have long attracted attention, as they have been implicated in diverse brain functions. There are two kinds of hippocampal theta rhythms: Type 1 is an atropine-resistant noncholinergic theta rhythm, and Type 2 is an atropine-sensitive cholinergic theta rhythm. However, it has not yet been determined whether the theta rhythm generated during passive whole-body rotation is of Type 1 or 2. To clarify this issue, we investigated passive whole-body rotation-induced theta rhythm using C57BL/6J normal and atropine-treated mice. The results demonstrated that atropine [50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)], a cholinergic antagonist, abolished the theta rhythm generated during passive whole-body rotation. Therefore, the passive whole-body rotation-induced theta rhythm is an atropine-sensitive Type 2 theta rhythm. In addition, we found that blocking cholinergic receptors using atropine resulted in the loss of the orientation homeostasis response, which is a circling behavior in the direction opposite to that of the rotating circular treadmill that is generated to maintain a constant orientation. These results suggest that atropine-sensitive Type 2 theta rhythm can be generated by a passive rotation-induced vestibular sensory signal and may be necessary for spatial orientation homeostasis response behavior.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a potentially devastating disease marked by progressive weakness and muscle atrophy resulting from the dysfunction and loss of motor neurons of the spinal cord, has emerged in recent years as an attractive target for therapeutic intervention. Caused by a homozygous mutation to the Survival of Motor Neurons 1 (SMN1) gene on chromosome 5q, the severity of the clinical phenotype in SMA is modulated by the function of a related protein, Survival of Motor Neurons 2 (SMN2). SMN2 predominantly produces an unstable SMN transcript lacking exon 7; only about 10% of the transcription product produces a full-length, functional SMN protein. Several therapeutic strategies have targeted this gene with the goal of producing increased full-length SMN transcript, thereby modifying the underlying mechanism. Drugs that have increased SMN2 function, in vitro, are now explored for potential therapeutic benefit in this disease. Alternative approaches, including neuroprotective, muscle anabolic, gene and cell replacement strategies, also hold promise. The recent advances in preclinical research and the development of a wider range of animal models for SMA continue to provide cautious optimism that effective treatments for SMA will eventually emerge.

Over the last few decades, comparative cognitive research has focused on the pinnacles of mental evolution, asking all-or-nothing questions such as which animals (if any) possess a theory of mind, culture, linguistic abilities, future planning, and so on. Research programs adopting this top-down perspective have often pitted one taxon against another, resulting in sharp dividing lines. Insight into the underlying mechanisms has lagged behind. A dramatic change in focus now seems to be under way, however, with increased appreciation that the basic building blocks of cognition might be shared across a wide range of species. We argue that this bottom-up perspective, which focuses on the constituent capacities underlying larger cognitive phenomena, is more in line with both neuroscience and evolutionary biology.

A persistent mystery about the ataxias has been why mutations in genes--many of which are expressed widely in the brain--primarily cause ataxia, and not, for example, epilepsy or dementia. Why should a polyglutamine stretch in the TATA-binding protein (that is important in all cells) particularly disrupt cerebellar coordination? We propose that advances in the genetics of cerebellar ataxias suggest a rational hypothesis for how so many different genes lead to predominantly cerebellar defects. We argue that the unifying feature of many genes involved in cerebellar ataxias is their impact on the signaling protein ITPR1 (inositiol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor type 1), that underlies coincidence detection in Purkinje cells and could play an important role in cerebellar coordination.
Transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) are the first identified auxiliary subunits for a neurotransmitter-gated ion channel. Although initial studies found that stargazin, the prototypical TARP, principally chaperones AMPA receptors, subsequent research demonstrated that it also regulates AMPA receptor kinetics and synaptic waveforms. Recent studies have identified a diverse collection of TARP isoforms--types Ia, Ib II--that distinctly regulate AMPA receptor trafficking, gating and neuropharmacology. These TARP isoforms are heterogeneously expressed in specific neuronal populations and can differentially sculpt synaptic transmission and plasticity. Whole-genome analyses also link multiple TARP loci to childhood epilepsy, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. TARPs emerge as vital components of excitatory synapses that participate both in signal transduction and in neuropsychiatric disorders.

During the Middle Ages, the work of Middle Eastern physicians such as Avicenna, Albucasis, and Rhazes was of paramount importance in guarding the knowledge that had been accumulated throughout history, particularly the contributions of Greek and Roman scholars, and it is well known that the Arabic versions of all of the works by Hippocrates and Galen by Islamic and Arabic scholars are the only copies that have survived until now. In addition to preserving this wealth of knowledge, these Middle Eastern scholars made significant contributions of their own to both medicine and neurosurgery. Many points regarding ancient Arabic and Islamic science need to be discussed and clarified, such as cadaver dissections, anatomic studies, neurosurgical practice and instruments, Arabic translations of Hippocratic and other works, and the influence of the Islamic civilization on Western civilization, especially the Renaissance.
Molecular imaging is a field born out of the happy marriage of molecular biology and radiology. The first installment of this two-part series on molecular imaging demonstrated basic principles for practitioners in the field of the neurosciences. This installment seeks to provide some illustrative examples, insights, and specific applications to the neurosciences. The fields of functional neurosurgery including the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders, novel treatments and imaging of tumors, neuroregenerative medicine, and nanotechnology in vascular disorders are covered. Finally, we give some parting thoughts on the future of molecular imaging, including advances in the imaging of neurodegenerative disorders.


Drug candidates targeting amyloid-beta (Abeta) pathology in Alzheimer's disease are in different phases of clinical trials. These treatments will probably be most effective in the earlier stages of the disease, before neurodegeneration is too severe, but at the same time symptoms are vague and the clinical diagnosis is difficult. Recent research advances have resulted in promising biomarkers, including cerebrospinal fluid analyses for tau and Abeta, magnetic resonance imaging measurement of atrophy, and positron emission tomography imaging of glucose metabolism and Abeta pathology, which allow identification of prodromal Alzheimer's disease. More details are needed, however, on how these biomarkers can be standardized, to allow a general implementation in the clinical routine diagnostic work-up of patients with cognitive disturbances.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7 nAChR) plays a fundamental role in Ca(2+)-dependent activation of signaling pathways that can modulate intracellular events involved in learning and memory. Activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1 and -2 (ERK1/2) are well documented Ca(2+) signaling events, but these have not been well characterized in response to alpha7 nAChR-selective ligands. The present study examined activation of ERK1/2 and explored pathways leading to CREB phosphorylation utilizing alpha7 nAChR-selective ligands in PC12 cells endogenously expressing alpha7 nAChRs. Robust concentration-dependent increase in ERK1/2 phosphorylation was triggered by structurally diverse alpha7 nAChR agonists such as nicotine, choline, GTS-21, SSR-180711A and PNU-282987 in the presence of the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) PNU-120596. This effect was attenuated by selective alpha7 nAChR antagonists or by chelation of extracellular Ca(2+). ERK1/2 phosphorylation was also attenuated by inhibitors of calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), p38 MAP kinase and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase1/2 (MEK1/2), indicating the involvement of these kinases upstream of ERK1/2. This was confirmed by direct measurement of p38 MAPK and MEK1/2 phosphorylation. These data suggest that alpha7 nAChR agonist-triggered Ca(2+) transient in PC12 cells induces activation of CaMKII, leading to sequential phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, MEK1/2, ERK1/2 and CREB. Such mechanisms may endow the alpha7 nAChRs with roles in modulating Ca(2+)-dependent intracellular second messenger events implicated in diverse aspects of cognition.
Initiation of a cell cycle in an adult neuron leads to cell death, placing great importance on the mechanisms that normally suppress the neuronal cell cycle. We have previously shown that the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdk5 is an important part of this process, but only when it is present in the nucleus. We report here that Cdk5 nuclear localization relies on its binding to the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27. Cdk5 has no intrinsic nuclear localization signal; in the absence of p27, two weak nuclear export signals that bind CRM1 cause it to shuttle to the cytoplasm. When a neuron is subjected to stress, such as exposure to beta-amyloid, the Cdk5-p27 interaction is lost, reducing Cdk5 levels in the nucleus and depriving the neuron of a major cell cycle suppression mechanism. Caspase-3 is activated within hours, but death is not immediate; elevated levels of cytoplasmic Cdk5 appear to retard neuronal death by a mechanism that may involve Bcl2. These data suggest a model in which Cdk5 exerts a double protective function in neurons: chronically suppressing the cell cycle when located in the nucleus and transiently delaying cell death in the cytoplasm.
Injuries of the Central Nervous System (CNS) cause devastating and irreversible losses of function. In order to analyze the deficits subsequent to brain injury it is necessary to use behavioral tests which evaluate cerebral dysfunction. In this study, we describe a new tool, the Video-Tracking-Box (VTB) linked to Smart software. This new method adequately quantifies parameters related to locomotor activity and orientation in brain-injured rats. This method has been used in our laboratory in order to measure behavioral outcome after brain injury caused by intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in adult Wistar rats. In our experimental model, ICH was induced by stereotactic injection of 0.5U of collagenase type IV in striatum. ICH injured rats decreased its motor coordination and presented deficits in cognitive memory. VTB-Smart test was sensitive to chronic locomotor and orientation dysfunction, and it was performed between 1 and 5 months after ICH. Our results revealed a significant increase in motor latency and loss of spatial orientation in the damaged-animals compared with intact animals. The data demonstrate that our VTB, joined to Smart software, offers a reliable measure to assess motor dysfunction and orientation after brain injury.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an effective surgical treatment used to alleviate the symptoms of neurological disorders, most commonly movement disorders. However, the mechanism of how the applied stimulus pulses interact with the surrounding neuronal elements is not yet clearly understood, slowing progress and development of this promising therapeutic technology. To extend previous approaches of using isolated, myelinated axon models used to estimate the effect of DBS, we propose that taking into account entire neurons will reveal stimulation induced effects overlooked by previous studies. We compared the DBS induced volume of tissue activated (VTA) using arrays of whole cell models of subthalamic nucleus (STN) excitatory neurons consisting of a cell body and an anatomically accurate dendritic tree, to the common models of axon arrays. Our results demonstrate that STN neurons have a higher excitation threshold than axons, as stimulus amplitudes 10 times as large elicit a VTA range a fifth of the distance from the electrode surface. However, the STN neurons do show a change in background firing rate in response to stimulation, even when they are classified as sub-threshold by the VTA definition. Furthermore the whole neuron models are sensitive to regions of high current density, as the distribution of firing is centred on the electrode contact edges These results demonstrate the importance of accurate neuron models for fully appreciating the spatial effects of DBS on the immediate surrounding brain volume within small distances of the electrode, which are overlooked by previous models of isolated axons and individual neurons.
The elevated plus maze (EPM) is one of the most widely used and established tests to assess anxiety-related behaviours and has been validated for use in both mice and rats. Although relatively quick and simple to conduct, there always exists the potential for observer bias during data collection. The KinderScientific EPM system uses a series of apparatus-embedded photobeams to collect spatiotemporal measures such as the amount of time spent in each zone of the maze (centre, open and closed arms), and the frequency of arm entries. Risk assessment behaviours, such as head dips and protected stretches, are also measured which represents a unique feature of this system over other automated EPM systems. We compared observer derived spatiotemporal and risk assessment measurements with automated generated data to test the reliability and accuracy of the automated system. Data were manually collected using different zone entry/exit criteria (2 vs. 4 paws). Automated data were generated using both the default zone map provided with the system and a user-modified zone map. We show that the automated EPM provides accurate and reliable measurements of both spatiotemporal and risk assessment behaviours. In addition, we show that the default zone map overestimated visually observed arm entries while our modified zone map generated data comparable to manually generated data using a 4 paws open arm entry criteria which is most consistently used to define arm entry in the literature. The KinderScientific automated EPM system represents a reliable tool for collection of a wide range of anxiety-related behavioural measures.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is frequently used in the evaluation of various extrapyramidal disorders. Among the plethora of MRI features in Wilson's disease (WD), only &quot;face of the giant panda&quot; sign has been recognized to distinguish WD from other early onset extrapyramidal disorders (EOEPD). To ascertain the value of various MRI features in differentiating neuropsychiatric form of WD from other EOEPD. This retrospective analysis included 100 patients (M:F = 56:44) of EOEPD (5-40 years), who had undergone MRI during Jan'03 to Nov'08. Their clinical features were recorded and the following MR sequences were analyzed: T1WI, T2WI, FLAIR. Fifty-six patients had WD (M:F = 28:30, age at onset: 14 +/- 6.8 years) and 44 had other EOEPD (M:F = 27:17, age at onset: 19 +/- 9.8 years) that included Huntington's disease--4, young-onset Parkinson's disease--7, mitochondrial disorders--2, Hallervorden-Spatz disease--8, non-Wilsonian hepatolenticular degeneration--2, toxic/metabolic disorder--1, and others--20. The duration of illness at the time of MRI was comparable (WD: 3.1 +/- 4.9 years; Other EOEPD: 2.8 +/- 2.4 years). MR signal characteristics varied in topography and severity in both the groups. All the patients of WD had signal abnormalities in MRI, as against 16/44 of the other EOEPD group. The following MR observations were noted exclusively in WD: &quot;Face of giant panda&quot; sign (14.3%), tectal plate hyperintensity (75%), central pontine myelinolysis (CPM)-like abnormalities (62.5%), and concurrent signal changes in basal ganglia, thalamus, and brainstem (55.3%). Besides &quot;Face of giant panda&quot; sign, hyperintensities in tectal-plate and central pons (CPM-like), and simultaneous involvement of basal ganglia, thalamus, and brainstem are virtually pathognomonic of WD.
This study was carried out to evaluate progression in Parkinson's disease (PD) by analyzing time taken to transit from one Hoehn and Yahr (H&amp;Y) stage to the next stage and to investigate the variables that would be associated with H&amp;Y transition times using a large PD database that contained prospectively collected information. Data were obtained from the movement disorder database of the National Neuroscience Institute in Singapore. Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis was adopted to investigate the time taken to progress through various H&amp;Y stages. Cox regression analysis was used to examine the association between the baseline variables at the entry point of each H&amp;Y stage and the progression to the next stage. A total of 695 patients (mean age: 65.2, male: 57.3%) were studied. Using KM analysis, the median time taken to transit from H&amp;Y stage 1 to 2, 2 to 2.5, 2.5 to 3 were 20, 62, and 25 months, respectively; whereas the median time taken to progress from stage 3 to 4 and 4 to 5 were 24 and 26 months, respectively. Cox regression analysis revealed that older age-at-diagnosis, longer PD duration, and higher Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) motor scores at baseline were associated with a significantly faster progression through various H&amp;Y stages. Gender and ethnicity were not associated with disease progression. In conclusion, H&amp;Y transition time is a useful measure of disease progression in PD and may be utilized in clinical studies evaluating therapeutic interventions and prognostic factors in PD.
This study examined the efficacy and safety of the partial dopamine agonist, pardoprunox (SLV308), in the treatment of patients with early Parkinson's disease (PD). Patients were randomized to receive pardoprunox (n = 69) or placebo (n = 70). Pardoprunox was titrated to each patient's optimal dose (9-45 mg/d) over 2 to 6 weeks and then maintained at this dose for a further 3 weeks. Concomitant anti-Parkinson treatment was not permitted. In the primary analysis, Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS)-Motor score was improved in pardoprunox-treated patients (overall mean dose 23.8 mg/d; -7.3 points), as compared with placebo (-3.0 points; P = 0.0001), from baseline to end point. At end point, there were more responders (&gt; or = 30% reduction in UPDRS-Motor score) in the pardoprunox group (50.7%) than in the placebo group (15.7%; P &lt; 0.0001). In other secondary analyses, UPDRS-activities of daily living (ADL) and -ADL+Motor scores were also significantly more improved in the pardoprunox group. Nausea was reported by 32 of 68 (47.1%) pardoprunox-treated patients (vs. 3/70, 4.3%, placebo-treated patients), with dizziness, somnolence, headache, and asthenia also reported by &gt; or = 10 patients. In this exploratory proof-of-concept study, pardoprunox significantly improved motor function in patients with early PD. The efficacy and safety profile of pardoprunox justifies its further investigation in PD.
Endophenotypes have emerged as an important concept in the study of schizophrenia. Perceptual/attentional anomalies were examined as potential endophenotypes in a family study using a strategy for &quot;multiplex/simplex schizophrenia&quot;. The sample was comprised of 797 subjects: 206 schizophrenia patients, 302 first-degree relatives and 289 controls. The Spanish versions of the Structured Interview for Assessing Perceptual/attentional Anomalies (SIAPA) and Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale (PANSS) were applied to measure the presence of perceptual/attentional anomalies, and positive and negative subscale respectively. An ANCOVA was carried out for global comparisons between groups. The multiplex schizophrenic group had significantly more frequent auditory and visual perceptual/attentional anomalies than Simplex schizophrenic and control groups. The most interesting finding was that the severity of auditory and visual perceptual/attentional anomalies and negative symptoms was significantly higher in the relatives of the multiplex schizophrenia group than in those relatives from the simplex schizophrenia and control groups. The existence of perceptual/attentional anomalies in nonaffected relatives suggests the presence of familial association for these symptoms which may therefore be a potential endophenotype suitable for genetic studies.
Anhedonia is a personality trait associated with a decrease in the ability to feel pleasure. We investigated the experience of pleasure in individuals with physical and social anhedonia for positive pictures with varying levels of luminance contrast. Photographs with either a sensory or a social content were modified with a contrast-gradation procedure. Participants had to report the intensity of the pleasure they experienced in response to these pictures. Twenty-six subjects with physical anhedonia, 18 with social anhedonia and 34 control subjects completed the task. In controls, high-contrast pictures elicited an intense feeling of pleasure, whereas low contrast pictures elicited little pleasure. Although they were also sensitive to the modulation of contrast, subjects with physical and social anhedonia reported less pleasure than controls, across a larger range of contrast levels for sensory and social pictures, respectively. The findings suggest that the deficit in the experience of positive emotion in anhedonia is associated with a diminished pleasure intensity, fairly selective for the sensory or the social emotion dimension. This study encourages further investigation of the interaction between perceptual encoding and emotional processing in anhedonia.
