A comment is made on the definition of neural engineering recently authored by the editorial board of Journal of Neural Engineering.
Morphological and electrophysiological properties of neural cells are substantially influenced by their immediate extracellular surroundings, yet the features of this environment are difficult to mimic in vitro. Therefore, there is a tremendous need to develop a new generation of culture systems that more closely model the complexity of nervous tissue. To this end, we engineered novel electrophysiologically active 3D neural constructs composed of neurons and astrocytes within a bioactive extracellular matrix-based scaffold. Neurons within these constructs exhibited extensive 3D neurite outgrowth, expressed mature neuron-specific cytoskeletal proteins, and remained viable for several weeks. Moreover, neurons assumed complex 3D morphologies with rich neurite arborization and clear indications of network connectivity, including synaptic junctures. Furthermore, we modified whole-cell patch clamp techniques to permit electrophysiological probing of neurons deep within the 3D constructs, revealing that these neurons displayed both spontaneous and evoked electrophysiological action potentials and exhibited functional synapse formation and network properties. This is the first report of individual patch clamp recordings of neurons deep within 3D scaffolds. These tissue engineered cellular constructs provide an innovative platform for neurobiological and electrophysiological investigations, serving as an important step towards the development of more physiologically relevant neural tissue models.
Previous studies suggested that genetic variations in the 5' region of Epsin 4, a gene encoding enthoprotin on chromosome 5q33, are associated with schizophrenia. However, conflicting results have also been reported. We examined the possible association in a Japanese sample of 354 patients and 365 controls. Seventeen polymorphisms of Epsin 4 [3 microsatellites and 14 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)] were selected. A microsatellite marker (D5S1403) demonstrated a significant difference in the allele frequency between patients and controls (uncorrected P = 0.04). However, there was no significant difference in the genotype or allele frequency between the two groups for the other microsatellites or SNPs. Haplotype-based analysis provided no evidence for an association. The positive result at D5S1403 no longer reached statistical significance when multiple testing was taken into consideration. Our results suggest that the examined region of Epsin 4 does not have a major influence on susceptibility to schizophrenia in Japanese.
1 Hz rTMS applied over primary motor cortex (M1) reduces cortical excitability outlasting the stimulation period. Healthy right-handed subjects performed finger and hand tapping and a reach-to-grasp movement prior to (baseline) and after 1 Hz rTMS applied over (1) M1 of either the right or the left hemisphere, and (2) the vertex (control stimulation). 1 Hz rTMS applied over the left M1, but not over the vertex, improved movement kinematics of finger and hand tapping as well as grasping with the left hand. 1 Hz rTMS applied over the right M1, but not over the vertex, improved only the kinematics of hand tapping performed with the right hand. These data suggest that 1 Hz rTMS induced inhibition of ipsilateral M1 reduces transcallosal inhibition of contralateral M1 and thereby improves motor performance at the ipsilateral hand. The impact on motor performance of the ipsilateral hand is most pronounced after 1 Hz rTMS over the left M1.
The mammalian telencephalon, which comprises the cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb, hippocampus, basal ganglia, and amygdala, is the most complex and intricate region of the CNS. It is the seat of all higher brain functions including the storage and retrieval of memories, the integration and processing of sensory and motor information, and the regulation of emotion and drive states. In higher mammals such as humans, the telencephalon also governs our creative impulses, ability to make rational decisions, and plan for the future. Despite its massive complexity, exciting work from a number of groups has begun to unravel the developmental mechanisms for the generation of the diverse neural cell types that form the circuitry of the mature telencephalon. Here, we review our current understanding of four aspects of neural development. We first begin by providing a general overview of the broad developmental mechanisms underlying the generation of neuronal and glial cell diversity in the telencephalon during embryonic development. We then focus on development of the cerebral cortex, the most complex and evolved region of the brain. We review the current state of understanding of progenitor cell diversity within the cortical ventricular zone and then describe how lateral signaling via the Notch-Delta pathway generates specific aspects of neural cell diversity in cortical progenitor pools. Finally, we review the signaling mechanisms required for development, and response to injury, of a specialized group of cortical stem cells, the radial glia, which act both as precursors and as migratory scaffolds for newly generated neurons.
Interactions between dopamine (DA) and glutamate systems in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are important in addiction and other psychiatric disorders. Here, we examined DA receptor regulation of NMDA receptor surface expression in postnatal rat PFC neuronal cultures. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated that surface expression (synaptic and non-synaptic) of NR1 and NR2B on PFC pyramidal neurons was increased by the D1 receptor agonist SKF 81297 (1 microM, 5 min). Activation of protein kinase A (PKA) did not alter NR1 distribution, indicating that PKA does not mediate the effect of D1 receptor stimulation. However, the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein (50 microM, 30 min) completely blocked the effect of SKF 81297 on NR1 and NR2B surface expression. Protein cross-linking studies confirmed that SKF 81297 (1 microM, 5 min) increased NR1 and NR2B surface expression, and further showed that NR2A surface expression was not affected. Genistein blocked the effect of SKF 81297 on NR1 and NR2B. Surface-expressed immunoreactivity detected with a phospho-specific antibody to tyrosine 1472 of NR2B also increased after D1 agonist treatment. Our results show that tyrosine phosphorylation plays an important role in the trafficking of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in PFC neurons and the regulation of their trafficking by DA receptors.
Delta-aminolevulinic acid (delta-ALA) is a heme precursor implicated in neurological complications associated with porphyria and tyrosinemia type I. Delta-ALA is also elevated in the urine of animals and patients treated with the investigational drug dichloroacetate (DCA). We postulated that delta-ALA may be responsible, in part, for the peripheral neuropathy observed in subjects receiving DCA. To test this hypothesis, myelinating cocultures of Schwann cells and sensory neurons were exposed to delta-ALA (0.1-1 mM) and analyzed for the expression of neural proteins and lipids and markers of oxidative stress. Exposure of myelinating samples to delta-ALA is associated with a pronounced reduction in the levels of myelin-associated lipids and proteins, including myelin protein zero and peripheral myelin protein 22. We also observed an increase in protein carbonylation and the formation of hydroxynonenal and malondialdehyde after treatment with delta-ALA. Studies of isolated Schwann cells and neurons indicate that glial cells are more vulnerable to this pro-oxidant than neurons, based on a selective decrease in the expression of mitochondrial respiratory chain proteins in glial, but not in neuronal, cells. These results suggest that the neuropathic effects of delta-ALA are attributable, at least in part, to its pro-oxidant properties which damage myelinating Schwann cells.
Clinical observations and experimental studies have shown that hyperthermia can provoke febrile seizures, which are the most common type of pathological brain activity in children. We previously demonstrated that hyperthermia produced a depression of GABAergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus of immature rats in vitro. To investigate the possible mechanisms through which hyperthermia may modulate GABAergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus, whole-cell voltage clamp recordings were performed on CA1 pyramidal neurons in the immature rat brain slices. We found that hyperthermia (38.4-40 degrees C) when compared with baseline temperature of 32 degrees C reduced the frequency of both spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (sIPSCs) and miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs). Also, hyperthermia decreased the amplitudes of mIPSCs and reduced the mIPSC decay time constants and charge transfer. Non-stationary noise analysis of mIPSCs suggested that the number of open post-synaptic receptors but not single channel conductance was reduced during hyperthermia. Activation of adenylyl cyclase with forskolin prevented, whereas protein kinase A inhibitor N-(2-[p-bromocinnamylamino]ethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide potentiated, the hyperthermia (40 degrees C)-induced depression of evoked IPSCs (evIPSCs). But protein kinase C activator phorbol 12, 13-dibutyrate (PDBu) did not significantly affect this depression of evIPSCs induced by hyperthermia. Furthermore, hyperthermia-induced depression of evIPSCs was attenuated by 4-aminopyridine, but not by BaCl(2). These results suggest that hyperthermia reduces GABA release from pre-synaptic terminals, in part by blocking the adenylyl cyclase-protein kinase A signaling pathway and activating pre-synaptic 4-aminopyridine-sensitive K(+) channels. Also, the changes in amplitude and decay time constant of the mIPSCs may suggest that hyperthermia also decreases post-synaptic GABA(A) receptor function.
Microglia are the resident immune cells of the CNS, which are important for preserving neural tissue functions, but may also contribute to neurodegeneration. Activation of these cells in infection, inflammation, or trauma leads to the release of various toxic molecules, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the excitatory amino acid glutamate. In this study, we used an electrophysiologic approach and a D-[(3)H]aspartate (glutamate) release assay to explore the ROS-dependent regulation of glutamate-permeable volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs). Exposure of rat microglia to hypo-osmotic media stimulated Cl(-) currents and D-[(3)H]aspartate release, both of which were inhibited by the selective VRAC blocker, DCPIB. Exogenously applied H(2)O(2) potently increased swelling-activated glutamate release. Stimulation of microglia with zymosan triggered production of endogenous ROS and strongly enhanced glutamate release via VRAC in swollen cells. The effects of zymosan were attenuated by the ROS scavenger, MnTMPyP, and by two inhibitors of NADPH oxidase (NOX), diphenyliodonium and thioridazine. However, zymosan-stimulated glutamate release was insensitive to other NOX blockers, apocynin and HEBSF. This pharmacologic profile pointed to the potential involvement of apocynin-insensitive NOX4. Using RT-PCR we confirmed that NOX4 is expressed in rat microglial cells along with NOX1 and NOX2. To check for potential involvement of phagocytic NOX2, we stimulated this isoform using protein kinase C (PKC) activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or inhibited it with the broad spectrum PKC blocker, G6983. Both agents potently modulated endogenous ROS production by NOX2 but not VRAC activity. Taken together, these data suggest that the anion channel VRAC may contribute to microglial glutamate release and that its activity is regulated by endogenous ROS originating from NOX4.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) directly interacts with the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). Both fibronectin type III (FN3) modules of NCAM are involved in this interaction. One of the NCAM-FGFR contact sites has been localized recently to the upper N-terminal part of the second NCAM FN3 module encompassing the F and G beta-strands and the interconnecting loop region. Here, we investigated whether any of the six putative strand-loop-strand regions in the first NCAM FN3 module are involved in FGFR interactions. Peptide sequences encompassing these regions, termed encamins, were synthesized and tested for their ability to bind and activate FGFR. Encamins localized to the N-terminal part of the first FN3 module did not interact with FGFR, whereas encamins localized to the C-terminal part, termed EncaminA, C and E, bound to and activated FGFR. The encamins induced FGFR-dependent neurite outgrowth, and EncaminC and E promoted neuronal survival and enhanced pre-synaptic function. In conclusion, the interaction between NCAM and FGFR probably involves multiple contact sites at an interface formed by the two NCAM FN3 modules and FGFR, and encamins could constitute important pharmacological tools for the study of specific functional aspects of NCAM, including neuroprotection and modulation of plasticity.
The role of neuroactive steroids and GABA(A) receptors in the generation of spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges (SWDs) was investigated in the WAG/Rij rat model of absence epilepsy. The plasma, cerebrocortical, and thalamic concentrations of the progesterone metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG) were increased in the WAG/Rij rat at 2 months of age compared with those in control (Wistar) rats. In contrast, the brain and peripheral levels of 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC) did not differ between the two rat strains at this age. At 6 months of age, when absence epilepsy worsens in WAG/Rij rats, the plasma concentration of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG remained high whereas that of 3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC had increased, the cerebrocortical levels of both 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG and 3alpha,5alpha-TH DOC had increased, and the thalamic concentrations of these metabolites had decreased. At 6 months of age the expression of the alpha(4) and delta subunits of the GABA(A) receptor in relay nuclei was increased. Finally, chronic stress induced by social isolation elicited a reduction in the amount of 3alpha,5alpha-TH PROG in the thalamus of 2-month-old WAG/Rij rats that was associated with a reduction in the number and overall duration of SWDs at 6 months of age. Absence epilepsy in the WAG/Rij rat is thus associated with changes in the abundance of neuroactive steroids and in the expression of specific GABA(A) receptor subunits in the thalamus, a brain area key to the pathophysiology of this condition.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, but its normal functions in the brain are poorly understood. A number of APP-interacting proteins have been identified: intracellularly, APP interacts with adaptor proteins through its conserved NPXY domain; extracellularly, APP interacts with a component of the extracellular matrix, F-spondin. Interestingly, many of these APP-interacting proteins also interact with the family of receptors for apolipoprotein E (apoE), the Alzheimer's disease risk factor. apoE receptors also share with APP the fact that they are cleaved by the same secretase activities. apoE receptors are shed from the cell surface, a cleavage that is regulated by receptor-ligand interactions, and C-terminal fragments of apoE receptors are cleaved by gamma-secretase. Functionally, both APP and apoE receptors affect neuronal migration and synapse formation in the brain. This review summarizes these numerous interactions between APP and apoE receptors, which provide clues about the normal functions of APP.
The CNS is particularly vulnerable to reductions in plasma osmolarity, such as occur during hyponatremia, the most commonly encountered electrolyte disorder in clinical practice. In response to a lowered plasma osmolarity, neural cells initially swell but then are able to restore their original volume through the release of osmolytes, both inorganic and organic, and the exit of osmotically obligated water. Given the importance of the maintenance of cell volume within the CNS, mechanisms underlying the release of osmolytes assume major significance. In this context, we review recent evidence obtained from our laboratory and others that indicates that the activation of specific G-protein-coupled receptors can markedly enhance the volume-dependent release of osmolytes from neural cells. Of particular significance is the observation that receptor activation significantly lowers the osmotic threshold at which osmolyte release occurs, thereby facilitating the ability of the cells to respond to small, more physiologically relevant, reductions in osmolarity. The mechanisms underlying G-protein-coupled receptor-mediated osmolyte release and the possibility that this efflux can result in both physiologically beneficial and potentially harmful pathophysiological consequences are discussed.
Cannabis exerts its actions by mimicking 'endocannabinoid' neuromodulators at CB1 receptors in brain and peripheral tissues. The endocannabinoids both stimulate appetite by increasing food craving and enjoyment and promote the deposition of energy as fat in adipose tissues. These findings have raised the possibility of CB1 antagonists as a novel class of anti-obesity agents.
CD38 is a 45-kD ectoenzyme involved in the synthesis of potent calcium (Ca(2+))-mobilizing agents, cyclic adenosine diphosphate-ribose (cADPR), and nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP+). In HIV-1-infected patients, increased CD38 expression on CD8+ T cells is linked to immune system activation and progression of HIV-1 infection. However, the role of CD38 upregulation in astrocyte function and HIV-1-associated dementia (HAD-now called HAND: HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder) neuropathogenesis is unclear. To these ends, we used interleukin (IL)-1beta and HIV-1gp120 to activate primary human astrocytes and measured CD38 expression using real-time polymerase chain reaction and CD38 function by ADP-ribosyl cyclase activity. We also determined cADPR-mediated changes in single-cell intracellular Ca(2+) transients in activated astrocytes in presence or absence of ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid. CD38 levels were downregulated using CD38 small-interfering RNA (siRNA) and intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) was measured. We previously reported a approximately 20-fold rise in CD38 messenger RNA levels in IL-1beta-activated astrocytes. We extend this observation and report that HIV-1gp120 potentiated CD38 expression in a dose-dependent manner and also increased CD38 enzyme activity in control and IL-1beta-activated astrocytes. We demonstrate higher cADPR levels in IL-1beta-activated astrocytes with a corresponding rise in [Ca(2+)](i) upon cADPR application and its non-hydrolysable analog, 3-deaza-cADPR. In activated astrocytes, pre-treatment with the cADPR-specific antagonist 8-Br-cADPR and CD38 siRNA transfection returned elevated [Ca(2+)](i) to baseline, thus confirming a CD38-cADPR specific response. These data are important for unraveling the mechanisms underlying the role of astrocyte-CD38 in HAD and have broader implications in other inflammatory diseases involving astrocyte activation and CD38 dysregulation.



Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) degrade extracellular matrix; MMP activity, particularly of MMP-9, is elevated in the white matter in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. The cerebral cortical extracellular matrix includes perineuronal nets (PNs) that surround parvalbumin-positive neurons (PV-positive neurons) and are important for their function. We measured active and total MMP-9 levels in postmortem homogenates of demyelinated and nondemyelinated cerebral cortical regions from 9MS and 7 control cases and assessed Wisteria floribunda agglutin (WFA)-positive PNs in paraffin sections from 15 MS and 6 controls and PV-positive neurons in sections from 26 MS and 6 controls. Active MMP-9 levels were higher in demyelinated than in nondemyelinated or control cortex (p &lt; 0.05). The area fraction positive for WFA was lower in demyelinated than nondemyelinated MS or control cortex; the latter difference was significant (p &lt; 0.05). Most PV-positive neurons in demyelinated but not intact cortex lackeda PN, and some showed perikaryal phosphorylated neurofilament protein accumulation. Loss of WFA-labeled PNs was not associated with reduced PV-positive neurons numbers. Thus, elevated MMP-9 in cortical plaques is associated with loss of PNs; PV-positive neurons are preserved but show abnormal neurofilament accumulations. Matrix metalloproteinase-mediated degradation of PNs in cortical plaques may, therefore, contribute to neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in MS patients.
Cortical gamma oscillations in the 20- to 80-Hz range are associated with attentiveness and sensory perception and have strong connections to both cognitive processing and temporal binding of sensory stimuli. These gamma oscillations become synchronized within a few milliseconds over distances spanning a few millimeters in spite of synaptic delays. In this study using in vivo recordings and large-scale cortical network models, we reveal a critical role played by the network geometry in achieving precise long-range synchronization in the gamma frequency band. Our results indicate that the presence of many independent synaptic pathways in a two-dimensional network facilitate precise phase synchronization of fast gamma band oscillations with nearly zero phase delays between remote network sites. These findings predict a common mechanism of precise oscillatory synchronization in neuronal networks.
Due to delays in visuomotor processing, eye movements directed toward moving targets must integrate both target position and velocity to be accurate. It is unknown where and how target velocity information is incorporated into the planning of rapid (saccadic) eye movements. We recorded the activity of neurons in frontal eye fields (FEFs) while monkeys made saccades to stationary and moving targets. A substantial fraction of FEF neurons was found to encode not only the initial position of a moving target, but the metrics (amplitude and direction) of the saccade needed to intercept the target. Many neurons also encoded target velocity in a nearly linear manner. The quasi-linear dependence of firing rate on target velocity means that the neuronal response can be directly read out to compute the future position of a target moving with constant velocity. This is demonstrated using a quantitative model in which saccade amplitude is encoded in the population response of neurons tuned to retinal target position and modulated by target velocity.
People naturally direct their gaze to visible hand movement goals. Doing so improves reach accuracy through use of signals related to gaze position and visual feedback of the hand. Here, we studied where people naturally look when acting on remembered target locations. Four targets were presented on a screen, in peripheral vision, while participants fixed a central cross (encoding phase). Four seconds later, participants used a pen to mark the remembered locations while free to look wherever they wished (recall phase). Visual references, including the screen and the cross, were present throughout. During recall, participants neither looked at the marked locations nor prevented eye movements. Instead, gaze behavior was erratic and was comprised of gaze shifts loosely coupled in time and space with hand movements. To examine whether eye and hand movements during encoding affected gaze behavior during recall, in additional encoding conditions, participants marked the visible targets with either free gaze or with central cross fixation or just looked at the targets. All encoding conditions yielded similar erratic gaze behavior during recall. Furthermore, encoding mode did not influence recall performance, suggesting that participants, during recall, did not exploit sensorimotor memories related to hand and gaze movements during encoding. Finally, we recorded a similar lose coupling between hand and eye movements during an object manipulation task performed in darkness after participants had viewed the task environment. We conclude that acting on remembered versus visible targets can engage fundamentally different control strategies, with gaze largely decoupled from movement goals during memory-guided actions.
In vertebrates, locomotion can be initiated by stimulation of the diencephalic locomotor region (DLR). Little is known of the different forebrain regions that provide input to the neurons in DLR. In the lamprey, it had been shown previously that DLR provides monosynaptic input to reticulospinal neurons, which in turn elicit rhythmic ventral root activity at the spinal level. To show that actual locomotor movements are produced from DLR, we use a semi-intact preparation in which the brain stem is exposed and the head fixed, while the body is left to generate actual swimming movements. DLR stimulation induced symmetric locomotor movements with an undulatory wave transmitted along the body. To explore if DLR is under tonic GABAergic input under resting conditions, as in mammals, GABAergic antagonists and agonists were locally administered into DLR. Injections of GABA agonists inhibited locomotion, whereas GABA antagonists facilitated the induction of locomotion. These findings suggest that GABAergic projections provide tonic inhibition that once turned off can release locomotion. Double-labeling experiments were carried out to identify GABAergic projections to the DLR. Populations of GABAergic projection neurons to DLR originated in the caudoventral portion of the medial pallium, the lateral and dorsal pallium, and the striatal area. These different GABAergic projection neurons, which also project to other brain stem motor centers, may represent the basal ganglia output to DLR. Moreover, electrical stimulation of striatum induced long-lasting plateau potentials in reticulospinal cells and associated locomotor episodes dependent on DLR being intact, suggesting that striatum may act via the basal ganglia output identified here.
Under natural conditions, motor learning is instructed by sensory feedback. We have asked whether sensory signals that indicate motor errors are necessary to instruct learning or if the motor signals related to movements normally driven by sensory error signals would be sufficient. We measured eye movements in trained rhesus monkeys while employing electrical microstimulation of the floccular complex of the cerebellum and the smooth eye movement region of the frontal eye fields to alter ongoing pursuit eye movements. Repeated electrical stimulation at fixed times after the onset of target motion and pursuit failed to cause any learning that was retained beyond the time period used to instruct learning. Learning was not uncovered when the target was stabilized with respect to the moving eye to prevent competition between instructive signals created by electrical stimulation and visual image motion signals evoked when stimulation drove the eye away from the tracking target. We suggest that signals emanating from motor-related structures in the pursuit circuit do not instruct learning. Instead, instructive sensory error signals seem to be necessary.
The serial reaction time task (SRT) is used to assess implicit sequence learning. Neuroimaging studies implicate parietal involvement; however, the necessity of this area is unclear. We tested six unilateral right parietal patients and compared their performance to matched controls. Both groups showed similar levels of learning and explicit awareness. Two patients with the largest lesions extending into either frontal or cerebellar regions showed no learning. These data suggest that implicit sequence learning can occur despite damage to the right parietal lobe.
Tau, a microtubule-associated protein with multiple phosphorylation sites, forms aggregates that correlate with neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease and several other neurodegenerative diseases, termed tauopathies. Hsc70 is a highly expressed constitutive chaperone that can drive conformational change in proteins, prevent the aggregation of its substrates, recognize misfolded substrates, and facilitate their degradation. Here, we show that hsc70 binds to the microtubule-binding domain of tau in vitro and in vivo, without an absolute requirement for tau phosphorylation. Binding requires a carboxy-terminal region of hsc70 comprising its peptide-binding and variable domains. We have identified two hsc70 binding sites on tau and hydrophobic amino acids crucial for hsc70 binding. Interestingly, these hsc70 binding sites correspond to the beta-structure elements that have been previously reported to facilitate tau aggregation. Thus, it is possible that hsc70 binding might directly inhibit tau-tau interactions that precede tau oligomerization and aggregation. Our results provide an important stimulus for research into how the hsc70-tau interaction might affect tau fate in normal cells and in disease.

In traumatic brain injury (TBI), cellular loss from initial impact as well as secondary neurodegeneration leads to increased cholesterol and lipid debris at the site of injury. Cholesterol accumulation in the periphery can trigger inflammatory mechanisms while cholesterol clearance may be anti-inflammatory. Here we investigated whether TBI altered the regulation of cholesterol 24S-hydroxylase (Cyp46), an enzyme that converts cholesterol to the more hydrophilic 24S-hydroxycholesterol. We examined by Western blot and immunohistochemistry changes in Cyp46 expression following fluid percussion injury. Under normal conditions, most Cyp46 was present in neurons, with very little measurable in glia. Cyp46 levels were significantly increased at 7 days post-injury, and cell type specific analysis at 3 days post-injury showed a significant increase in levels of Cyp46 (84%) in microglia. Since 24-hydroxycholesterol induces activation of genes through the liver X receptor (LXR), we examined protein levels of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 and apolipoprotein E, two LXR regulated cholesterol homeostasis proteins. Apolipoprotein E and ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 were increased at 7 days post-injury, indicating that increased LXR activity coincided with increased Cyp46 levels. We found that activation of primary rat microglia by LPS in vitro caused increased Cyp46 levels. These data suggest that increased microglial Cyp46 activity is part of a system for removal of damaged cell membranes post-injury, by conversion of cholesterol to 24-hydroxycholesterol and by activation of LXR-regulated gene transcription.

Although Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) initially manifests in the first decade, there are no large studies describing its neurophysiologic features in childhood. We report neurophysiologic findings in 80 children aged 2-16 years with CMT1A who underwent median motor and sensory nerve conduction studies. Neurophysiologic abnormalities were present in all children. Median motor nerve conduction velocity was invariably less than 33 m/s (mean 18.7 m/s, range 9.0-32.9 m/s), with conduction velocities significantly slower in children aged 7-16 years compared with children aged 6 years and below. All children had prolonged distal motor latencies (mean 7.3 ms, range 4.0-12.3 ms). The compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude was reduced from an early age (mean 7.1 mV, range 2.1-13.5 mV), and its normal increase with age was attenuated. Median sensory responses were present in only seven children, all aged less than 9 years and with slowed sensory conduction. Neurophysiologic abnormalities are present in all children with CMT1A from the age of 2 years. Motor conduction slowing progresses through the first 6 years of life and thereafter remains stable. CMAP amplitude is reduced from an early age, and the normal physiologic increase with age is attenuated. Median sensory responses may be recorded in younger children, and their presence does not exclude the diagnosis of CMT1A.
Guillain-Barr syndrome and its clinical variants, including the anti-GQ1b ganglioside-mediated Miller Fisher syndrome (MFS), comprise the world's leading cause of acute neuromuscular paralysis. Presently, no specific drug therapies exist. The complement cascade, which is activated in these patients, forms an attractive drug target. In this study, we tested whether the complement C5-inhibiting recombinant protein, rEV576, was able to prevent neural injury in a previously developed in vitro mouse model for MFS. Mouse hemidiaphragm preparations were treated with anti-GQ1b antibody and normal human serum as a source of complement with added rEV576 or control protein. Immunohistology in control tissue showed deposition of C3c and membrane attack complex at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), along with terminal motor axonal neurofilament degradation as well as ethidium homodimer-2 staining showing perisynaptic Schwann cell (pSC) injury. Electrophysiological and functional analyses showed block of synaptic transmission at the NMJ after an initial period of a dramatically high level of asynchronous acetylcholine release. In tissue treated with rEV576, all these indicators of motor neuronal damage were absent, except for the presence of C3c, indicating effective inhibition of C5. These results demonstrate that rEV576 effectively prevents development of neuronal and pSC damage in experimental murine neuropathy.
A mouse model of atypical antipsychotic-associated adverse effects was used to compare the liability to induce weight gain, food intake, and metabolic alterations after chronic olanzapine (OL; LY170053, 2-methyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-10H-thieno-[2,3-b][1,5] benzodiazepine) and ST2472 (ST; 9-piperazin-1-ylpyrrolo[2,1-b][1,3]benzothiazepine) administration. By adding two equipotent doses (3 and 6 mg/kg) of either OL or ST to a high-sweet, high-fat (HS-HF) diet, mice were allowed to self-administer drugs up to 50 days. Body weight and food intake were evaluated daily. Locomotor activity was recorded over 48 h at two different time points. Dyslipidemia was measured by central visceral obesity. Blood serum levels of insulin (IN), glucose (Glu), triglycerides (TGs), nonesterified fatty acids (NEFAs), cholesterol (Ch), and ketone (Ke) bodies were quantified. OL treatment at 3 mg/kg enhanced body weight, whereas at the highest dose, the increase became evident only during the last 10 days of treatment. OL (3 mg/kg) increased HS-HF intake over time, whereas the highest dose reduced intake during the second 10 and final 10 days of administration. Both compounds induced nocturnal hypomotility at the highest dose. In contrast to ST, 3 mg/kg OL elevated serum levels of IN, Glu, TG, NEFA, Ch, and Ke, whereas 6 mg/kg OL elevated those of Glu, TG, and Ch. In contrast, ST did not affect weight gain, food intake, and metabolic markers. Given the similarities between OL-induced obesogenic effects and medical reports, this study further supports the view that ST may represent a new class of agents characterized by a low propensity to induce side effects with promising clinical safety.


Peripheral sensory afferents in the hand activate both excitatory and inhibitory intracortical circuits to potentially facilitate and prune descending motor commands. In this study, we characterized how afferent inputs modulate the excitability of cortical circuits in the leg area of the primary motor cortex by examining how stimulation of the tibial nerve (TN) at the ankle alters motor evoked potentials (MEPs) activated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Resting MEPs in the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle were facilitated in response to heteronymous activation of the TN 45-50 ms earlier, whereas MEPs were inhibited at interstimulus intervals of 32.5-37.5 ms. Similar time-dependent modulation occurred in the soleus (SOL) muscle with stimulation of the homonymous posterior tibial nerve (PTN) at the knee. To determine the site of this afferent-evoked facilitation and inhibition (spinal or cortical), we compared the effects of afferent stimulation to responses evoked at subcortical sites. At interstimulus intervals where MEP facilitation was observed (near 50 ms), spinal H-reflexes and responses evoked from corticospinal tract stimulation at the brainstem were predominantly depressed by the sensory stimulus suggesting that the observed MEP facilitation was cortical in origin. At interstimulus intervals where MEP depression was observed (near 35 ms), brainstem evoked responses were depressed to a similar degree and, in contrast to the hand, this suggests that spinal rather than cortical circuits mediate short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI) of leg MEPs. When the MEP was facilitated by afferent inputs, short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) was reduced and intracortical facilitation (ICF) was increased, but long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) at a 100 ms interval was unchanged. In addition, sensory excitation increased the recruitment of early, middle and late descending corticospinal volleys as evidenced from increases in MEP facilitation at the corresponding I-wave periodicity. We propose that sensory activation from the leg has a diffuse and predominantly facilitatory effect on the leg primary motor cortex.
Single-point missense mutations in the peripheral neuronal voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.7 are implicated in the painful inherited neuropathy paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (PEPD). The Nav1.7 PEPD mutations are located in regions of the channel suggested to play important roles in fast inactivation. PEPD mutations in the putative inactivation gate have been reported to significantly impair fast inactivation, resulting in pronounced persistent currents. However, PEPD mutations in the S4-S5 linker of domain 3 (D3/S4-S5) had not been characterized and the roles of specific residues in this linker in channel gating are unclear. We functionally characterized two of the D3/S4-S5 PEPD mutations (V1298F and V1299F) and compared their effects on gating to an adjacent non-PEPD mutation (V1300F) and the I1461T PEPD mutation, located in the putative inactivation gate. The primary effect of the V1298F and V1299F mutations is to shift the voltage dependence of fast inactivation by approximately 20 mV in the depolarizing direction. We observed a similar effect with the PEPD mutation I1461T. Interestingly, while all three PEPD mutations increased persistent currents, the relative amplitudes (approximately 6% of peak) were much smaller than previously reported for the I1461T mutation. In contrast, the main effect of the V1300F mutation was a depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of activation. These data demonstrate that (1) mutations within D3/S4-S5 affect inactivation of Nav1.7 in a residue-specific manner and (2) disruption of the fast-inactivated state by PEPD mutations can be more moderate than previously indicated, which has important implications for the pathophysiology of PEPD.
Neural plasticity occurs throughout adult life in response to maturation, use and disuse. Recent studies have documented that H-reflex amplitudes increase following a period of immobilization. To elucidate the mechanisms contributing to the increase in H-reflex size following immobilization we immobilized the left foot and ankle joint for 2 weeks in 12 able-bodied subjects. Disynaptic reciprocal inhibition of soleus (SOL) motoneurons and presynaptic control of SOL group Ia afferents was measured before and after the immobilization as well as following 2 weeks of recovery. Following immobilization, maximal voluntary plantar- and dorsiflexion torque (MVC) was significantly reduced and the maximal SOL H-reflex amplitude increased with no changes in the maximal compound motor response (M(max)). Decreased presynaptic inhibition of the Ia afferents probably contributed to the increase of the H-reflex size, since we observed a significant decrease in the long-latency depression of the SOL H-reflex evoked by peroneal nerve stimulation (D2 inhibition) and an increase in the size of the monosynaptic Ia facilitation of the SOL H-reflex evoked by femoral nerve stimulation. These two measures provide independent evidence of changes in presynaptic inhibition of SOL Ia afferents and taken together suggest that GABAergic presynaptic inhibition of the SOL Ia afferents is decreased following 2 weeks of immobilization. The depression of the SOL H-reflex when evoked at intervals shorter than 10 s (homosynaptic post-activation depression) also decreased following immobilization, suggesting that the activity-dependent regulation of transmitter release from the afferents was also affected by immobilization. We observed no significant changes in disynaptic reciprocal Ia inhibition. Two weeks after cast removal measurements returned to pre-immobilization levels. Together, these observations suggest that disuse causes plastic changes in spinal interneuronal circuitries responsible for presynaptic control of sensory input to the spinal cord. This may be of significance for the motor disabilities seen following immobilization as well as the development of spasticity following central motor lesions.
To preserve the central nervous system (CNS) function after a traumatic injury, therapeutic agents must be administered to protect neurons as well as glial cells. Cell death in CNS injuries and diseases are attributed to many factors including glutamate toxicity and oxidative stress. We examined whether melatonin, a potent anti-oxidant and free radical scavenger, would attenuate apoptotic death of rat C6 astroglial cells under glutamate excitotoxicity and oxidative stress. Exposure of C6 cells to 500 microM L-glutamic acid (LGA) and 100 microm hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) for 24 hr caused significant increases in apoptosis. Apoptosis was evaluated by Wright staining and ApopTag assay. Melatonin receptor 1 appeared to be involved in the protection of these cells from excitotoxic and oxidative damage. Cells undergoing excitotoxic and oxidative stress for 15 min were then treated with 150 nM melatonin, which prevented Ca(2+)influx and cell death. Western blot analyses showed alterations in Bax and Bcl-2 expression resulting in increased Bax:Bcl-2 ratio during apoptosis. Western blot analyses also showed increases in calpain and caspase-3 activities, which cleaved 270 kD alpha-spectrin at specific sites to generate 145 kD spectrin breakdown product (SBDP) and 120 kD SBDP, respectively. However, 15-min post-treatment of C6 cells with melatonin dramatically reduced Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and proteolytic activities, decreasing LGA or H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis. Our data showed that melatonin prevented proteolysis and apoptosis in C6 astroglial cells. The results suggest that melatonin may be an effective cytoprotective agent against glutamate excitotoxicity and oxidative stress in CNS injuries and diseases.



Desynchronisation of normal circadian rhythms, including the sleep-wake rhythm, is common in major depressive disorder (MDD). The association between sleep disturbances and depression has long been recognised. Disturbed sleep is a diagnostic criterion for MDD, and insomnia commonly precedes the onset of symptomatic mood disorders. Disruptions of the sleep-wake cycle (sleep architecture and timing) are residual symptoms that may prevent the attainment of high-quality remission and delay recovery from MDD. Therefore, early recognition and treatment of sleep disturbances may be important for the treatment and prevention of recurrent depression. Evidence suggests that melatonergic (MT(1) and MT(2)) and the 5-HT(2C) serotonergic receptor subtypes are important modulators of circadian rhythmicity. Agomelatine is the first melatonergic antidepressant; an agonist of melatonin MT(1) and MT(2) receptors, with additional antagonist properties at the 5-HT(2C) receptors. Agomelatine combines antidepressant efficacy including quality and efficiency of sleep, with a more favourable side-effect profile than current antidepressant treatments, including neutral effects on sexual function, bodyweight and the absence of discontinuation symptoms. These positive features provide a novel approach to the treatment of depression and the attainment of high-quality remission in MDD.
Recently, disruption of the endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid, eCB) system was found to impair extinction in delay and contextual fear conditioning models. However, conditioning procedures used in that work precluded investigation of possible eCB effects on acquisition of learned fear. We therefore examined the role of eCBs in modulating fear responses using multiple-trial versions of trace (hippocampal-dependent) and delay (amygdala-dependent) Pavlovian fear conditioning. By administering the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (5 mg/kg, i.p) to C57/Bl/6 mice at various times, we systematically identified the stages of learning and memory (i.e. acquisition, consolidation, recall and extinction) that are modulated by eCB signaling. During tone (CS) - footshock (US) conditioning, AM251 enhanced acquisition of freezing behavior for both trace- and delay-conditioning protocols. CB1 antagonism also enhanced generalized fear (baseline freezing) and cued (CS) freezing during memory recall tests in a state-dependent manner for both trace and delay conditioned animals. Furthermore, in trace-conditioned animals, AM251 impaired extinction performance of both cued and generalized fear. CB1 antagonism did not affect short-term memory (STM) or long-term memory (LTM) consolidation processes. Together, these results suggest that during acquisition and recall of aversive learning, eCBs prevent the expression and retention of inappropriate generalized and learned responses. These findings have important implications for the therapeutic use of CB1 antagonists.
There is a large body of empirical evidence for the usefulness of pharmacological treatment of delirium though there is a relative dearth of double-blind randomized clinical trials and few that are placebo controlled. There are no registration quality double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials that evaluate efficacy and safety, nor is there a regulatory body in any country that has approved a drug with an indication to treat delirium. Reasons include inadequate training for design and implementation of clinical trials, too few patients at a given research site to adequately power a study, confounding variables such as dementia, multifactorial underlying etiologies that are difficult to control, inadequate understanding of the neuropathophysiology of delirium that could theoretically guide a choice of drugs, referral populations where the primary physician may not be the one interested in pursuing the research, confounding factors for attribution of safety signals, and lack of funding for an adequately powered trial outside of the pharmaceutical industry. This article provides basic information aimed at educating physicians and other clinicians about design and implementation considerations to conduct an adequately powered double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial to evaluate a drug's efficacy in delirium.
Theory of Mind (ToM) refers to a person's ability to understand that another person has his or her own unique way of thinking and feeling. ToM is a well-known and rapidly expanding field of research in the neurosciences, cognitive, social sciences, evolution, and brain imaging. This review article expands ToM into areas where there has not yet been research. We propose that ToM could illuminate the relationship between religion/spirituality and health, and could provide the lingua franca for the hundreds of schools of psychotherapy. We discern two different kinds of spirituality: personal versus impersonal. Empathy is central to ToM research and is also central to mental health training and practice. ToM illuminates familiar topics in a new light. For example ToM reveals a close link between psychology and spirituality in self-efficacy and locus of control research.
Theory of Mind (ToM) refers to a cognitive process which allows an individual to &quot;place him/herself&quot; in the other person's &quot;mind,&quot; so as to comprehend the latter's cognitive and emotional status, so as to predict his/her behavior and emotional response to a particular situation. ToM is necessary for everyday interaction among individuals and accounts for such human traits as empathy, compassion, and deceit. It is also particularly important in the relationship between a healer and his or her client, as well as in the God-human relationship. Recent research in the area of neurosciences has identified a specific brain &quot;system&quot; responsible for ToM, as well as described how these functions may be affected in certain neuropsychiatric conditions. In this article, we discuss the definition and neurobiological substrate of ToM. In addition, we discuss the cognitive steps important to achieve an &quot;accurate&quot; theory of mind, its relevance to &quot;self-knowledge,&quot; and its limitations. We also review some of the data concerning abnormalities and &quot;distortion&quot; of ToM in neuropsychiatric disorders and aberrant human behavior.
Although complaints of impaired daytime functioning are essential to the diagnosis of primary insomnia, objective evidence for cognitive dysfunction has been hard to establish. A prerequisite for understanding the neurocognitive consequences of primary insomnia is to establish task paradigms that robustly differentiate insomniacs from well-sleeping subjects. We hypothesized that the decline in performance that typically occurs with an increasing cognitive demand would provide a more sensitive measure than performance on a single task version. The hypothesis was tested, first, by assessing the performance on two vigilance tasks with different cognitive demands in 25 elderly patients with primary insomnia and 13 healthy well-sleeping age-matched subjects. Secondly, we investigated the performance response to sleep therapy using a waiting-list controlled design. Sleep therapy consisted of a multi-component intervention including sleep restriction, cognitive behavioral therapy, bright-light therapy, structured physical activity and body temperature manipulations. The results show that insomniacs differed markedly from controls in their reaction times across tasks with different cognitive demands: patients responded faster on the 'simple' vigilance task, yet slower on the 'complex' vigilance task. Sleep therapy effectively restored normal performance: patients became significantly slower on the 'simple' task and faster on the 'complex' task, returning to the performance levels of control subjects. These findings indicate that the performance decline associated with increasing cognitive demands is possibly the first sensitive and robust measure of the neurocognitive sequelae of insomnia. We suggest that future studies on cognition in primary insomnia should apply a design that varies task demands.
Growing evidence suggests that declarative memory benefits from the modulatory effects of emotion and sleep. The primary goal of the present study was to determine whether these two factors interact to enhance memory or they act independently of each other. Twenty-eight volunteers participated in the study. Half of them were sleep deprived the night immediately following the exposure to emotional and non-emotional images, whereas the control group slept at home. Their memory for images was tested 1 week later along the valence and arousal dimension of emotion with the remember-know procedure. As emotional events appear to gain preference during encoding, via the modulatory effect of amygdala on prefrontal and medial temporal lobe regions, conscious retrieval of emotional pictures (relative to neutral ones) was expected to be less disrupted by sleep loss. Results indicated that emotional images were more richly experienced in memory than neutral, particularly those with high arousal and positive valence. Even though sleep deprivation resulted in behavioral impairment at retrieval of both emotional and neutral images, results revealed that remember-based recognition accuracy and its underlying process of recollection for emotional images were less influenced by the lack of sleep (the mean difference between control and sleep-deprived subjects was around 40% higher for neutral images than for emotional images). Familiarity, however, was affected by neither emotion nor sleep. Taken together, these results suggest that emotion and sleep influence differentially the subjective experience of remembering and knowing and the underlying processes of recollection and familiarity through brain mechanisms probably involving amygdala- and hippocampo-neocortical networks respectively.
Concerns that treatment for heroin dependence using naltrexone may increase suicide rates during treatment and fatal overdoses posttreatment have been expressed. There is also disquiet about mortality during induction onto methadone. We assessed mortality during specific periods following treatment with naltrexone implants or methadone. Data were assembled using the Western Australian Data Linkage System. The methadone cohort comprised all those who started methadone in Western Australia during 2001-2002: The naltrexone cohort comprised all Western Australian heroin-dependent persons who received their first implant in 2001-2002. There were 15 (2.7%) deaths in the methadone cohort (n = 553) and 6 (1.8%) deaths in the naltrexone cohort (n = 341). Mortality rates for the &quot;initial 14-day period,&quot; &quot;stable treatment,&quot; and &quot;overall&quot; were 94.47, 0.0, and 5.83 deaths/1,000 person-years for the methadone group. In the naltrexone group, the rates &quot;during first treatment (0-6 months),&quot; &quot;post first treatment,&quot; and overall were 0.0, 4.21, and 3.76 deaths/1,000 person-years. The age-standardized mortality rate ratio for naltrexone compared to methadone was 0.645 (95% confidence interval = 0.123-1.17). Increased mortality during induction onto methadone was confirmed. Evidence relating naltrexone to either increased suicide or overdose was not found. Overall mortality rates for naltrexone implant were similar to those for methadone, but increased mortality during methadone induction was avoided.



We re-examine the evidence behind the controversial hypothesis that syphilis epidemics cycle. We used the same methods (spectral analysis) used by the proponents of this hypothesis to reanalyse a longitudinal dataset provided by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). We also analysed a longitudinal CDC mortality dataset. To investigate the theoretical results generated by the transmission model that was used to support the hypothesis, we simulated the model and predicted the expected dynamics of syphilis epidemics. By contrast with previous findings, we found that neither of the CDC's datasets provides compelling evidence that syphilis epidemics cycle, and the transmission model (if more reasonable parameter values are used) does not predict cycling behaviour. We explain the possible reasons for the previous proposal that syphilis epidemics cycle. Our findings imply that it is quite possible that the CDC could be successful in eliminating syphilis within the next few decades.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a method of non-invasive brain stimulation that affects the cerebral cortex but not deep structures. In patients with movement disorders the most common application of TMS has been to test the excitability of connections within and among motor areas of the cortex, which has provided useful information on pathophysiology; however, inter-individual variability in the responses has resulted in difficulties in translating this method into a clinically applicable diagnostic use. Repeated stimulation (eg, 1 Hz for 20 min) can result in long-term plastic changes in the motor system, which has led to increased interest in possible therapeutic applications. In this Review, we describe the theoretical background to TMS techniques and discuss the uses of TMS as a potential diagnostic tool in movement disorders. The difficulties in bringing the technique into regular clinical diagnostic practice will be discussed and the evidence for the potential of repetitive TMS as a therapeutic tool in patients with movement disorders will be reviewed.


The lateralisation of colour processing is not well understood, although there is a reasonable amount of evidence indicating a right hemisphere bias for colour processing. Tasks that require colour naming are associated with a left hemisphere bias and it is likely that asymmetry of colour processing is influenced by task demands. It is not known whether object colour knowledge is lateralised. In the current study colour and achromatic Mondrian-like objects were presented to either the left or right hemisphere to assess the lateralisation of colour processing. Participants were required to judge whether the objects were colour or achromatic. To assess colour knowledge, congruently and incongruently coloured familiar objects were presented to either the left or right hemisphere and participants were required to judge whether the objects were correctly or incorrectly coloured. The data show that both colour processing and colour knowledge are associated with a right hemisphere bias.
Machine learning and pattern recognition techniques are being increasingly employed in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data analysis. By taking into account the full spatial pattern of brain activity measured simultaneously at many locations, these methods allow detecting subtle, non-strictly localized effects that may remain invisible to the conventional analysis with univariate statistical methods. In typical fMRI applications, pattern recognition algorithms &quot;learn&quot; a functional relationship between brain response patterns and a perceptual, cognitive or behavioral state of a subject expressed in terms of a label, which may assume discrete (classification) or continuous (regression) values. This learned functional relationship is then used to predict the unseen labels from a new data set (&quot;brain reading&quot;). In this article, we describe the mathematical foundations of machine learning applications in fMRI. We focus on two methods, support vector machines and relevance vector machines, which are respectively suited for the classification and regression of fMRI patterns. Furthermore, by means of several examples and applications, we illustrate and discuss the methodological challenges of using machine learning algorithms in the context of fMRI data analysis.
Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) is a technique used to investigate the spontaneous correlations of blood-oxygen-level-dependent signals across different regions of the brain. Using functional connectivity tools, it is possible to investigate a specific RS-fMRI network, referred to as &quot;default-mode&quot; (DM) network, that involves cortical regions deactivated in fMRI experiments with cognitive tasks. Previous works have reported a significant effect of aging on DM regions activity. Independent component analysis (ICA) is often used for generating spatially distributed DM functional connectivity patterns from RS-fMRI data without the need for a reference region. This aspect and the relatively easy setup of an RS-fMRI experiment even in clinical trials have boosted the combined use of RS-fMRI and ICA-based DM analysis for noninvasive research of brain disorders. In this work, we considered different strategies for combining ICA results from individual-level and population-level analyses and used them to evaluate and predict the effect of aging on the DM component. Using RS-fMRI data from 20 normal subjects and a previously developed group-level ICA methodology, we generated group DM maps and showed that the overall ICA-DM connectivity is negatively correlated with age. A negative correlation of the ICA voxel weights with age existed in all DM regions at a variable degree. As an alternative approach, we generated a distributed DM spatial template and evaluated the correlation of each individual DM component fit to this template with age. Using a &quot;leave-one-out&quot; procedure, we discuss the importance of removing the bias from the DM template-generation process.
A new methodology is introduced that characterizes the intravoxel orientation distribution function (ODF) based on a single-fiber model of the diffusion MRI signal. Using a Bayesian framework the probability of finding a fiber in a specific orientation is obtained. The proposed ODF estimation relies on a cigar-like diffusion tensor model, the methodology is thus denominated Bayesian cigar-like diffusion tensor (BCDT). This work makes two major contributions: 1) the study of single-fiber models in detecting fibers with different volume fractions in a voxel, and 2) the introduction of the Nth-root correction to improve the detection of fibers with smaller volume fractions, where N is the number of diffusion MRI measurements. It is demonstrated that the incomplete signal modeling fails to reconstruct the relative fiber volume fractions, especially when the intravoxel diffusion profiles have dissimilar contributions to the diffusion MRI signal. In this situation the fibers with smaller contributions are hardly detectable. The BCDT method proposed here reduces this effect by introducing the Nth-root correction, making multiple fibers estimable. The performance of the new methodology is illustrated using synthetic and real data, as well as the data from a phantom of intersecting capillaries.
The contribution of gluconeogenesis to hepatic glucose production (GP) was quantified after (2)H(2)O ingestion by Bayesian analysis of the position 2 and 5 (2)H-NMR signals (H2 and H5) of monoacetone glucose (MAG) derived from urinary acetaminophen glucuronide. Six controls and 10 kidney transplant (KTx) patients with cyclosporine A (CsA) immunosuppressant therapy were studied. Seven KTx patients were lean and euglycemic (BMI = 24.3 +/- 1.0 kg/m(2); fasting glucose = 4.7 +/- 0.1 mM) while three were obese and hyperglycemic (BMI = 30.5 +/- 0.7 kg/m(2); fasting glucose = 7.1 +/- 0.5 mM). For the 16 spectra analyzed, the mean coefficient of variation for the gluconeogenesis contribution was 10% +/- 5%. This uncertainty was associated with a mean signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of 79:1 and 45:1 for the MAG H2 and H5 signals, respectively. For control subjects, gluconeogenesis contributed 54% +/- 7% of GP as determined by the mean and standard deviation (SD) of individual Bayesian analyses. For the lean/normoglycemic KTx subjects, the gluconeogenic contribution to GP was 62% +/- 7% (P = 0.06 vs. controls), while hyperglycemic/obese KTx patients had a gluconeogenic contribution of 68% +/- 3% (P &lt; 0.005 vs. controls). These data suggest that in KTx patients, an increased gluconeogenic contribution to GP is strongly associated with obesity and hyperglycemia.
Psychological, neurobiological and neurodevelopmental approaches have frequently been used to provide pathogenic concepts on psychotic disorders. However, aspects of cognitive developmental psychology have hardly been considered in current models. Using a hypothesis-generating approach an integration of these concepts was conducted. According to Piaget (1896-1980), assimilation and accommodation as forms of maintenance and modification of cognitive schemata represent fundamental processes of the brain. In general, based on the perceived input stimuli, cognitive schemata are developed resulting in a conception of the world, the realistic validity and the actuality of which is still being controlled and modified by cognitive adjustment processes. In psychotic disorders, however, a disproportion of environmental demands and the ability to activate required neuronal adaptation processes occurs. We therefore hypothesize a failure of the adjustment of real and requested output patterns. As a consequence autonomous cognitive schemata are generated, which fail to adjust with reality resulting in psychotic symptomatology. Neurobiological, especially neuromodulatory and neuroplastic processes play a central role in these perceptive and cognitive processes. In conclusion, integration of cognitive developmental psychology into the existing pathogenic concepts of psychotic disorders leads to interesting insights into basic disease mechanisms and also guides future research in the cognitive neuroscience of such disorders.
Ethanol has had a long and deep association with the historical development of world culture. Ostensibly, its consumption has both short and long term positive and negative effects, based on moderate or excessive intake, respectively. The predominant thrust of empirical research, however, into the multiple biological effects of ethanol has led to its negative designation as a major addictive substance. Multiple lines of research have elucidated functional interactions of ethanol in opioid modulation of dopaminergic transmission in CNS reward systems. In parallel, recent work has demonstrated that animal cells have the ability to effect de novo synthesis of chemically authentic morphine from dopamine (DA) and DA-related aromatic precursor molecules. Interestingly, we have observed that sub-threshold concentrations of ethanol alter cellular distributions of endogenously expressed morphine. Reciprocal autocrine/paracrine modulatory effects of very low concentrations of morphine in concert with ethanol also suggest the potential for endogenous expression and action of homeopathic concentrations of ethanol within discrete cellular microdomains. Perturbation of this subtle regulatory relationship by exogenous intake of ethanol may shed light on the biochemical and molecular bases of reward and addictive states.
It has long been recognized that women are at a higher risk than men to develop depression and that such risk is particularly associated with reproductive cycle events. Recent long-term, prospective studies have demonstrated that the transition to menopause is associated with higher risk for new onset and recurrent depression. A number of biological and environmental factors are independent predictors for depression in this population, including the presence of hot flushes, sleep disturbance, history of severe premenstrual syndrome or postpartum blues, ethnicity, history of stressful life events, past history of depression, body mass index, socioeconomic status and the use of hormones and antidepressants. Accumulated evidence suggests that ovarian hormones modulate serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmission, a process that may be associated with underlying pathophysiological processes involved in the emergence of depressive symptoms during periods of hormonal fluctuation in biologically predisposed subpopulations. Transdermal estradiol and serotonergic and noradrenergic antidepressants are efficacious in the treatment of depression and vasomotor symptoms in symptomatic, midlife women. The identification of individuals whom might be at a higher risk for depression during menopausal transition could guide preventive strategies for this population.
Cells are exposed during their life span to fluctuating levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). To investigate the effects of a single ROS boost in vitro, human endothelial cells (HUVEC) were treated with one short-term dose of hydrogen peroxide. This treatment resulted in a short, dose-dependent ROS peak that caused transient changes in the mitochondrial morphology and fine structure, in the frequency of mitochondrial fission and fusion and in the mRNA levels of distinct fission and fusion factors. Treatment with a higher dose induced prolonged mtDNA damage; these cells exhibited a significantly shortened replicative lifespan, indicating dose-dependent effects of oxidative stress on mitochondria.
The term epilepsy embraces a constellation of syndromes, each manifesting with recurrent episodic seizures. Uncontrolled epilepsy carries a significant medical morbidity, reduction in quality of life, and a notable increased mortality. A certain percentage of patients are candidates for surgical treatment, which can be one of the most effective long term options for seizure cure. The diagnoses amenable to surgery and their outcomes are reviewed.
CK2 is a pleiotropic protein kinase, which phosphorylates many substrates and has a global role in promoting cell survival and preventing apoptosis. In this study, we investigated its involvement in the phenomenon of the drug resistance, by which tumor cells frequently become unresponsive to chemical apoptosis. By comparing the expression of CK2 subunits in four different pairs of sensitive (S) and resistant (R) cancer cell lines, we found that in three cases the resistant phenotype is accompanied by the overexpression of the CK2 catalytic alpha subunit, either alone or in combination with the regulatory beta subunit. The degree of CK2 expression correlates with the CK2 catalytic activity, when measured toward endogenous protein substrates. All the tested R cell lines, including the one with no CK2 overexpression, can be induced to undergo death by treatment with CK2 inhibitors. We therefore conclude that, although CK2 overexpression is not an absolute requirement for the resistant phenotype, its activity is essential for cell survival and contributes to a high degree of resistance. We also found that CK2 inhibition increases the accumulation of cytotoxic drugs inside the R cells, presumably by impairing the functionality of the extrusion pump P-gp. We therefore propose that CK2 should be considered a target to counteract the pharmaco-resistant phenotype.
Cadherin-6 (Cdh6, K-cadherin) is a synaptic adhesion molecule the expression of which demarcates restricted sets of neuronal circuitries in postnatal mouse brains. While roles for the cadherins in the formation and/or modulation of synaptic junctions have been implicated, that which drives cadherin expression along functional brain circuits has remained elusive. Here we investigate the genetic control of Cdh6 expression by applying a method that permits systematic integration of a reporter cassette into bacterial artificial chromosomes with extensive coverage of the huge Cdh6 gene locus, whereby the reporter activities are efficiently evaluated in stable transgenic mouse lines. Such screenings revealed that divisible genomic segments differentially control each brain region or nucleus specific expression of Cdh6 at the right phases for circuit formation. These separable regulatory modules for cadherin expressions tended to be grouped by working connectivities, suggesting their developmental and/or evolutional value in elaborating brain circuitry.
A prerequisite for axon regeneration is the interaction between the growth cone and the extracellular matrix (ECM). Laminins are prominent constituents of ECM throughout the body, known to support axon growth in vitro and in vivo. The regenerative capacity of adult neurons is greatly diminished compared to embryonic or early postnatal neurons. Since most lesions in the nervous system occur in the adult, we have examined neurite outgrowth from adult mouse DRG neurons on four laminin isoforms (laminin-1/LM-111, laminin-2/LM-211, laminin-8/LM-411 and laminin-10/LM-511) in vitro. The growth on laminin-1 and -10 was trophic factor-independent and superior to the one on laminin-2 and -8, where growth was very poor in the absence of neurotrophins. Among other ECM proteins, laminins were by far the most active molecules. Using function-blocking antibodies to laminin-binding integrins, we identified non-overlapping functions of integrins alpha3beta1, alpha7beta1 and alpha6beta1 on different laminin isoforms, in that alpha3beta1 and alpha7beta1 integrins appeared to be specific receptors for both laminin-1 and-2, whereas integrin alpha6beta1 was a receptor for laminin-8 and-10. Lastly, by use of immunohistochemistry, expression of subunits of laminin-1, -2, -8 and -10 in sensory organs in the human epidermis could be demonstrated, supporting an important role for these laminins in relation to primary sensory axons.
Traumatic avulsion of spinal nerve roots causes complete paralysis of the affected limb. Reimplantation of avulsed roots results in only limited functional recovery in humans, specifically of distal targets. Therefore, root avulsion causes serious and permanent disability. Here, we show in a rat model that lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in reimplanted nerve roots completely prevents motoneuron atrophy after ventral root avulsion and stimulates regeneration of axons into reimplanted roots. However, over the course of 16 weeks neuroma-like structures are formed in the reimplanted roots, and regenerating axons are trapped at sites with high levels of GDNF expression. A high local concentration of GDNF therefore impairs long distance regeneration. These observations show the feasibility of combining neurosurgical repair of avulsed roots with gene-therapeutic approaches. Our data also point to the importance of developing viral vectors that allow regulated expression of neurotrophic factors.
St. John's Wort is commonly known for its antiviral, antidepressant, and cytotoxic properties, but traditionally St. John's Wort has also been used to treat inflammation. In this study, we sought to characterize the mechanisms used by St. John's Wort to treat inflammation by examining the effect of the recently isolated protein from St. John's Wort, p27SJ on the expression of MCP-1. By employing an adenovirus expression vector, we demonstrate that a low concentration of p27SJ upregulates the MCP-1 promoter through the transcription factor C/EBPbeta. In addition, we found that C/EBPbeta-homologous protein (CHOP) or siRNA-C/EBPbeta significantly reduced the ability of p27SJ to activate MCP-1 gene expression. Results from protein-protein interaction studies illustrate the existence of a physical interaction between p27SJ and C/EBPbeta in microglial cells. The use of chromatin immunoprecipitation assay (ChIP) led to the identification of a new cis-element that is responsive to C/EBPbeta within the MCP-1 promoter. Association of C/EBPbeta with MCP-1 DNA was not affected by the presence of p27SJ. The biological activity of MCP-1 produced by cultures of adenovirus-p27SJ transduced cells was increased relative to controls as measured by the transmigration of human Jurkat cells. Thus, we conclude that at high concentration, p27SJ is a potential agent that may be developed as a modulator of MCP-1 leading to the inhibition of the cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses.
Molecular mechanisms underlying bipolar affective disorders are unknown. Difficulties arise from genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of patients and the lack of animal models. Thus, we focused on only one patient (n = 1) with an extreme form of rapid cycling. Ribonucleic acid (RNA) from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was analyzed in a three-tiered approach under widely standardized conditions. Firstly, RNA was extracted from PBMC of eight blood samples, obtained on two consecutive days within one particular episode, including two different consecutive depressive and two different consecutive manic episodes, and submitted to (1) screening by microarray hybridizations, followed by (2) detailed bioinformatic analysis, and (3) confirmation of episode-specific regulation of genes by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Secondly, results were validated in additional blood samples obtained one to two years later. Among gene transcripts elevated in depressed episodes were prostaglandin D synthetase (PTGDS) and prostaglandin D2 11-ketoreductase (AKR1C3), both involved in hibernation. We hypothesized them to account for some of the rapid cycling symptoms. A subsequent treatment approach over 5 months applying the cyclooxygenase inhibitor celecoxib (2 x 200 mg daily) resulted in reduced severity rating of both depressed and manic episodes. This case suggests that rapid cycling is a systemic disease, resembling hibernation, with prostaglandins playing a mediator role.
Epidemiological studies indicate that caffeine consumption reduces the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in men, and antagonists of the adenosine 2A receptor ameliorate the motor symptoms of PD. These findings motivated us to identify proteins whose expression is regulated by caffeine in a sexually dimorphic manner. Using mass spectroscopy, we found that Cox7c, a nuclear-encoded subunit of the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome oxidase, is up-regulated in the striatum of male but not female mice after receiving a single dose of caffeine. The expression of two other Cox subunits, Cox1 and Cox4, was also stimulated by caffeine in a male-specific fashion. This up-regulation of Cox subunits by caffeine was accompanied by an increase in Cox enzyme activity in the male striatum. Caffeine-induced stimulation of Cox expression and activity were reproduced using the adenosine 2A receptor (A2AR)-specific antagonist 5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo[4,3-epsilon]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine (SCH58261), and coadministration of the A2AR-specific agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS21680) counteracted the elevation of Cox expression and activity by caffeine. Caffeine also increased Cox activity in PC-12 cells. In contrast, small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown of Cox7c expression in PC-12 cells blunted Cox activity, and this was counteracted by caffeine treatment. Caffeine was also found to increase Cox7c mRNA expression in the striatum and in PC-12 cells. This occurred at the level of transcription and was mediated by a segment of the Cox7c promoter. Overall, these findings indicate that cytochrome oxidase is a metabolic target of caffeine and that stimulation of Cox activity by caffeine via blockade of A2AR signaling may be an important mechanism underlying the therapeutic benefits of caffeine in PD.
The ability to regulate emotions is an important part of adaptive functioning in society. Advances in cognitive and affective neuroscience and biological psychiatry have facilitated examination of neural systems that may be important for emotion regulation. In this critical review we first develop a neural model of emotion regulation that includes neural systems implicated in different voluntary and automatic emotion regulatory subprocesses. We then use this model as a theoretical framework to examine functional neural abnormalities in these neural systems that may predispose to the development of a major psychiatric disorder characterized by severe emotion dysregulation, bipolar disorder.

Replication-conditional (oncolytic) mutants of herpes simplex virus (HSV), are considered promising therapeutic alternatives for human malignancies, and chemotherapeutic adjuvants are increasingly sought to augment their efficacy. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are a new class of antineoplastic agents because of their potent activity in growth arrest, differentiation, and apoptotic death of cancer cells. The ability of the HDAC inhibitors to upregulate exogenous transgene expression and inhibit interferon (IFN) responses prompted our exploration of their use in improving the antitumor efficacy of oncolytic HSV. We discovered that the yield of viral progeny increased significantly when cultured glioma cells were treated with HDAC inhibitors before viral infection. Valproic acid (VPA), a commonly used antiepileptic agent with HDAC inhibitory activity, proved most effective when used to treat glioma cells before viral infection, but not concomitantly with viral infection. Pretreatment with VPA inhibited the induction of several IFN-responsive antiviral genes, augmented the transcriptional level of viral genes, and improved viral propagation, even in the presence of type I IFNs. Moreover, VPA pretreatment improved the propagation and therapeutic efficacy of oncolytic HSV in a human glioma xenograft model in vivo. These findings indicate that HDAC inhibitors can improve the efficacy of tumor virotherapies.
Estrogen, which influences both classical genomic and rapid membrane-associated signaling cascades, has been implicated in the regulation of hippocampal function, including spatial learning. Gene mutation studies suggest that estrogen effects are mediated by estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha); however, because gonadal steroids influence the organization of the hippocampus during development, it has been difficult to distinguish developmental effects from those specific to adults. In this study we show that lentiviral delivery of the gene encoding ER-alpha to the hippocampus of adult ER-alpha-knockout (ER-alphaKO) mice restores hippocampal responsiveness to estrogen and rescues spatial learning. We propose that constitutive estrogen receptor activity is important for maintaining hippocampus-dependent memory function in adults.

Typically patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) experience acute episodes of neurological dysfunction, which recover followed, at a later stage, by slow and insidious accumulation of disability (disease progression). Disease progression reflects axon damage and loss within the central nervous system. However, the precise mechanism of axon injury in MS is not clear. Inflammation occurring during acute relapses undoubtedly causes some degree of acute axon damage, but epidemiological data and treatment studies have suggested that inflammation alone is not the sole cause of axonopathy. Indeed, there appears to be dissociation between inflammation and disease progression once a certain level of clinical disability has been reached because immune suppression in patients who have established disease progression does not halt the slow decrease of function. The slow and insidious loss of neurological function that occurs during the progressive phase of the disease implies a degenerative process. Whether axon drop-out occurs at these later stages because of previous inflammatory damage to axons; because of low grade inflammation causing damage to already vulnerable demyelinated axons; because of loss of trophic environment for axons to survive; or as part of a completely independent neurodegenerative process is not clear. Understanding disease mechanisms involved in the axonopathy of MS allows for the development of rational therapies for disease progression.
In Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy, due to heterozygous mutations in COL6 genes, collagen VI is preserved in the interstitium but lost in the sarcolemma. We found that the binding ability of mutated collagen VI to extracellular matrix was markedly reduced compared to control. This indicates that heterozygous mutations in COL6 genes diminish the anchorage of collagen VI microfibrils to the extracellular matrix surrounding myocytes. This is the cause for sarcolemma-specific collagen VI deficiency.
Muscle strength is a potentially important factor contributing to postural control. In this article, we consider the influence of muscle weakness on postural instability and falling. We searched the literature for research evaluating muscle weakness as a risk factor for falls in community-dwelling elderly individuals, for evidence that strength training reduces falls, and for pathophysiological evidence from patients with neuromuscular disease that supports the link between muscle weakness and falls. In virtually all studies that included strength testing, muscle weakness was a consistent risk factor for falls in the elderly. Studies that evaluated the merits of muscle strength training often showed a reduction in fall rates, particularly when strength training was a component of a multifactorial intervention, although it was unclear whether strength training alone led to a fall reduction. Surprisingly few studies addressed the pathophysiological relationship between muscle strength and balance control. We conclude that muscle weakness is an important risk factor for falls that is potentially amenable to therapeutic intervention, and that future studies should further clarify the role of muscle weakness in balance control and the pathophysiology of falls.
This Practice Point commentary discusses a study by Kato et al. that assessed the usefulness of three PET tracers--(11)C-methionine (MET), (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose, and (11)C-choline--for the metabolic evaluation of gliomas. The authors measured the ratio of tumor uptake to normal brain uptake (T/N ratio), with the frontal cortex as reference region, and analyzed the correlations between tracer uptake and tumor grade, type, and proliferation activity. Whereas all three tracers showed a similar correlation between the T/N ratio and tumor grade in astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumors, MET proved to be the most user-friendly marker in all gliomas as it enables the straightforward localization of 'hot lesions' and provides outstanding quantitative metabolic parameters. Here we highlight a few methodological issues arising from Kato et al.'s study and, consequently, we urge the PET community to reach a consensus on an objective approach towards the evaluation of PET tracers in the field of neuro-oncology.
Sensory circuits frequently integrate converging inputs while maintaining precise functional relationships between them. For example, in mammals with stereopsis, neurons at the first stages of binocular visual processing show a close alignment of receptive-field properties for each eye. Still, basic questions about the global wiring mechanisms that enable this functional alignment remain unanswered, including whether the addition of a second retinal input to an otherwise monocular neural circuit is sufficient for the emergence of these binocular properties. We addressed this question by inducing a de novo binocular retinal projection to the larval zebrafish optic tectum and examining recipient neuronal populations using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging. Notably, neurons in rewired tecta were predominantly binocular and showed matching direction selectivity for each eye. We found that a model based on local inhibitory circuitry that computes direction selectivity using the topographic structure of both retinal inputs can account for the emergence of this binocular feature.
Sleep is regulated by both homeostatic and circadian mechanisms. The latter, termed 'process c', helps synchronize sleep-wake patterns to the appropriate time of the day. However, in the absence of a circadian clock, overall sleep-wake rhythmicity is preserved and remains synchronized to the external light-dark cycle, indicating that there is an additional, clock-independent photic input to sleep. We found that the direct photic regulation of sleep in mice is predominantly mediated by melanopsin (OPN4)-based photoreception of photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (pRGCs). Moreover, OPN4-dependent sleep regulation was correlated with the activation of sleep-promoting neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic area and the superior colliculus. Collectively, our findings describe a previously unknown pathway in sleep regulation and identify the pRGC/OPN4 signaling system as a potentially new pharmacological target for the selective manipulation of sleep and arousal states.
Plasticity in the brain is essential for maintaining memory and learning and is associated with the dynamic membrane trafficking of AMPA receptors. EphrinB proteins, ligands for EphB receptor tyrosine kinases, are transmembrane molecules with signaling capabilities that are required for spine morphogenesis, synapse formation and synaptic plasticity. Here, we describe a molecular mechanism for ephrinB2 function in controlling synaptic transmission. EphrinB2 signaling is critical for the stabilization of AMPA receptors at the cellular membrane. Mouse hippocampal neurons from conditional ephrinB2 knockouts showed enhanced constitutive internalization of AMPA receptors and reduced synaptic transmission. Mechanistically, glutamate receptor interacting proteins bridge ephrinB ligands and AMPA receptors. Moreover, this function involved a regulatory aspect of ephrinB reverse signaling that involves the phosphorylation of a single serine residue in their cytoplasmic tails. In summary, our findings uncover a model of cooperative AMPA receptor and ephrinB reverse signaling at the synapse.
The efficiency of remyelination decreases with age, but the molecular mechanisms responsible for this decline remain only partially understood. In this study, we show that remyelination is regulated by age-dependent epigenetic control of gene expression. In demyelinated young brains, new myelin synthesis is preceded by downregulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation inhibitors and neural stem cell markers, and this is associated with recruitment of histone deacetylases (HDACs) to promoter regions. In demyelinated old brains, HDAC recruitment is inefficient, and this allows the accumulation of transcriptional inhibitors and prevents the subsequent surge in myelin gene expression. Defective remyelination can be recapitulated in vivo in mice receiving systemic administration of pharmacological HDAC inhibitors during cuprizone treatment and is consistent with in vitro results showing defective differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitors after silencing specific HDAC isoforms. Thus, we suggest that inefficient epigenetic modulation of the oligodendrocyte differentiation program contributes to the age-dependent decline in remyelination efficiency.
Central serotonergic signaling influences many physiological processes, but a requirement for reproductive success has not been demonstrated. Using mouse dams with a specific disruption in serotonin neuron development, we found that serotonergic function is required for the nurturing and survival of offspring. Full rescue of survival depended on the mother's expression level of the upstream serotonergic transcriptional cascade. Thus, intrinsic transcriptional programming of maternal serotonergic activity determines the quality of nurturing and whether or not the organism survives.
New cells, including neurons, arise in several brain regions during puberty in rats. Sex differences in pubertal addition of cells coincide with adult sexual dimorphisms: for each region, the sex that gains more cells during puberty has a larger volume in adulthood. Removing gonadal hormones before puberty eliminates these sex differences, indicating that gonadal steroids direct the addition of new cells during puberty to maintain and accentuate sexual dimorphisms in the adult brain.

Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a heterogeneous subset of stromal stem cells that can be isolated from many adult tissues. They can differentiate into cells of the mesodermal lineage, such as adipocytes, osteocytes and chondrocytes, as well as cells of other embryonic lineages. MSCs can interact with cells of both the innate and adaptive immune systems, leading to the modulation of several effector functions. After in vivo administration, MSCs induce peripheral tolerance and migrate to injured tissues, where they can inhibit the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and promote the survival of damaged cells. This Review discusses the targets and mechanisms of MSC-mediated immunomodulation and the possible translation of MSCs to new therapeutic approaches.
Research that combines genetic and cognitive neuroscience data aims to elucidate the mechanisms that underlie human behaviour and experience by way of 'intermediate phenotypes': variations in brain function. Using neuroimaging and other methods, this approach is poised to make the transition from health-focused investigations to inquiries into cognitive, affective and social functions, including ones that do not readily lend themselves to animal models. The growing pains of this emerging field are evident, yet there are also reasons for a measured optimism.
Computational neuroscience combines theory and experiment to shed light on the principles and mechanisms of neural computation. This approach has been highly fruitful in the ongoing effort to understand velocity computation by the primate visual system. This Review describes the success of spatiotemporal-energy models in representing local-velocity detection. It shows why local-velocity measurements tend to differ from the velocity of the object as a whole. Certain cells in the middle temporal area are thought to solve this problem by combining local-velocity estimates to compute the overall pattern velocity. The Review discusses different models for how this might occur and experiments that test these models. Although no model is yet firmly established, evidence suggests that computing pattern velocity from local-velocity estimates involves simple operations in the spatiotemporal frequency domain.
The immense range of human behaviours is rooted in the complex neural networks of the cerebrum. The creation of these networks depends on the precise integration of specific neuronal subtypes that are born in different regions of the telencephalon. Here, using the mouse as a model system, we review how these proliferative zones are established. Moreover, we discuss how these regions can be traced back in development to the function of a few key genes, including those that encode fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), sonic hedgehog (SHH), bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), forkhead box G1 (FOXG1), paired box 6 (PAX6) and LIM homeobox protein 2 (LHX2), that pattern the early telencephalon.

Computational neuroscience models can be used to understand the diminished stability and noisy neurodynamical behaviour of prefrontal cortex networks in schizophrenia. These neurodynamical properties can be captured by simulated neural networks with randomly spiking neurons that introduce noise into the system and produce trial-by-trial variation of postsynaptic potentials. Theoretical and experimental studies have aimed to understand schizophrenia in relation to noise and signal-to-noise ratio, which are promising concepts for understanding the symptoms that characterize this heterogeneous illness. Simulations of biologically realistic neural networks show how the functioning of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate), GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) and dopamine receptors is connected to the concepts of noise and variability, and to related neurophysiological findings and clinical symptoms in schizophrenia.
Using a case history this paper attempts to define a certain temporal orientation peculiar to schizophrenic passivity. In agreement with Straus, we divide the present into two modes, one before confirmation of an action and one after. The former mode is termed the immediate present, and the latter is the nonimmediate present. Due to the requirement of recording procedure in neuroscience, it usually is unable to deal with questions of the immediate present. This leads to a&quot;discovery&quot; that cerebral initiation of a voluntary act arises prior to our conscious awareness of the intention to act. Such a belated awareness could be also found in&quot;made&quot; actions of schizophrenia, because a patient becomes aware of alien control only after a movement of his body has been caused by external agencies. With regard to this resemblance schizophrenic passivity may be conceived as a disturbance of anchorage in the immediate present. Taking account of an anthropological concept of&quot;life&quot; we elucidate the relationship of the self to the immediate present.
The function of cortical networks depends on the collective interplay between neurons and neuronal populations, which is reflected in the correlation of signals that can be recorded at different levels. To correctly interpret these observations it is important to understand the origin of neuronal correlations. Here we study how cells in large recurrent networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons interact and how the associated correlations affect stationary states of idle network activity. We demonstrate that the structure of the connectivity matrix of such networks induces considerable correlations between synaptic currents as well as between subthreshold membrane potentials, provided Dale's principle is respected. If, in contrast, synaptic weights are randomly distributed, input correlations can vanish, even for densely connected networks. Although correlations are strongly attenuated when proceeding from membrane potentials to action potentials (spikes), the resulting weak correlations in the spike output can cause substantial fluctuations in the population activity, even in highly diluted networks. We show that simple mean-field models that take the structure of the coupling matrix into account can adequately describe the power spectra of the population activity. The consequences of Dale's principle on correlations and rate fluctuations are discussed in the light of recent experimental findings.
Correlated neural activity has been observed at various signal levels (e.g., spike count, membrane potential, local field potential, EEG, fMRI BOLD). Most of these signals can be considered as superpositions of spike trains filtered by components of the neural system (synapses, membranes) and the measurement process. It is largely unknown how the spike train correlation structure is altered by this filtering and what the consequences for the dynamics of the system and for the interpretation of measured correlations are. In this study, we focus on linearly filtered spike trains and particularly consider correlations caused by overlapping presynaptic neuron populations. We demonstrate that correlation functions and statistical second-order measures like the variance, the covariance, and the correlation coefficient generally exhibit a complex dependence on the filter properties and the statistics of the presynaptic spike trains. We point out that both contributions can play a significant role in modulating the interaction strength between neurons or neuron populations. In many applications, the coherence allows a filter-independent quantification of correlated activity. In different network models, we discuss the estimation of network connectivity from the high-frequency coherence of simultaneous intracellular recordings of pairs of neurons.
Over successive stages, the visual system develops neurons that respond with view, size and position invariance to objects or faces. A number of computational models have been developed to explain how transform-invariant cells could develop in the visual system. However, a major limitation of computer modelling studies to date has been that the visual stimuli are typically presented one at a time to the network during training. In this paper, we investigate how vision models may self-organize when multiple stimuli are presented together within each visual image during training. We show that as the number of independent stimuli grows large enough, standard competitive neural networks can suddenly switch from learning representations of the multi-stimulus input patterns to representing the individual stimuli. Furthermore, the competitive networks can learn transform (e.g. position or view) invariant representations of the individual stimuli if the network is presented with input patterns containing multiple transforming stimuli during training. Finally, we extend these results to a multi-layer hierarchical network model (VisNet) of the ventral visual system. The network is trained on input images containing multiple rotating 3D objects. We show that the network is able to develop view-invariant representations of the individual objects.
Functional imaging studies in humans have demonstrated widespread age-related changes in cortical motor networks. However, the relative contribution of cortical regions during motor performance varies not only with age but with task parameters. In this study, we investigated whether motor system activity during a task involving increasingly forceful hand grips was influenced by age. Forty right-handed volunteers underwent functional magnetic brain imaging whilst performing repetitive isometric hand grips with either hand in separate sessions. We found no age-related changes in the average size and shape of the task-related blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal in contralateral primary motor cortex (M1), but did observe reduced ipsilateral M1 deactivation in older subjects (both hands). Furthermore, task-related activity co-varied positively with force output in a number of brain regions, but was less prominent with advancing age in contralateral M1, cingulate sulcus (both hands), sensory and premotor cortices (right hand). These results indicate that a reduced ability to modulate activity in appropriate motor networks when required may contribute to age-related decline in motor performance.
Dietary caloric restriction (CR) slows aging, extends lifespan, and reduces the occurrence of age-related diseases in short-lived species. However, it is unclear whether CR can exert similar beneficial effects in long-lived species, like primates. Our objective was to determine if CR could attenuate purported age-related changes in the 24-h release of adrenal steroids. To this end, we examined 24-h plasma profiles of cortisol, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) in young and old, male and female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) subjected to either ad libitum (AL)-feeding or CR (70% of AL) for 2-4 years. Hormone profiles from young monkeys showed pronounced 24-h rhythms. Cortisol concentrations were higher in old males but not females, whereas DHEAS rhythms were dampened with age in both sexes. The cortisol rhythms of old CR males resembled those of young control males. However, CR failed to prevent age-related declines in DHEAS and further dampened DHEAS rhythms in both sexes. Apart from the partial attenuation of the age-related cortisol elevation in the old males, 24-h adrenal steroid rhythms did not benefit from late-onset CR.
The loss of presynaptic markers is thought to represent a strong pathologic correlate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Spinophilin is a postsynaptic marker mainly located to the heads of dendritic spines. We assessed total numbers of spinophilin-immunoreactive puncta in the CA1 and CA3 fields of hippocampus and area 9 in 18 elderly individuals with various degrees of cognitive decline. The decrease in spinophilin-immunoreactivity was significantly related to both Braak neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) staging and clinical severity but not A beta deposition staging. The total number of spinophilin-immunoreactive puncta in CA1 field and area 9 were significantly related to MMSE scores and predicted 23.5 and 61.9% of its variability. The relationship between total number of spinophilin-immunoreactive puncta in CA1 field and MMSE scores did not persist when adjusting for Braak NFT staging. In contrast, the total number of spinophilin-immunoreactive puncta in area 9 was still significantly related to the cognitive outcome explaining an extra 9.6% of MMSE and 25.6% of the Clinical Dementia Rating scores variability. Our data suggest that neocortical dendritic spine loss is an independent parameter to consider in AD clinicopathologic correlations.
Neural transplantation has been investigated experimentally and clinically for the purpose of developing new treatment options for intractable epilepsy. In the present study we assessed the anticonvulsant efficacy and safety of bilateral allotransplantation of genetically engineered striatal GABAergic rat cell lines into the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). Rats with previously-established seizures, induced by amygdala kindling, were used as a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Three cell lines were transplanted: (1) immortalized GABAergic cells (M213-2O) derived from embryonic rat striatum; (2) M213-2O cells (CL4) transfected with human GAD67 cDNA to obtain higher GABA synthesis than the parent cell line; and (3) control cells (121-1I), also derived from embryonic rat striatum, but which did not show GAD expression. A second control group received injections of medium alone. Transplantation of M213-2O cells into the SNr of kindled rats resulted in significant but transient anticonvulsant effects. Neither control cells nor medium induced anticonvulsant effects. Strong tissue reactions were, however, induced in the host brain of kindled but not of non-kindled rats, and only in animals that received grafts of genetically modified CL4 cells. These tissue reactions included graft rejection, massive infiltration of inflammatory immune cells, and gliosis. The anticonvulsant effect of M213-2O cells emphasizes the feasibility of local manipulations of seizures by intranigral transplantation of GABA-producing cells. On the other hand, the present data suggest that kindling-induced activation of microglia in the SNr can enhance immune reactions to transplanted cells. In this case, under conditions of further immunological stimulation by CL4 cells, transfected with a human cDNA, substantial immune reactions occurred. Thus, it appears that the condition of the host brain and the production of foreign proteins by transplanted cells have to be considered in estimating the risks of rejection of transplants into the brain.
An enhanced production of IL-1beta in glia is a typical feature of epileptogenic tissue in experimental models and in human drug-refractory epilepsy. We show here that the selective inhibition of Interleukin Converting Enzyme (ICE), which cleaves the biologically active form of IL-1beta using VX-765, blocks kindling development in rats by preventing IL-1beta increase in forebrain astrocytes, without interfering with glia activation. The average afterdischarge duration was not altered significantly by VX-765. Up to 24 h after kindling completion and drug washout, kindled seizures could not be evoked in treated rats. VX-765 did not affect seizures or afterdischarge duration in fully kindled rats. These data indicate an antiepileptogenic effect mediated by ICE inhibition and suggest that specific anti-IL-1beta pharmacological strategies can be envisaged to interfere with epileptogenic mechanisms.
The diuretic amiloride has recently proven neuroprotective in models of cerebral ischemia, a property attributable to the drug's inhibition of central acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs). Given that Parkinson's disease (PD), like ischemia, is associated with cerebral lactic acidosis, we tested amiloride in the MPTP-treated mouse, a model of PD also manifesting lactic acidosis. Amiloride was found to protect substantia nigra (SNc) neurons from MPTP-induced degeneration, as determined by attenuated reductions in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) immunohistochemistry, as well as smaller declines in striatal DAT radioligand binding and dopamine levels. More significantly, amiloride also preserved dopaminergic cell bodies in the SNc. Administration of psalmotoxin venom (PcTX), an ASIC1a blocker, resulted in a much more modest effect, attenuating only the deficits in striatal DAT binding and dopamine. These findings represent the first experimental evidence of a potential role for ASICs in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a lethal disease affecting motoneurons. In familial ALS, patients bear mutations in the superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1). We transplanted human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) into the lumbar spinal cord of asymptomatic SOD1(G93A) mice, an experimental model of ALS. hMSCs were found in the spinal cord 10 weeks after, sometimes close to motoneurons and were rarely GFAP- or MAP2-positive. In females, where progression is slower than in males, astrogliosis and microglial activation were reduced and motoneuron counts with the optical fractionator were higher following transplantation. Motor tests (Rotarod, Paw Grip Endurance, neurological examination) were significantly improved in transplanted males. Therefore hMSCs are a good candidate for ALS cell therapy: they can survive and migrate after transplantation in the lumbar spinal cord, where they prevent astrogliosis and microglial activation and delay ALS-related decrease in the number of motoneurons, thus resulting in amelioration of the motor performance.
Adult-onset hypothyroidism is associated with neurological changes such as cognitive dysfunction and impaired learning, which may be related to alterations of synaptic plasticity. We investigate the consequence of adult-onset hypothyroidism on thyroid-mediated transcription events in striatal synaptic plasticity, and the effect of triiodothyronine (T3) replacement. We used hypothyroid mice, treated with propylthiouracil (PTU) and methimazole (MMI), with or without subsequent administration of T3. We evaluated the amount of T3 nuclear receptors (TRalpha1, TRbeta) and striatal plasticity indicators: neurogranin (RC3), Ras homolog enriched in striatum (Rhes), Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMKII), and dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32). In addition, we assessed hypothyroid mice motor behavior as related to striatum synaptic functions. Hypothyroid mice exhibited significantly reduced TRbeta, RC3 and Rhes expression. T3 administration reversed the expression of TRbeta, RC3, and up-regulated CaMKII levels as well as motor behavior, and decreased DARPP-32 protein phosphorylation. We suggest that thyroid hormone modulation had a major impact on striatal synaptic plasticity of adult mice which produced in turn motor behavior modifications.
Extensive research suggests that long-term potentiation (LTP) may serve as a cellular mechanism for memory and that alterations in synaptic plasticity may underlie the gross memory impairments observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Cholinergic facilitation of hippocampal LTP in the behaving rat is a useful model for the study of the effects of anticholinesterase or other drugs on synaptic plasticity. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from the hippocampal CA1 region following excitation of the basal dendrites in behaving male Long-Evans rats. LTP was induced by a high-frequency train (200 Hz for 0.5s duration) following injection of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor eserine sulfate (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), specific muscarinic M1 receptor antagonist pirenzepine (21.2 microg/microl, i.c.v.), or saline (i.p. or i.c.v.). Pirenzepine was found to block basal-dendritic LTP when LTP was induced during walking, but not when LTP was induced during immobility. Eserine facilitated LTP when induction occurred during either immobility or walking. The present study demonstrates that an anticholinesterase enhances LTP in CA1 of the behaving rat, and that facilitation of basal-dendritic LTP during walking is mediated by muscarinic M1 receptors.
Diabetes and normal aging are both characterized by increases in levels of glucocorticoids. Because long-term exposure to elevated glucocorticoids can be detrimental to hippocampal function, we evaluated the performance of young diabetic rats in the 14-unit T-maze, a task that is sensitive to hippocampal deficits. To assess the contribution of diabetes-induced elevations in corticosterone levels, we examined maze learning in diabetic rats that had levels of corticosterone 'clamped' through adrenalectomy and low-dose corticosterone replacement. For comparison, we also tested a separate group of young and aged rats in the maze. Adrenally intact diabetic rats learned poorly in the 14-unit T-maze. Preventing the increases in corticosterone levels that accompanies the onset of experimental diabetes also prevented deficits in complex maze learning. The pattern of errors made by adrenally intact diabetic rats was similar to the pattern of errors made by aged rats, suggesting that the cognitive profiles of diabetic and aged rats share common features.
The locus coeruleus (LC) is the main source of noradrenergic innervations to the forebrain and the hippocampal formation but does not receive noradrenergic projections itself. Previous studies have suggested that hippocampal neural response is modulated by the noradrenergic pathway and that the experimental activation of the LC can potentiate hippocampal responses. Most studies have suggested that the noradrenergic system has controversial effects on long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal neurons, because its influence on synaptic plasticity in perforant path-DG synapses is ambiguous. The aim of this article was to study the LC's role in baseline activity and LTP in perforant path-DG cells of hippocampus by in vivo LC inactivation. Rats were anesthetized with urethane, and LC was temporarily suppressed by intra-LC injection of lidocaine. Population spike (PS) amplitude and excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) slope in DG were recorded 10 min before and 5, 10, 20, 40, 60, and 120 min after tetanization (400 Hz). Saline or lidocaine was injected during the baseline recording (experiment 1), 5 min before tetanus (experiment 2), and 5 min after tetanus (experiment 3). The results from this study indicated that the LC inactivation has no effect on baseline activity of granular cells or maintenance of LTP after tetanization. Moreover, LC inactivation before tetanus had no effect on LTP induction but decreased PS-LTP amplitude 60 and 120 min after tetanization. Taken together, the LC noradrenergic system likely influences LTP induction in later time periods while it has no effect on LTP in earlier time periods.
Extinction has mostly been studied in conditioning paradigms, more sparsely in spatial tasks, and never as a function of the age of a spatial memory. Using rats, we compared the time-course of extinction of a recent (5 days) vs. remote (25 days) spatial memory in a water maze, over three probe trials. When the trials were set 24h apart, performance in the remote memory group was significantly worse on the first probe trial and significantly better on the third probe trial, as compared to the recent memory group, thereby showing differences between cognitive operations underlying recent vs. remote memory extinction. In contrast, when trials were given consecutively, both groups showed a similar profile of extinction. Furthermore, in a room with overly-salient cues providing a strong remote memory trace, no difference between groups was observed when the spaced extinction paradigm was used. These results might be related to a balance between reconsolidation and extinction processes occurring after a first retrieval experience, of which the outcome may depend on the extinction protocol, and on the age and strength of a memory.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the role of the dorsal striatum, and more specifically, the patch region of the dorsal striatum, in mediating spatial learning and memory. To this end, male, Long Evans rats were bilaterally implanted with cannula aimed at the dorsal striatum. Rats were injected with different doses (0, 0.05, 0.5 or 5 microg/0.5 microl) of [3H]-[D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO) into the dorsal striatum daily (Exp. 1) before training on a hidden platform version of the water maze task or during a reversal water maze spatial task (Exp. 2). In both experiments, probe retention tests were given drug free. Results from Exp. 1 showed that intra-striatal injection of the low DAMGO dose (0.05) resulted in enhanced spatial acquisition while the high dose (5.0) produced impairments compared to controls. During the probe test, the low dose group showed better retention of the platform location than controls as well as an enhanced ability to alter their search strategy. In Exp. 2, pretraining alleviated the high dose impairment found in Exp. 1 suggesting a motoric impairment in this group. The low dose group continued to show an enhanced ability to alter their search strategy during the probe test compared to all other groups. The data suggest that the low dose of DAMGO, when injected into the dorsal striatum, eliminates competition with the hippocampus thereby leading to enhanced spatial processing. Alternatively, inhibition of patch-striatal neurons may attenuate a memory decay process. Both alternatives are discussed.
Previous data from our team have shown that pre-test stress in mice reversed the pattern of memory retrieval in a contextual serial spatial task (CSD; Celerier, A., Pierard, C., Rachbauer, D., Sarrieau, A., &amp; Beracochea, D. (2004). Contextual and serial discriminations: A new learning paradigm to assess simultaneously the effects of acute stress on retrieval of flexible or stable information in mice. Learning and Memory, 11, 196-204). The present study is aimed at determining brain areas which might be critically involved in mediating the stress effect on memory retrieval in the CSD task. For that purpose, we studied hereby the effects of ibotenic acid lesions of either the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in Stressed or Non-Stressed Balb/c mice on memory retrieval in the CSD task. In that task, mice learned two successive spatial discriminations (D1 and D2) within two different internal contexts in a four-hole board. The stressor (electric footshocks) was delivered 5 min before test, occurring 24 h after acquisition. During test, mice were relocated either on the floor of the first or of the second discrimination. Results showed that (i) spatial memory was substantial and remained unaffected both by lesions and stress; (ii) Non-Stressed controls as well as Non-Stressed or Stressed PFC and BLA-lesioned mice remembered accurately D1 but not D2; and (iii) in contrast, Stressed controls accurately remembered D2 but not D1. In parallel to behavioral experiments, we also showed that PFC and BLA lesions did not affect the stress-induced increase of plasma corticosterone levels. All together, PFC and BLA integrity are not necessary for retrieval processes per se; in contrast, the PFC and BLA are critically involved in the mediation of the deleterious stress effects on serial order memory retrieval.
Human research has shown that lesions of the parietal cortex disrupt spatial information processing, specifically topological information. Similar findings have been found in non-humans. It has been difficult to determine homologies between human and non-human mnemonic mechanisms for spatial information processing because methodologies and neuropathology differ. The first objective of the present study was to adapt a previously established human task for rats. The second objective was to better characterize the role of parietal cortex (PC) and dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) for topological spatial information processing. Rats had to distinguish whether a ball inside a ring or a ball outside a ring was the correct, rewarded object. After rats reached criterion on the task (&gt;95%) they were randomly assigned to a lesion group (control, PC, and dHPC). Animals were then re-tested. Post-surgery data show that controls were 94% correct on average, dHPC rats were 89% correct on average, and PC rats were 56% correct on average. The results from the present study suggest that the parietal cortex, but not the dHPC processes topological spatial information. The present data are the first to support comparable topological spatial information processes of the parietal cortex in humans and rats.
Rats were trained in four different learning tasks including the Morris-water task, a T-maze delayed nonmatch-to-sample task, a skilled unilateral reaching task, and a skilled bilateral string-pulling task. At the end of training the brains were harvested and stained using a Golgi-Cox procedure. Learning the spatial navigation task produced increased dendritic length and branching as well as decreased spine density in layer III pyramidal cells in occipital cortex. Learning the T-maze task increased dendritic branching in layer III medial but not orbital frontal cortex pyramidal cells and increased spine density in both regions. The motor learning tasks produced increased dendritic length and branching in layer V pyramidal cells in the forelimb cortex in the hemisphere contralateral to the trained limb in the unilateral skilled reaching task and in both limbs in the bilateral skilled pulling task. There were no changes in spine density in layer V in the motor tasks, but there was a decrease in spine density in layer III in the unilateral reaching task. Spatial and motor learning thus produce different patterns of change in layer III cortical pyramidal neurons. Furthermore, changes in spine density and dendritic length and branching are not tightly correlated and can increase and/or decrease independently of one another in learning tasks.
Tg2576 mice over-expressing human mutant APP (hAPPswe) show progressive impairments in hippocampal plasticity and episodic memory while fronto-striatal plasticity and procedural memory remain intact. Here we examine the status of synaptic connectivity in the hippocampus and the dorsolateral striatum (DLS) of 3- and 15-month-old Tg2576 and wild-type mice through the analysis of single dendritic spines microanatomy. We found that, in each region, all mice showed a global reduction in the size of spines as a function of age. Ageing mutants, however, exhibited smaller spines with shorter necks on CA1 pyramidal neurons but larger spines with longer necks on DLS spiny neurons compared to their age-matched wild-type controls. Our findings indicate that hippocampal and DLS dendritic spines in hAPPswe mutants undergo a different pattern of morphological changes over time and point to minor alterations in the microanatomy of DLS spines as a compensatory mechanism maintaining procedural abilities in the ageing mutants.
Data suggest that modulation of synaptic strength by incorporation of GluR4-containing AMPARs occurs during conditioned response (CR) acquisition in an in vitro model of classical conditioning. Here we extend these findings by showing that synaptically localized GluR4 subunits parallels the expression of CRs during conditioning training in which there is differential expression of CRs, such as during acquisition, extinction, and reacquisition. Moreover, colocalization and coimmunoprecipitation data suggest that Arc associates with GluR4-containing AMPARs during these different training procedures. Once induced, Arc remains present in synapses during these phases of conditioning. The results are consistent with the interpretation that synaptic incorporation of GluR4-containing AMPARs supports the expression of CRs in this preparation, and that Arc may be involved in trafficking of GluR4 subunits during conditioning. Moreover, the maintained presence of synaptically localized Arc during all phases of conditioning examined indicates that synapses do not return to their nave state after extinction and that, given the potential trafficking function of Arc, may facilitate relearning after extinction.
Parkinson's disease is a common and severe debilitating neurological disease that results from massive and progressive degenerative death of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, but the mechanisms of neuronal degeneration and disease progression remains largely obscure. We are interested in possible implications of low-affinity p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), which may mediate neuronal apoptosis in the central nervous system, in triggering cell death of the nigral dopamine neurons. The RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were carried out to detect if p75NTR is expressed in these nigral neurons and up-regulated by kainic acid (KA) insult in adult rats. It revealed p75NTR-positive immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra, and co-localization of p75NTR and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) was found in a large number of substantia nigra neurons beside confirmation of p75NTR in the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive forebrain neurons. Cell count data further indicated that about 47-100% of TH-positive nigral neurons and 98-100% of ChAT-positive forebrain neurons express p75NTR. More interestingly, significant increasing in both p75NTR mRNA and p75NTR-positive neurons occurred rapidly following KA insult in the substantia nigra of animal model. The present study has provided first evidence on p75NTR expression and KA-inducing p75NTR up-regulation in substantia nigra neurons in rodent animals. Taken together with previous data on p75NTR functions in neuronal apoptosis, this study also suggests that p75NTR may play important roles in neuronal cell survival or excitotoxic degeneration of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra in pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease in human beings.
The accumulation of oxidatively modified proteins has been shown to be a characteristic feature of many neurodegenerative disorders and its regulation requires efficient proteolytic processing. One component of the mitochondrial proteolytic system is Lon, an ATP-dependent protease that has been shown to degrade oxidatively modified aconitase in vitro and may thus play a role in defending against the accumulation of oxidized matrix proteins in mitochondria. Using an assay system that allowed us to distinguish between basal and ATP-stimulated Lon protease activity, we have shown in isolated non-synaptic rat brain mitochondria that Lon protease is highly susceptible to oxidative inactivation by peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)). This susceptibility was more pronounced with regard to ATP-stimulated activity, which was inhibited by 75% in the presence of a bolus addition of 1mM ONOO(-), whereas basal unstimulated activity was inhibited by 45%. Treatment of mitochondria with a range of peroxynitrite concentrations (10-1000 microM) revealed that a decline in Lon protease activity preceded electron transport chain (ETC) dysfunction (complex I, II-III and IV) and that ATP-stimulated activity was approximately fivefold more sensitive than basal Lon protease activity. Furthermore, supplementation of mitochondrial matrix extracts with reduced glutathione, following ONOO(-) exposure, resulted in partial restoration of basal and ATP-stimulated activity, thus suggesting possible redox regulation of this enzyme complex. Taken together these findings suggest that Lon protease may be particularly vulnerable to inactivation in conditions associated with GSH depletion and elevated oxidative stress.
We have previously shown that beta-amyloid (Abeta) oligomers induced dynamin 1 and tau cleavage in cultured hippocampal neurons. As a result of this cleavage, dynamin 1 levels decreased and a toxic tau fragment was generated. Abeta-induced cleavage of these proteins was calpain-mediated and impacted both synaptic vesicle recycling and the integrity of neuronal processes [Kelly, B.L., Vassar, R., Ferreira, A., 2005. Beta-amyloid-induced dynamin 1 depletion in hippocampal neurons. A potential mechanism for early cognitive decline in Alzheimer disease. J. Biol. Chem. 280, 31746-31753; Park, S.Y., Ferreira, A., 2005. The generation of a 17kDa neurotoxic fragment: an alternative mechanism by which tau mediates beta-amyloid-induced neurodegeneration. J. Neurosci. 25, 5365-5375; Kelly, B.L., Ferreira, A., 2006. Beta-amyloid-induced dynamin 1 degradation is mediated by N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors in hippocampal neurons. J. Biol. Chem. 281, 28079-28089, Kelly, B.L., Ferreira, A., 2007. Beta-amyloid disrupted synaptic vesicle endocytosis in cultured hippocampal neurons. Neuroscience 147, 60-70]. Building on previous reports, these results identified calpain as a potential target for therapeutic intervention in Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we tested the ability of A-705253, a novel water-soluble calpain inhibitor with oral availability and enhanced metabolic stability, to prevent Abeta-induced dynamin 1 and tau cleavage in cultured hippocampal neurons. Quantitative Western blot analysis indicated that the incubation of these cells with A-705253 prior to the addition of oligomeric Abeta reduced both dynamin 1 and tau cleavage in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, our results showed that this calpain inhibitor significantly ameliorated the cleavage of these proteins when added simultaneously with oligomeric Abeta. Furthermore, our data indicated that the use of this calpain inhibitor could have some beneficial effects even when added after the cleavage of these proteins have been triggered by Abeta. Collectively, these results suggest that, indeed, specific calpain inhibitors could play an important role in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
This study examined changes in neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y2 receptor binding in the brains of C57BL/6 mice in response to different levels of high-fat diets via three dietary intervention methods: high-fat diet, switching from high- to low-fat diet and finally, energy restricted high-fat diet. Forty-five C57Bl/6 male mice were fed a high-fat diet for 8 weeks and then classified as diet-induced obese (DIO) or diet-resistant (DR) mice according to the highest and lowest body weight gainers, respectively. The DIO and DR mice were then randomly divided into three groups each and either continued on their high-fat diet ad libitum (DIO-H and DR-H), changed to a low-fat diet (DIO-L and DR-L) or pair-fed via energy restricted high-fat diet (DIO-P and DR-P) for a further 6 weeks. During the course of this study, body weight, energy intake and plasma peptide YY (PYY) were measured. The study revealed that the replacement of a high-fat diet with a low-fat diet was associated with a significant lowering of ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) Y2 receptor binding in both the DIO-L and DR-L mice (-37%, -36%), and also a lowered plasma PYY level in the DIO-L mice (-25%). Despite a continued consumption of the high-fat diet, energy restricted pair feeding caused a lower VMH Y2 receptor binding in the obese mice (DIO-P) following weight loss compared to the DR-P mice (-14%). In conclusion, this study showed that changing diets from high- to low-fat can significantly lower the VMH Y2 receptor binding irrespective to the obesity phenotype. Energy restriction, even while on high-fat feeding, can cause a lower VMH Y2 receptor binding compared to DR mice even after body weight loss to similar levels. This suggests either a possible intrinsic nature of the DIO mice or a body weight set-point re-establishment to drive body weight regain.
To clarify the response of leptomeningeal cells to immune stimulation, the effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on expression of IL-6 receptors in the cultured leptomeningeal cells was investigated. The results showed that the expression of IL-6R alpha was invisible in the purified leptomeningeal cells while it was seen in the cells when they were co-cultured with astrocytes. On the other hand, GP130 was moderately expressed in both conditions. Following incubation with different doses of LPS, IL-6R alpha expression in purified leptomeningeal cells was increased in a time- and dose-dependent manner, while GP130 level remained unchanged. Concomitantly, phosphorylated ERK1/2 level was increased following LPS stimulation and its inhibition by PD98059 attenuated the LPS-induced increase of IL-6R alpha expression. These data indicate that leptomeningeal cells can respond to immunogenic stimuli as manifested by expression of cytokine receptors. Moreover, ERK1/2 pathway seems to be involved in the process of LPS-induced IL-6R alpha up-regulation in leptomeningeal cells.
The understanding of oxidative damage in different neurodegenerative diseases could enhance therapeutic strategies. Our objective was to quantify lipoperoxidation and other oxidative products as well as the activity of antioxidant enzymes and cofactors in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples. We recorded data from all new patients with a diagnosis of either one of the four most frequent neurodegenerative diseases: Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD) and lateral amyotrophic sclerosis (ALS). The sum of nitrites and nitrates as end products of nitric oxide (NO) were increased in the four degenerative diseases and fluorescent lipoperoxidation products in three (excepting ALS). A decreased Cu/Zn-dependent superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity characterized the four diseases. A significantly decreased ferroxidase activity was found in PD, HD and AD, agreeing with findings of iron deposition in these entities, while free copper was found to be increased in CSF and appeared to be a good biomarker of PD.
Estrogen has a variety of neuroprotective effects but the molecular basis of its function is still mainly unclear. Estrogen receptor (ER) signaling is highly dependent on posttranslational modifications and the assembly of coactivator and corepressor complexes. Several proteins involved in ER alpha signaling have recently been found to be acetylated, including ER alpha itself and Hsp90, a key chaperone in the functional regulation of ER alpha. ER alpha complexes also contain histone deacetylases (HDAC) which repress transactivation. Our purpose was to clarify the role of protein acetylation and Hsp90 function in the ERE-mediated ER alpha signaling in neuronal HN10 cells. We observed that increasing protein/histone acetylation status with trichostatin A, a potent HDAC inhibitor, increased the 17beta-estradiol (E2)-induced transactivation of ERE-driven luciferase in non-transfected cells, and even more extensively in pER alpha-transfected cells. E2-induced ERE-driven transactivation was blocked by ICI 182.780. Several ER antagonists, such as raloxifene and tamoxifen, were unresponsive. Valproate, an antiepileptic drug which is recently characterized as a HDAC inhibitor, was also able to potentiate the E2-induced ERE-transactivation. Inhibition of the function of Hsp90 chaperone with geldanamycin strongly inhibited the E2-induced ERE-transactivation. Overexpression of SIRT2 protein deacetylase did not inhibit the acetylation-potentiated ERE-driven transactivation indicating that SIRT2 deacetylase is not involved in ER alpha signaling. Our results reveal that ER alpha signaling is dependent on protein acetylation and epigenetic regulation.
The experiments were designed to study the glutamate gene expression during epilepsy in adult and hypoxic insult to brain during the neonatal period and the therapeutic role of neuroprotective supplements. We investigated the role of metabotropic glutamate-8 receptor (mGluR8) gene expression in cerebellum during epilepsy and neuroprotective role of Bacopa monnieri extract in epilepsy. We also studied the effect of NMDA receptor 1 (NMDAR1) gene expression during neonatal hypoxia and therapeutic role of glucose, oxygen and epinephrine supplementation. During epilepsy a significant down-regulation (P &lt; 0.01) of mGluR8 gene expression was observed which was up-regulated (P &lt; 0.05) near control level after B. monnieri treatment which is supported by Morris water maze experiment. In hypoxic neonates we observed up-regulation (P &lt; 0.001) of the NMDAR1 gene expression whereas glucose and glucose + oxygen was able to significantly reverse (P &lt; 0.001) the gene expression to near control level when compared to hypoxia and epinephrine treatment which was supported by open field test. Our results showed that B. monnieri treatment to epileptic rats significantly brought the reversal of the down-regulated mgluR8 gene expression toward control level. In neonatal rats, hypoxia induced expressional and functional changes in the NMDAR1 receptors of neuronal cells which is corrected by supplementation of glucose alone or glucose followed by oxygen during the resuscitation to prevent the glutamate related neuronal damage. Thus, the results suggest the clinical significance of corrective measures for epileptic and hypoxic management.
Asimadoline is a potent kappa-opioid receptor agonist with a diaryl acetamide structure. It has high affinity for the kappa receptor, with IC(50) of 5.6 nmol L(-1) (guinea pig) and 1.2 nmol L(-1) (human recombinant), and high selectively with kappa : micro : delta binding ratios of 1 : 501 : 498 in human recombinant receptors. It acts as a complete agonist in in vitro assay. Asimadoline reduced sensation in response to colonic distension at subnoxious pressures in healthy volunteers and in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients without alteration of colonic compliance. Asimadoline reduced satiation and enhanced the postprandial gastric volume (in female volunteers). However, there were no significant effects on gastrointestinal transit, colonic compliance, fasting or postprandial colonic tone. In a clinical trial in 40 patients with functional dyspepsia (Rome II), asimadoline did not significantly alter satiation or symptoms over 8 weeks. However, asimadoline, 0.5 mg, significantly decreased satiation in patients with higher postprandial fullness scores, and daily postprandial fullness severity (over 8 weeks); the asimadoline 1.0 mg group was borderline significant. In a clinical trial in patients with IBS, average pain 2 h post-on-demand treatment with asimadoline was not significantly reduced. Post hoc analyses suggest that asimadoline was effective in mixed IBS. In a 12-week study in 596 patients, chronic treatment with 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg asimadoline was associated with adequate relief of pain and discomfort, improvement in pain score and number of pain-free days in patients with IBS-D. The 1.0 mg dose was also efficacious in IBS-alternating. There were also weeks with significant reduction in bowel frequency and urgency. Asimadoline has been well tolerated in human trials to date.
Quantitative mapping of water content, especially in the human brain, has the potential to provide important information for the study and diagnosis of diseases associated with a focal or global change in tissue water homeostasis. In the current work, an imaging method for the precise and accurate quantification of tissue water content is presented. The method allows the acquisition of water content maps with voxel dimensions of 1x1x2 mm(3) and full brain coverage in less than 10 min on a standard clinical 1.5 T scanner. The precision was optimised for human brain imaging and possible sources of systematic error were carefully investigated, demonstrating the ability of the method to quantify water content with high accuracy and precision. The approach was validated in phantom experiments and quantitative cerebral water content maps of a group of 10 healthy volunteers were obtained.
Recent research has shown that intrinsic brain activity as observed by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) manifest itself as coherent signal changes in networks encompassing brain regions that span long-range neuronal pathways. One of these networks, the so called default mode network, has become the primary target in recent investigations to link intrinsic activity to cognition and how intrinsic signal changes may be altered in disease. In this study we assessed functional connectivity within the default mode network during both rest and a continuous working memory task on a region-by-region basis using partial correlation analysis, a data-driven method that provides insight into effective connectivity within neuronal networks. Prominent features of functional connectivity within the default mode network included an overall strong level of interaction between the precuneus/posterior cingulate region and the rest of the default mode network, as well as a high degree of interaction between the left and right medial temporal lobes combined with weak interactions between the medial temporal lobes and the rest of the default mode network. Additionally, we found support for strong interactions between the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex and the left inferior parietal lobe as well as between the dorsal and ventral sections of the medial prefrontal cortex. The suggested pivotal role of the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex in the default mode network is discussed.
To date there is still no proper neuroimaging methods suitable for noninvasively providing both detailed spatial and temporal information of neural interaction across large-scale brain networks. This limitation has impeded the advance of neuroscience research. In an attempt to overcome this challenge, Ogawa et al. applied a paired-stimulus paradigm, which is composed of a pair of stimuli separated by a variable inter-stimulus interval (ISI), to decode temporal information of neural interaction from amplitude modulation of the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) responses elicited by the neural interaction pursued [Ogawa, S., Lee, T.-M., Stepnoski, R., Chen, W., Zhu, X.H., Ugurbil, K., 2000. An approach to probe neural systems interaction by functional MRI at neural time scale down to milliseconds. Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. U S A 97, 11026-11031.]. Although application of this paradigm has been demonstrated in a few publications, most of them only focused on investigating cortico-cortical interaction. Considering the vital roles that cortico-thalamic networks play in brain communication and function, extending the applicability of this method to studying cortico-thalamic neural interaction should be significant. In this study, we applied the paired-visual-stimulus paradigm to simultaneously measure the BOLD amplitude modulations as a function of ISI in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1) in the cat brain. The results reveal that both V1 and LGN BOLD responses were significantly suppressed when the visual system was within the refractory period at ISI&lt;or=1 s and the suppression extent was gradually recovered when ISI became longer. Both BOLD and electrophysiological measurements show a facilitatory activity in V1 at ISI approximately 1.5 s, but not in LGN. Furthermore, there was additional and consistent reduction in the LGN BOLD response compared to V1 within the range of ISI below 4 s, which is likely controlled by inhibitory effects through the cortico-geniculate feedback. These findings together suggest that the dynamic fMRI approach applied in this study is sensitive to neuronal inhibitory and facilitatory interactions and it should be useful for noninvasively investigating large-scale cortico-thalamic neural networks.
Observational learning allows individuals to acquire knowledge without incurring in the costs and risks of discovering and testing. The neural mechanisms mediating the retrieval of rules learned by observation are currently unknown. To explore this fundamental cognitive ability, we compared the brain responses when retrieving visuomotor associations learned either by observation or by individual learning. To do so, we asked eleven adults to learn two sets of arbitrary visuomotor associations: one set was learned through the observation of an expert actor while the other was learned by trial and error. During fMRI scanning, subjects were requested to retrieve the visuomotor associations previously learned under the two modalities. The conjunction analysis between the two learning conditions revealed a common brain network that included the ventral and dorsal lateral prefrontal cortices, the superior parietal lobe and the pre-SMA. This suggests the existence of a mirror-like system responsible for the storage of rules learned either by trial and error or by observation of others' actions. In addition, the pars triangularis in the right prefrontal cortex (BA45) was found to be selective for rules learned by observation. This suggests a preferential role of this area in the storage of rules learned in a social context.
The basal forebrain contains several interdigitating anatomical structures, including the diagonal band of Broca, the basal nucleus of Meynert, the ventral striatum, and also cell groups underneath the globus pallidus that bridge the centromedial amygdala to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Among the cell populations, the magnocellular, cholinergic corticopetal projection neurons have received particular attention due to their loss in Alzheimer's disease. In MRI images, the precise delineation of these structures is difficult due to limited spatial resolution and contrast. Here, using microscopic delineations in ten human postmortem brains, we present stereotaxic probabilistic maps of the basal forebrain areas containing the magnocellular cell groups. Cytoarchitectonic mapping was performed in silver stained histological serial sections. The positions and the extent of the magnocellular cell groups within the septum (Ch1-2), the horizontal limb of the diagonal band (Ch3), and in the sublenticular part of the basal forebrain (Ch4) were traced in high-resolution digitized histological sections, 3D reconstructed, and warped to the reference space of the MNI single subject brain. The superposition of the cytoarchitectonic maps in the MNI brain shows the intersubject variability of the various Ch compartments and their stereotaxic position relative to other brain structures. Both the right and left Ch4 regions showed significantly smaller volumes when age was considered as a covariate. Probabilistic maps of compartments of the basal forebrain magnocellular system are now available as an open source reference for correlation with fMRI, PET, and structural MRI data of the living human brain.
This paper describes the NIF LinkOut Broker (NLB) that has been built as part of the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF) project. The NLB is designed to coordinate the assembly of links to neuroscience information items (e.g., experimental data, knowledge bases, and software tools) that are (1) accessible via the Web, and (2) related to entries in the National Center for Biotechnology Information's (NCBI's) Entrez system. The NLB collects these links from each resource and passes them to the NCBI which incorporates them into its Entrez LinkOut service. In this way, an Entrez user looking at a specific Entrez entry can LinkOut directly to related neuroscience information. The information stored in the NLB can also be utilized in other ways. A second approach, which is operational on a pilot basis, is for the NLB Web server to create dynamically its own Web page of LinkOut links for each NCBI identifier in the NLB database. This approach can allow other resources (in addition to the NCBI Entrez) to LinkOut to related neuroscience information. The paper describes the current NLB system and discusses certain design issues that arose during its implementation.
A critical component of the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF) project is a consistent, flexible terminology for describing and retrieving neuroscience-relevant resources. Although the original NIF specification called for a loosely structured controlled vocabulary for describing neuroscience resources, as the NIF system evolved, the requirement for a formally structured ontology for neuroscience with sufficient granularity to describe and access a diverse collection of information became obvious. This requirement led to the NIF standardized (NIFSTD) ontology, a comprehensive collection of common neuroscience domain terminologies woven into an ontologically consistent, unified representation of the biomedical domains typically used to describe neuroscience data (e.g., anatomy, cell types, techniques), as well as digital resources (tools, databases) being created throughout the neuroscience community. NIFSTD builds upon a structure established by the BIRNLex, a lexicon of concepts covering clinical neuroimaging research developed by the Biomedical Informatics Research Network (BIRN) project. Each distinct domain module is represented using the Web Ontology Language (OWL). As much as has been practical, NIFSTD reuses existing community ontologies that cover the required biomedical domains, building the more specific concepts required to annotate NIF resources. By following this principle, an extensive vocabulary was assembled in a relatively short period of time for NIF information annotation, organization, and retrieval, in a form that promotes easy extension and modification. We report here on the structure of the NIFSTD, and its predecessor BIRNLex, the principles followed in its construction and provide examples of its use within NIF.
The Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF), developed for the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research and available at http://nif.nih.gov and http://neurogateway.org , is built upon a set of coordinated terminology components enabling data and web-resource description and selection. Core NIF terminologies use a straightforward syntax designed for ease of use and for navigation by familiar web interfaces, and readily exportable to aid development of relational-model databases for neuroscience data sharing. Datasets, data analysis tools, web resources, and other entities are characterized by multiple descriptors, each addressing core concepts, including data type, acquisition technique, neuroanatomy, and cell class. Terms for each concept are organized in a tree structure, providing is-a and has-a relations. Broad general terms near each root span the category or concept and spawn more detailed entries for specificity. Related but distinct concepts (e.g., brain area and depth) are specified by separate trees, for easier navigation than would be required by graph representation. Semantics enabling NIF data discovery were selected at one or more workshops by investigators expert in particular systems (vision, olfaction, behavioral neuroscience, neurodevelopment), brain areas (cerebellum, thalamus, hippocampus), preparations (molluscs, fly), diseases (neurodegenerative disease), or techniques (microscopy, computation and modeling, neurogenetics). Workshop-derived integrated term lists are available Open Source at http://brainml.org ; a complete list of participants is at http://brainml.org/workshops.
The overarching goal of the NIF (Neuroscience Information Framework) project is to be a one-stop-shop for Neuroscience. This paper provides a technical overview of how the system is designed. The technical goal of the first version of the NIF system was to develop an information system that a neuroscientist can use to locate relevant information from a wide variety of information sources by simple keyword queries. Although the user would provide only keywords to retrieve information, the NIF system is designed to treat them as concepts whose meanings are interpreted by the system. Thus, a search for term should find a record containing synonyms of the term. The system is targeted to find information from web pages, publications, databases, web sites built upon databases, XML documents and any other modality in which such information may be published. We have designed a system to achieve this functionality. A central element in the system is an ontology called NIFSTD (for NIF Standard) constructed by amalgamating a number of known and newly developed ontologies. NIFSTD is used by our ontology management module, called OntoQuest to perform ontology-based search over data sources. The NIF architecture currently provides three different mechanisms for searching heterogeneous data sources including relational databases, web sites, XML documents and full text of publications. Version 1.0 of the NIF system is currently in beta test and may be accessed through http://nif.nih.gov.
This paper describes a pilot query interface that has been constructed to help us explore a &quot;concept-based&quot; approach for searching the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF). The query interface is concept-based in the sense that the search terms submitted through the interface are selected from a standardized vocabulary of terms (concepts) that are structured in the form of an ontology. The NIF contains three primary resources: the NIF Resource Registry, the NIF Document Archive, and the NIF Database Mediator. These NIF resources are very different in their nature and therefore pose challenges when designing a single interface from which searches can be automatically launched against all three resources simultaneously. The paper first discusses briefly several background issues involving the use of standardized biomedical vocabularies in biomedical information retrieval, and then presents a detailed example that illustrates how the pilot concept-based query interface operates. The paper concludes by discussing certain lessons learned in the development of the current version of the interface.
Neuronal morphology affects network connectivity, plasticity, and information processing. Uncovering the design principles and functional consequences of dendritic and axonal shape necessitates quantitative analysis and computational modeling of detailed experimental data. Digital reconstructions provide the required neuromorphological descriptions in a parsimonious, comprehensive, and reliable numerical format. NeuroMorpho.Org is the largest web-accessible repository service for digitally reconstructed neurons and one of the integrated resources in the Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF). Here we describe the NeuroMorpho.Org approach as an exemplary experience in designing, creating, populating, and curating a neuroscience digital resource. The simple three-tier architecture of NeuroMorpho.Org (web client, web server, and relational database) encompasses all necessary elements to support a large-scale, integrate-able repository. The data content, while heterogeneous in scientific scope and experimental origin, is unified in format and presentation by an in house standardization protocol. The server application (MRALD) is secure, customizable, and developer-friendly. Centralized processing and expert annotation yields a comprehensive set of metadata that enriches and complements the raw data. The thoroughly tested interface design allows for optimal and effective data search and retrieval. Availability of data in both original and standardized formats ensures compatibility with existing resources and fosters further tool development. Other key functions enable extensive exploration and discovery, including 3D and interactive visualization of branching, frequently measured morphometrics, and reciprocal links to the original PubMed publications. The integration of NeuroMorpho.Org with version-1 of the NIF (NIFv1) provides the opportunity to access morphological data in the context of other relevant resources and diverse subdomains of neuroscience, opening exciting new possibilities in data mining and knowledge discovery. The outcome of such coordination is the rapid and powerful advancement of neuroscience research at both the conceptual and technological level.
Textpresso is a text-mining system for scientific literature. Its two major features are access to the full text of research papers and the development and use of categories of biological concepts as well as categories that describe or relate objects. A search engine enables the user to search for one or a combination of these categories and/or keywords within an entire literature. Here we describe Textpresso for Neuroscience, part of the core Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF). The Textpresso site currently consists of 67,500 full text papers and 131,300 abstracts. We show that using categories in literature can make a pure keyword query more refined and meaningful. We also show how semantic queries can be formulated with categories only. We explain the build and content of the database and describe the main features of the web pages and the advanced search options. We also give detailed illustrations of the web service developed to provide programmatic access to Textpresso. This web service is used by the NIF interface to access Textpresso. The standalone website of Textpresso for Neuroscience can be accessed at http://www.textpresso.org/neuroscience/.
With support from the Institutes and Centers forming the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research, we have designed and implemented a new initiative for integrating access to and use of Web-based neuroscience resources: the Neuroscience Information Framework. The Framework arises from the expressed need of the neuroscience community for neuroinformatic tools and resources to aid scientific inquiry, builds upon prior development of neuroinformatics by the Human Brain Project and others, and directly derives from the Society for Neuroscience's Neuroscience Database Gateway. Partnered with the Society, its Neuroinformatics Committee, and volunteer consultant-collaborators, our multi-site consortium has developed: (1) a comprehensive, dynamic, inventory of Web-accessible neuroscience resources, (2) an extended and integrated terminology describing resources and contents, and (3) a framework accepting and aiding concept-based queries. Evolving instantiations of the Framework may be viewed at http://nif.nih.gov , http://neurogateway.org , and other sites as they come on line.
Although the prognosis of acute disseminated encephalitis (ADEM) has generally been reported as favorable, in a small subset of patients, fulminant cerebral edema requiring critical care and surgical management may develop. This article presents a 56-year-old woman who developed ADEM and died of central brain herniation secondary to medically intractable cerebral edema. Following this experience, we encountered a 32-year-old man who also developed central brain herniation despite best medical management. We performed an urgent decompressive hemicraniectomy and frontal lobectomy followed by intensive intracranial pressure management. Few recommendations are available to guide neurologists and neurosurgeons in the management of medically intractable cerebral edema of ADEM. In this report, we present our experience with two severe cases of ADEM, review the pertinent literature, and discuss options for improved management of fulminant cases.

Primary intracerebral hemorrhage is the least treatable form of stroke and is associated with high mortality rates. In the thrombolytic era, the attention has bee driven on the first hours of onset, when the hematoma is still growing. Intervention with ultra-early hemostatic therapy might arrest ongoing bleeding. Even if recombinant activated factor VII administered within 4 h of symptom onset did not improve outcome in a recent phase 3 trial, it reduced hematoma growth. Therefore, the rational for ultra-early hemostatic therapy it is still valid and another trial on hemostatic treatment is warranted.
Immunomodulatory agent (IMA)-unresponsive multiple sclerosis (MS) can quickly evolve to a dramatic and irreversible disability. Treating these patients with appropriate immunosuppressive therapies can be a chance to arrest disease activity and progression. Cyclophosphamide (Cyc)-based intense immunosuppression has been successfully used to treat rapidly deteriorating, IMA-refractory MS patients. Therapeutic protocols combining Cyc and interferon beta (IFNbeta) have also been successfully applied to treat IFNbeta-unresponsive MS. The association of Cyc with other immunomodulatory drugs or monoclonal antibodies is currently being investigated in clinical trials aimed at treating severe forms of autoimmune diseases.


Recent studies have demonstrated a functional interaction between group I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors and the cannabinoid system in the modulation of synaptic transmission. By using antisera directed against mGlu1alpha and CB1 cannabinoid receptors, we examined their distribution in the CA1 region of rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Immunoreactive mGlu1alpha and CB1 elements were localized in non-principal cells, with a labeling distribution that was very similar to the pattern previously observed in the adult rat brain. Double-immunofluorescence staining and confocal microscopy showed that a subset of interneurons, mainly located in the stratum radiatum, was double-labeled for both mGlu1alpha and CB1 receptors. Co-localization of the two receptor subtypes was confirmed in hippocampal sections from adult rat brain. By using the &quot;mirror technique&quot; in adjacent sections, we observed that the double-labeled cells for mGlu1alpha and CB1 receptors were also immunopositive for the cholecystokinin peptide. Quantitative analysis revealed that in the stratum radiatum the majority (92%) of the CB1-positive cells and 19% of the mGlu1alpha-positive cells expressed both receptors. Triple immunofluorescence staining showed partial co-labeling of mGlu1alpha- and CB1-immunopositive cells with the vesicular glutamate transporter 3 or calbindin. Our results demonstrate that mGlu1alpha and CB1 receptors co-exist in a subpopulation of inhibitory neurons in the stratum radiatum of the hippocampus that is suggestive of the Schaffer collateral-associated interneurons. Hence, additional functional mechanisms underlying the cooperation between these two receptor subtypes may exist.
We outline the mechanisms currently thought to be responsible for controlling cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the physiologic state and during ischemia, focusing on the arterial pial and penetrating microcirculation. Initially, we categorize the cerebral circulation and then review the vascular anatomy. We draw attention to a number of unique features of the cerebral vasculature, which are relevant to the microcirculatory response during ischemia: arterial histology, species differences, collateral flow, the venous drainage, the blood-brain barrier, astrocytes and vascular nerves. The physiology of the arterial microcirculation is then assessed. Lastly, we review the changes during ischemia which impact on the microcirculation. Further understanding of the normal cerebrovascular anatomy and physiology as well as the pathophysiology of ischemia will allow the rational development of a pharmacologic therapy for human stroke and brain injury.
The amygdala plays an important role in the emotional-affective component of pain and in pain modulation. Group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) regulate pain-related activity in the amygdala, but the behavioral consequence and contribution of individual subtypes are not known yet. This study determined the effects of mGluR7 and mGluR8 activation in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) on nocifensive and affective pain responses and on pain-related anxiety-like behavior of adult rats. The pain state was induced by intraarticular injections of kaolin/carrageenan into one knee joint to produce a localized monoarthritis. Subtype-selective agonists were administered into the CeA by microdialysis in normal rats and in rats with arthritis. An mGluR7-selective agonist (N,N'-dibenzyhydryl-ethane-1,2-diamine dihydrochloride, AMN082, 25microM) decreased spinal withdrawal reflex thresholds and increased audible and ultrasonic vocalizations evoked by brief (15s) compression of the knee. AMN082 also decreased the open-arm preference in the elevated plus maze (EPM) test, suggesting anxiety-like behavior. In arthritic animals, however, AMN082 failed to modulate the increased spinal reflexes and vocalizations and anxiety-like behavior. An mGluR8-selective agonist (S-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine, S-3,4-DCPG, 10microM) had no effect in normal animals but inhibited the increased spinal reflex responses and audible and ultrasonic vocalizations of arthritic rats. S-3,4-DCPG also increased the open-arm choices of arthritic rats, suggesting anxiolytic effects. The results suggest that under normal conditions mGluR7, but not mGluR8, facilitates pain responses and has anxiogenic properties whereas mGluR8, but not mGluR7, can inhibit nocifensive and affective behaviors and anxiety in a model of arthritic pain.
Glutamatergic neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety and depression. The possible contribution of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors has been poorly investigated, due to the lack of selective pharmacological tools. However, a selective agonist of mGLUR7, AMN082 has been identified recently, and shown to act through an allosteric mechanism in recombinant cells expressing the receptor. Thus, using AMN082, we examined the role of mGLUR7 in modulating synaptic transmission in the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA), a brain region known to be important for the genesis of anxious states. We found that bath application of AMN082 (1-10microM) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of synaptic transmission evoked at 2Hz, but had no effect on transmission evoked at 0.05Hz. However, at this lower frequency, AMN082 (10microM) significantly increased the synaptic inhibition produced by a group III mGLUR agonist, L-AP4 (100microM). This effect was blocked by pre-application of CPPG (500microM), a group III mGLUR-preferring antagonist, consistent with the involvement of mGLUR7. Thus, we have shown that AMN082 can modulate high frequency synaptic transmission in the BLA, in vitro, and appears to act on the receptor via an allosteric mechanism. These results suggest that mGLUR7 has a unique role in regulating neuronal activity in the BLA and may be a target for novel drugs for the treatment of anxiety.
There is accumulating evidence of preserved arithmetic knowledge in semantic dementia (SD), contrasting with patients' striking impairment in other domains of semantic memory. This important finding exemplifies domain specificity in the breakdown of semantic memory and supports notions of the functional independence of semantic number knowledge. Nevertheless, evidence for preserved arithmetic knowledge in SD comes largely from single case studies. It is not known whether such preservation is a universal finding, or whether it persists irrespective of disease severity. The present study examined performance of 14 SD patients, varying in the severity of their semantic impairment, on tasks assessing knowledge of arithmetic signs, and on single-digit and multi-digit calculation problems, permitting evaluation of fact retrieval and use of procedures. SD patients performed generally well compared to 10 healthy controls on tests of addition and subtraction. However, abnormalities were elicited, which were not explained by education or hemispheric side of atrophy, but increased as a function of semantic severity. Patients had difficulty identifying arithmetic signs. They used increasingly basic, inflexible strategies to retrieve multiplication table 'facts', and in multi-digit calculations they made procedural errors that pointed to a failure to understand the differential weighting of left and right hand columns. The pattern of responses and error types mirrors in reverse that found in children as they acquire arithmetic competence, and suggests a progressive degradation in conceptual understanding of arithmetic. Longitudinal study of two SD patients demonstrated an association between semantic decline and impaired arithmetic performance. The findings challenge the notion of arithmetic knowledge as a totally separate semantic domain and suggest that the temporal lobes play an important role in arithmetic understanding.
It has been proposed that procedural learning is mediated by the striatum and, it has been reported that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are impaired on the weather prediction task (WPT) which involves probabilistic classification learning with corrective feedback (FB). However, PD patients were not impaired on probabilistic classification learning when it was performed without corrective feedback, in a paired associate (PA) manner; suggesting that the striatum is involved in learning with feedback rather than procedural learning per se. In Experiment 1 we studied FB- and PA-based learning in PD patients and controls and, as an improvement on previous methods, used a more powerful repeated measures design and more equivalent test phases during FB and PA conditions (including altering the FB condition to remove time limits on responding). All participants (16 PD patients, H&amp;Y I-III and 14 matched-controls) completed the WPT under both FB and PA conditions. In contrast to previous results, in Experiment 1 we did not find a selective impairment in the PD group on the FB version of the WPT relative to controls. In Experiment 2 we used a between groups design and studied learning with corrective FB in 11 PD patients (H&amp;Y I.5-IV) and 13 matched controls on a more standard version of the WPT similar to that used in previous studies. With such a between groups design for comparison of FB and PA learning on the WPT in PD, we observed impaired learning in PD patients relative to controls across both the FB and PA versions of the WPT. Most importantly, in Experiment 2 we also failed to find a selective impairment on the FB version of the WPT coupled with normal learning on the PA version in PD patients relative to controls. Our results do not support the proposal that the striatum plays a specific role in probabilistic classification learning with feedback.
Behavioural findings indicate that the core executive functions of inhibition and working memory are closely linked, and neuroimaging studies indicate overlap between their neural correlates. There has not, however, been a comprehensive study, including several inhibition tasks and several working memory tasks, performed by the same subjects. In the present study, 11 healthy adult subjects completed separate blocks of 3 inhibition tasks (a stop task, a go/no-go task and a flanker task), and 2 working memory tasks (one spatial and one verbal). Activation common to all 5 tasks was identified in the right inferior frontal gyrus, and, at a lower threshold, also the right middle frontal gyrus and right parietal regions (BA 40 and BA 7). Left inferior frontal regions of interest (ROIs) showed a significant conjunction between all tasks except the flanker task. The present study could not pinpoint the specific function of each common region, but the parietal region identified here has previously been consistently related to working memory storage and the right inferior frontal gyrus has been associated with inhibition in both lesion and imaging studies. These results support the notion that inhibitory and working memory tasks involve common neural components, which may provide a neural basis for the interrelationship between the two systems.
The anatomical segregation of executive control processes within the prefrontal cortex remains poorly defined. The present study focused on strategy implementation on two working memory tasks: the CANTAB spatial working memory task and a visuospatial sequence generation task. These measures were administered to a group of frontal lesion patients and a comparison group of healthy subjects. Frontal patients with damage to the right inferior frontal gyrus were impaired on the CANTAB spatial working memory task, compared with healthy controls and patients without damage to this region. This deficit was most strongly related to the pars opercularis subregion (BA44) and was accompanied by poor strategy usage. On the sequence generation task, frontal lesion patients were impaired on a strategy-training phase when the working memory demands of the task were reduced, but had relatively intact performance on other phases of the task. Performance on the training phase was correlated with the amount of damage to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC: BA46/9). These results support theoretical notions of prefrontal cortical function that emphasise its contribution to executive processes such as mnemonic strategies and monitoring over its role as a short-term memory store. Moreover, we provide evidence for the first time that such functions are dependent on dissociable brain regions within the prefrontal cortex.
Neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies have provided evidence suggesting that the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) plays a crucial role in the awareness of motor intentions. For instance, patients with IPL lesions caused by stroke selectively differ in the temporal judgements of their intentions to move compared with healthy controls [Sirigu, A., Daprati, E., Ciancia, S., Giraux, P., Nighoghossian, N., Posada, A., et al. (2004). Altered awareness of voluntary action after damage to the parietal cortex. Nature Neuroscience, 7(1), 80-84]: they experience the will to move only at the moment they start moving, and not before, as it should normally be the case. In the study presented here, we failed to replicate the main behavioral findings of the study quoted above in three patients with surgical resection of the right IPL following slow-growing lesions. Their performances contrasted with that of stroke patients. The timing of their intentions to act but also the delay between their judgements of intention and movement onsets were in the normal range of values for matched controls, when tested with the temporal judgement task developed by Benjamin Libet. There are in the literature some reported cases of functional neuroplasticity following surgical resection of large amount of cerebral tissue. This mainly concerns the brain regions underpinning language and primary sensorimotor functions. Because of the small number of patients our data must be regarded cautiously. They provide preliminary behavioral support to extend to conscious awareness of willing the functional neuroplasticity potentialities of the brain, in human adults. A new perspective towards a hodological view for higher-order cognitive processes seems open.
It is more difficult for reasoners to detect that the letter-number pair H7 verifies the conditional rule If there is not a T then there is not a 4 than to detect that it verifies the rule If there is an H then there is a 7. In prior work [Prado, J., &amp; Noveck, I. A. (2007). Overcoming perceptual features in logical reasoning: a parametric functional magnetic resonance imaging study. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 19(4), 642-657], we argued that this difficulty was due to mismatching effects, i.e. perceptual mismatches that arise when the items mentioned in the rule (e.g. T and 4) mismatch those presented in the test-pair (H and 7). The present study aimed to test this claim directly by recording ERPs while participants evaluated conditional rules in the presence or absence of mismatches. We found that mismatches, not only trigger a frontocentral N2 (an ERP known to be related to perceptual mismatch) but that they, parametrically modulate its amplitude (e.g. two mismatches prompt a greater N2 than one). Our results indicate that the main role of negations in conditional rules is to focus attention on the negated constituent but also suggest that there is some inter-individual differences in the way participants apprehend such negations, as indicated by a correlation between N2 amplitude and participants' reaction times. Overall, these findings emphasize how overcoming perceptual features plays a role in the mismatching effect and extend the mismatch-related effects of the N2 into a reasoning task.
A well-documented feature of Huntington's disease (HD) is disproportionate impairment in the ability to recognise the emotional expression of disgust. However, this finding has been challenged by studies that report no differential disgust impairment and attribute apparent differences across emotions to task difficulty. The present study sought to shed light on disparities in findings through a comparative study of emotion recognition in HD and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Ten HD, 12 FTD patients and 12 healthy controls were administered 10 tasks assessing facial and vocal recognition of emotions and comprehension of emotion terms. The findings were not consistent with either the 'selective disgust impairment' or 'task difficulty' view. Both HD and FTD groups were impaired compared to controls, deficits in HD being less severe. Impairments in FTD were elicited for all emotions whereas in HD they were demonstrated predominantly for negative emotions of fear, disgust and anger. Consistency in performance, despite varying task demands, excluded an explanation in terms of item difficulty, and was in keeping with the notion of distinct neural substrates for processing of negative emotions. Contrary to the notion of disproportionate disgust impairment, the most severe deficits in HD were elicited for anger, a finding that may have relevance for the poor anger control that is the hallmark of HD. The data raise the possibility that linguistic influences and conceptual complexities of the emotion of disgust may contribute to the variable finding of selective disgust impairment in HD.
Brain atrophy and decline in executive functioning have been reported during late life, but the relationship between the 2 phenomena is not clear. To examine associations between executive tasks and morphometry, MRIs of the prefrontal cortex from 23 healthy elders were manually masked and automatically segmented. Total brain matter of the bilateral orbitofrontal, anterior cingulate, gyrus rectus, precentral gyrus, and middle frontal gyrus were computed as ratios of intracranial volume. A neuropsychological battery of five clinical tests of executive function was administered. Better performance on a response inhibition task was associated with larger volume in anterior cingulate, and performance on a nonverbal inductive reasoning task was associated with larger gyrus rectus volumes. In contrast, larger orbitofrontal volumes were associated with lower verbal and nonverbal generative output. An aggregated error index from 4 executive tests correlated negatively with a regional composite brain index. In conclusion, some executive abilities correlate with volumes of specific prefrontal subregions despite a robust neural interconnectedness between the subregions.
The Clock Drawing Test (CDT) is widely used in clinical neuropsychological practice. The CDT has been used traditionally as a &quot;parietal lobe&quot; test (e.g., Kaplan, 1988), but most empirical work has focused on its sensitivity and specificity for detecting and differentiating subtypes of dementia. There are surprisingly few studies of its neuroanatomical correlates. The authors investigated the neuroanatomical correlates of the CDT, using 133 patients whose lesions provided effective coverage of most of both hemispheric convexities and underlying white matter. On the CDT, 30 subjects were impaired and 87 were unimpaired (16 were &quot;borderline&quot;). Impairments on the CDT were associated with damage to right parietal cortices (supramarginal gyrus) and left inferior frontal-parietal opercular cortices. Visuospatial errors were predominant in patients with right hemisphere damage, whereas time setting errors were predominant in patients with left hemisphere lesions. These findings provide new empirical evidence regarding the neuroanatomical correlates of the CDT, and together with previous work, support the use of this quick and easily administered test not only as a screening measure but also as a good index of focal brain dysfunction.
Pharmacological modulation of synaptic efficacy is a prominent target in the identification of promnesic compounds. Here, we report that pretraining administration of the serotonin 5-HT(4) receptors (5-HT(4)Rs) partial agonist SL65.0155 enhances simultaneous olfactory discrimination performance and potentiates learning-induced dendritic spine growth in the mouse hippocampus. SL65.0155 does not affect spine density in the pseudo-trained mice and, by itself, does not promote spine growth. Injecting the 5-HT(4) antagonist RS39604 prior to SL65.0155 prevents both the increase in performance and the additional formation of spines, thus confirming the 5-HT(4)Rs specificity of the observed effects. These findings provide evidence that 5-HT(4)Rs stimulation selectively increases experience-dependent structural plasticity in learning-activated hippocampal circuits.
Serotonin (5-HT) is thought to play an important role in the regulation of behavioral inhibition. Studies manipulating 5-HT function in the rodent brain indicate that 5-HT receptors regulate distinct forms of impulsive behavior, including impulsive responding in the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRTT). The present study investigates the loci of effects mediated by 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors in attention and inhibitory response control using microinfusions targeted at the nucleus accumbens (NAc), prelimbic cortex (PL) and infralimbic cortex (IL). Rats were implanted with bilateral guide cannulas and received infusions of the selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist M100907 (0.1 and 0.3 microg) or selective 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist SB242084 (0.1 and 0.5 microg) immediately prior to testing. The results show that intra-NAc infusions of M100907 significantly decrease impulsive responding on the 5CSRTT and at the highest dose increased omissions as well. By contrast, infusions of SB242084 into the NAc selectively and dose-dependently increased impulsivity. Neither M100907 nor SB242084 significantly altered impulsive responding following either intra-PL or intra-IL administration. However, SB242084 significantly decreased omissions following intra-PL administration (0.5 microg only). These data reveal opposing effects on impulsivity following 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) blockade in the NAc. Our results suggest that the NAc, but not the PL or IL, is implicated in the mediation of the effects of M100907 and SB242084 on inhibitory response control during baseline 5CSRTT performance.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a heritable childhood onset disorder that is marked by variability at multiple levels including clinical presentation, cognitive profile, and response to stimulant medications. It has been suggested that this variability may reflect etiological differences, particularly, at the level of underlying genetics. This study examined whether an attentional phenotype-spatial attentional bias could serve as a marker of symptom severity, genetic risk, and stimulant response in ADHD. A total of 96 children and adolescents with ADHD were assessed on the Landmark Task, which is a sensitive measure of spatial attentional bias. All children were genotyped for polymorphisms (3' untranslated (UTR) and intron 8 variable number of tandem repeats (VNTRs)) of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1). Spatial attentional bias correlated with ADHD symptom levels and varied according to DAT1 genotype. Children who were homozygous for the 10-repeat allele of the DAT1 3'-UTR VNTR displayed a rightward attentional bias and had higher symptom levels compared to those with the low-risk genotype. A total of 26 of these children who were medication naive performed the Landmark Task at baseline and then again after 6 weeks of stimulant medication. Left-sided inattention (rightward bias) at baseline was associated with an enhanced response to stimulants at 6 weeks. Moreover, changes in spatial bias with stimulant medications, varied as a function of DAT1 genotype. This study suggests an attentional phenotype that relates to symptom severity and genetic risk for ADHD, and may have utility in predicting stimulant response in ADHD.

The normal spinal cord coordinates movement and sensation in the body. It is a complex organ containing nerve cells, supporting cells, and nerve fibers to and from the brain. The spinal cord is arranged in segments, with higher segments controlling movement and sensation in the upper parts of the body and lower segments controlling the lower parts of the body. Recent notable discoveries in the fields of neuroscience and cell biology have ensured that many more people survive injuries to the brain and spinal cord. The consequences of injury reflect this organization. Although these developments have been mirrored by significant strides in our understanding of the evolution and pathology of spinal injuries, complete repair of structure and hence function remain elusive. Most spinal cord injuries still cause lifelong disability, and continued research is critically needed. Here we review the molecular and cellular processes that occur during the evolution of an injury to the central nervous system. Throughout, we highlight several promising therapies aimed to restore the disrupted connections in the brain and spinal cord. These, used in combination with supportive care and rehabilitation strategies, may help patients to achieve significant long-term recovery.
Specific phobias, including animal phobias, are the most common anxiety disorders, and have a strong innate and genetic component. Research on the neurobiology and environmental constraints of innate fear of predators in rodents may be useful in elucidating mechanisms of animal phobias in humans. The present article reviews research on innate fear in rats to trimethylthiazoline (TMT), an odor originally isolated from fox feces. TMT induces unconditioned freezing and other defensive responses that are regulated by the dose of TMT and the shape of the testing environment. Contextual conditioning induced by TMT occurs, but is constrained by the environment. Lesion studies indicate the amygdala circuitry subserving fear conditioning is not necessary for unconditioned fear to TMT. Additionally, a medial hypothalamic defensive circuit also appears not necessary for unconditioned freezing to TMT, whereas circuits that include the medial nucleus of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis are essential. The importance of these findings of innate predator odor fear in rodents to animal phobias in humans is discussed.
This manuscript describes several behavioral and functional studies evaluating the capacity of ferret odors to elicit a number of acute and long-term responses in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Acute presentation elicits multiple responses, suggesting that ferret odor, likely from skin gland secretions, provides an anxiogenic-like stimulus in this strain of rats. Compared to cat odor, however, ferret odor did not produce rapid fear conditioning, a result perhaps attributable to methodological factors. Inactivation of the olfactory system and medial nucleus of the amygdala, combined with induction of the immediate-early gene c-fos, suggest the necessity of the accessory olfactory system in mediating the effects of ferret odor. Repeated exposures to ferret odor produce variable habituation of neuroendocrine and behavioral responses, perhaps indicative of the lack of control over the exact individual origin or concentration of ferret odor. Ferret odor induces rapid and long-term body weight regulation, thymic involution, adrenal hyperplasia and facilitation of the neuroendocrine response to additional challenges. It is argued that the use of such odors is exquisitely suited to investigate the brain regions coordinating anxiety-like responses and the long-term changes elicited by such stimuli.
The serotonin system is strongly implicated in the pathophysiology and therapeutic alleviation of stress-related disorders such as anxiety and depression. Serotonergic modulation of the acute response to stress and the adaptation to chronic stress is mediated by a myriad of molecules controlling serotonin neuron development (Pet-1), synthesis (tryptophan hydroxylase 1 and 2 isozymes), packaging (vesicular monoamine transporter 2), actions at presynaptic and postsynaptic receptors (5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C, 5-HT3A, 5-HT4, 5-HT5A, 5-HT6, 5-HT7), reuptake (serotonin transporter), and degradation (monoamine oxidase A). A growing body of evidence from preclinical rodents models, and especially genetically modified mice and inbred mouse strains, has provided significant insight into how genetic variation in these molecules can affect the development and function of a key neural circuit between the dorsal raphe nucleus, medial prefrontal cortex and amygdala. By extension, such variation is hypothesized to have a major influence on individual differences in the stress response and risk for stress-related disease in humans. The current article provides an update on this rapidly evolving field of research.
Psychostimulant use increases anxious behavior, likely through interactions between central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and serotonergic systems. The current study examined whether chronic amphetamine treatment (2.5mg/kg, 14 days) or withdrawal altered CRF receptor densities in the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus (dRN). Amphetamine treatment increased CRF(2) receptor densities in most subregions of the dRN, and CRF(2) receptors were still elevated following 6 weeks of withdrawal. No changes in CRF(1) receptor densities were observed following amphetamine treatment or during withdrawal. Selective increases in dRN CRF(2) receptors may be related to increased anxiety-like behaviors following psychostimulant use.
Gelastic epilepsy (GE) associated with hypothalamic hamartomas (HHs) is now a well-characterized clinical syndrome consisting of gelastic seizures starting in infancy, medically refractory seizures with or without the development of multiple seizure types, and behavioral and cognitive decline. It has been postulated that the development of the HH-GE syndrome is a result of a progressive epileptic encephalopathy or secondary epileptogenesis, which is potentially reversible with treatment of the HH. A variety of surgical options for the treatment of HHs exist, including open and endoscopic procedures, radiosurgery, interstitial radiotherapy, and stereotactic radiofrequency thermocoagulation. Surgical treatment can result in seizure freedom in up to 50% of patients and can be accompanied by significant improvements in behavior, cognition, and quality of life. Partial treatment of HHs may be sufficient to reduce seizure frequency and improve behavior and quality of life with less risk. A component of reversible cognitive dysfunction may be present in some patients with an HH-GE syndrome.
Focal cortical dysplasias (FCDs) are congenital malformations of cortical development that are a frequent cause of refractory epilepsy in both children and adults. With advances in structural and functional neuroimaging, these lesions are increasingly being identified as a cause of intractable epilepsy in patients undergoing surgical management for intractable epilepsy. Comprehensive histological classification of FCDs with the establishment of uniform terminology and reproducible pathological features has aided in our understanding of FCDs as an epilepsy substrate. Complete resection of FCDs and the associated epileptogenic zone can result in a good surgical outcome in the majority of patients.
It is important to correctly diagnose medically intractable epilepsy in children and to identify those children whose medically refractory, localization-related seizures may be surgically remediable as soon as possible to optimize the surgical outcome. In this paper the authors review the definition of medically intractable seizures and discuss the various causes and risk factors for this disorder in children. They also outline the presurgical diagnostic evaluation process for pharmacologically intractable epilepsy in children who may be candidates for surgical treatment of localization-related seizures. The treatment of children with medically intractable epilepsy is both challenging and rewarding. Surgery has the potential of altering the natural history of epilepsy by improving or eliminating seizures in carefully selected patients.



The neural mechanisms responsible for the enhanced adolescent vulnerability for initiating drug abuse are unclear. We investigated whether age differences in dopamine neurotransmission could explain cocaine's enhanced psychomotor effects in the periadolescent rat. Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle of anesthetized post-natal age 28 days (PN28) and PN65 rats elicited dopamine release in caudate nucleus and nucleus accumbens core before and after 15 mg/kg cocaine i.p. Extracellular dopamine concentrations were greater in PN65 than PN28 caudate following 20 and 60 Hz stimulations and in the PN65 nucleus accumbens following 60 Hz stimulations. Cocaine increased dopamine concentrations elicited by 20 Hz stimulations 3-fold in the adult, but almost 9-fold in periadolescent caudate. Dopamine release rate was lower in the periadolescent caudate although total dopamine clearance was similar to that of adults. The periadolescent caudate achieved adult levels of clearance by compensating for a lower V(max) with higher uptake affinity. Tighter regulation of extracellular dopamine by the higher uptake/release ratio in periadolescents led to greater increases after cocaine. In nucleus accumbens, dopamine release and V(max) were lower in periadolescents than adults, but uptake affinity and cocaine effects were similar. Immaturity of dopamine neurotransmission in dorsal striatum may underlie enhanced acute responses to psychostimulants in adolescent rats and suggests a mechanism for the greater vulnerability of adolescent humans to drug addiction.
Prenatal exposure to environmental contaminants, such as benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] has been shown to impair brain development. The overarching hypothesis of our work is that glutamate receptor subunit expression is crucial for cortical evoked responses and that prenatal B(a)P exposure modulates the temporal developmental expression of glutamatergic receptor subunits in the somatosensory cortex. To characterize prenatal B(a)P exposure on the development of cortical function, pregnant Long Evans rats were exposed to low-level B(a)P (300 microg/kg BW) by oral gavage on gestational days 14-17. At this exposure dose, there was no significant effect of B(a)P on (1) the number of pups born per litter, (2) the pre-weaning growth curves and (3) initial and final brain to body weight ratios. Control and B(a)P-exposed offspring were profiled for B(a)P metabolites in plasma and whole brain during the pre-weaning period. No detectable levels of metabolites were found in the control offspring. However, a time-dependent decrease in total metabolite concentration was observed in B(a)P-exposed offspring. On PND100-120, cerebrocortical mRNA expression was determined for the glutamatergic NMDA receptor subunit (NR2B) in control and B(a)P-exposed offspring. Neural activity was also recorded from neurons in primary somatic sensory (barrel) cortex. Semiquantitative PCR from B(a)P-exposed offspring revealed a significant 50% reduction in NR2B mRNA expression in B(a)P-exposed offspring relative to controls. Recordings from B(a)P-exposed offspring revealed that N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent neuronal activity in barrel cortex evoked by whisker stimulation was also significantly reduced (70%) as compared to controls. Analysis showed that the greatest deficit in cortical neuronal responses occurred in the shorter latency epochs from 5 to 20 ms post-stimulus. The results suggest that in utero exposure to benzo(a)pyrene results in diminished mRNA expression of the NMDA NR2B receptor subunit to result in late life deficits in cortical neuronal activity in the offspring. The findings from this study lead to a strong prediction that in utero exposure to benzo(a)pyrene at a time when synapses are first formed and adjusted in strength by activity in the sensory pathways will produce a strong negative effect on brain function in offspring progeny.


Multidisciplinary research from my and my colleagues' laboratory has shown that disruption at various levels of leptin signaling to the interactive hypothalamic network of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and cohorts contributes to the antecedent pathophysiologic sequelae of the disease cluster of the metabolic syndrome. Disruptions in NPY signaling due to high or low abundance of NPY and cognate receptors dysregulate the homeostatic milieu to promote hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, fat accrual, and overt diabetes. Hyperleptinemia induced by consumption of energy-rich diets inhibits leptin transport across the blood-brain barrier and thereby produces leptin insufficiency in the hypothalamus. Sustained leptin insufficiency results in loss of hypothalamic restraint on pancreatic insulin secretion and diminished glucose metabolism and energy expenditure. This chain of events culminates in hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia, and diabetes. Our recent studies have shown that increasing the supply of leptin centrally by gene therapy reinstates the restraint on hypothalamic NPY signaling and ameliorates diabetes and the attendant disease cluster of the metabolic syndrome. Thus, newer therapies that would enhance leptin transport across the blood-brain barrier in a timely manner or reinstate leptin restraint on NPY signaling through central leptin gene therapy or pharmacologically with leptin mimetics are likely to curtail the pathophysiologic sequelae of diabetes and related ailments of the metabolic syndrome.


Feeding behavior is tightly regulated by peptidergic transmission within the hypothalamus. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is one of the most potent known stimulators of food intake and has robust effects on the hypothalamic feeding neuronal networks. A vast body of literature has documented the substantial effects of NPY on feeding behavior. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying the actions of NPY have only recently begun to be explored. The NPYergic signal, including its expression in hypothalamic neurons, its release into the synaptic space, and its direct or indirect receptor-mediated actions, is highly responsive to decreases in the metabolic state. The orexigenic NPY signal can suppress the anorexigenic drive to restore energy balance homeostasis when energy levels are low, such as after food deprivation. The NPY signal interacts with glucose- and fat-sensitive signals arriving in the hypothalamus and effects changes in anorexigenic pathways, such as those mediated by the melanocortins. Recent applications of electrophysiological methods to examine the neuronal activity and pathways engaged by NPY-mediated signaling have advanced our understanding of this orexigenic system. Furthermore, crucial roles for NPY pathways in the development of hypothalamic feeding circuitry have been identified by these means. Orexigenic NPY signaling is critical during development and its absence is lethal in adults, thus reflecting the essential role of NPY for the regulation of energy homeostasis.
A 91-year-old man with advanced glaucoma, status post trabeculectomy, and pseudophakia had a symptomatic recurrent band and bullous keratopathy in his left eye. Three previous ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid chelations with immediate recurrence of the calcic band keratopathy with frequent breakdown produced recurrent painful corneal epithelial defects. The calcified lesions were removed surgically, resulting in a smooth ocular surface. An 8-mm, 100-micron trephination was performed and a 360 degrees corneal lamellar peripheral dissection pocket was created. After covering the denuded corneal surface, the edges of the amniotic membrane were introduced into the pocket and secured using fibrin sealant. Additional amniotic membrane was glued to the nasal en temporal corneal areas and a collagen shield was applied. Wound healing was completed in 10 days and a stable ocular surface was restored without pain or inflammation. During the follow-up period, no recurrence of the band keratopathy was observed.



Our understanding of the central regulation of food intake and body weight has increased tremendously through implication of a high number of neuropeptides. However, lack of all-embracing studies have made comparison difficult in the past. The objective of this study was to demonstrate the relative importance of the different neuropeptides in terms of involvement in appetite regulatory mechanisms. We quantified expression levels of 21 hypothalamic neuropeptides and circulating levels of leptin, insulin, corticosterone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, ghrelin and adiponectin in rats after acute food deprivation and chronic food restriction using validated quantitative real-time PCR and hormone measurements. Body weight, insulin and leptin were reduced whereas corticosterone was increased by both acute food deprivation and chronic food restriction. Our results confirmed the relative importance in body weight homeostasis of neuropeptide Y and proopiomelanocortin, which were increased and decreased as predicted. The expression of other neuropeptides previously attributed central roles in body weight homeostasis, e.g. melanin-concentrating hormone and orexin, appeared to be less affected by the treatments. Moreover, the expression of dynorphin, galanin-like peptide and neuropeptide B was dramatically reduced after both treatments. This suggests that the latter neuropeptides--although previously known to be involved in body weight homeostasis--may be of unexpected importance in states of negative energy balance.
In the 1990s, phentermine was combined with either fenfluramine or its active enantiomer dexfenfluramine to promote weight loss. Appetite suppressants are known to alter pain reactivity. The current experiment examined the acute impact of phentermine (0, 2.5, 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg) on paw-lick/jump latencies recorded just before and at 10, 20, and 30 min after phentermine injection. In addition, separate groups of rats were treated with 1, 2, or 4 mg/kg dexfenfluramine or with selected combinations of phentermine with dexfenfluramine. Phentermine induced significant analgesia in rats at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg, whereas only the 4.0 mg/kg dose of dexfenfluramine induced significant analgesia. Combinations of 1 mg/kg dexfenfluramine or 2 mg/kg dexfenfluramine with phentermine were mostly additive in terms of changes in analgesia scores. The present results characterize the analgesic action of phentermine, further confirm the analgesic action of dexfenfluramine and suggest an additive analgesic effect for the combination of dexfenfluramine with phentermine.
Alleles of the human dopamine D(4) receptor (D(4)R) gene (DRD4.7) have repeatedly been found to correlate with novelty seeking, substance abuse, pathological gambling, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). If these various psychopathologies are a result of attenuated D(4)R-mediated signaling, mice lacking D(4)Rs (D(4)KO) should be more impulsive than wild-type (WT) mice and exhibit more novelty seeking. However, in our study, D(4)KO and WT mice showed similar levels of impulsivity as measured by delay discounting performance and response inhibition on a Go/No-go test, suggesting that D(4)R-mediated signaling may not affect impulsivity. D(4)KO mice were more active than WT mice in the first 5 min of a novel open field test, suggesting greater novelty seeking. For both genotypes, more impulsive mice habituated less in the novel open field. These data suggest that the absence of D(4)Rs is not sufficient to cause psychopathologies associated with heightened impulsivity and novelty seeking.
The role of histamine and its receptors in basal ganglia neurocircuitry was assessed in apomorphine-induced turning behavior. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta and medial forebrain bundle were administered histaminergic agents, and apomorphine-induced turning behavior was tested on Days 7 and 14 post-lesion. Compared with saline-treated rats, histidine (500 mg/kg, i.p.), a precursor of histamine, increased turning behavior (p&lt;0.05), while alpha-fluoromethylhistidine (alpha-FMH, 25 microg, i.c.v.), an irreversible inhibitor of histidine decarboxylase, decreased turning behavior (p&lt;0.05) but only on Day 14 post-lesion. Both the histamine H(1) receptor antagonist pyrilamine (10 and 50 microg, i.c.v.) and the H(2) receptor antagonist cimetidine (10 and 50 microg, i.c.v.) significantly decreased turning behavior on Days 7 and 14 post-lesion. The histamine H(3) receptor agonist immepip (10 microg, i.c.v.) decreased turning behavior (p&lt;0.05) on Day 14 post-lesion. The present findings indicate the complex interactions of histamine on basal ganglia function.
Individual differences in exploratory behavior can predictably influence psychostimulant self-administration behavior. Male rats that exhibit a high degree of locomotor activity in a novel environment (High Responders, HR) will self-administer cocaine more readily than males exhibiting low levels of novelty-induced locomotion (Low Responders, LR). The present experiment investigates the combined influences of the sex of an individual and individual phenotypes in novelty-induced locomotion to predispose animals to acquire cocaine self-administration behavior, in male and female rats selectively bred for the HR-LR phenotypes. We first established that HR females, like their male counterparts, exhibit a dramatically greater locomotor response to novelty and less anxiety-like behavior than do LR females. While locomotor behavior was subtly influenced by estrous stage, with both HR and LR females showing increased activity during metestrus and diestrus compared to proestrus and estrus, the effect did not obscure HR-LR differences. When male and female HR-LR animals were trained to self-administer cocaine (2 h/day, 5 days/wk x 3 wk, 0.2 mg cocaine/kg/infusion), HR males and females acquired cocaine self-administration significantly faster than their LR counterparts. Furthermore, HR females self-administered significantly more cocaine than all other groups. In conclusion, female rats, like males, exhibit HR-LR phenotypes that predict rapidity of acquiring cocaine self-administration. Moreover, HR females self-administer more cocaine than HR males and both LR groups.
The majority of psychopharmaca acts by binding to G-protein coupled receptors and thereby asserts it's action through the regulation of intracellular signaling networks. The convergence and interactions of pathways within these networks make the detailed signaling hard to study experimentally, and the response to a stimuli can be non-intuitive. To approach these problems with systems biology and merging biochemical data in a computer model to do virtual experiments with high time-resolution can shed new light on the functioning of these networks. The phosphoprotein DARPP-32 is regulated by several modulatory neurotransmitters, including dopamine, serotonin and adenosin, and it's function has been proposed to be altered in schizophrenia. Moreover, the well studied regulation of DARPP-32, and the vast amount of biochemical data makes it a model molecule when it comes to intracellular signaling. To better understand the interactions of the pathways that regulate DARPP-32 activation we constructed a computer model based on experimental data. In this work we discovered unexpected responses of DARPP-32 at fast timescales. An equally important outcome of the work was to identify areas where additional work is needed in order to understand intracellular signaling at the systems level, showing the need for close collaborations between theoretical and experimental biologists.
People with schizophrenia suffer from a variety of symptoms that can be categorized as positive, negative and cognitive symptoms. Cognitive symptoms are not properly treated with antipsychotic medication and are the major cause of disability associated with the disorder. People with schizophrenia smoke more frequently and heavily than the general population. This observation in view of the well established role of nicotinic, cholinergic neurotransmission in cognition led to the hypothesis that people with schizophrenia may use nicotine as a self-medication to ameliorate cognitive symptoms associated with their disease. Furthermore genetic and post-mortem studies point to additional links between nicotinic cholinergic neurotransmission and schizophrenia. This article provides an insight in the possible relationship between schizophrenia and smoking behavior. We focus on the effects of nicotine on individual neurons as well as on neuronal networks. With respect to single neurons the immediate electrophysiological consequences of nicotinic stimulation and the more &quot;metabotropic&quot; effects related to intracellular signal transduction cascades that may lead to plastic changes in the neuron are discussed. With respect to the network level, three systems are discussed: cognition, reward and stress response. The effects of nicotine on cognition may be most pertinent to the problem of schizophrenia, but schizophrenics may also smoke to regulate mood and reduce stress. A better understanding of the molecular and cellular effects of nicotine and how they are related to the pathophysiology and symptomatology of schizophrenia may help to identify new targets for the pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia and of nicotine addiction in schizophrenia.
This study investigated the effects of 5-Form, Yang Style Tai Chi (TC) on balance confidence, balance performance, functional strength, mobility, and incidence of falls among individuals with or at risk for developing osteoporosis. This was a pilot outcomes study in which participants served as their own controls. Thirty-one independent, community-dwelling women (mean age of 67.3 years) attended TC sessions twice a week for 12 weeks and practiced at least 1 day a week on their own. A specific TC instruction video was used to facilitate home practice. Baseline, immediate postintervention, and 6 and 12 months postintervention data were recorded. Outcome measures included the Activities-specific Balance Confidence (ABC) Scale, One-Legged Stance Test (OLST) for both legs, Repeated Chair Stands (RCS), and the Timed Up and Go Test (TUG). Exercise performance and falls were tracked during the study by using daily diaries. Balance performance, functional strength, and mobility significantly improved (p &lt; 0.05) immediately postintervention. Most benefits were sustained at 6 months, but only functional strength and mobility remained improved at 12 months postintervention. Most participants reported exercising at the 6- and 12-month follow-up. However, very few individuals continued to practice TC on a regular basis (more than once a week) beyond the 12-week intervention. Balance confidence or incidence of falls did not improve.
Much of the permanent damage that occurs in response to nervous system damage (trauma, infection, ischemia, etc.) is mediated by endogenous secondary processes that can contribute to cell death and tissue damage (excitotoxicity, oxidative damage and inflammation). For humans to evolve mechanisms to minimize secondary pathophysiological events following CNS injuries, selection must occur for individuals who survive such insults. Two major factors limit the selection for beneficial responses to CNS insults: for many CNS disease states the principal risk factor is advanced, post-reproductive age and virtually all severe CNS traumas are fatal in the absence of modern medical intervention. An alternative hypothesis for the persistence of apparently maladaptive responses to CNS damage is that the secondary exacerbation of damage is the result of unavoidable evolutionary constraints. That is, the nervous system could not function under normal conditions if the mechanisms that caused secondary damage (e.g., excitotoxicity) in response to injury were decreased or eliminated. However, some vertebrate species normally inhabit environments (e.g., hypoxia in underground burrows) that could potentially damage their nervous systems. Yet, neuroprotective mechanisms have evolved in these animals indicating that natural selection can occur for traits that protect animals from nervous system damage. Many of the secondary processes and regeneration-inhibitory factors that exacerbate injuries likely persist because they have been adaptive over evolutionary time in the healthy nervous system. Therefore, it remains important that researchers consider the role of the processes in the healthy or developing nervous system to understand how they become dysregulated following injury.
Numerous studies have tackled the complex challenge of understanding the neural substrates of psychopathy, revealing that brain abnormalities exist on several levels and in several structures. As we discover more about complex neural networks, it becomes increasingly difficult to clarify how these systems interact with each other to produce the distinct pattern of behavioral and personality characteristics observed in psychopathy. The authors review the recent research on the neurobiology of psychopathy, beginning with molecular neuroscience work and progressing to the level of brain structures and their connectivity. Potential factors that may affect the development of brain impairments, as well as how some systems may be targeted for potential treatment, are discussed.
The main purposes of the article are to present the history of integration in psychotherapy, the reasons of the development integrative approaches, and the approaches to integration in psychotherapy. Three approaches to integration in psychotherapy exist: theoretical integration, theoretical eclecticism, and common factors in different psychotherapeutic trends. In integrative psychotherapy, the basic epistemology, theory, and clinical practice are based on the phenomenology, field theory, holism, dialogue, and co-creation of dialogue in the therapeutic relationship. The main criticism is that integrative psychotherapy suffers from confusion and many unresolved controversies. It is difficult to theoretically and methodologically define the clinically applied model that is based on such a different epistemological and theoretical presumptions. Integrative psychotherapy is a synthesis of humanistic psychotherapy, object relations theory, and psychoanalytical self psychology. It focuses on the dynamics and potentials of human relationships, with a goal of changing the relations and understanding internal and external resistances. The process of integrative psychotherapy is primarily focused on the developmental-relational model and co-creation of psychotherapeutic relationship as a single interactive event, which is not unilateral, but rather a joint endeavor by both the therapist and the patient/client. The need for a relationship is an important human need and represents a process of attunement that occurs as a response to the need for a relationship, a unique interpersonal contact between two people. If this need is not met, it manifests with the different feelings and various defenses. To meet this need, we need to have another person with whom we can establish a sensitive, attuned relationship. Thus, the therapist becomes this person who tries to supplement what the person did not receive. Neuroscience can be a source of integration through different therapies. We may say that both neuroscience and neurobiology offer yet another bridge for integration of different schools of thought and supports the importance of the developmental relational model during the developmental phases and relational process in psychotherapy in which the quality of therapeutic relationship is the primary healing process. Furthermore, the development of integrative psychotherapy in Croatia and the organization of the Croatian program, which is identical to the program of the European Association for Integrative Psychotherapy is shortly described.


Control by action representation and input selection (CARIS) is a modeling framework for task-switching experiments, which considers action-related effects as critical constraints. It assumes that control operates by choosing control parameter values, representing input selection and action representation. Competing CARIS models differ in whether (a) control parameters are determined by current instructions or represent a perseveration, (b) current instructions apply to the input selection and/or to action representation. According to the chosen model (a) task execution results in a default bias in favor of the executed task thus creating perseverative tendencies; (b) control counteracts these tendencies by applying a transient momentary bias whose locus (input selection or action representation) changes as a function of task preparation time; (c) this happens because the task-cue (e.g., SHAPE) initially attracts attention to the immediately available cue-information (e.g., target shape) and then attracts it to inferred or retrieved information (e.g., &quot;circle&quot; is related to the right key press).






Cognitive processing therapy (CPT) is an exposure-based protocol designed to reduce posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms and challenge faulty beliefs and interpretations that prevent trauma survivors from coming to terms with their traumatic experiences. This article provides a brief summary of this treatment and the related literature and describes how the CPT protocol was modified to implement this treatment in this study's setting. Also provided is a discussion of various institutional and intrapatient barriers that existed before the introduction of CPT and how these difficulties were ultimately resolved. Patients' responses to treatment, as indicated by both qualitative and quantitative data, are also reviewed. A total of 18 patients participated and completed treatment with CPT (50% Caucasian, 22.2% African American, 16.7% biracial, 5.6% Native American, and 5.6% Hispanic). Overall, the women participating in the protocol benefited greatly, and 15 of the 18 women had a statistically significant reduction in scores measuring PTSD symptoms. The article concludes with recommendations to other programs and providers interested in providing CPT to similar treatment populations. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).
Purines such as ATP and adenosine participate in synaptic transmission in the enteric nervous system as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators. Purinergic receptors are localized on the cell bodies or nerve terminals of different functional classes of enteric neurons and, with other receptors, form unique receptor complements. Activation of purinergic receptors can regulate neuronal activity by depolarization, by regulating intracellular calcium, or by modulating second messenger pathways. Purinergic signaling between enteric neurons plays an important role in regulating specific enteric reflexes and overall gastrointestinal function. In the present article, we review evidence for purine receptors in the enteric nervous system, including P1 (adenosine) receptors and P2 (ATP) receptors. We will explore the role they play in mediating fast and slow synaptic transmission and in presynaptic inhibition of transmission. Finally, we will examine the molecular properties of the native receptors, their signaling mechanisms, and their role in gastrointestinal pathology.
Most of functional neuroscience studies investigate the brain's response to a task or stimulus. However, the brain is very active even in the absence of an external or internal input. Recent neuroimaging, electrophysiological and optical imaging studies revealed that the neural activity at rest is structured in functionally specific, temporally correlated, spatially distributed patterns that explain a large part of the variability of event-related responses. These results importantly extend the focus of cognitive neuroscience from the stimulus-evoked responses to the spatial and temporal correlations between different neural populations. I argue that integrating the correlated nature of the neural activity to standard measures of evoked responses might significantly advance our understanding on the neural mechanisms underlying cognitive functions. This perspective may be tackled by identifying spontaneous spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity at rest and tracking their evolution and dynamical interactions during cognitive processing.
The role of traditions, revision of dogmatic concepts, and emergence of novel theories in the investigations of the vertebrate brain evolution on the bases of modern neuroscientific data represent the objective of the present paper. Problems of homology, encephalization, recapitulation, dissolution, and the significance of their revision for understanding the brain evolution are considered. Arguments for equal importance in studying consequences of both phylogenetic and divergent adaptive evolution are presented. Comparative study of functional mechanisms is suggested as a perspective trend of the evolutionary physiology. It will be a valuable tool both for understanding the brain evolution and for applied investigations in neurobiology and medicine.
National action plans emphasize the importance of strengthening the role of patients in health and medical care. Patients should feel that they can participate and that they are seen as a resource. In occupational therapy, the client-centred approach has developed, whereby it is key to enable patients to participate in their treatment. The International Classification of Functioning Disability and Health (ICF) has inspired this study, in which concepts such as activity and participation are central. The purpose of the study was to describe how patients in psychiatric institutional care conceive their opportunities to be active, and how they participate in their own treatment. Questionnaires were sent to patients who had received care during a six-month period. Ten patients were then selected for interview. The study shows that younger patients and patients who were treated involuntarily were generally more dissatisfied than other patients. The patients' perceptions of their environment were influenced by the values in the ward. Topics such as atmosphere in the ward, reception, continuity, and support were presented. Important factors related to activity and participation were: agreement concerning the treatment plan, discussions about expectations, creating conditions for engagement in activities, and providing the patients with opportunities to take responsibility for themselves.
Basic neuroscience research suggests that neural assemblies communicate with each other in the temporal domain and rely on the coincidence of neural activity to detect phasic relationships between groups of neurons. Clinical neuroscience research suggests that communication and coordination failures between different brain regions may account for a wide range of problems in schizophrenia, from psychosis to cognitive dysfunction. This theme issue presents: an overview of time-frequency analyses that are used by clinical neuroscientists studying neural oscillations in schizophrenia; a comprehensive review of the literature on schizophrenia and neural asynchrony; data supporting dysfunction of both the GABA and glutamate systems in contributing to neural synchrony dysfunction in schizophrenia; and an example of how neural activity oscillating at different frequencies can form a code, which when disrupted could account for various symptoms of the illness. These papers illustrate approaches to translational neuroscience that will increase our understanding of schizophrenia and provide neurobiological endpoints for developing novel treatments.
Synchronization of neuronal activity in the neocortex may underlie the coordination of neural representations and thus is critical for optimal cognitive function. Because cognitive deficits are the major determinant of functional outcome in schizophrenia, identifying their neural basis is important for the development of new therapeutic interventions. Here we review the data suggesting that phasic synaptic inhibition mediated by specific subtypes of cortical gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons is essential for the production of synchronized network oscillations. We also discuss evidence indicating that GABA neurotransmission is altered in schizophrenia and propose mechanisms by which such alterations can decrease the strength of inhibitory connections in a cell-type-specific manner. We suggest that some alterations observed in the neocortex of schizophrenia subjects may be compensatory responses that partially restore inhibitory synaptic efficacy. The findings of altered neural synchrony and impaired cognitive function in schizophrenia suggest that such compensatory responses are insufficient and that interventions aimed at augmenting the efficacy of GABA neurotransmission might be of therapeutic value.
Cognitive disruption in schizophrenia is associated with altered patterns of spatiotemporal interaction associated with multiple electroencephalogram (EEG) frequency bands in cortex. In particular, changes in the generation of gamma (30-80 Hz) and beta2 (20-29 Hz) rhythms correlate with observed deficits in communication between different cortical areas. Aspects of these changes can be reproduced in animal models, most notably those involving acute or chronic reduction in glutamatergic synaptic communication mediated by N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In vitro electrophysiological and immunocytochemical approaches afforded by such animal models continue to reveal a great deal about the mechanisms underlying EEG rhythm generation and are beginning to uncover which basic molecular, cellular, and network phenomena may underlie their disruption in schizophrenia. Here we briefly review the evidence for changes in gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) and glutamatergic function and address the problem of region specificity of changes with quantitative comparisons of effects of ketamine on gamma and beta2 rhythms in vitro. We conclude, from available evidence, that many observed changes in markers for GABAergic function in schizophrenia may be secondary to deficits in NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic activity. Furthermore, the broad range of changes in cortical dynamics seen in schizophrenia -- with contrasting effects seen in different brain regions and for different frequency bands -- may be more directly attributable to underlying deficits in glutamatergic neuronal communication rather than GABAergic inhibition alone.
Astrocytic markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and connexin 43 (CX43) are known to have altered expression in brains of subjects with psychiatric disorders including autism and major depression. The current study investigated whether GFAP and CX43 expressions are affected by several commonly used psychotropic medications (clozapine, fluoxetine, haloperidol, lithium, olanzapine, and valproic acid). Using SDS-PAGE and western blotting technique, we observed that CX43 protein expression in prefrontal cortex was significantly increased following chronic treatment with fluoxetine and clozapine, while it was significantly decreased by haloperidol and lithium. GFAP protein expression was significantly decreased following chronic treatment with clozapine and valproic acid. These results suggest that astroglial markers GFAP and CX43 could be potential targets for therapeutic intervention.


Imaging of the brain, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in particular, is a key adjunctive tool in the diagnosis and management of toxic-metabolic disorders such as alcoholism, mitochondrial encephalopathies, disorders of iron or copper metabolism, exposure to carbon monoxide, radiotherapy, immunosuppressive agents, toluene, and recreational drugs. In this article, we review the neuroimaging findings of common toxic and metabolic disorders focusing on the role of conventional MRI. We also consider advanced imaging methods, such as magnetic resonance spectroscopy, diffusion MRI, and positron emission tomography. We hope this article will prove useful to trainees and practitioners in the clinical and imaging fields of the neurosciences.
In this article, after providing a description of the technique of brain positron emission tomography (PET), the review focuses on the application of PET and other recent advances of neuroimaging in understanding the structural, pathophysiological, and pharmacological changes associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). In early cases of PD, demonstration of the presence of nigral structural abnormalities with transcranial sonography and striatal dopaminergic dysfunction with functional imaging provides a rationale for the use of dopaminergic medications. The presence of altered striatal signal with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) or reduced lentiform nucleus glucose metabolism with fluorodeoxyglucose PET suggests the presence of an atypical PD variant. Finally, the value of functional imaging as a biomarker for following the progression of PD and for understanding mechanisms of dementia when present is debated.
One of the most prolific chemical and anatomical imaging techniques of recent decades, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), includes the ability to noninvasively assess neurochemical changes with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Practical concerns are paramount in applying MRS, such as what the manufacturer provides with a routine MRI scanner, what methods are well tolerated by patients, and what has proved most diagnostically productive over a 25 year span of preliminary exploration of the technology. In this review, the authors explain the technical and neurochemical aspects of MRS and critically discuss its clinical neuroimaging applications.


In daily life, we perceive a person's facial reaction as part of the natural environment surrounding it. Because most studies have investigated how facial expressions are recognized by using isolated faces, it is unclear what role the context plays. Although it has been observed that the N170 for facial expressions is modulated by the emotional context, it was not clear whether individuals use context information on this stage of processing to discriminate between facial expressions. The aim of the present study was to investigate how the early stages of face processing are affected by emotional scenes when explicit categorizations of fearful and happy facial expressions are made. Emotion effects were found for the N170, with larger amplitudes for faces in fearful scenes as compared to faces in happy and neutral scenes. Critically, N170 amplitudes were significantly increased for fearful faces in fearful scenes as compared to fearful faces in happy scenes and expressed in left-occipito-temporal scalp topography differences. Our results show that the information provided by the facial expression is combined with the scene context during the early stages of face processing.
The processing of personal changes across time and the ability to differentiate between representations of present and past selves are crucial for developing a mature sense of identity. In this study, we explored the neural correlates of self-reflection across time using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). College undergraduates were asked to reflect on their own psychological characteristics and those of an intimate other, for both the present time period (i.e. at college) and a past time period (i.e. high school years) that involved significant personal changes. Cortical midline structures (CMS) were commonly recruited by the four reflective tasks (reflecting on the present self, past self, present other and past other), relative to a control condition (making valence judgments). More importantly, however, the degree of activity in CMS also varied significantly according to the target of reflection, with the ventral and dorsal medial prefrontal cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex being more recruited when reflecting on the present self than when reflecting on the past self or when reflecting on the other person. These findings suggest that CMS may contribute to differentiate between representations of present and past selves.

Will human embryonic stem (hES) cells lead to a revolutionary new regenerative medicine? We begin to answer this question by drawing on interviews with scientists and clinicians from leading labs and clinics in the UK and the USA, exploring their views on the bench-bedside interface in the fields of hES cells, neuroscience and diabetes. We employ Bourdieu's concepts of field, habitus and capital in order to understand stem cell science and cell transplantation. We also build on research on the sociology of expectations, and explore expectations of pharmaceutical approaches in hES research through our concept of 'expectational capital'. In the process we discuss emerging expectations within stem cell research, most especially the 'disease in a dish' approach, where hES cells will be used as tools for unravelling the mechanisms of disease to enable the development of new drugs. We argue that experts' persuasive promises advance their interests in the uncertain stem cell field, and explore how this performative strategy might stabilise the emerging 'disease in a dish' model of translational research.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha has been reported to modulate brain injury, but remarkably, little is known about its effects on neurogenesis. We report that TNF-alpha strongly influences survival, proliferation, and neuronal differentiation in cultured subventricular zone (SVZ) neural stem/progenitor cells derived from the neonatal P1-3 C57BL/6 mice. By using single-cell calcium imaging, we developed a method, based on cellular response to KCl and/or histamine, that allows the functional evaluation of neuronal differentiation. Exposure of SVZ cultures to 1 and 10 ng/ml mouse or 1 ng/ml human recombinant TNF-alpha resulted in increased differentiation of cells displaying a neuronal-like profile of [Ca2+](i) responses, compared with the predominant profile of immature cells observed in control, nontreated cultures. Moreover, by using neutralizing antibodies for each TNF-alpha receptor, we found that the proneurogenic effect of 1 ng/ml TNF-alpha is mediated via tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 activation. Accordingly, the percentage of neuronal nuclear protein-positive neurons was increased following exposure to mouse TNF-alpha. Interestingly, exposure of SVZ cultures to 1 ng/ml TNF-alpha induced cell proliferation, whereas 10 and 100 ng/ml TNF-alpha induced apoptotic cell death. Moreover, we found that exposure of SVZ cells to TNF-alpha for 15 minutes or 6 hours caused an increase in the phospho-stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase immunoreactivity initially in the nucleus and then in growing axons, colocalizing with tau, consistent with axonogenesis. Taken together, these results show that TNF-alpha induces neurogenesis in neonatal SVZ cell cultures of mice. TNF-alpha, a proinflammatory cytokine and a proneurogenic factor, may play a central role in promoting neurogenesis and brain repair in response to brain injury and infection.
It has been suggested that the central and peripheral neural processes (CPNP) are affected by gravitational changes. Based on the previous experiments during parabolic flights, central and peripheral changes may not only be due to the changed gravitational forces but also due to neuroendocrine reactions related to the psycho-physiological consequences of gravitational changes. The present study focuses on the interaction of neuroendocrine changes and the physical and mental states after acceleration to three-time terrestrial gravity (3Gz). Eleven participants (29.4+/-5.1 [SD] years (male (n=8): 30+/-5.1 years; female (n=3): 27.7+/-2.1 years) underwent a 15 min acceleration to 3Gz in a human centrifuge. Before and after the acceleration to 3Gz circulating stress hormone concentrations (cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), prolactin, epinephrine, norepinephrine) and perceived physical and mental states were recorded. A second control group of 11 participants underwent the same testing procedure in a laboratory session. Serum cortisol concentration during exposure to the centrifugal acceleration increased by 70%, plasma concentration of ACTH increased threefold, prolactin twofold, epinephrine by 70% and norepinephrine by 45%, whereas the perceived physical well-being decreased. These findings demonstrate that psycho-physiological changes have to be regarded as a relevant factor for the changes in CPNP during phases of hypergravity exposure.



An understanding of the neurochemical changes occurring following exposure to psychostimulants such as cocaine is critical for the development of novel pharmacotherapies aimed at disrupting the addictive cycle. It is well established that the acute effects of cocaine associated with drug-induced blockade of dopamine (DA) reuptake processes occur in reward-related areas of the brain including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Considerable evidence has accumulated indicating that the interaction between DA, glutamate, and nitric oxide (NO) is likely to play a critical role in the neuroplastic changes associated with psychostimulant exposure. However, the potential impact of cocaine on NO synthase (NOS) activity in the mPFC has not been examined. In this study, NO efflux was measured in the mPFC of anesthetized male rats using a NO-selective electrochemical microsensor. Acute systemic administration of cocaine significantly increased NO efflux in the mPFC in a time-dependent manner. Similar injections using vehicle did not affect NO efflux. The facilitatory effect of cocaine on NO efflux was transient and reproducible. The signal was derived from neuronal sources of NO, because it was attenuated by systemic administration of the neuronal NO synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole. These studies support a role for prefrontal cortical NO signaling in cocaine-induced changes in neurotransmission in reward-related circuits involved in addiction.
Adenosine A(2A) receptors are found on striatal neurones projecting to the external pallidum. KW-6002 (istradefylline) is a potent and selective antagonist for the adenosine A(2A) receptors in the CNS and acts to inhibit the excessive activity of this pathway in the MPTP marmoset model of PD, thus relieving parkinsonism. The objectives of this study were to investigate the regional binding of the novel positron emission tomography tracer [(11)C]KW-6002 in the healthy human brain and the rat brain, along with receptor occupancy by cold KW-6002 at varying doses in human. The highest [(11)C]KW-6002 uptake in the rat brain was seen in striatum and lower levels in cortex and cerebellum. Brain [(11)C]KW-6002 uptake was well characterized in humans by a two-tissue compartmental model with a blood volume term, and the ED(50) of cold KW-6002 was 0.5 mg in the striatum. Over 90% receptor occupancy was achieved with daily oral doses of greater than 5 mg. In humans, blockable binding was present in all gray matter structures including the cerebellum, which has not been reported to express A(2A) receptors. MRS 1745, an A(2B) receptor selective antagonist, had no effect on the cerebellar binding of [(11)C]KW-6002 in rats, suggesting that this blockable signal is unlikely to result from an affinity for adenosine A(2B) receptors.
The TRPA1 channel is activated by a number of pungent chemicals, such as allylisothiocyanate, present in mustard oil and thiosulfinates present in garlic. Most of the known activating compounds contain reactive, electrophilic chemical groups, reacting with cysteine residues in the active site of the TRPA1 channel. This covalent modification results in activation of the channel and has been shown to be reversible for several ligands. Commonly used tear gasses CN, CR and CS are also pungent chemicals, and in this study we show that they are extremely potent and selective activators of the human TRPA1 receptor. To our knowledge, these are the most potent TRPA1 agonists known to date. The identification of the molecular target for these tear gasses may open up possibilities to alleviate the effects of tear gasses via treatment with TRPA1 antagonists. In addition these results may contribute to the basic knowledge of the TRPA1 channel that is gaining importance as a pharmacological target.
Vesicular neurotransmitter transporters are required for the storage of all classical and amino acid neurotransmitters in secretory vesicles. Transporter expression can influence neurotransmitter storage and release, and trafficking targets the transporters to different types of secretory vesicles. Vesicular transporters traffic to synaptic vesicles (SVs) as well as large dense core vesicles and are recycled to SVs at the nerve terminal. Some of the intrinsic signals for these trafficking events have been defined and include a dileucine motif present in multiple transporter subtypes, an acidic cluster in the neural isoform of the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) 2 and a polyproline motif in the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 1. The sorting of VMAT2 and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter to secretory vesicles is regulated by phosphorylation. In addition, VGLUT1 uses alternative endocytic pathways for recycling back to SVs following exocytosis. Regulation of these sorting events has the potential to influence synaptic transmission and behavior.
Antidepressant-, cocaine- and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-sensitive serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) transporters (SERTs) are expressed on presynaptic membranes of 5-HT-secreting neurons to provide efficient uptake of the biogenic amine after release. SERTs also support 5-HT transport across platelet, placental, gastrointestinal and pulmonary membranes and thus play a critical role in central nervous system and peripheral nervous system 5-HT signaling. SERTs are subject to multiple levels of posttranslational regulation that can rapidly alter 5-HT uptake and clearance rates. Specific cell surface receptors are now known to regulate SERT trafficking and/or catalytic function, with pathways activating protein kinase C, protein kinase G and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase receiving the greatest attention. Remarkably, disease-associated mutations in SERT not only impact basal SERT activity but also selectively impact one or more SERT regulatory pathway(s). In this review, we describe both trafficking-dependent and trafficking-independent modes of SERT regulation and also the suspected roles played in regulation by SERT-associated proteins. Elucidation of the SERT 'regulome' provides important depth to our understanding of the likely origins of 5-HT-associated disorders and may help orient research to develop novel therapeutics.
Recent research has shown interactions between the process of keeping information 'online' in working memory, and the processes that select relevant information for a response. In particular, our ability to select stimuli in the environment can be modulated by whether the stimuli match the current contents of working memory. Guidance of selection from working memory occurs automatically, even when it is detrimental to performance. Neurophysiological data, from functional brain imaging, indicate that the interaction between working memory and attention is based on neuronal mechanisms distinct from the processes mediating 'bottom-up' priming effects from implicit memory. We discuss the importance of 'top-down' influences from working memory on the 'early' deployment of attention and on the processes that gate visual information into awareness.
Studies in humans have indicated that the anterior superior temporal sulcus has an important role in the processing of information about human voices, especially the identification of talkers from their voice. A new study using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with macaques provides strong evidence that anterior auditory fields, part of the auditory 'what' pathway, preferentially respond to changes in the identity of conspecifics, rather than specific vocalizations from the same individual.
Calcium imaging has revolutionized the approaches for functional analyses in the living brain of animal experimental models. Changes in intracellular calcium concentration are strictly linked to the electrical activity in neurons and produce signals that are effectively detected by optical methods. Distinctive features of fluorescence-based calcium imaging are its high temporal resolution in the millisecond range and its high spatial resolution in the micrometer range. Recent progress includes the development of fluorometric calcium sensors, new approaches for targeted labeling with these sensors and the implementation of powerful imaging techniques, especially two-photon microscopy. An important and rapidly evolving field of current research is the use of calcium imaging for the analysis of in vivo mouse models for various brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, stroke and epilepsy.
Memory interference is a common cause of forgetting. Interference is a byproduct of the need to balance the formation of well-differentiated representations against the ability to retrieve memories from cues that are not identical to the original experience. How the brain accomplishes this has remained elusive. Here we review how insights can be gained from studies of an apparently unrelated phenomenon in the rodent brain--remapping in hippocampal place cells. Remapping refers to the formation of distinct representations in populations of place cells after minor changes in inputs to the hippocampus. Remapping might reflect processes involved generally in decorrelation of overlapping signals. These processes might be crucial for storing large numbers of similar experiences with only minimal interference.
The serotonergic system is implicated in the neurobiological control of learning and memory, both in healthy individuals and pathological disorders, although the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. After the cloning and characterization of serotonin, or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), receptors and the resultant development of selective agonist and antagonist compounds and transgenic receptor-knockout mice, our understanding of the role of various serotonin receptors in learning and memory has improved. 5-HT(1A), 5-HT4 and 5-HT6 receptors are densely expressed in brain regions innervated by serotonergic projections from the raphe nuclei and are associated with learning and memory. Here, we review the evidence that compounds acting on these receptors can have positive effects on learning and memory, and we discuss the potential mechanisms involved. This information raises the possibility that such compounds could be developed as adjunct therapeutics with existing treatments to improve learning and memory deficits, which are core symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and depression.
The notion that impaired serotonin (5-HT) function can lead to clinical depression has a long history but is still controversial. Some have argued that the 5-HT hypothesis has been misused by the pharmaceutical industry to promote a simplistic biological model of depression to market selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to medical practitioners and the public. By contrast, there is now substantial evidence that unmedicated depressed patients have abnormalities in brain 5-HT function; however, the relation of these abnormalities to the clinical syndrome is unclear. The best evidence that 5-HT contributes to the pathophysiology of depression comes from studies of tryptophan depletion, which show that lowering brain 5-HT levels can induce acute symptomatic relapse in recovered depressed patients. Clarification of the mechanism of this effect will enable an understanding of how impaired 5-HT activity contributes to the subjective experience of depression.
Calcium-binding protein expression has proven useful in delineating neural pathways. For example, in birds, calbindin is strongly expressed in the tectofugal pathway, whereas parvalbumin (PV) is strongly expressed in the thalamofugal pathway. Whether neurons within other visual regions also differentially express calcium-binding proteins, however, has not been extensively studied. The nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) is a retinal-recipient nucleus that is critical for the generation of the optokinetic response. The nBOR projects to the cerebellum both directly and indirectly via the inferior olive (IO). The cerebellar and IO projections originate from different neurons within the nBOR, but whether they can also be differentiated based on calcium-binding protein expression is unknown. In this study, we combined retrograde neuronal tracing from the cerebellum and IO with fluorescent immunohistochemistry for PV and calretinin (CR) in the nBOR of pigeons. We found that about half (52.3%) of the cerebellar-projecting neurons were CR+ve, and about one-third (33.6%) were PV+ve. Most (90%) of these PV+ve cells were also labeled for CR. In contrast, very few of the IO-projecting neurons expressed CR or PV (&lt;or=2%). Thus, the direct nBOR-cerebellar and indirect nBOR-olivocerebellar pathways to the cerebellum can be distinguished based on the differential expression of CR and PV.
Most studies on people with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) have been focused on investigations of low-level processes with simple stimuli like gratings, letters, and in perception of isolated faces or objects. We investigated the ability of people with low vision to analyze more complex stimuli like photographs of natural scenes. Fifteen participants with AMD and low vision (acuity on the better eye &lt;20/200) and 11 normally sighted age-matched controls took part in the study. They were presented with photographs of either colored or achromatic gray level scenes in one condition and with photographs of natural scenes versus isolated objects extracted from these scenes in another condition. The photographs were centrally displayed for 300 ms. In both conditions, observers were instructed to press a key when they saw a predefined target (a face or an animal). The target was present in half of the trials. Color facilitated performance in people with low vision, while equivalent performance was found for colored and achromatic pictures in normally sighted participants. Isolated objects were categorized more accurately than objects in scenes in people with low vision. No difference was found for normally sighted observers. The results suggest that spatial properties that facilitate image segmentation (e.g., color and reduced crowding) help object perception in people with low vision.
Thirty years ago virtually everything known about primate color vision derived from psychophysical studies of normal and color-defective humans and from physiological investigations of the visual system of the macaque monkey, the most popular of human surrogates for this purpose. The years since have witnessed much progress toward the goal of understanding this remarkable feature of primate vision. Among many advances, investigations focused on naturally occurring variations in color vision in a wide range of nonhuman primate species have proven to be particularly valuable. Results from such studies have been central to our expanding understanding of the interrelationships between opsin genes, cone photopigments, neural organization, and color vision. This work is also yielding valuable insights into the evolution of color vision.
On-line contextual influences during reading were examined in a series of multiple-regression analyses conducted on a large-scale corpus of eye-movement data, using Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) to assess the degree of contextual constraints exerted on a given target word by the immediately prior word and by the prior sentence fragment. A decrease in inspection time was observed as contextual constraints increased. Word-level constraints exerted their influence both forward (on both single-fixation and gaze durations) and backward (on gaze duration only). An independent sentence-level effect was only visible in the forward direction, and only for gaze duration. Gaze duration was also sensitive to the depth of embedding of the target word in the syntactic structure. We conclude that both low-level and high-level contextual constraints can translate in the eye-movement record.
Kohn and Movshon [Kohn, A., &amp; Movshon, J. (2003). Neuronal adaptation to visual motion in area MT of the macaque. Neuron, 39, 681-691; Kohn, A., &amp; Movshon, J. A. (2004). Adaptation changes the direction tuning of macaque MT neurons. Nature Neuroscience, 7(7), 764-772] measured the contrast response functions of single neurons in MT (V5) before and after adaptation to high contrast gratings. They found that when gratings were smaller than the MT receptive field, so that adapting and test regions could be either co-localised or non-overlapping, adaptation was spatially specific. This led to the hypothesis that grating adaptation occurs in V1, where receptive fields are small and retinotopically organized, and that MT merely inherits this adaptation. We predicted that spatial specificity would be less for dot stimuli that probably adapt MT cells directly. Also, given recent contradictory claims that hMT primarily exhibits both spatiotopy [d'Avossa, G., Tosetti, M., Crespi, S., Biagi, L., Burr, D., &amp; Morrone, M. (2006). Spatiotopic selectivity of BOLD responses to visual motion in human area MT. Nature Neuroscience, 10, 249-255] and retinotopy [Gardner, J. L., Merriam, E. P., Movshon, J. A., &amp; Heeger, D. J. (2008). Maps of visual space in human occipital cortex are retinotopic, not spatiotopic. The Journal of Neuroscience, 28, 3988-3999], we were interested in producing relevant psychophysical evidence using the direction aftereffect. In three experiments, we measured direction aftereffects (DAEs) induced and tested either with drifting gratings or drifting dots when stimulus location was changed both retinotopically and spatiotopically between adaptation and test; when retinotopic location only was changed; and when spatiotopic location only was changed. We predicted and found that spatial specificity was greater for gratings than for dots. We also found very small spatiotopic effects that call into question some recent claims that area MT exhibits a high degree of spatiotopicity.
Resolution of inflammation is critical for normal wound healing. Inflammation is prolonged and fails to resolve properly in chronic wounds. We used in vivo and in vitro approaches to show that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) induces macrophage apoptosis and to delineate mechanisms involved in this process. VEGF inhibition during wound healing leads to an increased number of macrophages remaining in wounds, suggesting the involvement of VEGF in removal of these cells from the wound. If this effect has physiological relevance, it likely occurs via apoptosis. We show that VEGF increases apoptosis of macrophages in vitro using Annexin V-FITC staining and caspase activation. Microarray analysis, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and immunoblotting showed that VEGF increases the expression of tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 14 (TNFSF14/LIGHT) in macrophages. We also show that in macrophages LIGHT promotes apoptosis through the lymphotoxin beta receptor. Moreover, inhibition of LIGHT prevents VEGF-induced death, suggesting that LIGHT mediates VEGF-induced macrophage apoptosis. Taken together, our results identify a novel role for VEGF and for LIGHT in macrophage apoptosis during wound healing, an event critical in the resolution of inflammation. This finding may lead to the development of new strategies to improve resolution of inflammation in problematic wounds.
Astrocytes can regulate synaptic transmission by releasing gliotransmitter, and also can promote synaptogenesis and neurogenesis by releasing estrogen, thrombospondins, IL-1beta and IL-6. Astrocytes may play critical roles in neural nutrition and neuroprotection, so that it might be a new target for treatment of certain central nervous system diseases.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by the relatively preferential loss of dopaminergic neurons with resultant depletion of striatal dopamine and presence of Lewy bodies mainly composed by alpha-synuclein (alpha-SYN) in the remaining neurons in the substantia nigra. A lot of evidence suggests that the aggregation of alpha-SYN play an essential role in the pathogenesis of PD and formation of Lewy body. Increasing findings have implicated that some proteins, including parkin, synphilin-1,14-3-3, agrin and tau, interact with alpha-SYN and are involved in the abnormal aggregation of alpha-SYN.


The importance of lipids in cell signaling and tissue physiology is demonstrated by the many CNS pathologies involving deregulated lipid metabolism. One such critical metabolic event is the activation of phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)), which results in the hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids and the release of free fatty acids, including arachidonic acid, a precursor for essential cell-signaling eicosanoids. Reactive oxygen species (ROS, a product of arachidonic acid metabolism) react with cellular lipids to generate lipid peroxides, which are degraded to reactive aldehydes (oxidized phospholipid, 4-hydroxynonenal, and acrolein) that bind covalently to proteins, thereby altering their function and inducing cellular damage. Dissecting the contribution of PLA(2) to lipid peroxidation in CNS injury and disorders is a challenging proposition due to the multiple forms of PLA(2), the diverse sources of ROS, and the lack of specific PLA(2) inhibitors. In this review, we summarize the role of PLA(2) in CNS pathologies, including stroke, spinal cord injury, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Multiple sclerosis-Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and Wallerian degeneration.
In this study, we evaluated whether propentofylline, a methylxanthine derivative, modulates spinal glial activation and GABAergic inhibitory tone by modulation of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)(65), the GABA synthase enzyme, in the spinal dorsal horn following spinal cord injury (SCI). Sprague-Dawley rats (225-250 g) were given a unilateral spinal transverse injury, from dorsal to ventral, at the T13 spinal segment. Unilateral spinal injured rats developed robust bilateral hindlimb mechanical allodynia and hyperexcitability of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the lumbar enlargement (L4-L5) compared to sham controls, which was attenuated by intrathecal (i.t.) administration of GABA, dose-dependently (0.01, 0.1, 0.5 microg). Western blotting and immunohistochemical data demonstrated that the expression level of GAD(65) protein significantly decreased on both sides of the lumbar dorsal horn (L4/5) after SCI (p&lt;0.05). In addition, astrocytes and microglia showed soma hypertrophy as determined by increased soma area and increased GFAP and CD11b on both sides of the lumbar dorsal horn compared to sham controls, respectively (p&lt;0.05). Intrathecal treatment with propentofylline (PPF 10 mM) significantly attenuated the astrocytic and microglial soma hypertrophy and mechanical allodynia (p&lt;0.05). Additionally, the Western blotting and immunohistochemistry data demonstrated that i.t. treatment of PPF significantly prevented the decrease of GAD(65) expression in both sides of the lumbar dorsal horn following SCI (p&lt;0.05). In conclusion, our present data demonstrate that propentofylline modulates glia activation and GABAergic inhibitory tone by modulation of GAD(65) protein expression following spinal cord injury.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been used to map cerebral activations related to nociceptive stimuli in rodents. Here, we used fMRI to investigate abnormally increased responses to noxious or innocuous stimuli, in a well-established rat model of chronic neuropathic pain induced by photochemical lumbar spinal cord injury. In this model, a subpopulation of rats exhibits allodynia-like hypersensitivity to mechanical and cold stimulation of the trunk area. In those rats that do not develop overt hypersensitivity after identical spinal cord injury (i.e. non-hypersensitive rats), touch evoked pain can be triggered by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone. We show that cerebral activations in contralateral primary somatosensory cortex (SI) are markedly correlated with different behavioural characteristics of these animals. Identical electrical stimulation, applied on trunks of spinally injured hypersensitive and non-hypersensitive rats, evoked significantly higher responses in SI of the former than the latter. Although levels of fMRI signals in SI of the trunk territory were not significantly different between normal and spinally injured non-hypersensitive rats, the administration of naloxone significantly increased fMRI signals in the non-hypersensitive rats, but not in the normal rats. We conclude that increased activation of contralateral SI is a key feature of behavioural neuropathic pain in spinally injured rats and that fMRI is an effective method to monitor experimental neuropathic pain in small animals.
Two-photon microscopy offers the promise of monitoring brain activity at multiple locations within intact tissue. However, serial sampling of voxels has been difficult to reconcile with millisecond timescales characteristic of neuronal activity. This is due to the conflicting constraints of scanning speed and signal amplitude. The recent use of acousto-optic deflector scanning to implement random-access multiphoton microscopy (RAMP) potentially allows to preserve long illumination dwell times while sampling multiple points-of-interest at high rates. However, the real-life abilities of RAMP microscopy regarding sensitivity and phototoxicity issues, which have so far impeded prolonged optical recordings at high frame rates, have not been assessed. Here, we describe the design, implementation and characterisation of an optimised RAMP microscope. We demonstrate the application of the microscope by monitoring calcium transients in Purkinje cells and cortical pyramidal cell dendrites and spines. We quantify the illumination constraints imposed by phototoxicity and show that stable continuous high-rate recordings can be obtained. During these recordings the fluorescence signal is large enough to detect spikes with a temporal resolution limited only by the calcium dye dynamics, improving upon previous techniques by at least an order of magnitude.
The creation of psychophysical tasks for the behavioral neurosciences has generally relied upon low-level software running on a limited range of hardware. Despite the availability of software that allows the coding of behavioral tasks in high-level programming environments, many researchers are still reluctant to trust the temporal accuracy and resolution of programs running in such environments, especially when they run atop non-real-time operating systems. Thus, the creation of behavioral paradigms has been slowed by the intricacy of the coding required and their dissemination across labs has been hampered by the various types of hardware needed. However, we demonstrate here that, when proper measures are taken to handle the various sources of temporal error, accuracy can be achieved at the 1 ms time-scale that is relevant for the alignment of behavioral and neural events.
Changes in spontaneous spike activities from murine frontal cortex networks grown on microelectrode arrays were used to determine the dissociation constants of three GABA(A) antagonists: gabazine, bicuculline, and trimethylolpropane phosphate (TMPP). Networks were treated with fixed concentrations of antagonists and titrated with the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol. Muscimol decreased spike activity in a concentration-dependent manner with full efficacy (100% spike inhibition). A sigmoidal curve fit provided a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 0.14+/-0.05muM (mean+/-S.D., n=5). Increasing concentrations of the three antagonists shifted the muscimol concentration response curves (CRCs) to the right with the same efficacy. Schild plot analyses with linear regressions resulted in slopes that are statistically not different from unity and provided X-intercepts (dissociation constants) of 0.23, 0.61, and 3.98muM for gabazine, bicuculline, and TMPP, respectively. Corresponding pA2 values (-logK(B)) were 6.64, 6.21, and 5.40. The dissociation constants for gabazine and bicuculline agree well with those obtained with other methods. The TMPP K(B) has not yet been reported in the literature. The data suggest that spontaneously active networks on microelectrode arrays can be used as reliable platforms for rapid quantitative pharmacological investigations.
Our aim was to develop a reliable and valid manual segmentation protocol for tracing the caudate nucleus in MRI for volumetric and, potentially, shape analysis of the caudate. Using the protocol, two inter- and intra-rater reliability studies were conducted using five different raters on two different image analysis platforms (ANALYZE, Mayo Biomedical Imaging Resource, Rochester MN, USA, and HERMES, Nuclear Diagnostics AB, Stockholm, Sweden). Reference images for the detailed protocol are described. Two studies were performed. In study 1, the intra-rater class correlation ICC(1,1) for an experienced rater (JCLL) using this protocol for caudate nucleus volumes was evaluated by repeating right and left caudate measurements on 10 scans (20 comparisons) and was 0.972. The inter-rater class correlation ICC(1,k) with OL was 0.922 on 5 scans (10 comparisons) and with BL was 0.960 on 5 scans (10 comparisons). In study 2, VT obtained an intra-rater class correlation of 0.9 on 5 scans (involving 10 comparisons, e.g. right and left caudate). The inter-rater class correlation ICC(1,k) was 0.988 on 5 scans (again involving 10 comparisons) with EM. We therefore developed a novel, reliable and reference image-based, method of outlining the caudate nucleus on axial MRI scans, usable in two different image analysis laboratories, across two different sets number of tracers reliably, and across software platforms. This method is therefore potentially usable for any image analysis package capable of displaying and measuring outlined voxels from MRI brain scans.
Maurocalcine (MCa), initially identified from a Tunisian scorpion venom, defines a new member of the family of cell penetrating peptides by its ability to efficiently cross the plasma membrane. The initiating mechanistic step required for the cell translocation of a cell penetrating peptide implicates its binding onto cell surface components such as membrane lipids and/or heparan sulfate proteoglycans. Here we characterized the interaction of wild-type MCa and MCa K20A, a mutant analogue with reduced cell-penetration efficiency, with heparin (HP) and heparan sulfates (HS) through surface plasma resonance. HP and HS bind both to MCa, indicating that heparan sulfate proteoglycans may represent an important entry route of the peptide. This is confirmed by the fact that (i) both compounds bind with reduced affinity to MCa K20A and (ii) the cell penetration of wild-type or mutant MCa coupled to fluorescent streptavidin is reduced by about 50% in mutant Chinese hamster ovary cell lines lacking either all glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) or just HS. Incubating MCa with soluble HS, HP, or chondroitin sulfates also inhibits the cell penetration of MCa-streptavidin complexes. Analyses of the cell distributions of MCa/streptavidin in several Chinese hamster ovary cell lines show that the distribution of the complex coincides with the endosomal marker Lyso-Tracker red and is not affected by the absence of GAGs. The distribution of MCa/streptavidin is not coincident with that of transferrin receptors nor affected by a dominant-negative dynamin 2 K44A mutant, an inhibitor of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. However, entry of the complex is greatly diminished by amiloride, indicating the importance of macropinocytosis in MCa/streptavidin entry. It is concluded that (i) interaction of MCa with GAGs quantitatively improves the cell penetration of MCa, and (ii) GAG-dependent and -independent MCa penetration rely similarly on the macropinocytosis pathway.
Beta-O-linked N-acetylglucosamine is a dynamic post-translational modification involved in protein regulation in a manner similar to phosphorylation. Removal of N-acetylglucosamine is regulated by beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase (O-GlcNAcase), which was previously shown to be a substrate of caspase-3 in vitro. Here we show that O-GlcNAcase is cleaved by caspase-3 into two fragments during apoptosis, an N-terminal fragment containing the O-GlcNAcase active site and a C-terminal fragment containing a region with homology to GCN5 histone acetyl-transferases. The caspase-3 cleavage site of O-GlcNAcase, mapped by Edman sequencing, is a noncanonical recognition site that occurs after Asp-413 of the SVVD sequence in human O-GlcNAcase. A point mutation, D413A, abrogates cleavage by caspase-3 both in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we show that O-GlcNAcase activity is not affected by caspase-3 cleavage because the N- and C-terminal O-GlcNAcase fragments remain associated after the cleavage. Furthermore, when co-expressed simultaneously in the same cell, the N-terminal and C-terminal caspase fragments associate to reconstitute O-GlcNAcase enzymatic activity. These studies support the identification of O-GlcNAcase as a caspase-3 substrate with a novel caspase-3 cleavage site and provide insight about O-GlcNAcase regulation during apoptosis.
Alpha-synuclein (ASYN) is crucial in Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis. Increased levels of wild type (WT) ASYN expression are sufficient to cause PD in humans. The manner of post-transcriptional regulation of ASYN levels is controversial. Previously, we had shown that WT ASYN can be degraded by chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) in isolated liver lysosomes. Whether this occurs in a cellular and, in particular, in a neuronal cell context is unclear. Using a mutant ASYN form that lacks the CMA recognition motif and RNA interference against the rate-limiting step in the CMA pathway, Lamp2a, we show here that CMA is indeed involved in WT ASYN degradation in PC12 and SH-SY5Y cells, and in primary cortical and midbrain neurons. However, the extent of involvement varies between cell types, potentially because of differences in compensatory mechanisms. CMA inhibition leads to an accumulation of soluble high molecular weight and detergent-insoluble species of ASYN, suggesting that CMA dysfunction may play a role in the generation of such aberrant species in PD. ASYN and Lamp2a are developmentally regulated in parallel in cortical neuron cultures and in vivo in the central nervous system, and they physically interact as indicated by co-immunoprecipitation. In contrast to previous reports, inhibition of macroautophagy, but not the proteasome, also leads to WT ASYN accumulation, suggesting that this lysosomal pathway is also involved in normal ASYN turnover. These results indicate that CMA and macroautophagy are important pathways for WT ASYN degradation in neurons and underline the importance of CMA as degradation machinery in the nervous system.
Parkinson disease (PD) is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. An increase in the amount of alpha-synuclein protein could constitute a cause of PD. Alpha-synuclein is degraded at least partly by chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA). The I93M mutation in ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is associated with familial PD. However, the relationship between alpha-synuclein and UCH-L1 in the pathogenesis of PD has remained largely unclear. In this study, we found that UCH-L1 physically interacts with LAMP-2A, the lysosomal receptor for CMA, and Hsc70 and Hsp90, which can function as components of the CMA pathway. These interactions were abnormally enhanced by the I93M mutation and were independent of the monoubiquitin binding of UCH-L1. In a cell-free system, UCH-L1 directly interacted with the cytosolic region of LAMP-2A. Expression of I93M UCH-L1 in cells induced the CMA inhibition-associated increase in the amount of alpha-synuclein. Our findings may provide novel insights into the molecular links between alpha-synuclein and UCH-L1 and suggest that aberrant interaction of mutant UCH-L1 with CMA machinery, at least partly, underlies the pathogenesis of PD associated with I93M UCH-L1.
Sodium channel Na(v)1.7 has recently elicited considerable interest as a key contributor to human pain. Gain-of-function mutations of Na(v)1.7 produce painful disorders, whereas loss-of-function Na(v)1.7 mutations produce insensitivity to pain. The inherited erythromelalgia Na(v)1.7/F1449V mutation, within the C terminus of domain III/transmembrane helix S6, shifts channel activation by -7.2 mV and accelerates time to peak, leading to nociceptor hyperexcitability. We constructed a homology model of Na(v)1.7, based on the KcsA potassium channel crystal structure, which identifies four phylogenetically conserved aromatic residues that correspond to DIII/F1449 at the C-terminal end of each of the four S6 helices. The model predicted that changes in side-chain size of residue 1449 alter the pore's cytoplasmic aperture diameter and reshape inter-domain contact surfaces that contribute to closed state stabilization. To test this hypothesis, we compared activation of wild-type and mutant Na(v)1.7 channels F1449V/L/Y/W by whole cell patch clamp analysis. All but the F1449V mutation conserve the voltage dependence of activation. Compared with wild type, time to peak was shorter in F1449V, similar in F1449L, but longer for F1449Y and F1449W, suggesting that a bulky, hydrophobic residue is necessary for normal activation. We also substituted the corresponding aromatic residue of S6 in each domain individually with valine, to mimic the naturally occurring Na(v)1.7 mutation. We show that DII/F960V and DIII/F1449V, but not DI/Y405V or DIV/F1752V, regulate Na(v)1.7 activation, consistent with well established conformational changes in DII and DIII. We propose that the four aromatic residues contribute to the gate at the cytoplasmic pore aperture, and that their ring side chains form a hydrophobic plug which stabilizes the closed state of Na(v)1.7.
Metabotropic glutamate mGlu5 receptors have been implicated in the regulation of seizures and have been suggested as a target against which discovery of novel anticonvulsants may be possible. However, the experimental literature is not consistent in reporting anticonvulsant efficacy of mGlu5 receptor antagonists. Additional assessment of this target was approached in the present study by comparing convulsions in wild-type (WT) and mGlu5 receptor null (knockout or KO) mice. Chemically induced seizures induced by a variety of mechanisms including pentylenetetrazole, N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA), cocaine, kainic acid, aminophylline, 4-aminopyridine, strychnine, and nicotine did not differentially increase clonic, clonic/tonic, or lethality in WT vs. mGlu5 receptor KO mice. The mGlu5 receptor antagonist 3-[(2-Methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl) ethynyl]-pyridine (MTEP) did not significantly prevent seizures induced by NMDA; in contrast, the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine, significantly prevented NMDA-induced seizures and lethality in both WT and KO mice. The present findings do not support the idea that mGlu5 receptors play as important a role in seizure control as previously speculated.

In 10 years, we will mark the 200th anniversary of the James Parkinson's original description of the disease that now bears his name. This study was to explore an alternative statistical approach to quantitatively and qualitatively assessing current research trends on global Parkinson's disease, using the related literatures from the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Science databases during the period of 1991-2006. Articles were concentrated on the analysis by scientific output characters, world collaboration, and the frequency of author keywords used. An exponential regression was applied to model the high correlation between cumulative number of articles and the year. International collaborative articles were more prevalent in recent years than earlier years, and increasing international collaboration would lead to more powerful articles due to the sharing of ideas and workloads, while China, Italy, Spain, and Austria are benefit a lot from the international cooperation. Finally, author keywords were analyzed contrastively, with research trends and recent hotspots provided.
Several approaches exist to ascertain the connectivity of the brain, and these approaches lead to markedly different topologies, often incompatible with each other. Specifically, recent single-cell recording results seem incompatible with current structural connectivity models. We present a novel method that combines anatomical and temporal constraints to generate biologically plausible connectivity patterns of the visual system of the macaque monkey. Our method takes structural connectivity data from the CoCoMac database and recent single-cell recording data as input and employs an optimization technique to arrive at a new connectivity pattern of the visual system that is in agreement with both types of experimental data. The new connectivity pattern yields a revised model that has fewer levels than current models. In addition, it introduces subcortical-cortical connections. We show that these connections are essential for explaining latency data, are consistent with our current knowledge of the structural connectivity of the visual system, and might explain recent functional imaging results in humans. Furthermore we show that the revised model is not underconstrained like previous models and can be extended to include newer data and other kinds of data. We conclude that the revised model of the connectivity of the visual system reflects current knowledge on the structure and function of the visual system and addresses some of the limitations of previous models.
The cortex is a complex system, characterized by its dynamics and architecture, which underlie many functions such as action, perception, learning, language, and cognition. Its structural architecture has been studied for more than a hundred years; however, its dynamics have been addressed much less thoroughly. In this paper, we review and integrate, in a unifying framework, a variety of computational approaches that have been used to characterize the dynamics of the cortex, as evidenced at different levels of measurement. Computational models at different space-time scales help us understand the fundamental mechanisms that underpin neural processes and relate these processes to neuroscience data. Modeling at the single neuron level is necessary because this is the level at which information is exchanged between the computing elements of the brain; the neurons. Mesoscopic models tell us how neural elements interact to yield emergent behavior at the level of microcolumns and cortical columns. Macroscopic models can inform us about whole brain dynamics and interactions between large-scale neural systems such as cortical regions, the thalamus, and brain stem. Each level of description relates uniquely to neuroscience data, from single-unit recordings, through local field potentials to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), electroencephalogram (EEG), and magnetoencephalogram (MEG). Models of the cortex can establish which types of large-scale neuronal networks can perform computations and characterize their emergent properties. Mean-field and related formulations of dynamics also play an essential and complementary role as forward models that can be inverted given empirical data. This makes dynamic models critical in integrating theory and experiments. We argue that elaborating principled and informed models is a prerequisite for grounding empirical neuroscience in a cogent theoretical framework, commensurate with the achievements in the physical sciences.
While progress has been made in determining the molecular basis for the circadian clock, the mechanism by which mammalian brains time intervals measured in seconds to minutes remains a mystery. An obvious question is whether the interval-timing mechanism shares molecular machinery with the circadian timing mechanism. In the current study, we trained circadian CLOCK +/- and -/- mutant male mice in a peak-interval procedure with 10 and 20-s criteria. The mutant mice were more active than their wild-type littermates, but there were no reliable deficits in the accuracy or precision of their timing as compared with wild-type littermates. This suggests that expression of the CLOCK protein is not necessary for normal interval timing.
N-(4-Hydroxyphenyl) retinamide (4-HPR) is a synthetic retinoid that has shown biological activity against several malignant tumors and minimal side effects in humans. To explore the mechanisms underlying the chemotherapeutic effects of 4-HPR in glioblastoma, we used two human glioblastoma T98G and U87MG cell lines. In situ methylene blue staining showed the morphological features of astrocytic differentiation in glioblastoma cells following exposure to 1 microM and 2 microM 4-HPR for a short duration (24 h). Astrocytic differentiation was associated with an increase in expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and downregulation of telomerase. Wright staining and ApopTag assay indicated appearance of apoptotic features in glioblastoma cells following exposure to 1 microM and 2 microM 4-HPR for a long duration (72 h). We found that 4-HPR caused apoptosis with activation of caspase-8 and cleavage of Bid to truncated Bid (tBid). Besides, apoptosis was associated with alterations in expression of pro-apoptotic Bax and anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins resulting in an increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac, downregulation of selective baculoviral inhibitor-of-apoptosis repeat containing (BIRC) molecules, an increase in intracellular free [Ca2+], and activation of calpain and caspase-3. Taken together, these results strongly suggested that 4-HPR could be used at low doses for induction of both differentiation and apoptosis in human glioblastoma cells.
Sex and seasonal differences in the brain occur in many species and are often related to behavioral expression. For example, morphology of limbic regions involved in male sex behavior are larger in males than in females, and sometimes are larger in the breeding than non-breeding season. Morphology can often be altered in adulthood by manipulating levels of steroid hormones. In untreated green anole lizards, previous work indicated that neuron soma size and density did not differ between the sexes in the preoptic area (POA) or ventromedial nucleus of the amygdala (AMY), two brain regions involved in the control of male reproductive behaviors [O'Bryant, E.L., Wade, J., 2002. Seasonal and sexual dimorphisms in the green anole forebrain. Horm. Behav. 41, 384-395.]. However, soma size was larger in both areas in breeding than non-breeding animals. The current study examined sex and seasonal differences in estimated brain region volume and total neuron number in the POA, AMY, and the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), a region typically involved in female reproductive behaviors. The volume of the POA was larger in males, and the POA and VMH of breeding animals were larger than those of non-breeding individuals. Differences in cell number did not exist in either of these two regions. In contrast, neuron counts in the AMY were greater in non-breeding than breeding animals, but the volume did not differ between the seasons. These data suggest that the structure of limbic brain regions is dynamic in adulthood and that parallels between morphology and the expression of masculine behavior exist for the POA, whereas other relationships are more complicated.
Chemokine receptors, and in particular CXCR4 and CCR5 play a key role in the neuropathogenesis of Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV)4 associated dementia (HAD). Thus, new insight into the expression of CXCR4 in the central nervous system may help develop therapeutic compounds against HAD. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is neuroprotective in vitro against two strains of the HIV envelope protein gp120 that binds to CXCR4 or CCR5. Therefore, we examined whether BDNF modulates chemokine receptor expression in vivo. The content of CXCR4 mRNA and proteins was determined in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of 6-month-old BDNF heterozygous mice and wild type littermates by using polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry, respectively. BDNF heterozygous mice exhibited an increase in CXCR4 mRNA compared to wild type. Histological analyses revealed an up-regulation of CXCR4 immunoreactivity mainly in neurons. Most of these neurons were positive for TrkB, the BDNF receptor with a tyrosine kinase activity. Increases in CXCR4 mRNA levels were observed in 18-month-old BDNF heterozygous mice but not in 7-day-old mice, suggesting that the modulatory role of BDNF occurs only in mature animals. To determine whether BDNF affects also CXCR4 internalization, SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were exposed to BDNF and cell surface CXCR4 levels were measured at various times. BDNF induced CXCR4 internalization within minutes. Lastly, BDNF heterozygous mice showed higher levels of CCR5 and CXCR3 mRNA than wild type in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum. Our data indicate that BDNF may modulate the availability of chemokine receptors implicated in HIV infection.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of migraine. Early chemistry leads suffered from modest potency, significant CYP3A4 inhibition, and poor aqueous solubility. Herein, we describe the optimization of these leads to give 4 (BMS-694153), a molecule with outstanding potency, a favorable predictive toxicology profile, and remarkable aqueous solubility. Compound 4 has good intranasal bioavailability in rabbits and shows dose-dependent activity in validated in vivo and ex vivo migraine models.
Attention exerts a strong influence over neuronal processing in cortical areas. It selectively increases firing rates and affects tuning properties, including changing receptive field locations and sizes. Although these effects are well studied, their cellular mechanisms are poorly understood. To study the cellular mechanisms, we combined iontophoretic pharmacological analysis of cholinergic receptors with single cell recordings in V1 while rhesus macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta) performed a task that demanded top-down spatial attention. Attending to the receptive field of the V1 neuron under study caused an increase in firing rates. Here we show that this attentional modulation was enhanced by low doses of acetylcholine. Furthermore, applying the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine reduced attentional modulation, whereas the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine had no systematic effect. These results demonstrate that muscarinic cholinergic mechanisms play a central part in mediating the effects of attention in V1.
How the brain uses success and failure to optimize future decisions is a long-standing question in neuroscience. One computational solution involves updating the values of context-action associations in proportion to a reward prediction error. Previous evidence suggests that such computations are expressed in the striatum and, as they are cognitively impenetrable, represent an unconscious learning mechanism. Here, we formally test this by studying instrumental conditioning in a situation where we masked contextual cues, such that they were not consciously perceived. Behavioral data showed that subjects nonetheless developed a significant propensity to choose cues associated with monetary rewards relative to punishments. Functional neuroimaging revealed that during conditioning cue values and prediction errors, generated from a computational model, both correlated with activity in ventral striatum. We conclude that, even without conscious processing of contextual cues, our brain can learn their reward value and use them to provide a bias on decision making.
It has been suggested that hippocampal activity predicts subsequent recognition success when recognition decisions are based disproportionately on recollection, whereas perirhinal activity predicts recognition success when decisions are based primarily on familiarity. Another perspective is that both hippocampal and perirhinal activity are predictive of overall memory strength. We tested the relationship between brain activity during learning and subsequent memory strength. Activity in a number of cortical regions (including regions within the &quot;default network&quot;) was negatively correlated with subsequent memory strength, suggesting that this activity reflects inattention or mind wandering (and, consequently, poor memory). In contrast, activity in both hippocampus and perirhinal cortex positively correlated with the subsequent memory strength of remembered items. This finding suggests that both structures cooperate during learning to determine the memory strength of what is being learned.
The inner ear's performance is greatly enhanced by an active process defined by four features: amplification, frequency selectivity, compressive nonlinearity, and spontaneous otoacoustic emission. These characteristics emerge naturally if the mechanoelectrical transduction process operates near a dynamical instability, the Hopf bifurcation, whose mathematical properties account for specific aspects of our hearing. The active process of nonmammalian tetrapods depends upon active hair-bundle motility, which emerges from the interaction of negative hair-bundle stiffness and myosin-based adaptation motors. Taken together, these phenomena explain the four characteristics of the ear's active process. In the high-frequency region of the mammalian cochlea, the active process is dominated instead by the phenomenon of electromotility, in which the cell bodies of outer hair cells extend and contract as the protein prestin alters its membrane surface area in response to changes in membrane potential.
The co-chaperone protein, BAG3, which belongs to the BAG protein family, has an established antiapoptotic function in different tumor cell lines. Here we demonstrated that treatment of the human neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-MC, with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) results in induction of BAG3 expression. Induction of BAG3 protein by FGF-2 occurs at the transcriptional level; it requires the extracellular regulated kinase1/2 pathway and is dependent on the activity of Egr-1 upon the BAG3 promoter. Targeted suppression of BAG3 by small-interfering RNA results in dysregulation of cell-cycle progression most notably at S and G(2) phases, which corroborates the decreased level of cyclin B1 expression. These observations suggest a new role for BAG3 in regulation of the cell cycle.
Neuronal polarization requires coordinated regulation of membrane trafficking and cytoskeletal dynamics. Several signaling proteins are involved in neuronal polarization via modulation of cytoskeletal dynamics in neurites. However, very little is known about signaling proteins in the neuronal soma, which regulate polarized membrane trafficking and neuronal polarization. Protein kinase D (PKD) constitutes a family of serine/threonine-specific protein kinases and is important in regulating Golgi dynamics and membrane trafficking. Here, we show that two members of the PKD family, PKD1 and PKD2, are essential for the establishment and maintenance of neuronal polarity. Loss of function of PKD with inhibitor, dominant negative, and short interfering RNA disrupts polarized membrane trafficking and induces multiple axon formation. Gain of function of PKD can rescue the disruption of polarized membrane trafficking and neuronal polarity caused by cytochalasin D, which results in F-actin depolymerization. PKD1 and PKD2 are also found to be involved in the maintenance of neuronal polarity, as evidenced by the conversion of preexisting dendrites into axons on PKD inhibition. Unlike other polarity proteins, PKD does not interact with the cytoskeleton in neurites. Instead, PKD regulates neuronal polarity through its activity in the Golgi apparatus. These data reveal a novel mechanism regulating neuronal polarity in the Golgi apparatus.
Delayed-rectifier Kv2.1 potassium channels regulate somatodendritic excitability during periods of repetitive, high-frequency activity. Recent evidence suggests that Kv2.1 channel modulation is linked to glutamatergic neurotransmission. Because NMDA-type glutamate receptors are critical regulators of synaptic plasticity, we investigated NMDA receptor modulation of Kv2.1 channels in rodent hippocampus and cortex. Bath application of NMDA potently unclustered and dephosphorylated Kv2.1 and produced a hyperpolarizing shift in voltage-dependent activation of voltage-sensitive potassium currents (I(K)). In contrast, driving synaptic activity in Mg2+-free media to hyperactivate synaptic NMDA receptors had no effect on Kv2.1 channels, and moderate pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure activity in adult mice did not dephosphorylate hippocampal Kv2.1 channels. Selective activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors unclustered and dephosphorylated Kv2.1 channels and produced a hyperpolarizing shift in neuronal I(K). In addition, inhibition of glutamate uptake rapidly activated NMDA receptors and dephosphorylated Kv2.1 channels. These observations demonstrate that regulation of intrinsic neuronal activity by Kv2.1 is coupled to extrasynaptic but not synaptic NMDA receptors. These data support a novel mechanism for glutamate transporters in regulation of neuronal excitability and plasticity through extrasynaptic NMDA receptor modulation of Kv2.1 channels.
In vertebrate embryos, most spinal commissural axons cross the ventral midline (VM) and project either alongside or significant distances away from the floor plate (FP). The upregulation of repulsive Robo1/2 receptors on postcrossing commissural axons, in mammals, presumably allows these axons to respond to the midline-associated repellents, Slit1-3, facilitating their expulsion from, and prohibiting their reentry into, the FP. Compelling data suggest that Robo3 represses Robo1/2 function on precrossing axons and that Robo1/2 inhibit attractive guidance receptors on postcrossing axons, thereby ensuring that decussated axons are selectively responsive to midline Slits. However, whether Robo1/2 expel decussated commissural axons from the VM and/or prevent their reentry into the FP has not been explicitly established in vivo. Furthermore, some commissural axons do not require Robo1/2 to elaborate appropriate contralateral projections in the mouse spinal cord. Here, we use unilateral in ovo electroporation together with Atoh1 and Neurog1 enhancer elements to visualize, and assess the consequences of manipulating Robo expression on, dl1 and dl2 chick commissural axons. In response to misexpressing a cytoplasmic truncation of Robo1 and/or Robo2, which should block all Robo-ligand interactions, postcrossing commissural axons extend alongside, but do not project away from or reenter the FP. In contrast, misexpression of full-length Robo2 prevents many commissural axons from crossing the VM. Together, these findings support key and selective in vivo roles for Robo receptors in presumably altering the responsiveness of decussated commissural axons and facilitating their expulsion from the VM within the chick spinal cord.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway is critical for various forms of learning and memory, and is activated by the potent estrogen 17beta-estradiol (E(2)). Here, we asked whether E(2) modulates memory via ERK activation and putative membrane-bound estrogen receptors (ERs). Using ovariectomized mice, we first demonstrate that intraperitoneal injection of 0.2 mg/kg E(2) significantly increases dorsal hippocampal levels of phosphorylated ERK protein 1 h after injection. Second, we show that E(2) administered intraperitoneally (0.2 mg/kg) or via intrahippocampal infusion (5.0 microg/side) immediately after training in an object recognition task significantly enhances memory retention, and that the beneficial effect of intraperitoneal E(2) is blocked by dorsal hippocampal inhibition of ERK activation. Third, using bovine serum albumin-conjugated 17beta-estradiol (BSA-E(2)), we demonstrate that E(2) binding at membrane-bound ERs can increase dorsal hippocampal ERK activation and enhance object memory consolidation in an ERK-dependent manner. Fourth, we show that this effect is independent of nuclear ERs, but is dependent on the dorsal hippocampus. By demonstrating that E(2) enhances memory consolidation via dorsal hippocampal ERK activation, this study is the first to identify a specific molecular pathway by which E(2) modulates memory and to demonstrate a novel role for membrane-bound ERs in mediating E(2)-induced improvements in hippocampal memory consolidation.
Beta-site APP cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE-1), is a rate-limiting enzyme for beta amyloid production. Beta amyloid induces the production of radical oxygen species and neuronal injury. Oxidative stress plays a key role in various neurological diseases such as ischemia and Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies suggest that oxidative stress induces BACE-1 protein upregulation in neuronal cells. Here, we demonstrate that naturally occurring compounds (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate and curcumin suppress beta amyloid-induced BACE-1 upregulation. Exposure of beta amyloid 1-42 to neuronal culture increased BACE-1 protein levels. (-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate or curcumin significantly attenuated beta amyloid-induced radical oxygen species production and beta-sheet structure formation. These two compounds have novel pharmacological effects that may be beneficial for Alzheimer's disease treatment.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by oligodendrocytic cytoplasmic inclusions containing abnormally aggregated alpha-synuclein. This aggregation has been linked to the neurodegeneration observed in MSA. Current MSA treatments are aimed at controlling symptoms rather than tackling the underlying cause of neurodegeneration. This study investigates the ability of the antibiotic rifampicin to reduce alpha-synuclein aggregation and the associated neurodegeneration in a transgenic mouse model of MSA. We report a reduction in monomeric and oligomeric alpha-synuclein and a reduction in phosphorylated alpha-synuclein (S129) upon rifampicin treatment. This reduction in alpha-synuclein aggregation was accompanied by reduced neurodegeneration. On the basis of its anti-aggregenic properties, we conclude that rifampicin may have therapeutic potential for MSA.
BTBR T+ tf/J (BTBR) is an inbred mouse strain that displays social abnormalities and repetitive behaviors analogous to the first and third diagnostic symptoms of autism. Here we investigate ultrasonic vocalizations in BTBR, to address the second diagnostic symptom of autism, communication deficits. As compared to the commonly used C57BL/6J (B6) strain, BTBR pups called more loudly and more frequently when separated from their mothers and siblings. Detailed analysis of ten categories of calls revealed an unusual pattern in BTBR as compared to B6. BTBR emitted high levels of harmonics, two-syllable, and composite calls, but minimal numbers of chevron-shaped syllables, upward, downward, and short calls. Because body weights were higher in BTBR than B6 pups, one possible explanation was that larger thoracic size was responsible for the louder calls and different distribution of syllable categories. To test this possibility, we recorded separation calls from FVB/NJ, a strain with body weights similar to BTBR, and 129X1/SvJ, a strain with body weights similar to B6. BTBR remained the outlier on number of calls, displaying low numbers of complex, upward, chevron, short, and frequency steps calls, along with high harmonics and composites. Further, developmental milestones and growth rates were accelerated in BTBR, indicating an unusual neurodevelopmental trajectory. Overall, our findings demonstrate strain-specific patterns of ultrasonic calls that may represent different lexicons, or innate variations in complex vocal repertoires, in genetically distinct strains of mice. Particularly intriguing is the unusual pattern of vocalizations and the more frequent, loud harmonics evident in the BTBR mouse model of autism that may resemble the atypical vocalizations seen in some autistic infants.
It has been suggested that synchronization of neural activity in distinct areas of the brain is important in the 'perceptual binding' of the various features relating to a specific object. A recent study has provided new evidence that inter-area synchronization is important in multisensory integration.
Separating a mixture of sounds into its constituent parts is a complex process likely to involve many processing stages. A new study suggests that the first steps in that process may occur already at the level of the first auditory processing centre in the brainstem.

The cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) is known to play a critical role in both transcription-independent short-term or intermediate-term memory and transcription-dependent long-term memory (LTM). Although distinct phases of LTM already have been demonstrated in some systems, it is not known whether these phases require distinct temporal patterns of learning-induced PKA activation. This question was addressed in a robust form of associative LTM that emerges within a matter of hours after single-trial food-reward classical conditioning in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. After establishing the molecular and functional identity of the PKA catalytic subunit in the Lymnaea nervous system, we used a combination of PKA activity measurement and inhibition techniques to investigate its role in LTM in intact animals. PKA activity in ganglia involved in single-trial learning showed a short latency but prolonged increase after classical conditioning. However, while increased PKA activity immediately after training (0-10 min) was essential for an early phase of LTM (6 h), the late phase of LTM (24 h) required a prolonged increase in PKA activity. These observations indicate mechanistically different roles for PKA in recent and more remote phases of LTM, which may underpin different cellular and molecular mechanisms required for these phases.
Infusions of CREB antisense into the amygdala prior to training impair memory for aversive tasks, suggesting that the antisense may interfere with CRE-mediated gene transcription and protein synthesis important for the formation of new memories within the amygdala. However, the amygdala also appears to modulate memory formation in distributed brain sites, through mechanisms that include the release of norepinephrine and acetylcholine within the amygdala. Thus, CREB antisense injections may affect memory by interfering with mechanisms of modulation, rather than storage, of memory. In the present experiment, rats received bilateral intra-amygdala infusions of CREB antisense (2 nmol/1 microL) 6 h prior to inhibitory avoidance training. In vivo microdialysis samples were collected from the right amygdala before, during, and following training. CREB antisense produced amnesia tested at 48 h after training. In addition, CREB antisense infusions dampened the training-related release of norepinephrine, and to a lesser extent of acetylcholine, in the amygdala. Furthermore, intra-amygdala infusions of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist clenbuterol administered immediately after training attenuated memory impairments induced by intra-amygdala injections of CREB antisense. These findings suggest that intra-amygdala treatment with CREB antisense may affect processes involved in modulation of memory in part through interference with norepinephrine and acetylcholine neurotransmission in the amygdala.
Adult learning and memory functions are strongly dependent on neonatal experiences. We recently showed that neonatal odor-shock learning attenuates later life odor fear conditioning and amygdala activity. In the present work we investigated whether changes observed in adults can also be observed in other structures normally involved, namely olfactory cortical areas. For this, pups were trained daily from postnatal (PN) 8 to 12 in an odor-shock paradigm, and retrained at adulthood in the same task. (14)C 2-DG autoradiographic brain mapping was used to measure training-related activation in amygdala cortical nucleus (CoA), anterior (aPCx), and posterior (pPCx) piriform cortex. In addition, field potentials induced in the three sites in response to paired-pulse stimulation of the olfactory bulb were recorded in order to assess short-term inhibition and facilitation in these structures. Attenuated adult fear learning was accompanied by a deficit in 2-DG activation in CoA and pPCx. Moreover, electrophysiological recordings revealed that, in these sites, the level of inhibition was lower than in control animals. These data indicate that early life odor-shock learning produces changes throughout structures of the adult learning circuit that are independent, at least in part, from those involved in infant learning. Moreover, these enduring effects were influenced by the contingency of the infant experience since paired odor-shock produced greater disruption of adult learning and its supporting neural pathway than unpaired presentations. These results suggest that some enduring effects of early life experience are potentiated by contingency and extend beyond brain areas involved in infant learning.

Placebo (PL) treatment is a method utilized as a control condition in clinical trials. A positive placebo response is seen in up to 50% of patients with Parkinson disease (PD), pain syndromes, and depression. The response is more pronounced with invasive procedures or advanced disease. Physiologic and biochemical changes have been studied in an effort to understand the mechanisms underlying placebo-related clinical improvement. In PD, objective clinical improvements in parkinsonism correlate with dopaminergic activation of the striatum, documented by PET and with changes in cell firings of the subthalamic nucleus documented by single cell recordings. Dopaminergic pathways mediating reward may underlie PL-mediated improvement in PD. In pain syndromes, endogenous opioid release triggered by cortical activation, especially the rostral anterior cingulated cortex, is associated with PL-related analgesia and can be reversed by opioid antagonists. Covert treatment of an analgesic is less effective than overt treatment, suggesting an expectation component to clinical response. In depression, PL partially imitates selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-mediated brain activation. Diseases lacking major &quot;top-down&quot; or cortically based regulation may be less prone to PL-related improvement.
The expression of voltage-gated sodium channels is regulated at multiple levels, and in this study we addressed the potential for alternative splicing of the Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.7 mRNAs. We isolated novel mRNA isoforms of Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.3 from adult mouse and rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG), Na(v)1.3 and Na(v)1.7 from adult mouse brain, and Na(v)1.7 from neonatal rat brain. These alternatively spliced isoforms introduce an additional exon (Na(v)1.2 exon 17A and topologically equivalent Na(v)1.7 exon 16A) or exon pair (Na(v)1.3 exons 17A and 17B) that contain an in-frame stop codon and result in predicted two-domain, truncated proteins. The mouse and rat orthologous exon sequences are highly conserved (94-100% identities), as are the paralogous Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.3 exons (93% identity in mouse) to which the Na(v)1.7 exon has only 60% identity. Previously, Na(v)1.3 mRNA has been shown to be upregulated in rat DRG following peripheral nerve injury, unlike the downregulation of all other sodium channel transcripts. Here we show that the expression of Na(v)1.3 mRNA containing exons 17A and 17B is unchanged in mouse following peripheral nerve injury (axotomy), whereas total Na(v)1.3 mRNA expression is upregulated by 33% (P=0.003), suggesting differential regulation of the alternatively spliced transcripts. The alternatively spliced rodent exon sequences are highly conserved in both the human and chicken genomes, with 77-89% and 72-76% identities to mouse, respectively. The widespread conservation of these sequences strongly suggests an additional level of regulation in the expression of these channels, that is also tissue-specific.
Eag1 (K(V)10.1) is the founding member of an evolutionarily conserved superfamily of voltage-gated K(+) channels. In rats and humans Eag1 is preferentially expressed in adult brain but its regional distribution has only been studied at mRNA level and only in the rat at high resolution. The main aim of the present study is to describe the distribution of Eag1 protein in adult rat brain in comparison to selected regions of the human adult brain. The distribution of Eag1 protein was assessed using alkaline-phosphatase based immunohistochemistry. Eag1 immunoreactivity was widespread, although selective, throughout rat brain, especially noticeable in the perinuclear space of cells and proximal regions of the extensions, both in rat and human brain. To relate the results to the relative abundance of Eag1 transcripts in different regions of rat brain a reverse-transcription coupled to quantitative polymerase chain reaction (real time PCR) was performed. This real time PCR analysis showed high Eag1 expression in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and cerebellum. The results indicate that Eag1 protein expression greatly overlaps with mRNA distribution in rats and humans. The physiological relevance of potassium channels in the different regions expressing Eag1 protein is discussed.
Experimental cerebral ischemia induces a stress response in neuronal and non-neuronal cells. In the present study we aimed to evaluate detailed cellular stress responses and neurodegenerative changes in the retinas in rat focal cerebral ischemia and hypoperfusion models involving invasive vascular manipulations. Independent groups of adult male Wistar rats were subjected to i) transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO), ii) permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), iii) cortical photothrombosis of the sensorimotor cortex using Rose Bengal dye or iv) bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO). Rats were killed, and their eyes with the optic nerves enucleated and processed for histology, immunohistochemistry for neuronal nuclei (NeuN), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha), c-fos, alphaB-crystallin, heat shock protein (HSP) 27, HSP60 and HSP70, and detection of DNA defragmentation. The total number of the retinal ganglion cell layer (RGCL) neurons and GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes located in the nerve fiber layer were estimated using unbiased stereological counting. Our findings indicate that although permanent and transient MCAO does not cause detectable morphological alterations in the retina or optic nerve, it evokes ischemic stress as revealed by HIF-1alpha and HSPs expression in the RGCL neurons and reactive gliosis in the Mller cells. Severe neurodegenerative changes in the retina and optic nerve of the BCCAO rats are accompanied by a significant increase in immunoreactivities for the c-fos, HSP27 and HSP70 as compared with the sham-operated animals. The retinas from the ipsilateral side of the Rose Bengal model showed a significant decrease in the total number of NeuN-positive neurons in the RGCL as compared with the contralateral ones. However, these eyes did not differ between each other in the HSPs and HIF-1alpha expression or in the GFAP-immunoreactivity of the Mller cells. In conclusion, our data suggest differential expression of various HSPs in the retina and possibly their distinct roles in the cerebral ischemia-mediated stress response and neurodegeneration.
Reward-seeking behavior is controlled by neuronal circuits that include the basolateral nucleus of amygdala (BLA), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), nucleus accumbens (NAc) and ventral tegmental area. Using a discriminative stimulus (DS) task in which an intermittently presented cue (DS) directs rats to make an operant response for sucrose, we previously demonstrated that dopamine receptor antagonism in the NAc reduced reinforced cue responding, whereas general inactivation of the NAc increased behavioral responding in the absence of the cue. Because they send major glutamatergic projections to the NAc, the BLA and mPFC may also contribute to reward-seeking behaviors modulated by the NAc. In this study we compare the effects of BLA and mPFC inactivation on rats' performance of a DS task. BLA inactivation by combined GABA(A) and GABA(B) agonists impaired cue responding with minimal effects on operant behavior in the absence of cues. Dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) inactivation also inhibited cue-evoked reward-seeking. In contrast, ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) inactivation disinhibited responding to unrewarded cues with less influence on reinforced cue responding. These findings demonstrate that the BLA and dmPFC facilitate cue-evoked reward-seeking, whereas, in the same task the vmPFC exerts inhibitory control over unrewarded behaviors.
Lithium and valproic acid (VPA) are two primary drugs used to treat bipolar disorder, and have been shown to have neuroprotective properties in vivo and in vitro. A recent study demonstrated that combined treatment with lithium and VPA elicits synergistic neuroprotective effects against glutamate excitotoxicity in cultured brain neurons, and the synergy involves potentiated inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) activity through enhanced GSK-3 serine phosphorylation [Leng Y, Liang MH, Ren M, Marinova Z, Leeds P, Chuang DM (2008) Synergistic neuroprotective effects of lithium and valproic acid or other histone deacetylase inhibitors in neurons: roles of glycogen synthase kinase-3 inhibition. J Neurosci 28:2576-2588]. We therefore investigated the effects of lithium and VPA cotreatment on the disease symptom onset, survival time and neurological deficits in cooper zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) G93A mutant mice, a commonly used mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The G93A ALS mice received twice daily i.p. injections with LiCl (60 mg/kg), VPA (300 mg/kg) or lithium plus VPA, starting from the 30(th) day after birth and continuing until death. We found that combined treatment with lithium and VPA produced a greater and more consistent effect in delaying the onset of disease symptoms, prolonging the lifespan and decreasing the neurological deficit scores, compared with the results of monotreatment with lithium or VPA. Moreover, lithium in conjunction with VPA was more effective than lithium or VPA alone in enhancing the immunostaining of phospho-GSK-3beta(Ser9) in brain and lumbar spinal cord sections. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of enhanced neuroprotection by a combinatorial approach using mood stabilizers in a mouse ALS model. Our results suggest that clinical trials using lithium and VPA in combination for ALS patients are a rational strategy.
During development of the mammalian CNS, neurons and glial cells (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) are generated from common neural precursor cells (NPCs). However, neurogenesis precedes gliogenesis, which normally commences at later stages of fetal telencephalic development. Astrocyte differentiation of mouse NPCs at embryonic day (E) 14.5 (relatively late gestation) is induced by activation of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3, whereas at E11.5 (mid-gestation) NPCs do not differentiate into astrocytes even when stimulated by STAT3-activating cytokines such as leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). This can be explained in part by the fact that astrocyte-specific gene promoters are highly methylated in NPCs at E11.5, but other mechanisms are also likely to play a role. We therefore sought to identify genes involved in the inhibition of astrocyte differentiation of NPCs at midgestation. We first examined gene expression profiles in E11.5 and E14.5 NPCs, using Affymetrix GeneChip analysis, applying the Percellome method to normalize gene expression level. We then conducted in situ hybridization analysis for selected genes found to be highly expressed in NPCs at midgestation. Among these genes, we found that N-myc and high mobility group AT-hook 2 (Hmga2) were highly expressed in the E11.5 but not the E14.5 ventricular zone of mouse brain, where NPCs reside. Transduction of N-myc and Hmga2 by retroviruses into E14.5 NPCs, which normally differentiate into astrocytes in response to LIF, resulted in suppression of astrocyte differentiation. However, sustained expression of N-myc and Hmga2 in E11.5 NPCs failed to maintain the hypermethylated status of an astrocyte-specific gene promoter. Taken together, our data suggest that astrocyte differentiation of NPCs is regulated not only by DNA methylation but also by genes whose expression is controlled spatio-temporally during brain development.
We compared the neuroprotective efficacy of a potent and CNS-penetrant cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3beta) inhibitor (Compound 1) in juvenile (postnatal day 21; P21) and adult C57Bl/6 mice (postnatal day 60; P60) using a model of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury (HI). Neuronal cell counts and density measures from brain sections stained with Cresyl Violet revealed that exposure of P21 mice to 60 min of HI resulted in extensive damage to the ipsilateral cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) region of the hippocampus (40% cell loss) and striatum (30% cell loss) 7 days later. Exposure of P60 mice to 40 min of HI produced a similar pattern of cell loss. Intraperitoneal administration of Compound 1 (3 mg/kg) 1, 5 and 9 h after 60 min of HI did not reduce brain injury in P21 mice relative to vehicle controls. By contrast, in P60 mice, this treatment significantly decreased cell loss in the ipsilateral hippocampus (10% cell loss) and striatum (15% loss) relative to vehicle controls. Terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TUNNEL) positive cell counts and infarct volume were also substantially reduced in P60 mice treated with Compound 1. A motor coordination test performed twice weekly until 5 weeks post-HI confirmed that Compound 1 produced long lasting functional recovery. Our results indicate that Compound 1 produced long lasting neuroprotective effects in adult but not juvenile mice suggesting that inhibition of the CDKs and GSK3beta plays a distinct neuroprotective role in the juvenile and adult brain.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP), but its role in associative learning remains largely unknown. In the present study, we investigated the function of BDNF and its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) in an in vitro model of classical conditioning using pond turtles, Pseudemys scripta elegans. Conditioning resulted in a significant increase in BDNF and phospho (p)-Trk expression. Bath application of antibodies directed against TrkB, but not TrkA or TrkC, abolished acquisition of conditioning, as did a receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a and an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase 7-nitroindazole. Significantly, injections of BDNF Ab into the nerve roots of presynaptic axonal projections or postsynaptic motor neurons prevented acquisition of conditioning, suggesting that BDNF is required on both sides of the synapse for modification to occur. The presynaptic proteins synaptophysin and synapsin I were increased upon conditioning or BDNF application. Furthermore, BDNF application alone mimicked conditioning-induced synaptic insertion of GluR1 and GluR4 AMPAR subunits into synapses, which was inhibited by co-application of BDNF and K252a. Data also show that extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) was activated in BDNF-treated preparations. We conclude that coordinate pre- and postsynaptic actions of BDNF are required for acquisition of in vitro classical conditioning.
Mouse models of retinal degeneration are useful tools to study therapeutic approaches for patients affected by hereditary retinal dystrophies. We have studied degeneration in the rd10 mice both by immunocytochemistry and TUNEL-labeling of retinal cells, and through electrophysiological recordings. The cell degeneration in the retina of rd10 mice produced appreciable morphological changes in rod and cone cells by P20. Retinal cell death is clearly observed in the central retina and it peaked at P25 when there were 800 TUNEL-positive cells per mm(2). In the central retina, only one row of photoreceptors remained in the outer nuclear layer by P40 and there was a remarkable deterioration of bipolar cell dendrites postsynaptic to photoreceptors. The axon terminals of bipolar cells also underwent atrophy and the inner retina was subject to further changes, including a reduction and disorganization of AII amacrine cell population. Glutamate sensitivity was tested in rod bipolar cells with the single cell patch-clamp technique in slice preparations, although at P60 no significant differences were observed with age-matched controls. Thus, we conclude that rod and cone degeneration in the rd10 mouse model is followed by deterioration of their postsynaptic cells and the cells in the inner retina. However, the functional preservation of receptors for photoreceptor transmission in bipolar cells may open new therapeutic possibilities.
We have previously shown that the ability of buprenorphine to activate the opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor compromises its antinociceptive effect. Furthermore, morphine has been shown to alter the level of orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), the endogenous ligand of the ORL1 receptor, raising the possibility that the endogenous OFQ/N/ORL1 receptor system may be involved in the actions of these opioids. Thus, using mice lacking the ORL1 receptor and their wild-type littermates, the present study assessed the role of the ORL1 receptor in psychomotor stimulant and rewarding actions of buprenorphine and morphine. Morphine (5, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently increased motor activity and induced conditioned place preference. However, the magnitude of each response was comparable for the mutant mice and their wild-type littermates. In contrast, buprenorphine (1 mg/kg) induced greater motor stimulation in ORL1 receptor knockout mice as compared with their wild-type littermates. Further, single conditioning with buprenorphine (3 mg/kg) induced place preference in mutant mice but not in their wild-type littermates. The results of binding assay showed that buprenorphine concentration-dependently (0-1000 nM) displaced specific binding of [(3)H]-OFQ/N in brain membrane of wild-type mice. Together, the present results suggest that the ability of buprenorphine to interact with the ORL1 receptor modulates its acute motor stimulatory and rewarding effects.
Neonatal maternal separation (MS) in the rat increases the vulnerability to stressors later in life. In contrast, brief handling (H) in early life confers resilience to stressors in adulthood. Early life programming of stress reactivity may involve the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a region which modulates various stress responses. Moreover, hemispheric specialization in mPFC may mediate adaptive coping responses to stress. In the present study, neuronal activity was examined simultaneously in left and right mPFC in adult rats previously subjected to MS, H or animal facility rearing (AFR). In vivo electrophysiology, under isoflurane anesthesia, was used to conduct acute recordings of unit and local field potential (LFP) activity in response to systemic administration of N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142), a benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonist which mimics various stress responses. MS decreased basal unit activity selectively in right mPFC. Basal LFP activity was reduced with MS in left and right mPFC, compared to AFR and H, respectively. Hemispheric synchronization of basal LFP activity was also attenuated by MS at lower frequencies. FG-7142 elicited lateralized effects on mPFC activity with different early rearing conditions. Activity in left mPFC was greater with AFR and MS (AFR&gt;MS), whereas activity was predominantly greater with H in right mPFC. Finally, compared to AFR, MS reduced and H enhanced hemispheric synchronization of LFP activity with FG-7142 treatment in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that functionally-relevant alterations in mPFC GABA transmission are programmed by the early rearing environment in a hemisphere-dependent manner. These findings may model the hemispheric specialization of mPFC function thought to mediate adaptive coping responses to stressors. They also suggest the possibility that early environmental programming of hemispheric functional coupling in mPFC is involved in conferring vulnerability or resilience to stressors later in life.
Orientation selectivity is an important emergent property of neurons in the primary visual cortex, and inhibition is thought to play an important role in establishing this selectivity. But the relationship between strength of inhibition and orientation selectivity is unclear. To investigate this relationship, we electrophoretically applied the inhibitory transmitter GABA and the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline on the same individual area 17 neurons in anesthetized cats. Neurons were classified as weakly orientation-selective, moderately orientation-selective, or strongly orientation-selective, according to the values of an orientation bias index. Orientation bias, half-width of the tuning curve at half-height and an orientation-specificity index (orthogonal to optimal ratio) were compared with or without GABA and bicuculline administration. GABA improved orientation selectivity with the greatest effects on weakly orientation-selective cells, smaller effects on moderately orientation-selective cells, and minimal effects on strongly orientation-selective cells; bicuculline diminished orientation selectivity the most on moderately and strongly orientation-selective cells, with minimal effects on weakly orientation-selective cells. We also found that orientation selectivity correlated with the level of neurons' spontaneous activity. These results suggest that the degree of orientation selectivity of an area 17 neuron correlates with its endogenous inhibition strength, and that GABAergic inhibition can bi-directionally regulate orientation selectivity. This correlation indicates that GABA-mediated inhibition plays an important role in establishing sharp orientation selectivity of individual neurons.
A satisfactory management to ensure a full restoration of peripheral nerve after trauma is not yet available. Using an experimental protocol, in which crush injury was applied 1 cm above the bifurcation of the rat sciatic nerve for 20 s, we here demonstrate that the levels of neuroactive steroids, such as pregnenolone and progesterone (P) metabolites (i.e. dihydroprogesterone, DHP, and tetrahydroprogesterone, THP) present in injured sciatic nerve were significantly decreased. On this basis, we have focused our attention on DHP and its direct precursor, P, analyzing whether these two neuroactive steroids may have neuroprotective effects on biochemical, functional and morphological alterations occurring during crush-induced degeneration-regeneration. We demonstrate that DHP and/or P counteract biochemical alterations (i.e. myelin proteins and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase pump) and stimulate reelin gene expression. These two neuroactive steroids also counteract nociception impairment, and DHP treatment significantly decreases the up-regulation of myelinated fibers' density occurring in crushed animals. Altogether, these observations suggest that DHP and P (i.e. two neuroactive steroids interacting with progesterone receptor) may be considered protective agents in case of nerve crush injury.
Forebrain cholinergic dysfunction is the hallmark of vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer's dementia (AD) induced by cerebral hypoperfusion during aging. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the role of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) in cerebral hypoperfusion-induced dementia and cholinergic dysfunction. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CHP) was induced by permanent bilateral common carotid artery (2VO) occlusion in rats. Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion resulted in anterograde memory impairment revealed from Morris water maze (MWM) and passive avoidance step through tasks (PA), which was significantly attenuated by ACE inhibitor, captopril. Cerebral hypoperfusion down-regulated the relative expression of cholinergic muscarinic receptor (ChM-1r) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) as well as up-regulated the angiotensin II type-1 receptor (AT-1) expression in hippocampus of vehicle treated CHP group on the 54th day post-hypoperfusion. The diminished number of presynaptic cholinergic neurons and the pyramidal neurons were evident from ChAT-immunofluorescence and the hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining studies respectively in hippocampal Cornu ammonis1 (CA1); region of vehicle-treated hypoperfused animals. Further the lipid peroxidation level was also found to be elevated in the hippocampus of the vehicle-treated group. Our results demonstrated that continuous captopril treatment (50 mg/kg, i.p. twice daily) for 15 days mitigated the hypoperfusion-induced cholinergic hypofunction and neurodegeneration in hippocampus. The present study robustly reveals that the angiotensinergic system plays a pivotal role in progression of neuronal death and memory dysfunctions during cerebral hypoperfusion.
The nature of the toxic form of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) involved in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology and whether it is the fibrillar or the oligomeric peptide that is the most deleterious to neurons remain controversial. This work aimed to compare the neurotoxicity of different amyloid-beta peptide 1-42 (Abeta1-42) assemblies, using fresh and aged samples enriched in oligomeric and fibrillar species, respectively, and also isolated oligomers and fibrils. The results obtained with fresh and aged Abeta1-42 preparations suggested that oligomeric species are more toxic to cortical neurons in culture than fibrillar forms, which was confirmed by using isolated oligomers and fibrils. In order to further elucidate the mechanisms involved in soluble Abeta toxicity, the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium (Ca(2+)) release in oligomer-induced apoptosis was evaluated. We observed that oligomeric Abeta1-42 depletes ER Ca(2+) levels leading to intracellular Ca(2+) dyshomeostasis involving phospholipase C activation. Moreover, in the presence of dantrolene, an inhibitor of ER Ca(2+) release through ryanodine receptors, the oligomer-induced apoptosis was prevented demonstrating the involvement of ER Ca(2+) release.
Polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine are positively charged aliphatic amines and have important roles in maintaining normal cellular function, regulating neurotransmitter receptors and modulating learning and memory. Recent evidence suggests a role of putrescine in hippocampal neurogenesis, that is significantly impaired during aging. The present study measured the polyamine levels in memory-related brain structures in 24- (aged), 12- (middle-aged) and 4- (young) month-old rats using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and high performance liquid chromatography. In the hippocampus, the putrescine levels were significantly decreased in the CA1 and dentate gyrus, and increased in the CA2/3 with age. Significant age-related increases in the spermidine levels were found in the CA1 and CA2/3. There was no difference between groups in spermine in any sub-regions examined. In the parahippocampal region, increased putrescine level with age was observed in the entorhinal cortex, and age did not alter the spermidine levels. The spermine level was significantly decreased in the perirhinal cortex and increased in the postrhinal cortex with age. In the prefrontal cortex, there was age-related decrease in putrescine, and the spermidine and spermine levels were significantly increased with age. This study, for the first time, demonstrates age-related region-specific changes in polyamines in memory-associated structures, suggesting that polyamine system dysfunction may potentially contribute to aged-related impairments in hippocampal neurogenesis and learning and memory.
We investigated the effects of the drug ketamine on procedural intermediate- and long-term memory formation in a well-established operant learning and memory model system, Lymnaea stagnalis. Animals were administered ketamine at discrete time points, ranging from 2 h pre-one-trial training (1TT) to 23 h post-1TT. Our results demonstrated that ketamine causes impairment of procedural memory formation, and that ketamine acts differentially, inhibiting only long-term memory (LTM) formation while having no effect on intermediate-term memory (ITM) formation. Ketamine's ability to inhibit LTM was found not to be due to state dependent learning implying that ketamine's effects are therefore specific to the molecular process involved in procedural LTM formation. Given past data from our laboratory, this suggests that ketamine may be exerting its differential effects by altering the gene transcription processes necessary and specific for LTM formation. Additionally, ketamine was found to have no effect on retrieval when administered 1 h before testing. However, ketamine was able to disrupt LTM formation when administered immediately before 1TT and up to 2 h after 1TT. Our findings suggest a longer period of consolidation after 1TT than previously demonstrated in Lymnaea, during which the procedural long-term memory remains labile and is vulnerable to disruption via amnestic agents, such as ketamine.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in the spinal cord dorsal horn (SCDH) is one of the mechanisms involved in central sensitization during chronic pain. Previously, this laboratory created a spatio-temporal knockout (KO) of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor I (NR1) subunit in the mouse SCDH. The NR1 KO completely blocks NR1 gene and subsequent NMDA receptor expression and function in SCDH neurons. In the NR1 KO mice, the mechanical and cold allodynia induced at 24 h after complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) was reduced. However, the protective effects of KO were transient and were not seen at 48 h after CFA. These observations suggest the presence of NMDA-independent pathways that contribute to CFA-induced pain. CFA induces the activation of several signaling cascades in the SCDH, including protein kinase C (PKC)gamma and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2). The phosphorylation of PKCgamma and ERK1/2 was inhibited in the SCDH of NR1 KO mice up to 48 h after CFA treatment, suggesting that these pathways are NMDA receptor-dependent. Interestingly, neuronal cyclooxygenase (COX) -2 expression and microglial p38 phosphorylation were induced in the SCDH of the NR1 KO at 48 h after CFA. Our findings provide evidence that inflammatory reactions are responsible for the recurrence of pain after NR1 KO in the SCDH.
Neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC), one of the major integrative centers of the auditory system, process acoustic information converging from almost all nuclei of the auditory brain stem. During this integration, excitatory and inhibitory inputs arrive to auditory neurons at different time delays. Result of this integration determines timing of IC neuron firing. In the mammalian IC, the range of the first spike latencies is very large (5-50 ms). At present, a contribution of excitatory and inhibitory inputs in controlling neurons' firing in the IC is still under debate. In the present study we assess the role of excitation and inhibition in determining first spike response latency in the IC. Postsynaptic responses were recorded to pure tones presented at neuron's characteristic frequency or to downward frequency modulated sweeps in awake bats. There are three main results emerging from the present study: (1) the most common response pattern in the IC is hyperpolarization followed by depolarization followed by hyperpolarization, (2) latencies of depolarizing or hyperpolarizing responses to tonal stimuli are short (3-7 ms) whereas the first spike latencies may vary to a great extent (4-26 ms) from one neuron to another, and (3) high threshold hyperpolarization preceded long latency spikes in IC neurons exhibiting paradoxical latency shift. Our data also show that the onset hyperpolarizing potentials in the IC have very small jitter (&lt;100 micros) across repeated stimulus presentations. The results of this study suggest that inhibition, arriving earlier than excitation, may play a role as a mechanism for delaying the first spike latency in IC neurons.
In this report, we have assessed the behavioral responses of mice missing the Ppif gene (CyPD-KO), encoding mitochondrial cyclophilin D (CyPD). Mitochondrial CyPD is a key modulator of the mitochondrial permeability transition which is involved in the regulation of calcium- and oxidative damage-induced cell death. Behavioral screening of CyPD-KO mice (ranging between 4 and 15 months of age) was accomplished using a battery of behavioral paradigms which included testing of motor functions, exploratory activity, and anxiety/emotionality, as well as learning and memory skills. We found that, compared with wild-type mice, CyPD-KO mice were (i) more anxious and less explorative in open field and elevated plus maze and (ii) performed better in learning and memory of avoidance tasks, such as active and passive avoidance. However, the absence of CyPD did not alter the nociceptive threshold for thermal stimuli. Finally, deletion of CyPD caused also an abnormal accumulation of white adipose tissue resulting in adult-onset obesity, which was not dependent on increased food and/or water intake. Taken together, our results suggest a new fundamental role of mitochondrial CyPD in basal brain functions and body weight homeostasis.
Stepping over an obstacle is preceded by a center of pressure (CoP) shift, termed anticipatory postural adjustments (APAs). It provides an acceleration of the center of mass forward and laterally prior to step initiation. The APAs are characterized in the lateral direction by a force exerted by the moving leg onto the ground, followed by an unloading of the stepping leg and completed by an adjustment corresponding to a slow CoP shift toward the supporting foot. While the importance of sensory information in the setting of the APAs is undisputed, it is currently unknown whether sensory information can also be used online to modify the feedforward command of the APAs. The purpose of this study was to investigate how the CNS modulates the APAs when a modification of proprioceptive information (Ia) occurs before or during the initiation of the stepping movement. We used the vibration of ankle muscles acting in the lateral direction to induce modification of the afferent inflow. Subjects learned to step over an obstacle, eyes closed, in synchrony to a tone signal. When vibration was applied during the initiation of the APAs, no change in the early APAs was observed except in the case of a cutaneous stimulation (low frequency vibration); it is thus possible that the CNS relies less on proprioceptive information during this early phase. Only the final adjustment of the CoP seems to take into account the biased proprioceptive information. When vibration was applied well before the APAs onset, a postural reaction toward the side of the vibration was produced. When subjects voluntarily initiated a step after the postural reaction, the thrust amplitude was set according to the direction of the postural reaction. This suggests that the planned motor command of the APAs can be updated online before they are triggered.
The role of the dopamine D(4) receptor in cognitive processes and its association with several neuropsychiatric disorders have been related to its preferential localization in the cerebral cortex. In the present work we have studied in detail the regional and cellular localization of the dopamine D(4) receptor immunoreactivity (IR) in the rat cerebral cortex and its relationship to the dopaminergic and noradrenergic nerve terminal networks, since both dopamine and noradrenaline have a high affinity for this receptor. High levels of D(4) IR were found in motor, somatosensory, visual, auditory, temporal association, cingulate, retrosplenial and granular insular cortices, whereas agranular insular, piriform, perirhinal and entorhinal cortices showed low levels. D(4) IR was present in both pyramidal and non-pyramidal like neurons, with the receptor being mainly concentrated to layers II/III. Layer I was observed to be exclusively enriched in D(4) IR branches of apical dendrites. Finally, mismatches were observed between D(4) IR and tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase IR nerve terminal plexuses, indicating that these receptors may be activated at least in part by dopamine and noradrenaline operating as volume transmission signals. The present findings support a major role of the dopamine D(4) receptor in mediating the transmission of cortical dopamine and noradrenaline nerve terminal plexuses.
This article addresses the relationships between motion sickness (MS) and three-dimensional (3D) ocular responses during otolith stimulation. A group of 19 healthy subjects was tested for motion sickness during a 16 min otolith stimulation induced by off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR) (constant velocity 60 degrees /s, frequency 0.16 Hz). For each subject, the MS induced during the session was quantified, and based on this quantification, the subjects were divided into two groups of less susceptible (MS-), and more susceptible (MS+) subjects. The angular eye velocity induced by the otolith stimulation was analyzed in order to identify a possible correlation between susceptibility to MS and 3D eye velocity. The main results show that: (1) MS significantly correlates in a multiple regression with several components of the horizontal vestibular eye movements i.e. positively with the velocity modulation (P&lt;0.01) and bias (P&lt;0.05) of the otolith ocular reflex and negatively with the time constant of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (P&lt;0.01) and (2) the length of the resultant 3D eye velocity vector is significantly larger in the MS+ as compared with the MS- group. Based on these results we suggest that the CNS, including the velocity storage mechanism, reconstructs an eye velocity vector modulated by head position whose length might predict MS occurrence during OVAR.
Clusterin (or apolipoprotein J) is a widely distributed multifunctional glycoprotein involved in CNS plasticity and post-traumatic remodeling. Using biochemical and morphological approaches, we investigated the clusterin ontogeny in the CNS of wild-type (WT) mice and explored developmental consequences of clusterin gene knock-out in clusterin null (Clu-/-) mice. A punctiform expression of clusterin mRNA was detected through the hypothalamic region, neocortex and hippocampus at embryonic stages E14/E15. From embryonic stage E16 to the first week of the postnatal life, the vast majority of CNS neurons expressed low levels of clusterin mRNA. In contrast, a very strong hybridizing signal mainly localized in pontobulbar and spinal cord motor nuclei was observed from the end of the first postnatal week to adulthood. Astrocytes expressing clusterin mRNA were often detected through the hippocampus and neocortex in neonatal mice. Real-time polymerase chain amplification and clusterin-immunoreactivity dot-blot analyses indicated that clusterin levels paralleled mRNA expression. Comparative analyses between WT and Clu-/- mice during postnatal development showed no significant differences in brain weight, neuronal, synaptic and astrocyte markers as well myelin basic protein expression. However, quantitative estimation of large motor neuron populations in the facial nucleus revealed a significant deficit in motor cells (-16%) in Clu-/- compared with WT mice. Our data suggest that clusterin expression is already present in fetal life mainly in subcortical structures. Although the lack of this protein does not significantly alter basic aspects of the CNS development, it may have a negative impact on neuronal development in certain motor nuclei.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), has multiple biological effects and plays a central regulatory role in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulating energy homeostasis that is required for adaptive responses to maintain and support life. Central administration of CRF increases O(2) consumption, CO(2) and heat production resulting in hyperthermia. To determine the precise mechanism for this condition, here we investigated transcripts of candidate genes for thermogenesis and their up-regulator (avian uncoupling protein (avUCP), avian adenine nucleotide translocator (avANT) and avian peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor-gamma co-activator-1alpha) and mitochondrial bioenergetics (gene transcripts for mitochondrial fatty acid (FA) transport and oxidation enzymes; carnitine-palmitoyl-transferase (CPT)-I; CPT-II, long-chain acyl CoA dehydrogenase (LCAD), 3-hydroxyacyl CoA dehydrogenase (3HADH) and citrate synthase (CS), and enzyme activities of 3HADH and CS) that might explain the bioenergetic basis of CRF-induced increased thermogenesis. Neonatal chicks (Gallus gallus) with and without i.c.v. injection of CRF (42 pmol) were kept at thermoneutral temperature (30 degrees C) for 3 h. Central administration of CRF increased the core temperature and plasma NEFA level of chicks compared with the control. This CRF-induced increased thermogenesis was not accompanied by enhancement of avUCP and/or avANT gene transcripts and was associated with increased FA oxidation in tissue specific manner: increase in gene transcript levels of CPT-I, CPT-II, LCAD, 3HADH and CS, and increase in enzyme activities of 3HADH and CS were observed in liver and heart while no such changes were observed in skeletal muscle. In conclusion, these results suggest that CRF-induced increased thermogenesis in neonatal chicks was not accompanied by enhancement of gene transcripts of mitochondrial putative thermogenic proteins, and was induced by tissue specific increase in mitochondrial FA transport and beta-oxidation enzymes.
The lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) is a site of convergence for auditory (conditioned stimulus) and foot-shock (unconditioned stimulus) inputs during fear conditioning. The auditory pathways to LA are well characterized, but less is known about the pathways through which foot shock is transmitted. Anatomical tracing and physiological recording studies suggest that the posterior intralaminar thalamic nucleus, which projects to LA, receives both auditory and somatosensory inputs. In the present study we examined the expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos in the LA in rats in response to foot-shock stimulation. We then determined the effects of posterior intralaminar thalamic lesions on foot-shock-induced c-Fos expression in the LA. Foot-shock stimulation led to an increase in the density of c-Fos-positive cells in all LA subnuclei in comparison to controls exposed to the conditioning box but not shocked. However, some differences among the dorsolateral, ventrolateral and ventromedial subnuclei were observed. The ventrolateral subnucleus showed a homogeneous activation throughout its antero-posterior extension. In contrast, only the rostral aspect of the ventromedial subnucleus and the central aspect of the dorsolateral subnucleus showed a significant increment in c-Fos expression. The density of c-Fos-labeled cells in all LA subnuclei was also increased in animals placed in the box in comparison to untreated animals. Unilateral electrolytic lesions of the posterior intralaminar thalamic nucleus and the medial division of the medial geniculate body reduced foot-shock-induced c-Fos activation in the LA ipsilateral to the lesion. The number of c-Fos labeled cells on the lesioned side was reduced to the levels observed in the animals exposed only to the box. These results indicate that the LA is involved in processing information about the foot-shock unconditioned stimulus and receives this kind of somatosensory information from the posterior intralaminar thalamic nucleus and the medial division of the medial geniculate body.
Omega-3 fatty acids (i.e. docosahexaenoic acid; DHA), similar to exercise, improve cognitive function, promote neuroplasticity, and protect against neurological lesion. In this study, we investigated a possible synergistic action between DHA dietary supplementation and voluntary exercise on modulating synaptic plasticity and cognition. Rats received DHA dietary supplementation (1.25% DHA) with or without voluntary exercise for 12 days. We found that the DHA-enriched diet significantly increased spatial learning ability, and these effects were enhanced by exercise. The DHA-enriched diet increased levels of pro-brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and mature BDNF, whereas the additional application of exercise boosted the levels of both. Furthermore, the levels of the activated forms of CREB and synapsin I were incremented by the DHA-enriched diet with greater elevation by the concurrent application of exercise. While the DHA diet reduced hippocampal oxidized protein levels, a combination of a DHA diet and exercise resulted in a greater reduction rate. The levels of activated forms of hippocampal Akt and CaMKII were increased by the DHA-enriched diet, and with even greater elevation by a combination of diet and exercise. Akt and CaMKII signaling are crucial step by which BDNF exerts its action on synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. These results indicate that the DHA diet enhanced the effects of exercise on cognition and BDNF-related synaptic plasticity, a capacity that may be used to promote mental health and reduce risk of neurological disorders.
A variety of mechanisms has been suggested for cocaine toxicity, including the possibility that cocaine induces an increase in oxidative stress (OS) due to excessive oxidation of dopamine (e.g. dopamine quinine), or by redox cycling of cocaine oxidized metabolites. However, the association between oxidative status in the brain and cocaine induced-behavior is poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the ability of the unique antioxidant tempol to attenuate cocaine-induced oxidative damage and behavioral response. Acute cocaine treatment significantly elevated OS markers in prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) in rats, both in slices and following a single cocaine injection, which corresponded with a decrease in total antioxidant capacity (TAC). Tempol, at the optimal concentration we determined that was needed to observe an antioxidant non-toxic effect in vitro (1 mM) and in vivo (200 mg/kg), completely abolished the elevation of OS markers and prevented the reduction in TAC in these areas. Importantly, tempol injections, at a dose that does not affect the basal levels of locomotor activity, attenuated both the development and expression of cocaine-induced locomotor sensitization. Finally, in cocaine-sensitized animals, tempol prevented the elevation of OS markers in both PFC and NAc. Our findings suggest that oxidation of specific sites in the brain reward system by cocaine is accompanied with behavioral changes. Tempol has a neuro-protective effect against cocaine toxicity in these regions, and it may be beneficial in the treatment of cocaine addiction.
This study investigated the effect of 5th and 6th lumbar nerve (L5/L6) spinal nerve ligation (SNL) on activated nuclear factor kappaB (NFkBa) in nuclear extracts from the lumbar dorsal horn of the rat, and its relationship to prostaglandin (PG)-dependent spinal hyperexcitability and allodynia 3 days later. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, fitted with intrathecal (i.t.) catheters, underwent SNL- or sham-surgery. Paw withdrawal threshold (PWT), electromyographic analysis of the biceps femoris flexor reflex, and immunoblotting of the spinal cord were used. Both allodynia (PWT &lt;or=4 g) and exaggerated A- and C-fiber-mediated reflex responses (AFRR and CFRR), featuring decreased activation thresholds and evoked hyperexcitability, were evident only in nerve-ligated animals. This was preceded by an increase in NFkBa in the ipsilateral lumbar dorsal horn at 12 h which was still present 3 days after SNL. The amount of NFkBa in the ventral horns was unchanged compared with sham-controls. Blocking the activation of spinal NFkappaB, either directly with ammonium pyrrolidedithiocarbamate (PDTC; 100 microg i.t.) or indirectly with S(+)-ibuprofen (100 microg i.t.) administered immediately after SNL, prevented the SNL-induced expression of spinal cyclooxygenase-2 and the development of spinal hyperexcitability and allodynia 3 days later. R(-)-Ibuprofen and vehicle had no effect. These results demonstrate that NFkappaB is not only activated by SNL, but that spinal PG generated in the affected spinal cord from the onset of nerve injury facilitates this process. NFkappaB is a critical antecedent in the development of spinal PG-dependent hyperexcitability and allodynia in the SNL model.
Although neurogenesis in the hippocampus is critical for improvement of depressive behaviors and cognitive functions in neurodegeneration disorders, there is no therapeutic agent available to promote neurogenesis in adult brain following brain ischemic injury. Here we found that i.p. administration of bis(1-oxy-2-pyridinethiolato)oxovanadium(IV) [VO(OPT)], which stimulates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) pathways, markedly enhanced brain ischemia-induced neurogenesis in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the mouse hippocampus. VO(OPT) treatment enhanced not only the number of proliferating cells but also migration of neuroblasts. VO(OPT)-induced neurogenesis was associated with Akt and ERK activation in neural precursors in the SGZ. Likewise, VO(OPT)-induced neurogenesis was blocked by both PI3K/Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal regulated kinase kinase (MEK)/ERK inhibitors. VO(OPT) treatment rescued decreased phosphorylation of glycogen synthesis kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta) at Ser-9. Finally, amelioration of cognitive dysfunction seen following brain ischemia was positively correlated with VO(OPT)-induced neurogenesis. Taken together, VO(OPT) is a potential therapeutic agent that enhances ischemia-induced neurogenesis through PI3K/Akt and ERK activation, thereby improving memory and cognitive deficits following brain ischemia.
Stimulation of kappa-opioid receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPR) increases the locomotor activity of young rats: an effect blocked by systemic administration of a D2-like receptor agonist. Based on these initial findings, we proposed that: (a) D2-like receptors in the dorsal striatum are responsible for attenuating kappa-opioid-induced locomotor activity, and (b) the effects of D2-like receptor stimulation are mediated by the indirect pathway, which extends from the dorsal striatum to the SNPR via the globus pallidus (GP) and subthalamic nucleus (STN). To test the first hypothesis, young rats were given a systemic injection (i.p.) of saline or the kappa-opioid receptor agonist (+/-)-trans-U50,488 methanesulfonate salt (U50,488) on postnatal day (PD) 18. Later in the testing session, rats received bilateral infusions of vehicle or the D2-like receptor agonist R(-)-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) into the dorsal striatum, and the ability of NPA to block U50,488-induced locomotor activity was determined. To test the second hypothesis, rats were given sham or bilateral electrolytic lesions of the GP or STN on PD 16. Two days later, saline- and U50,488-induced locomotor activity was measured after systemic (i.p.) administration of vehicle or NPA. As predicted, dorsal striatal infusions of NPA attenuated the U50,488-induced locomotor activity of young rats. Contrary to our expectations, bilateral lesions of the GP or STN did not impair NPA's ability to block U50,488-induced locomotor activity. When considered together, these results suggest that: (a) stimulation of D2-like receptors in the dorsal striatum is sufficient to attenuate the kappa-opioid-mediated locomotor activity of young rats; and (b) the indirect pathway does not mediate the effects of D2-like receptor stimulation in this behavioral model.
Anxiety states and anxiety-related behaviors appear to be regulated by a distributed and highly interconnected system of brain structures including the basolateral amygdala. Our previous studies demonstrate that exposure of rats to an open-field in high- and low-light conditions results in a marked increase in c-Fos expression in the anterior part of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus (BLA) compared with controls. The neural mechanisms underlying the anatomically specific effects of open-field exposure on c-Fos expression in the BLA are not clear, however, it is likely that this reflects activation of specific afferent input to this region of the amygdala. In order to identify candidate brain regions mediating anxiety-induced activation of the basolateral amygdaloid complex in rats, we used cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) as a retrograde tracer to identify neurons with direct afferent projections to this region in combination with c-Fos immunostaining to identify cells responding to exposure to an open-field arena in low-light (8-13 lux) conditions (an anxiogenic stimulus in rats). Adult male Wistar rats received a unilateral microinjection of 4% CTb in phosphate-buffered saline into the basolateral amygdaloid complex. Rats were housed individually for 11 days after CTb injections and handled (HA) for 2 min each day. On the test day rats were either, 1) exposed to an open-field in low-light conditions (8-13 lux) for 15 min (OF); 2) briefly HA or 3) left undisturbed (control). We report that dual immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos and CTb revealed an increase in the percentage of c-Fos-immunopositive basolateral amygdaloid complex-projecting neurons in open-field-exposed rats compared with HA and control rats in the ipsilateral CA1 region of the ventral hippocampus, subiculum and lateral entorhinal cortex. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that exposure to the open-field arena activates an anxiety-related neuronal system with convergent input to the basolateral amygdaloid complex.
Influences of stimulation of the entopeduncular nucleus (Ep) upon electromyogram (EMG) activity of masticatory muscles were examined. In the rat lightly anesthetized with halothane, high frequency (HF) microstimulation (trains of 20, 333-Hz cathodal pulses at 30-60 microA) and GABA microinjection (0.2-0.6 microl of 10 mM GABA dissolved in physiological saline) were performed in the Ep by using a three-barreled microelectrode. EMG activity was recorded from the anterior digastrics and the anterior superficial masseter muscles by using two fine enamel-insulated copper wires. The EMG activity was also evoked by the GABA microinjection. The effect of the GABA microinjection was negated by the microinjection of bicuculline prior to the GABA microinjection. The EMG activity was classified into the tonic spike-type, burst-type, or mixed type on the basis of the waveform. In each rat, the location of the microelectrode tip was estimated by observing a series of serial frontal sections through the whole rostrocaudal extent of the Ep. The present data suggested that Ep neurons involved in elicitation of tonic spike-type activity in the jaw muscles might be located mainly in the rostral third of the Ep, and that Ep neurons implicated in provocation of burst-type activity in jaw muscles might be located in the caudal third of the Ep. Possible neuronal pathways from the Ep to motoneurons innervating the masticatory muscles were discussed. The present data shed new light on the control mechanisms of the basal ganglia upon jaw movements.

The present study used an in vitro brainstem preparation from pre-metamorphic tadpoles and adult bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeiana) to understand the neural mechanisms associated with central O(2) chemosensitivity and its maturation. In this species, brainstem hypoxia increases fictive lung ventilation in tadpoles but decreases in adults. Previous studies have shown that alpha(1)-adrenoceptor inactivation prevents these responses, suggesting that noradrenergic neurons are involved. We first tested the hypothesis that the pons (which includes noradrenergic neurons from the locus coeruleus; LC) plays a role in the lung burst frequency response to central hypoxia by comparing the effects of brainstem transection at the LC level between pre-metamorphic tadpoles and adults. Data show that brainstem transection prevents the lung burst frequency response in both stage groups. During development, the progressive decrease in the Na(+)/K(+)/Cl(-) co-transporter NKCC1 contributes to the maturation of neural networks. Because NKCC1 becomes activated during hypoxia, we then tested the hypothesis that NKCC1 contributes to maturation of the central O(2) chemoreflex. Double labeling experiments showed that the proportion of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons expressing NKCC1 in the LC decreases during development. Inactivation of NKCC1 with bumetanide bath application reversed the lung burst response to hypoxia in tadpoles. Bumetanide inhibited the response in adults. These data indicate that a structure within the pons (potentially the LC) is necessary to the central hypoxic chemoreflex and demonstrate that NKCC1 plays a role in central O(2) chemosensitivity and its maturation in this species.
Neurons that have AH (designation of neurons with a prominent and prolonged after hyperpolarizing potential that follows the action potential) electrophysiological characteristics and type II morphology (AH/type II neurons) are the first neurons in reflex circuits in the small intestine. Thus, the state of excitation of these neurons strongly influences the properties of enteric reflexes. The resting outward current in the type II neurons is reduced, causing depolarization and increased excitability, when protein kinase C (PKC) or synaptic inputs are activated, suggesting that regulation of background channels is an important determinant of the state of excitability of these neurons. However, the channels that carry the background current are not yet identified. We used intracellular microelectrodes to record from myenteric AH/type II neurons of the guinea-pig ileum, immunohistochemistry to localize channels and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to characterize channel transcripts. The blockers of TASK1 channels, bupivacaine (1 mM) and methanandamide (10 muM), depolarized AH/type II neurons by 11.6 mV and 7.9 mV, respectively, and increased resting input resistance by about 30%. The reversal potential determined for the effect of bupivacaine was -92 mV, indicating that bupivacaine acts at K(+) channels, without significant action on other channel types that are open at rest. The membrane potential of type II neurons was depolarized by acidification to pH 6.4, but this depolarization was associated with decreased input resistance and was not reduced by bupivacaine. Thus an unidentified current that is activated by reduced pH masks effects on TASK channels. Slow excitatory post-synaptic potentials in the neurons were reduced in amplitude by methanandamide, suggesting that they are generated in part by closure of TASK1 channels. TASK1 immunoreactivity occurred in all type II neurons (determined by double labeling for IB4 and NeuN), but no type II neurons were immunoreactive for TASK2 or TASK3. These latter channels were localized to non-type II neurons. Transcripts for TASK1, TASK2, TASK3 and other two-pore-domain potassium channels were found in ganglion extracts. It is concluded that TASK1 channels contribute to the resting outward current in AH/type II neurons, and that neurotransmitters that evoke slow depolarizations in these neurons do so through the closure of resting K(+) channels that include TASK1 channels.
We examined the effect of spinal cord-derived neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) after delayed transplantation into the injured adult rat spinal cord with or without earlier transplantation of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (BMSCs). Either BMSCs or culture medium were transplanted immediately after clip compression injury (27 g force), and then, 9 days after injury, NSPCs or culture medium were transplanted. Cell survival and differentiation, functional recovery, retrograde axonal tracing, and immunoelectron microscopy were assessed. A significant improvement in functional recovery based on three different measures was seen only in the group receiving NSPCs without BMSCs, and the improved recovery was evident within 1 week of transplantation. In this group, NSPCs differentiated mainly into oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, there was ensheathing of axons at the injury site by transplanted NSPCs, an increase in host oligodendrocytes, and a trend toward an increase in retrogradely labeled supraspinal nuclei. Transplantation of the BMSC scaffold resulted in a trend toward improved survival of the NSPCs, but there was no increase in function. Thus, transplantation of adult rat NSPCs produced significant early functional improvement after spinal cord injury, suggesting an early neuroprotective action associated with oligodendrocyte survival and axonal ensheathment by transplanted NSPCs.
Exposure to alcohol during embryonic development leads to changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis such that adult offspring release more adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) than controls when exposed to stress. In the present work, we tested the hypothesis that changes in the activity of the catecholaminergic system modulate, at least in part, this upregulation of the HPA axis. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to alcohol 6 h daily during gestation days 7-18 using the vapor chamber model, which generated mean blood alcohol levels of 188.6+/-10 mg/dl. All experiments were performed on 2 to 3-month-old offspring. We first measured the ACTH response to i.c.v. injection of adrenergic receptor agonists. In rats exposed to footshocks, we then investigated the activity of corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) as well as indexes of catecholamine ir, namely tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunopositive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), TH immunopositive neurons in the locus coeruleus, and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) immunopositive neurons in the brain stem. While adult females exposed to alcohol during fetal development (FAE) displayed the expected enhanced ACTH response to stress, there were no significant differences in response to adrenergic receptor agonists or in shock-induced CRF/TH ir and neuronal activity, as determined by c-fos colocalization. In contrast, FAE female offspring exposed to footshocks showed a significant increase in the activity of adrenergic neurons in the C1 region of the brain stem, a population of cells that project to the PVN. Collectively, these results suggest that while FAE-induced hyperactivity of the HPA axis is not accompanied by significant changes in PVN CRF or TH-ir neurons, it is characterized by an upregulation of C1 adrenergic neurons of the brain stem. This novel finding should lead to the functional characterization of this brain region in the FAE model.
Naked mole-rats are highly social rodents that live in large colonies characterized by a rigid social and reproductive hierarchy. Only one female, the queen, breeds. Most colony members are non-reproductive subordinates that work cooperatively to rear the young and maintain an underground burrow system. Little is known about the neurobiological basis of the complex sociality exhibited by this species. The neuropeptide oxytocin (Oxt) modulates social bonding and other social behaviors in many vertebrates. Here we examined the distribution of Oxt immunoreactivity in the brains of male and female naked mole-rats. As in other species, the majority of Oxt-immunoreactive (Oxt-ir) cells were found in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei, with additional labeled cells scattered throughout the preoptic and anterior hypothalamic areas. Oxt-ir fibers were found traveling toward and through the median eminence, as well as in the tenia tecta, septum, and nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca. A moderate network of fibers covered the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and preoptic area, and a particularly dense fiber innervation of the nucleus accumbens and substantia innominata was observed. In the brainstem, Oxt-ir fibers were found in the periaqueductal gray, locus coeruleus, parabrachial nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, and nucleus ambiguus. The high levels of Oxt immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens and preoptic area are intriguing, given the link in other rodents between Oxt signaling in these regions and maternal behavior. Although only the queen gives birth or nurses pups in a naked mole-rat colony, most individuals actively participate in pup care.
The activity of HCO(3)(-) transporters contributes to the acid-base environment of the nervous system. In the present study, we used in situ hybridization, immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunogold electron microscopy to localize electrogenic Na/bicarbonate cotransporter NBCe1 splice variants (-A, -B, and -C) in rat brain. The in situ hybridization data are consistent with NBCe1-B and -C, but not -A, being the predominant NBCe1 variants in brain, particularly in the cerebellum, hippocampus, piriform cortex, and olfactory bulb. An antisense probe to the B and C variants strongly labeled granule neurons in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and cells in the granule layer and Purkinje layer (e.g. Bergmann glia) of the cerebellum. Weaker labeling was observed in the pyramidal layer of the hippocampus and in astrocytes throughout the brain. Similar, but weaker labeling was obtained with an antisense probe to the A and B variants. In immunoblot studies, antibodies to the A and B variants (alphaA/B) and C variant (alphaC) labeled approximately 130-kDa proteins in various brain regions. From immunohistochemistry data, both alphaA/B and alphaC exhibited diffuse labeling throughout brain, but alphaA/B labeling was more intracellular and punctate. Based on co-localization studies with antibodies to neuronal or astrocytic markers, alphaA/B labeled neurons in the pyramidal layer and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, as well as cortex. alphaC labeled glia surrounding neurons (and possibly neurons) in the neuropil of the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum, the pyramidal cell layer and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and the cortex. According to electron microscopy data from the cerebellum, alphaA/B primarily labeled neurons intracellularly and alphaC labeled astrocytes at the plasma membrane. In summary, the B and C variants are the predominant NBCe1 variants in rat brain and exhibit different localization profiles.


Although regulation of chemical transmission is known to involve the interaction of receptors with scaffold proteins, little is known about the existence of protein-protein interactions in regulating gap junction-mediated electrical synapses. The scaffold protein zonula-occludens-1 (ZO-1), a member of the MAGUK family of proteins, was reported to interact with several connexins (Cxs). We show here that ZO-1 extensively colocalizes with Cx35 at identifiable &quot;mixed&quot; (electrical and chemical) contacts on goldfish Mauthner cells, a model synapse for the study of vertebrate electrical transmission where it is possible to correlate physiological properties with molecular composition. Further, our analysis indicates that these proteins directly interact at goldfish electrical synapses. In contrast to Cx43, which interacts with ZO-1 via the PDZ2 domain, Cx35 interacts with ZO-1 via the PDZ1 domain, and this association is of lower affinity. The properties of the ZO-1/Cx35 association suggest the existence of a more dynamic relation between these two proteins, possibly including a role of ZO-1 in regulating gap junctional conductance at these highly modifiable electrical synapses. The interaction of ZO-1 with conserved regions of the C termini of Cx35/Cx36 orthologs may have a common function at electrical synapses of mammals and other vertebrates.

Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) is a hereditary dystonia characterized by a childhood onset of fixed dystonic posture with a dramatic and sustained response to relatively low doses of levodopa. DRD is thought to result from striatal dopamine deficiency due to a reduced synthesis and activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the synthetic enzyme for dopamine. The mechanisms underlying the genesis of dystonia in DRD present a challenge to models of basal ganglia movement control, given that striatal dopamine deficiency is the hallmark of Parkinson's disease. We report here behavioral and anatomical observations on a transgenic mouse model for DRD in which the gene for 6-pyruvoyl-tetrahydropterin synthase is targeted to render selective dysfunction of TH synthesis in the striatum. Mutant mice exhibited motor deficits phenotypically resembling symptoms of human DRD and manifested a major depletion of TH labeling in the striatum, with a marked posterior-to-anterior gradient resulting in near total loss caudally. Strikingly, within the regions of remaining TH staining in the striatum, there was a greater loss of TH labeling in striosomes than in the surrounding matrix. The predominant loss of TH expression in striosomes occurred during the early postnatal period, when motor symptoms first appeared. We suggest that the differential striosome-matrix pattern of dopamine loss could be a key to identifying the mechanisms underlying the genesis of dystonia in DRD.
Evolutionary changes in the size of the cerebral cortex, a columnar structure, often occur through the addition or subtraction of columnar modules with the same number of neurons underneath a unit area of cortical surface. This view is based on the work of Rockel et al. [Rockel AJ, Hiorns RW, Powell TP (1980) The basic uniformity in structure of the neocortex. Brain 103:221-244], who found a steady number of approximately 110 neurons underneath a surface area of 750 microm(2) (147,000 underneath 1 mm(2)) of the cerebral cortex of five species from different mammalian orders. These results have since been either corroborated or disputed by different groups. Here, we show that the number of neurons underneath 1 mm(2) of the cerebral cortical surface of nine primate species and the closely related Tupaia sp. is not constant and varies by three times across species. We found that cortical thickness is not inversely proportional to neuronal density across species and that total cortical surface area increases more slowly than, rather than linearly with, the number of neurons underneath it. The number of neurons beneath a unit area of cortical surface varies linearly with neuronal density, a parameter that is neither related to cortical size nor total number of neurons. Our finding of a variable number of neurons underneath a unit area of the cerebral cortex across primate species indicates that models of cortical organization cannot assume that cortical columns in different primates consist of invariant numbers of neurons.

The scientific study of animal emotion is an important emerging discipline in subjects ranging from neuroscience to animal welfare research. In the absence of direct measures of conscious emotion, indirect behavioural and physiological measures are used. However, these may have significant limitations (e.g. indicating emotional arousal but not valence (positivity versus negativity)). A new approach, taking its impetus from human studies, proposes that biases in information processing, and underlying mechanisms relating to the evaluation of reward gains and losses, may reliably reflect emotional valence in animals. In general, people are more sensitive to reward losses than gains, but people in a negative affective state (e.g. depression) are particularly sensitive to losses. This may underlie broader findings such as an enhanced attention to, and memory of, negative events in depressed individuals. Here we show that rats in unenriched housing, who typically exhibit indicators of poorer welfare and a more negative affective state than those in enriched housing, display a prolonged response to a decrease in anticipated food reward, indicating enhanced sensitivity to reward loss. Sensitivity to reward reduction may thus be a valuable new indicator of animal emotion and welfare.
Tuberous sclerosis is a genetic multisystem disorder characterised by widespread hamartomas in several organs, including the brain, heart, skin, eyes, kidney, lung, and liver. The affected genes are TSC1 and TSC2, encoding hamartin and tuberin respectively. The hamartin-tuberin complex inhibits the mammalian-target-of-rapamycin pathway, which controls cell growth and proliferation. Variations in the distribution, number, size, and location of lesions cause the clinical syndrome to vary, even between relatives. Most features of tuberous sclerosis become evident only in childhood after 3 years of age, limiting their usefulness for early diagnosis. Identification of patients at risk for severe manifestations is crucial. Increasing understanding of the molecular abnormalities caused by tuberous sclerosis may enable improved management of this disease.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides appear to modulate various effects of psychostimulant drugs. Injections of CART peptide into the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) inhibit locomotion produced by systemic injections of the psychostimulants cocaine and amphetamine. Intra-NAcc injections of CART peptide also inhibit locomotion produced by microinfusions of dopamine into the NAcc, suggesting that the effects of CART peptides may be due to an interaction with the dopaminergic system in the NAcc. We sought to determine if this inhibitory effect of CART peptide generalizes to other measures of dopaminergic function such as reward/reinforcement by testing the effect of bilateral intra-NAcc CART infusions (0, 0.25, 1.0 and 2.5 microg per side) on cocaine and food self-administration. One group of rats self-administered cocaine (0.75 mg/kg per 140 microl IV infusion) on a progressive ratio schedule. A separate group received 45 mg food pellets on the same progressive ratio schedule. Bilateral intra-NAcc injections of CART peptide dose-dependently decreased the number of cocaine infusions, the breakpoint of cocaine self-administration, and the total number of bar presses on the cocaine-associated lever. There were no effects of CART injections on the breakpoint for food reward. Thus, we conclude that injections of CART into the NAcc appear to functionally antagonize a major site of action for cocaine self-administration in rats.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of forebrain serotonin projections in behavioural models with relevance to schizophrenia. Mice received stereotaxic micro-injections of the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the median raphe nucleus (MRN). Two weeks later, MRN-lesioned mice were hyperactive at baseline and showed enhanced locomotor hyperactivity induced by phencyclidine. In contrast, no lesion effect was observed on the locomotor hyperactivity induced by amphetamine treatment or on prepulse inhibition. Lesioned mice showed a 68% depletion of serotonin in the hippocampus and 31% depletion in the striatum. These data confirm previous studies in rats that selective serotonin depletion in the brain enhances the effect of phencyclidine, but not amphetamine, on locomotor activity. This enhanced action of phencyclidine is likely to be mediated by the absence of serotonin-mediated behavioural inhibition in the hippocampus, leaving the psychostimulant effects of phencyclidine unopposed. Taken together with previous studies in rats, these studies in mice suggest that serotonin release in the dorsal hippocampus constitutes a behavioural inhibitory pathway normally involved in dampening excessive behavioural stimulation. Dysfunction of this pathway could be involved in psychosis and its stimulation could be a potential mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs.
Previous studies show that the basolateral amygdala (BLA) is required for behavior to adjust when the value of a reinforcer decreases after satiation or pairing with gastric distress. This study evaluated the effect of pre- or post-training excitotoxic lesions of the BLA on changes in preference with another type of contingency change, reinforcer magnitude reversal. Rats were trained to press left and right levers during a variable-interval choice phase for 50 microl or 150 microl sucrose delivered to consistent locations after a 16-s delay. Tones were presented during the first and last 2s of the delay to reinforcement. The tone frequency predicted the magnitude of sucrose reinforcement in baseline conditions. All groups acquired stable preference for the lever on the large (150 microl) reinforcer side. However, nose poking during the delay to large reinforcement was highly accurate (i.e., to the reinforced side) for all groups except the rats with BLA lesions induced before training, suggesting impaired control of behavior by the tone. After the acquisition of stable preference, the locations of the reinforcer magnitudes were unpredictably reversed for a single session. Pre-training lesions blunted changes in preference when the reinforcer magnitudes were reversed. Lesions induced after stable preference was acquired, but prior to reversal, did not disrupt changes in preference. The data suggest that the BLA contributes to the adaptation of choice behavior following changes in reinforcer magnitude. Impaired learning about the tone-reinforcer magnitude relationships may have disrupted discrimination of the reinforcer magnitude reversal.
Available data suggest that estradiol exerts an inhibitory effect on food intake by modulating the actions of multiple gut- and brain-derived peptides implicated in the control of food intake. For example, recent studies have shown that estradiol decreases the orexigenic effects of ghrelin and melanin-concentrating hormone. In the present study, we examined estradiol's ability to decrease the actions of two additional orexigenic peptides, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP). Food intake was monitored following lateral ventricular infusions of 5 microg NPY, 10 microg AgRP, or saline vehicle in ovariectomized rats treated with either 1 microg estradiol or sesame oil vehicle. NPY increased food intake for 2h in both oil- and estradiol-treated ovariectomized rats. During this interval, the orexigenic effect of NPY was significantly greater in oil-treated rats, relative to estradiol-treated rats. In contrast to the short-term action of NPY, a single injection of AgRP increased food intake for 3 days in oil- and estradiol-treated rats. Meal pattern analysis revealed that the orexigenic effect of AgRP is mediated by an increase in meal size, not meal number. Unlike that observed following NPY treatment, estradiol failed to modulate the magnitude by which AgRP increased food intake and meal size. We conclude that a physiological regimen of estradiol treatment decreases the orexigenic effect of NPY, but not AgRP, in ovariectomized rats.
Genetic susceptibility plays an important role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Genetic evidence for an association between the dysbindin-1 gene (DTNBP1: dystrobrevin binding protein 1) and schizophrenia has been repeatedly reported in various populations worldwide. Thus, we performed behavioral analyses on homozygous sandy (sdy) mice, which lack dysbindin-1 owing to a deletion in the Dtnbp1 gene. Our results showed that sdy mice were less active and spent less time in the center of an open field apparatus. Consistent with the latter observation, sdy mice also displayed evidence of heightened anxiety-like response and deficits in social interaction. Compared to wild-type mice, sdy mice displayed lower levels of dopamine, but not glutamate, in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and hypothalamus. These findings indicate that sdy mice display a number of behavioral abnormalities associated with schizophrenia and suggest that these abnormalities may be mediated by reductions in forebrain dopamine transmission.
7 transmembrane-spanning (7TM) chemokine receptors having multiple endogenous ligands offer special opportunities to understand the molecular basis for allosteric mechanisms. Thus, CC-chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1) binds CC-chemokine 3 and 5 (CCL3 and CCL5) with K(d) values of 7.3 and 0.16 nm, respectively, as determined in homologous competition binding assays. However, CCL5 appears to have a &gt;10,000-fold lower affinity in competition against (125)I-CCL3. Mutational mapping revealed that CCL3 and CCL5 both are strongly affected by systematic truncations of the N-terminal extension, whereas only CCL5 and not CCL3 activation is affected by substitutions in the main ligand binding pocket including the conserved GluVII:06 anchor point. A series of metal ion chelator complexes were found to act as full agonists on CCR1 and to be critically affected by the same substitutions in the main ligand binding pocket as CCL5 but not by mutations in the extracellular domain. In agreement with the overlapping binding sites, the small non-peptide agonists displaced radiolabeled CCL5 with high affinity. Interestingly, the same compounds acted as allosteric enhancers of the binding of CCL3, with which they did not overlap in binding site, leading to an increased B(max) and affinity of this chemokine mainly due to an increased association rate. It is concluded that a small molecule agonist through binding deep in the main ligand binding pocket can act as an allosteric enhancer for one endogenous chemokine and at the same time as a competitive blocker of the binding of another endogenous chemokine.
PDZ domain-containing scaffold protein Par-3 is the central organizer of the evolutionarily conserved cell polarity-regulatory Par-3.Par-6.atypical protein kinase C complex. The PDZ domains of Par-3 have also been implicated as potential phosphoinositide signaling integrators, since its second PDZ domain binds to phosphoinositides, and the third PDZ interacts with phosphoinositide phosphatase PTEN. However, the molecular basis of Par-3/PTEN interaction is still poorly understood. Additionally, it is not known whether the regulatory function of PTEN in cell polarity is specifically mediated by its interaction with Par-3. The structures of Par-3 PDZ3 in both its free and PTEN tail peptide-bound forms determined in this work reveal that Par-3 PDZ3 binds to PTEN with two discrete binding sites: a canonical PDZ-ligand interaction site and a distal, opposite charge-charge interaction site. This distinct target recognition mechanism confers the interaction specificity of the Par-3.PTEN complex. We show that the Par-3 PDZ3-PTEN binding is required for the enrichment of PTEN at the junctional membranes of Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. Finally, we demonstrate that the junctional membrane-localized PTEN is specifically required for the polarization of Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. These results, together with earlier data, firmly establish that Par-3 functions as a scaffold in integrating phosphoinositide signaling events during cellular polarization.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to evaluate within-subject variability in global mean cortical thickness over test-retest intervals of minutes-weeks in five healthy adults. Within-subject measures of global mean thickness were consistent over these intervals. Test-retest assessments of absolute thickness differences and percent thickness differences indicated variations of, respectively, &lt; or =0.05-0.06 mm and &lt; or =+/-1.9-2.3%. There have been few evaluations of normal within-subject variations in cortical thickness. The present results suggest that within-subject variability in global mean cortical thickness can be low over test-retest intervals of minutes-weeks, and that longitudinal scans can establish useful baseline estimates of variability from which to assess changes due to injury, disease, or other experiences.
Disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) is a hallmark feature of immune-mediated neurological disorders as diverse as viral hemorrhagic fevers, cerebral malaria and acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis. Although current models hypothesize that immune cells promote vascular permeability in human disease, the role CD8 T cells play in BBB breakdown remains poorly defined. Our laboratory has developed a novel murine model of CD8 T cell mediated central nervous system (CNS) vascular permeability using a variation of the Theiler's virus model of multiple sclerosis. In previous studies, we observed that MHC class II(-/-) (CD4 T cell deficient), IFN-gammaR(-/-), TNF-alpha(-/-), TNFR1(-/-), TNFR2(-/-), and TNFR1/TNFR2 double knockout mice as well as those with inhibition of IL-1 and LTbeta activity were susceptible to CNS vascular permeability. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine the extent immune effector proteins utilized by CD8 T cells, perforin and FasL, contributed to CNS vascular permeability. Using techniques such as fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS), T1 gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), FITC-albumin leakage assays, microvessel isolation, western blotting and immunofluorescent microscopy, we show that in vivo stimulation of CNS infiltrating antigen-specific CD8 T cells initiates astrocyte activation, alteration of BBB tight junction proteins and increased CNS vascular permeability in a non-apoptotic manner. Using the aforementioned techniques, we found that despite having similar expansion of CD8 T cells in the brain as wildtype and Fas Ligand deficient animals, perforin deficient mice were resistant to tight junction alterations and CNS vascular permeability. To our knowledge, this study is the first to demonstrate that CNS infiltrating antigen-specific CD8 T cells have the capacity to initiate BBB tight junction disruption through a non-apoptotic perforin dependent mechanism and our model is one of few that are useful for studies in this field. These novel findings are highly relevant to the development of therapies designed to control immune mediated CNS vascular permeability.
Hypothalamic and cortical mRNA levels for cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (IL1beta), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are impacted by systemic treatments of IL1beta and TNFalpha. To investigate the time course of the effects of IL1beta and TNFalpha on hypothalamic and cortical cytokine gene expression, we measured mRNA levels for IL1beta, TNFalpha, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-10 (IL-10), IL1 receptor 1, BDNF, NGF, and glutamate decarboxylase-67 in vitro using hypothalamic and cortical primary cultures. IL1beta and TNFalpha mRNA levels increased significantly in a dose-dependent fashion after exposure to either IL1beta or TNFalpha. IL1beta increased IL1beta mRNA in both the hypothalamic and cortical cultures after 2-6 h while TNFalpha mRNA increased significantly within 30 min and continued to rise up to 2-6 h. Most of the other mRNAs showed significant changes independent of dose in vitro. In vivo, intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of IL1beta or TNFalpha also significantly increased IL1beta, TNFalpha and IL6 mRNA levels in the hypothalamus and cortex. IL1beta icv, but not TNFalpha, increased NGF mRNA levels in both these areas. Results support the hypothesis that centrally active doses of IL1beta and TNFalpha enhance their own mRNA levels as well as affect mRNA levels for other neuronal growth factors.
Basic data on age-related neuroanatomical changes across the juvenile to adult period in nonhuman primates is sparse, and this gap in knowledge is a serious impediment to translational research aimed at understanding brain development across the lifespan. In this study, magnetic resonance images were analyzed for fifteen mother-reared, socially-housed bonnet macaques (Macaca radiata) in three age groups: juvenile, adolescent, and adult. These data are the first to show age-related changes in gray:white matter ratio and corpus callosum size in bonnet macaques. Juvenile monkeys had higher overall gray:white matter ratio as compared to adolescent and adult monkeys. Corpus callosum (CC) size varied significantly as a function of age and CC region. Total brain volume was significantly lower for juvenile monkeys as compared to both adolescents and adults. These results are consistent in pattern with age-related changes in gray:white matter ratio and regional CC differences observed in humans. Continued study of the animals in this cross-sectional study will provide an important means of determining whether differences observed between age groups reflect developmental differences due to variation in the rate of maturation of CC regions.
The motor hierarchy hypothesis and the related debate about the role of the primary motor cortex (MI) in motor preparation are major topics in cognitive neuroscience today. The present study combines the two strategies that have been followed to clarify the role of MI in motor preparation independently from execution: motor imagery and the use of precueing tasks. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while subjects either performed or just imagined sequential finger movements in response to a central target (numbers 1, 2 or 3) which was precued by arrows (at both sides of the screen) that provided information about response side. Both motor imagery and execution elicited Lateralized Readiness Potentials (LRPs) with similar morphology and latency. Given that the LRP is generated in MI, the results show that the primary motor cortex is also active during imagery and give support for the hypothesis of a functional equivalence between motor imagery and execution. Nevertheless, the analysis of the different moments of motor preparation (precue vs. target-induced activity) revealed important differences between both conditions: whereas there were no differences in LRPs nor in brain areas estimated by standardized low resolution tomographies (sLORETA) related to precue presentation, larger LRP amplitudes and higher activation of MI were found during motor execution than imagery in the target-related activity. These results have important implications for the development of brain-computer devices and for the use of motor imagery in neurorehabilitation.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is a major center for neural integration in the auditory pathway. The IC processes inputs from the lower brainstem as well as from higher centers in the auditory system. To understand cellular mechanisms of IC neurons in auditory processing, we investigated physiological characteristics of the rebound depolarization (RD) following membrane hyperpolarization in neurons of the rat's dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus (ICD). Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from ICD neurons in brain slices. In more than half of the ICD neurons, there was a RD accompanied by one or two anode break action potentials (APs) following membrane hyperpolarization. The RD was Ca(2+) mediated and primarily due to activation of low-threshold T-type Ca(2+) channels. Generation of the RD and anode break APs depended on the magnitude and duration of the preceding hyperpolarization. Larger and longer hyperpolarization induced a larger, shorter and faster rebound, and therefore earlier anode break APs. However, with further hyperpolarization the RD became constant in amplitude and duration despite increases in the strength or duration of the preceding hyperpolarization. Usually, membrane hyperpolarization as small as -15 mV for 100-200 ms was enough to induce a pronounced rebound of 15-20 mV. The RD in IC neurons may provide a neuronal mechanism for integrating excitatory inputs arriving soon after a period of synaptic inhibition and therefore processing specific aspects of auditory information.


Statistical dependencies in the responses of sensory neurons govern both the amount of stimulus information conveyed and the means by which downstream neurons can extract it. Although a variety of measurements indicate the existence of such dependencies, their origin and importance for neural coding are poorly understood. Here we analyse the functional significance of correlated firing in a complete population of macaque parasol retinal ganglion cells using a model of multi-neuron spike responses. The model, with parameters fit directly to physiological data, simultaneously captures both the stimulus dependence and detailed spatio-temporal correlations in population responses, and provides two insights into the structure of the neural code. First, neural encoding at the population level is less noisy than one would expect from the variability of individual neurons: spike times are more precise, and can be predicted more accurately when the spiking of neighbouring neurons is taken into account. Second, correlations provide additional sensory information: optimal, model-based decoding that exploits the response correlation structure extracts 20% more information about the visual scene than decoding under the assumption of independence, and preserves 40% more visual information than optimal linear decoding. This model-based approach reveals the role of correlated activity in the retinal coding of visual stimuli, and provides a general framework for understanding the importance of correlated activity in populations of neurons.
It is believed that gene by environmental interactions contribute to the pathogenesis of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). We hypothesize that ASD are associated with early and repeated exposures to any of a number of toxicants or mixtures of toxicants. It is the cumulative effects of these repeated exposures acting upon genetically susceptible individuals that lead to the phenotypes of ASD. We report our initial observations of a considerable overlap of identified toxic landfills in the State of New Jersey and the residence of an ASD cohort, and a correlation between the identified toxic Superfund sites on each U.S. state and the total number of diagnosed cases of ASD in those states. The residence of 495 ASD patients in New Jersey by zip code and the toxic landfill sites were plotted on a map of Northern New Jersey. The area of highest ASD cases coincides with the highest density of toxic landfill sites while the area with lowest ASD cases has the lowest density of toxic landfill sites. Furthermore, the number of toxic Superfund sites and autism rate across 49 of the 50 states shows a statistically significant correlation (i.e. the number of identified superfund sites correlates with the rate of autism per 1000 residents in 49 of the states (p = 0.015; excluding the state of Oregon). These significant observations call for further organized studies to elucidate possible role(s) of environmental toxicants contributing to the pathogenesis of ASD.
Disturbances in the serotonergic system are implicated in many central nervous system disorders. The serotonin transporter (SERT) regulates the serotonin homeostasis in the synapse. We recently developed a rat which lacks the serotonin transporter (SERT(-/-)). It is likely that adaptive changes take place at the level of pre- and postsynaptic 5-HT receptors. Because autonomic responses are often used to measure 5-HT(1A) receptor function, we analysed these responses by examining the effects of a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist and antagonist under in vivo conditions in the SERT(-/-) rat. Moreover, we studied the effect of a mild stressor on the body temperature (stress-induced hyperthermia) because of the known involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors in this phenomenon. Results show that core body temperature did not differ between genotypes under basal, non-stressed conditions. Compared to SERT(+/+) rats, stress-induced hyperthermia was reduced in SERT(-/-) rats. The 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist [R(+)-N-(2[4-(2,3-dihydro-2-2-hydroxy-methyl-1,4-benzodioxin-5-yl)-1-piperazininyl]ethyl)-4-fluorobenzoamide HCl (flesinoxan) reduced stress-induced hyperthermia in both genotypes. The flesinoxan-induced hypothermia in SERT(+/+) rats was blocked by the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist [N-(2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexane carboxamide 3HCl (WAY100635). Moreover, WAY100635-induced hyperthermia in SERT(-/-), but not in SERT(+/+) rats. In SERT(-/-) rats, WAY100635 completely blocked the flesinoxan-induced reduction of stress-induced hyperthermia. Interestingly, flesinoxan-induced hypothermia was absent in SERT(-/-) rats. It is concluded that the SERT knockout rat reveals that 5-HT(1A) receptors modulating stress-induced hyperthermia belong to a population of receptors that differs from that involved in hypothermia.
Menthol and related compounds were investigated for modulation of recombinant human gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A), alpha(1)beta(2)gamma(2s)) receptor currents expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Sub-maximal (EC(20)) GABA currents were typically enhanced by co-applications of 3-300 microM (+)-menthol (e.g. by approximately 2-fold at 50 microM) &gt; isopulegol &gt; isomenthol&gt; alpha-terpineol &gt; cyclohexanol. We studied menthol's actions on GABA(A) receptors compared to sedatives (benzodiazepines) and intravenous anesthetics (barbiturates, steroids, etomidate and propofol). Flumazenil (a benzodiazepine antagonist) did not inhibit menthol enhancements while currents directly activated by 50 microM propofol were significantly inhibited (by 26+/-3%) by 50 microM (+)-menthol. GABA(A) receptors containing beta(2) subunits with either a point mutation in a methionine residue to a tryptophan at the 286 position (in transmembrane domain 3, TM-3) or a tyrosine to a tryptophan at the 444 position (TM-4) are insensitive to modulation by propofol. Enhancements of GABA EC(20) currents by menthol were equally abolished in GABA(A) alpha(1)beta(2)(M286W)gamma(2s) and alpha(1)beta(2)(Y444W)gamma(2s) receptors while positive modulations by benzodiazepines, barbiturates and steroids were unaffected. Menthol may therefore exert its actions on GABA(A) receptors via sites distinct from benzodiazepines, steroids and barbiturates, and via sites important for modulation by propofol. Finally, using an in vivo tadpole assay, addition of (+)-menthol resulted in a loss of righting reflex with an EC(50) of 23.5+/-4.7 microM (approximately10-fold less potent anesthesia than propofol). Thus, menthol and analogs share general anesthetic action with propofol, possibly via action at similar sites on the GABA(A) receptor.
Evidence suggests that 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor-mediated autoregulation of serotonergic neuronal firing rates is impaired in stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders. In vitro models may provide insight into neural mechanisms underlying regulation of serotonergic systems. However, serotonin synthesis and tonic autoregulation of serotonergic neuronal firing rates are impaired in in vitro preparations lacking tryptophan. We describe the effects of perfusion of living rat brain slices with tryptophan on both 1) tissue concentrations of serotonin metabolites and 2) neuronal firing rates within the dorsal raphe nucleus. Brain slices were perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid lacking tryptophan for 4 h, followed by exposure to 1) 40 microM tryptophan (0-60 min) or 2) 0-400 microM tryptophan (23 min) and microdissected for analysis of indole concentrations. Parallel studies examined effects of tryptophan on neuronal firing rates and interactions with drugs expected to alter synaptic concentrations of serotonin. Tryptophan resulted in time-dependent and concentration-dependent increases in serotonin and serotonin metabolites, effects that were correlated with restoration of tonic autoinhibition of dorsal raphe nucleus neuronal firing rates. Inhibition of serotonin synthesis resulted in time-dependent and concentration-dependent increases in 5-hydroxtryptophan that correlated with reversal of the tryptophan-mediated autoinhibition of neuronal firing rates. Tryptophan modulated effects of several drugs on neuronal firing rates, including a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist (WAY-100635), a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (pargyline), a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (fluoxetine), and a serotonin-releasing agent (methylenedioxymethamphetamine). These studies support the hypothesis that tonic autoregulation of serotonergic neuronal firing rates is dependent on tryptophan availability and characterise conditions necessary to study this process in vitro.
Agmatine, a decarboxylation product of arginine, is thought to be an important neuromodulator in the mammalian brain. It is proposed to exert neuroprotective, anxiolytic and antidepressant effects. The receptor-binding profile of agmatine is complex and includes interaction with alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline I(1) receptors. Furthermore, agmatine is an NMDA-receptor antagonist and inhibits nitric oxide synthase. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response is used as a measure of the pre-attentive information processing. PPI is lowered in schizophrenia and this impairment can be mimicked in experimental animals using the psychotomimetic drug phencyclidine (PCP). The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of agmatine per se on the PPI response and the effects of agmatine pre-treatment on a PCP-induced disruption of PPI. Agmatine administration (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg) did not change the PPI response or the acoustic startle response. However, pre-treatment with agmatine 20 mg/kg, but not agmatine 40 mg/kg, significantly attenuated a PCP (5 mg/kg)-induced disruption of the PPI response. These results emphasize the potential role of agmatine as a neuromodulator and potential target for novel treatments for brain disorders.
Treatment of obesity is still a large unmet medical need. Neuropeptide Y is the most potent orexigenic peptide in the animal kingdom. Its five cloned G-protein couple receptors are all implicated in the regulation of energy homeostasis evidenced by overexpression or deletion of neuropeptide Y or its receptors. Neuropeptide Y most likely exerts its orexigenic activity via the neuropeptide Y(1) and neuropeptide Y(5) receptors, although the involvement of the neuropeptide Y(2) and neuropeptide Y(4) receptors are also gaining importance. The lack of potent, selective, and brain penetrable pharmacologic agents at these receptors made our understanding of the modulation of food intake by neuropeptide Y-ergic agents elusive. BMS-193885 (1,4-dihydro-[3-[[[[3-[4-(3-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperidinyl]propyl]amino] carbonyl]amino]phenyl]-2,6-dimethyl-3,5-pyridinedicarboxylic acid, dimethyl ester) is a potent and selective neuropeptide Y(1) receptor antagonist. BMS-193885 has 3.3 nM affinity at the neuropeptide Y(1) receptor, acting competitively at the neuropeptide Y binding site. BMS-193885 increased the K(d) of [(125)I]PeptideYY from 0.35 nM to 0.65 nM without changing the B(max) (0.16 pmol/mg of protein) in SK-N-MC cells that endogenously express the neuropeptide Y(1) receptor. It is also found to be a full antagonist with an apparent K(b) of 4.5 nM measured by reversal of forskolin (FK)-stimulated inhibition of cAMP production by neuropeptide Y. Pharmacological profiling showed that BMS-193885 has no appreciable affinity at the other neuropeptide Y receptors, and is also 200-fold less potent at the alpha(2) adrenergic receptor. Testing the compound in a panel of 70 G-protein coupled receptors and ion channels resulted in at least 200-fold or greater selectivity, with the exception of the sigma(1) receptor, where the selectivity was 100-fold. When administered intracerebroventricularly or directly into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, it blocked neuropeptide Y-induced food intake in rats. Intraperitoneal administration of BMS-193885 (10 mg/kg) also reduced one-hour neuropeptide Y-induced food intake in satiated rats, as well as spontaneous overnight food consumption. Chronic administration of BMS-193885 (10 mg/kg) i.p. for 44 days significantly reduced food intake and the rate of body weight gain compared to vehicle treated control without developing tolerance or affecting water intake. These results provide supporting evidence that BMS-193885 reduces food intake and body weight via inhibition of the central neuropeptide Y(1) receptor. BMS-193885 has no significant effect of locomotor activity up to 20 mg/kg dose after 1 h of treatment. It also showed no activity in the elevated plus maze when tested after i.p. and i.c.v. administration, indicating that reduction of food intake is unrelated to anxious behavior. BMS-193885 has good systemic bioavailability and brain penetration, but lacks oral bioavailability. The compound had no serious cardiovascular adverse effect in rats and dogs up to 30 and 10 mg/kg dose, respectively, when dosed intravenously. These data demonstrate that BMS-193885 is a potent, selective, brain penetrant Y(1) receptor antagonist that reduces food intake and body weight in animal models of obesity both after acute and chronic administration. Taken together the data suggest that a potent and selective neuropeptide Y(1) receptor antagonist might be an efficacious treatment for obesity in humans.
The espins are Ca(2+)-resistant actin-bundling proteins that are enriched in hair cell stereocilia and sensory cell microvilli. Here, we report a novel localization of espins to a large proportion of rat type I spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) and their projections to the cochlear nucleus (CN). Moreover, we show that a fraction of these espins is in the nucleus of SGNs owing to the presence of splice-isoforms that contain a functional nuclear localization signal (NLS). Espin antibody labeled approximately 83% of type I SGNs, and the labeling intensity increased dramatically during early postnatal development. Type II SGNs and vestibular ganglion neurons were unlabeled. In the CN, espin-positive auditory nerve fibers showed a projection pattern typical of type I SGNs, with intense labeling in the nerve root region and posteroventral CN (PVCN). The anteroventral CN (AVCN) showed moderate labeling, whereas the dorsal CN showed weak labeling that was restricted to the deep layer. Espin-positive synaptic terminals were enriched around nerve root neurons and octopus cells in the PVCN and were also found on globular bushy cells and multipolar neurons in the PVCN and AVCN. SGNs expressed multiple espin transcripts and proteins, including splice-isoforms that contain a nonapeptide, which is rich in positively charged amino acids and creates a bipartite NLS. The nonapeptide was necessary to target espin isoforms to the nucleus and was sufficient to target an unrelated protein to the nucleus when joined with the upstream di-arginine-containing octapeptide. The presence of cytoplasmic and nuclear espins in SGNs suggests additional roles for espins in auditory neuroscience.
Noradrenaline (NA) acting via beta-adrenergic receptors (betaARs) plays an important role in the modulation of memory in the hippocampus. betaARs have been shown to be expressed in principal cells, but their distribution across different interneuron classes is unknown. We have used specific interneuron markers including calcium binding proteins (parvalbumin, calbindin, and calretinin) and neuropeptides (somatostatin, neuropeptide Y, and cholecystokinin) together with either beta1AR or beta2AR to determine the distribution of these receptors in all major subfields of the hippocampus. We found that beta1AR-expressing interneurons were more prevalent in the CA3 and CA1 regions of the hippocampus than in the dentate gyrus, where they were relatively sparse. beta2AR-expressing interneurons were more uniformly distributed between all three regions of the hippocampus. A high proportion of neuropeptide Y-containing interneurons in the dentate gyrus co-expressed beta2AR. beta1AR labeling was common in interneurons expressing somatostatin and parvalbumin in the CA3 and CA1 regions, particularly in the stratum oriens of these regions. beta2AR labeling was more likely to be found than beta1AR labeling in cholecystokinin-expressing interneurons. In contrast, calretinin-containing interneurons were virtually devoid of beta1AR or beta2AR labeling. These regional and interneuron type-specific differences suggest functionally distinct roles for NA in modulating hippocampal activity via activation of betaARs.
Although single-cell coding of reward-related information in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has been characterized to some extent, much less is known about the coding properties of orbitofrontal ensembles. We examined population coding of reward magnitude by performing ensemble recordings in rat OFC while animals learned an olfactory discrimination task in which various reinforcers were associated with predictive odor stimuli. Ensemble activity was found to represent information about reward magnitude during several trial phases, namely when animals moved to the reward site, anticipated reward during an immobile period, and received it. During the anticipation phase, Bayesian and template-matching reconstruction algorithms decoded reward size correctly from the population activity significantly above chance level (highest value of 43 and 48%, respectively; chance level, 33.3%), whereas decoding performance for the reward delivery phase was 76 and 79%, respectively. In the anticipation phase, the decoding score was only weakly dependent on the size of the neuronal group participating in reconstruction, consistent with a redundant, distributed representation of reward information. In contrast, decoding was specific for temporal segments within the structure of a trial. Decoding performance steeply increased across the first few trials for every rewarded odor, an effect that could not be explained by a nonspecific drift in response strength across trials. Finally, when population responses to a negative reinforcer (quinine) were compared with sucrose reinforcement, coding in the delivery phase appeared to be related to reward quality, and thus was not based on ingested liquid volume.
The mammalian spinal cord does not regenerate motor neurons that are lost as a result of injury or disease. Here we demonstrate that adult zebrafish, which show functional spinal cord regeneration, are capable of motor neuron regeneration. After a spinal lesion, the ventricular zone shows a widespread increase in proliferation, including slowly proliferating olig2-positive (olig2+) ependymo-radial glial progenitor cells. Lineage tracing in olig2:green fluorescent protein transgenic fish indicates that these cells switch from a gliogenic phenotype to motor neuron production. Numbers of undifferentiated small HB9+ and islet-1+ motor neurons, which are double labeled with the proliferation marker 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), are transiently strongly increased in the lesioned spinal cord. Large differentiated motor neurons, which are lost after a lesion, reappear at 6-8 weeks after lesion, and we detected ChAT+/BrdU+ motor neurons that were covered by contacts immunopositive for the synaptic marker SV2. These observations suggest that, after a lesion, plasticity of olig2+ progenitor cells may allow them to generate motor neurons, some of which exhibit markers for terminal differentiation and integration into the existing adult spinal circuitry.
Responses resulting from injury to the trigeminal nerve exhibit differences compared with those caused by lesion of other peripheral nerves. With the aim of elucidating the physiopathological mechanisms underlying cephalic versus extracephalic neuropathic pain, we determined the time course expression of proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-1beta, neuronal injury (ATF3), macrophage/microglial (OX-42), and satellite cells/astrocyte (GFAP) markers in central and ganglion tissues in rats that underwent unilateral chronic constriction injury (CCI) to either infraorbital nerve (IoN) (cephalic area) or sciatic nerve (SN) (extracephalic area). Whereas CCI induced microglial activation in both models, we observed a concomitant upregulation of IL-6 and ATF3 in the ipsilateral dorsal horn of the lumbar cord in SN-CCI rats but not in the ipsilateral spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve (Sp5c) in IoN-CCI rats. Preemptive treatment with minocycline (daily administration of 20 mg/kg, i.p., for 2 weeks) partially prevented pain behavior and microglial activation in SN-CCI rats but was ineffective in IoN-CCI rats. We show that IL-6 can upregulate OX-42 and ATF3 expression in cultured microglia and neurons from spinal cord, respectively, as well as in the dorsal horn after acute intrathecal administration of the cytokine. We propose that IL-6 could be one of the promoters of the signaling cascade leading to abnormal pain behavior in SN-CCI but not IoN-CCI rats. Our data further support the idea that different pathophysiological mechanisms contribute to the development of cephalic versus extracephalic neuropathic pain.
The proper wiring of the vertebrate brain represents an extraordinary developmental challenge, requiring billions of neurons to select their appropriate synaptic targets. In view of this complexity, simple vertebrate systems provide necessary models for understanding how synaptic specificity arises. The posterior lateral-line organ of larval zebrafish consists of polarized hair cells organized in discrete clusters known as neuromasts. Here we show that each afferent neuron of the posterior lateral line establishes specific contacts with hair cells of the same hair-bundle polarity. We quantify this specificity by modeling the neuron as a biased selector of hair-cell polarity and find evidence for bias from as early as 2.5 d after fertilization. More than half of the neurons form contacts on multiple neuromasts, but the innervated organs are spatially consecutive and the polarity preference is consistent. Using a novel reagent for correlative electron microscopy, HRP-mCherry, we show that these contacts are indeed afferent synapses bearing vesicle-loaded synaptic ribbons. Moreover, afferent neurons reassume their biased innervation pattern after hair-cell ablation and regeneration. By documenting specificity in the pattern of neuronal connectivity during development and in the context of organ regeneration, these results establish the posterior lateral-line organ as a vertebrate system for the in vivo study of synaptic target selection.
The neurobiological processes underlying mental imagery are a matter of debate and controversy among neuroscientists, cognitive psychologists, philosophers, and biologists. Recent neuroimaging studies demonstrated that the execution of mental imagery activates large frontoparietal and occipitotemporal networks in the human brain. These previous imaging studies, however, neglected the crucial interplay within and across the widely distributed cortical networks of activated brain regions. Here, we combined time-resolved event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging with analyses of interactions between brain regions (functional and effective brain connectivity) to unravel the premotor-parietal dynamics underlying spatial imagery. Participants had to sequentially construct and spatially transform a mental visual object based on either verbal or visual instructions. By concurrently accounting for the full spatiotemporal pattern of brain activity and network connectivity, we functionally segregated an early from a late premotor-parietal imagery network. Moreover, we revealed that the modality-specific information upcoming from sensory brain regions is first sent to the premotor cortex and then to the medial-dorsal parietal cortex, i.e., top-down from the motor to the perceptual pole during spatial imagery. Importantly, we demonstrate that the premotor cortex serves as the central relay station, projecting to parietal cortex at two functionally distinct stages during spatial imagery. Our approach enabled us to disentangle the multicomponential cognitive construct of mental imagery into its different cognitive subelements. We discuss and explicitly assign these mental subprocesses to each of the revealed effective brain connectivity networks and present an integrative neurobiological model of spatial imagery.


Central serotonin (5-HT) dysregulation contributes to the susceptibility for mental disorders, including depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder, and learning and memory deficits. We report that the formation of hippocampus-dependent spatial memory is compromised, but the acquisition and retrieval of contextual fear memory are enhanced, in central 5-HT-deficient mice. Genetic deletion of serotonin in the brain was achieved by inactivating Lmx1b selectively in the raphe nuclei of the brainstem, resulting in a near-complete loss of 5-HT throughout the brain. These 5-HT-deficient mice exhibited no gross abnormality in brain structures and had normal locomotor activity. Spatial learning in the Morris water maze was unaffected, but the retrieval of spatial memory was impaired. In contrast, contextual fear learning and memory induced by foot-shock conditioning was markedly enhanced, but this enhancement could be prevented by intracerebroventricular administration of 5-HT. Foot shock impaired long-term potentiation and facilitated long-term depression in hippocampal slices in WT mice but had no effect in 5-HT-deficient mice. Furthermore, bath application of 5-HT in 5-HT-deficient mice restored foot shock-induced alterations of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Thus, central 5-HT regulates hippocampus-dependent contextual fear memory, and 5-HT modulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity may be the underlying mechanism. The enhanced fear memory in 5-HT-deficient mice supports the notion that 5-HT deficiency confers susceptibility to posttraumatic stress disorder in humans.
Most neurons of the cerebral cortex are generated in the germinal zones near the embryonic cerebral ventricle and migrate radially to the overlying cortical plate. Initially, all dividing cells are attached to the surface of the embryonic ventricle (ventricular zone) until a subset of dividing cells (basal or intermediate neuronal progenitors, INPs), recognized by their immunoreactivity to Tbr2, detach from the ventricular surface and migrate a short distance to establish a secondary proliferative compartment (the subventricular zone). The mechanism that regulates migration of the Tbr2(+) INPs from the ventricular to the subventricular zones is unknown. Here, we show that INPs, unlike the postmitotic neurons that tend to lose the ATP response, continue to express the purinergic P2Y1 receptor. Furthermore, blocking ATP signaling by the P2Y1 blockers, MRS2176, suramin, and apyrase, reduces Ca(2+) transients and retards INP migration to the subventricular zone. In addition, genetic knockdown of the P2Y1 receptor by in vivo application of short hairpin RNA selectively impairs the migration of INPs to the subventricular zone. Together, these results suggest that intercellular ATP signaling is essential for the migration of INPs and the proper formation of the subventricular zone. Interference of ATP signaling or abnormal Ca(2+) fluctuations in INPs may play a significant role in variety of genetic or acquired cortical malformations.
Allosteric regulation of protein function is a fundamental phenomenon of major importance in many cellular processes. Such regulation is often achieved by ligand-induced conformational changes in multimeric proteins that may give rise to cooperativity in protein function. At the heart of allosteric mechanisms offered to account for such phenomenon, involving either concerted or sequential conformational transitions, lie changes in intersubunit interactions along the ligation pathway of the protein. However, structure-function analysis of such homooligomeric proteins by means of mutagenesis, although it provides valuable indirect information regarding (allosteric) mechanisms of action, it does not define the contribution of individual subunits nor interactions thereof to cooperativity in protein function, because any point mutation introduced into homooligomeric proteins will be present in all subunits. Here, we present a general strategy for the direct analysis of cooperativity in multisubunit proteins that combines measurement of the effects on protein function of all possible combinations of mutated subunits with analysis of the hierarchy of intersubunit interactions, assessed by using high-order double-mutant cycle-coupling analysis. We show that the pattern of high-order intersubunit coupling can serve as a discriminative criterion for defining concerted versus sequential conformational transitions underlying protein function. This strategy was applied to the particular case of the voltage-activated potassium channel protein (Kv) to provide compelling evidence for a concerted all-or-none activation gate opening of the Kv channel pore domain. An direct and detailed analysis of the contribution of high-order intersubunit interactions to cooperativity in the function of an allosteric protein has not previously been presented.
The hippocampus and entorhinal cortex have been linked to both memory functions and to spatial cognition, but it has been unclear how these ideas relate to each other. An important part of spatial cognition is the ability to keep track of a reference location using self-motion cues (sometimes referred to as path integration), and it has been suggested that the hippocampus or entorhinal cortex is essential for this ability. Patients with hippocampal lesions or larger lesions that also included entorhinal cortex were led on paths while blindfolded (up to 15 m in length) and were asked to actively maintain the path in mind. Patients pointed to and estimated their distance from the start location as accurately as controls. A rotation condition confirmed that performance was based on self-motion cues. When demands on long-term memory were increased, patients were impaired. Thus, in humans, the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex are not essential for path integration.


The MAP1 (microtubule-associated protein 1) family is a class of microtubule-binding proteins represented by mammalian MAP1A, MAP1B and the recently identified MAP1S. MAP1A and MAP1B are expressed in the nervous system and thought to mediate interactions of the microtubule-based cytoskeleton in neural development and function. The characteristic structural organization of mammalian MAP1s, which are composed of heavy- and light-chain subunits, requires proteolytic cleavage of a precursor polypeptide encoded by the corresponding map1 gene. MAP1 function in Drosophila appears to be fulfilled by a single gene, futsch. Although the futsch gene product is known to share several important functional properties with mammalian MAP1s, whether it adopts the same basic structural organization has not been addressed. Here, we report the identification of a Drosophila MAP1 light chain, LC(f), produced by proteolytic cleavage of a futsch-encoded precursor polypeptide, and confirm co-localization and co-assembly of the heavy chain and LC(f) cleavage products. Furthermore, the in vivo properties of MAP1 proteins were further defined through precise MS identification of a conserved proteolytic cleavage site within the futsch-encoded MAP1 precursor and demonstration of light-chain diversity represented by multiple LC(f) variants. Taken together, these findings establish conservation of proteolytic processing and structural organization among mammalian and Drosophila MAP1 proteins and are expected to enhance genetic analysis of conserved MAP1 functions within the neuronal cytoskeleton.

A series of beta-benzylaspartate derivatives were prepared from N-trityl-L-aspartate dimethyl ester and evaluated as inhibitors of neuronal glutamate transporter EAAT3. The result of the structure-activity studies suggests that the position occupied by the aromatic ring of beta-benzylaspartate within the binding site of EAAT3 may be different from that occupied by comparable groups in previously identified inhibitors, such as L-threo-benzyloxy aspartate (TBOA). Further, halogen substitutions at the 3-position of the aromatic ring of beta-benzylaspartate can increase the potency with which the analogues inhibit EAAT3.


Elucidation of the mechanisms responsible for aberrant phosphatidylcholine (PC) metabolism in cancer cells may allow identification of novel biomarkers of tumor progression and design of new targeted anticancer therapies. We recently reported up-regulation of PC-specific phospholipases in epithelial ovarian cancer cells (EOC) compared with nontumoral (normal or immortalized) counterparts (EONT). In the present study, we focused, in the same cell systems, on levels, subcellular localization, and activity of PC-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC), for which a key role in cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis has been shown in several mammalian cells. A 66-kDa PC-PLC isoform, detected in nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments of both EOC and EONT cells, accumulated on the external plasma membrane of cancer cells only, where it colocalized with beta1 integrin, in nonraft membrane domains. PC-PLC activity was 3-fold higher in total cell lysates and 5-fold higher in membrane-enriched fractions of EOC compared with EONT cells. Serum deprivation induced in EOC, but not in EONT, cells a 3-fold decrease in PC-PLC activity, associated with a 40% drop in S-phase fraction. The recovery of both variables to their original levels in serum-restimulated (or lysophosphatidic acid-restimulated) EOC cells was strongly delayed, for at least 24 h, in the presence of the PC-PLC inhibitor tricyclodecan-9-yl-potassium xanthate (D609). The S-phase of serum-restimulated EONT cells was not sensitive to D609. These findings warrant further investigations on the role of PC-PLC and on the effects of its inhibition on the pathways responsible for constitutive EOC cell stimulation and cell proliferation.
Kallmann syndrome (KS) is a human genetic disease that impairs both cell migration and axon elongation. The KAL-1 gene underlying the X-linked form of KS, encodes an extracellular matrix protein, anosmin-1, which mediates cell adhesion and axon growth and guidance in vitro. We investigated the requirement for kal1a and kal1b, the two orthologues of the KAL-1 gene in zebrafish, in the journey of the posterior lateral line primordium (PLLP). First, we established that while the accumulation of kal1a and kal1b transcripts was restricted to the posterior region of the migrating primordium and newly deposited neuromasts, the encoded proteins, anosmin-1a and anosmin-1b, respectively, were accumulated in the PLLP, in differentiated neuromasts and in a thin strip extending along the trail path of the PLLP. We also show that morpholino knockdown of kal1a, but not kal1b, severely impairs PLLP migration. However, while the PLLP of kal1a morphants displays highly abnormal morphology, proper expression of the cxcr4b gene suggests that kal1a does not play a role in PLLP differentiation. Conversely, wild-type levels of kal1a transcripts are detected in the PLLP of cxcr4b or sdf1a morphant embryos, strongly suggesting that kal1a transcription is independent of CXCR4b/SDF1a signalling. Last, moderate depletion of both anosmin-1a and SDF1a markedly affects PLLP migration providing strong evidence that anosmin-1a acts as an essential co-factor in SDF1a-mediated signalling pathways. Our findings, which demonstrate, for the first time, an essential requirement for anosmin-1a in PLLP migration, also strongly suggest that this protein plays a key role for proper activation of the CXCR4b/SDF1a and/or CXCR7/SDF1a signalling pathway in PLLP migration.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs with diverse regulatory roles. The miR-124 miRNA is expressed in neurons in the developing and adult nervous system. Here we show that overexpression of miR-124 in differentiating mouse P19 cells promotes neurite outgrowth, while blocking miR-124 function delays neurite outgrowth and decreases acetylated alpha-tubulin. Altered neurite outgrowth also was observed in mouse primary cortical neurons when miR-124 expression was increased, or when miR-124 function was blocked. In uncommitted P19 cells, miR-124 expression led to disruption of actin filaments and stabilization of microtubules. Expression of miR-124 also decreased Cdc42 protein and affected the subcellular localization of Rac1, suggesting that miR-124 may act in part via alterations to members of the Rho GTPase family. Furthermore, constitutively active Cdc42 or Rac1 attenuated neurite outgrowth promoted by miR-124. To obtain a broader perspective, we identified mRNAs downregulated by miR-124 in P19 cells using microarrays. mRNAs for proteins involved in cytoskeletal regulation were enriched among mRNAs downregulated by miR-124. A miR-124 variant with an additional 5' base failed to promote neurite outgrowth and downregulated substantially different mRNAs. These results indicate that miR-124 contributes to the control of neurite outgrowth during neuronal differentiation, possibly by regulation of the cytoskeleton.
By acting as a bioreactor, affording chemical and mechanical conditions for the reaction between dietary components, the stomach may be a source of new bioactive molecules. Using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry we here demonstrate that, under acidic gastric conditions, ethyl nitrite is formed in microM concentrations from the reaction of red wine or distilled alcoholic drinks with physiological amounts of nitrite. Rat femoral artery rings and gastric fundus strips dose-dependently relaxed upon exposure to nitrite:ethanol mixtures. In contrast, when administered separately in the same dose ranges, nitrite evoked only minor vasorelaxation while ethanol actually caused a slight vasoconstriction. Mechanistically, the relaxation effect was assigned to generation of nitric oxide (*NO) as supported by direct demonstration of *NO release from ethyl nitrite and the absence of relaxation in the presence of the soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, ODQ. In conclusion, these results suggest that ethanol in alcoholic drinks interacts with salivary-derived nitrite in the acidic stomach leading to the production of the potent smooth muscle relaxant ethyl nitrite. These findings reveal an alternative chemical reaction pathway for dietary nitrate and nitrite with possible impact on gastric physiology and pathophysiology.
Increased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) proteolytic activity contributes to the pathogenesis of many neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative conditions in the CNS. To fully understand this process, it is important to define the MMP expression profile of specific cell types, including the CNS-resident cells astrocytes and microglia. While previous studies have characterized astrocyte MMP expression by using mixed glial cultures, these results are likely complicated by the presence of contaminating microglia within these cultures. In the current study, we sought to clarify this complexity, by taking a novel approach to prepare pure astrocyte cultures entirely devoid of microglia, by promoting neural stem cell (NSC) differentiation into astrocytes. The MMP expression profile of mixed glial cultures, neurosphere-derived astrocytes, and pure microglia was characterized by RNase protection assay. This revealed that MMP gene expression is largely cell-type specific. Astrocytes constitutively expressed MMP-11, MMP-14, and MMP-2 and showed induction of MMP-3 in response to IL-1beta but did not respond to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In contrast, microglia constitutively expressed high levels of MMP-12 and showed strong induction of MMP-9 and MMP-14 in response to LPS. Gelatin zymography confirmed that LPS and TNF-alpha induced strong expression of MMP-9 in microglia but not astrocytes. In summary, these studies demonstrate that neurosphere-derived astrocytes represent an attractive alternative system in which to study astrocyte behavior in vitro. Using this system, we have shown that astrocytes and microglia express distinct sets of MMP genes and that microglia, not astrocytes, are the major source of MMP-9 in response to LPS or TNF-alpha.
Aggresomes are juxtanuclear inclusion bodies that have been proposed to act as staging grounds for the disposal of protein aggregates via the autophagic route. To examine whether the composition of an aggresome influences its clearance by autophagy, we ectopically expressed a variety of aggregation-prone proteins in cultured cells to generate aggresomes that differ in their protein content. We found that whereas aggresomes generated in cells expressing mutant huntingtin or mutant tau, or co-expressing synphilin-1 and alpha-synuclein, are amenable to clearance by autophagy, those produced in AIMP2 (p38)- or mutant desmin-expressing cells are apparently resistant to autophagic clearance. Notably, AIMP2 (p38)- and desmin-positive inclusions fail to recruit key components of the autophagic/lysosomal system. However, by altering the composition of inclusions, 'autophagy-resistant' aggresomes could be rendered 'autophagy-susceptible'. Taken together, our results demonstrate that not all aggresomes are efficiently primed for autophagic clearance and highlight a certain degree of selectivity for the supposedly non-discriminative pathway.
Endocannabinoids are involved in synaptic signaling and neuronal protection; however, our understanding of the mechanisms by which endocannabinoids protect neurons from harmful insults remains elusive. 2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endogenous cannabinoid and a full agonist for cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2), is a substrate for cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and can be metabolized by COX-2. Here we show, however, that 2-AG is also capable of suppressing elevation of hippocampal COX-2 expression in response to proinflammatory and excitotoxic stimuli. 2-AG prevents neurodegeneration from toxic assaults that elevate COX-2 expression and inhibits the COX-2 elevation-enhanced excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission. The action of 2-AG on suppression of COX-2 appeared to be mediated via the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein-coupled CB1 receptor and MAPK/NF-kappaB signaling pathways. Our results reveal that 2-AG functions as an endogenous COX-2 inhibitor protecting neurons from harmful insults by preventing excessive expression of COX-2, which provides a mechanistic basis for opening up new therapeutic approaches for protecting neurons from inflammation- and excitotoxicity-induced neurodegeneration.
Chemical openers for KCNQ potassium channels are useful probes both for understanding channel gating and for developing therapeutics. The five KCNQ isoforms (KCNQ1 to KCNQ5, or Kv7.1 to Kv7.5) are differentially localized. Therefore, the molecular specificity of chemical openers is an important subject of investigation. Native KCNQ1 normally exists in complex with auxiliary subunits known as KCNE. In cardiac myocytes, the KCNQ1-KCNE1 (IsK or minK) channel is thought to underlie the I(Ks) current, a component critical for membrane repolarization during cardiac action potential. Hence, the molecular and pharmacological differences between KCNQ1 and KCNQ1-KCNE1 channels have been important topics. Zinc pyrithione (ZnPy) is a newly identified KCNQ channel opener, which potently activates KCNQ2, KCNQ4, and KCNQ5. However, the ZnPy effects on cardiac KCNQ1 potassium channels remain largely unknown. Here we show that ZnPy effectively augments the KCNQ1 current, exhibiting an increase in current amplitude, reduction of inactivation, and slowing of both activation and deactivation. Some of these are reminiscent of effects by KCNE1. In addition, neither the heteromultimeric KCNQ1-KCNE1 channels nor native I(Ks) current displayed any sensitivity to ZnPy, indicating that the static occupancy by a KCNE subunit desensitizes the reversible effects by a chemical opener. Site-directed mutagenesis of KCNQ1 reveals that residues critical for the potentiation effects by either ZnPy or KCNE are clustered together in the S6 region overlapping with the critical gating determinants. Thus, the convergence of potentiation effects and molecular determinants critical for both an auxiliary subunit and a chemical opener argue for a mechanistic overlap in causing potentiation.
The Bowman-Birk inhibitor (BBI) is a soybean-derived serine protease inhibitor. BBI concentrate (BBIC) is an extract enriched with BBI, but predominantly contains other ingredients including several protease inhibitors. We previously found that BBIC administration to Lewis rats with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) significantly suppresses disease. In the present study we determined whether BBI mediates the suppressive effects of BBIC in EAE, evaluated its potential neuroprotective effects, and investigated mechanisms of BBI action. We tested effects of purified BBI on clinical and histopathological parameters of EAE in two models (relapsing/remitting EAE in SJL/J mice and chronic EAE in C57BL/6 mice). Effects of BBI were compared to BBIC in relapsing/remitting EAE, and effects of BBI on neuronal survival were examined during acute optic neuritis. Treatment with BBI in both EAE models significantly improved EAE disease parameters (onset, severity, weight loss, inflammation and demyelination). BBI significantly reduced the incidence of optic neuritis and prevented loss of retinal ganglion cells. In most experiments proliferation of immune cells derived from BBI-treated mice was significantly lower relative to control groups. Using Boyden's chamber assay we found that BBI inhibited invasiveness of activated splenocytes through the matrigel barrier. BBI also induced higher production of EAE-suppressive cytokine IL-10 by immune cells. These results demonstrate that BBI is the active component of BBIC that ameliorates clinical EAE. BBI reduces inflammation and attenuates neuronal loss, making it an excellent candidate for oral therapy in MS. BBI likely ameliorates EAE by inhibiting multiple pathways involved in disease pathogenesis.

The maximal information that the spike train of any neuron can pass on to subsequent neurons can be quantified as the neuronal firing pattern entropy. Difficulties associated with estimating entropy from small datasets have proven an obstacle to the widespread reporting of firing pattern entropies and more generally, the use of information theory within the neuroscience community. In the most accessible class of entropy estimation techniques, spike trains are partitioned linearly in time and entropy is estimated from the probability distribution of firing patterns within a partition. Ample previous work has focused on various techniques to minimize the finite dataset bias and standard deviation of entropy estimates from under-sampled probability distributions on spike timing events partitioned linearly in time. In this manuscript we present evidence that all distribution-based techniques would benefit from inter-spike intervals being partitioned in logarithmic time. We show that with logarithmic partitioning, firing rate changes become independent of firing pattern entropy. We delineate the entire entropy estimation process with two example neuronal models, demonstrating the robust improvements in bias and standard deviation that the logarithmic time method yields over two widely used linearly partitioned time approaches.
The analysis of extra-cellular neural recordings typically begins with careful spike sorting and all analysis of the data then rests on the correctness of the resulting spike trains. In many situations this is unproblematic as experimental and spike sorting procedures often focus on well isolated units. There is evidence in the literature, however, that errors in spike sorting can occur even with carefully collected and selected data. Additionally, chronically implanted electrodes and arrays with fixed electrodes cannot be easily adjusted to provide well isolated units. In these situations, multiple units may be recorded and the assignment of waveforms to units may be ambiguous. At the same time, analysis of such data may be both scientifically important and clinically relevant. In this paper we address this issue using a novel probabilistic model that accounts for several important sources of uncertainty and error in spike sorting. In lieu of sorting neural data to produce a single best spike train, we estimate a probabilistic model of spike trains given the observed data. We show how such a distribution over spike sortings can support standard neuroscientific questions while providing a representation of uncertainty in the analysis. As a representative illustration of the approach, we analyzed primary motor cortical tuning with respect to hand movement in data recorded with a chronic multi-electrode array in non-human primates. We found that the probabilistic analysis generally agrees with human sorters but suggests the presence of tuned units not detected by humans.
Attribution theory plays a central role in understanding cognitive processes that have emotional consequences; however, there has been very limited attention to its neural basis. After reviewing classical studies in social psychology in which attribution has been experimentally manipulated we developed a new approach that allows the investigation of state attributions and emotional consequences using neuroscience methodologies. Participants responded to the Erikson Flanker Task, but, in order to maintain the participant's beliefs about the nature of the task and to produce a significant number of error responses, an adaptive algorithm tuned the available time to respond such that, dependent on the subject's current performance, the negative feedback rate was held at chance level. In order to initiate variation in attribution participants were informed that one and the same task was either easy or difficult. As a result of these two different instructions the two groups differed significantly in error attribution only on the locus of causality dimension. Additionally, attributions were found to be stable over a large number of trials, while accuracy and reaction time remained the same. Thus, the new paradigm is particularly suitable for cognitive neuroscience research that evaluates brain behaviour relationships of higher order processes in 'simulated achievement settings'.
The properties of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons have been mostly investigated in culture of dissociated cells, and it is uncertain whether these cells maintain the electrophysiological properties of the intact DRG neurons. Few attempts have been made to record from DRG neurons in the intact ganglion using the patch clamp technique. In this study, rat DRGs were dissected and incubated for at least 1h at 37 degrees C in collagenase (10mg/ml). We used oblique epi-illumination to visualize DRG neurons and perform patch clamp recordings. All DRG neurons exhibited strong delayed rectifier potassium current and a high threshold for spike generation (-15 mV) that rendered the cells very weakly excitable, generating only one action potential upon strong current injection (&gt;300 pA). It is therefore possible that cultured DRG neurons, commonly used in studies of pain processing, may be hyperexcitable because they acquired &quot;neuropathic&quot; properties due to the injury induced by their dissociation. Electrical stimulation of the attached root produced an antidromic spike in the soma that could be blocked by intracellular hyperpolarization or high frequency stimulation. Imaging intracellular calcium concentration with Oregon Green BAPTA-1 indicates that antidromic stimulation caused a long-lasting increase in intracellular calcium concentration mostly near the cell membrane. This study describes a simple approach to examine the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties and intracellular calcium signaling in DRG neurons in the intact ganglion where the effects of somatic spike invasion can be studied as well.
Time-lapse imaging of living neurons both in vivo and in vitro has revealed that the growth of axons and dendrites is highly dynamic and characterized by alternating periods of extension and retraction. These growth dynamics are associated with important features of neuronal development and are differentially affected by experimental treatments, but the underlying cellular mechanisms are poorly understood. NeuroRhythmics was developed to semi-automate specific quantitative tasks involved in analysis of two-dimensional time-series images of processes that exhibit saltatory elongation. This software provides detailed information on periods of growth and nongrowth that it identifies by transitions in elongation (i.e. initiation time, average rate, duration) and information regarding the overall pattern of saltatory growth (i.e. time of pattern onset, frequency of transitions, relative time spent in a state of growth vs. nongrowth). Plots and numeric output are readily imported into other applications. The user has the option to specify criteria for identifying transitions in growth behavior, which extends the potential application of the software to neurons of different types or developmental stage and to other time-series phenomena that exhibit saltatory dynamics. NeuroRhythmics will facilitate mechanistic studies of periodic axonal and dendritic growth in neurons.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are the major components of extracellular matrix in the central nervous system. In the spinal cord under various types of injury, reactive gliosis emerges in the lesion accompanied by CSPG up-regulation. Several types of CSPG core proteins and their side chains have been shown to inhibit axonal regeneration in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we examined spatiotemporal expression of CSPGs in the spinal cord of transgenic (Tg) rats with His46Arg mutation in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene, a model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Immunofluorescence disclosed a significant up-regulation of neurocan, versican, and phosphacan in the ventral spinal cord of Tg rats compared with age-matched controls. Notably, Tg rats showed progressive and prominent accumulation of neurocan even at the presymptomatic stage. Immunoblotting confirmed the distinct increase in the levels of both the full-length neurocan and their fragment isoforms. On the other hand, the up-regulation of versican and phosphacan peaked at the early symptomatic stage, followed by diminishment at the late symptomatic stage. In addition, double immunofluorescence revealed a colocalization between reactive astrocytes and immunoreactivities for neurocan and phosphacan, especially around residual large ventral horn neurons. Thus, reactive astrocytes are suggested to be participants in the CSPG accumulation. Although the possible neuroprotective involvement of CSPG remains to be investigated, the present results suggest that both the reactive astrocytes and the differential accumulation of CSPGs may create a nonpermissive microenvironment for neural regeneration in neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS.
In amyloid-beta (Abeta)-stimulated microglial cells, blockade of chloride intracellular ion channel 1 (CLIC1) reverts the increase in tumor necrosis factor-alpha and nitric oxide (NO) production and results in neuroprotection of cocultured neurons. This effect could be of therapeutic efficacy in Alzheimer's disease (AD), where microglial activation may contribute to neurodegeneration, but it could reduce Abeta phagocytosis, which could facilitate amyloid plaque removal. Here, we analyzed the CLIC1 blockade effect on Abeta-stimulated mononuclear phagocytosis. In the microglial cell line BV-2, Abeta25-35 treatment enhanced fluorescent bead phagocytosis, which persisted also in the presence of IAA-94, a CLIC1 channel blocker. The same result was obtained in rat primary microglia and in BV2 cells, where CLIC1 expression had been knocked down with a plasmid producing small interfering RNAs. To address specifically the issue of Abeta phagocytosis, we treated BV-2 cells with biotinylated Abeta1-42 and measured intracellular amyloid by morphometric analysis. IAA-94-treated cells showed an increased Abeta phagocytosis after 24 hr and efficient degradation of ingested material after 72 hr. In addition, we tested Abeta1-42 phagocytosis in adult rat peritoneal macrophages. Also, these cells actively phagocytosed Abeta1-42 in the presence of IAA-94. However, the increased expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS), stimulated by Abeta, was reverted by IAA-94. In parallel, a decrease in NO release was detected. These results suggest that blockade of CLIC1 stimulates Abeta phagocytosis in mononuclear phagocytes while inhibiting the induction of iNOS and further point to CLIC1 as a possible therapeutic target in AD.
A growth factor may have different actions depending on developmental stage. We investigated this phenomenon in the interactions of fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) and neurotrophins on cochlear ganglion (CG) development. The portions of the otocyst fated to form the CG and cochlear epithelium were cocultured at embryonic day 11 (E11). Cultures were divided into groups fed with defined medium, with or without FGF2 and neurotrophin supplements, alone or in combination, for 7 days. We measured the number of migrating neuroblasts and distances migrated, neurite outgrowth, and axonlike processes. We used immunohistochemistry to locate neurotrophin 3 (NT3) and its high-affinity receptor (TrkC) in the auditory system, along with FGF2 and its R1 receptor, at comparable developmental stages in vitro and in situ from E11 until birth (P1) in the precursors of hair cells, support cells, and CG cells. Potential sites for interaction were localized to the nucleus, perikaryal cytoplasm, and cell surfaces, including processes and growth cones. Time-lapse imaging and quantitative measures support the hypothesis that FGF2 alone or combined with neurotrophins promotes migration and neurite outgrowth. Synergism or antagonism between NT3 and other factors suggest interactions at the receptor level. Formation of axons, endings, and synaptic vesicle protein 2 were increased by interactions of NT3 and FGF2. Similar experiments with a mutant overexpressor for FGF2 suggest that endogenous FGF2 supports migration and neurite outgrowth of CG neuroblasts as well as proliferation, leading to accelerated development. The findings suggest interactive and sequential roles for FGF2 and NT3.
Antipsychotic drugs produce acute behavioral effects through antagonism of dopamine and serotonin receptors, and long-term adaptive responses that are not well understood. The goal of the study presented here was to use Caenorhabditis elegans to investigate the molecular mechanism or mechanisms that contribute to adaptive responses produced by antipsychotic drugs. First-generation antipsychotics, trifluoperazine and fluphenazine, and second-generation drugs, clozapine and olanzapine, increased the expression of tryptophan hydroxylase-1::green fluorescent protein (TPH-1::GFP) and serotonin in the ADF neurons of C. elegans. This response was absent or diminished in mutant strains lacking the transient receptor potential vanilloid channel (TRPV; osm-9) or calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII; unc-43). The role of calcium signaling was further implicated by the finding that a selective antagonist of calmodulin and a calcineurin inhibitor also enhanced TPH-1::GFP expression. The ADF neurons modulate foraging behavior (turns/reversals off food) through serotonin production. We found that short-term exposure to the antipsychotic drugs altered the frequency of turns/reversals off food. This response was mediated through dopamine and serotonin receptors and was abolished in serotonin-deficient mutants (tph-1) and strains lacking the SER-1 and MOD-1 serotonin receptors. Consistent with the increase in serotonin in the ADF neurons induced by the drugs, drug withdrawal after 24-hr treatment was accompanied by a rebound in the number of turns/reversals, which demonstrates behavioral adaptation in serotonergic systems. Characterization of the cellular, molecular, and behavioral adaptations to continuous exposure to antipsychotic drugs may provide insight into the long-term clinical effects of these medications.
The ability to differentiate and give rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes is an inherent feature of neural stem cells, which raises hopes for cell-based therapies of neurodegenerative diseases. However, there are many hurdles to cross before such regimens can be applied clinically. A considerable challenge is to elucidate the factors that contribute to neural differentiation. In this study, we evaluated the possibility of steering neuronal maturation by growing cortical precursor cells on microscale surface patterns of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. When the cells were encouraged to extend processes along lines of ECM proteins, they displayed a much more mature morphology, less proliferation capacity, and greater expression of a neuronal marker in comparison with cells grown in clusters on ECM dots. This implied that the growth pattern alone could play a crucial role for neural differentiation. However, in spite of the strikingly different morphology, when performing whole-cell patch-clamp experiments, we never observed any differences in the functional properties between cells grown on the two patterns. These results clearly demonstrate that morphological appearances are not representative measures of the functional phenotype or grade of neuronal maturation, stressing the importance of complementary electrophysiological evidence. To develop successful transplantation therapies, increased cell survival is critical. Because process-bearing neurons are sensitive and break easily, it would be of clinical interest to explore further the differentiating capacity of the cells cultured on the ECM dot pattern, described in this article, which are devoid of processes but display the same functional properties as neurons with mature morphology.

Progenitor cells expressing the proteoglycan NG2 represent approximately 5% of the total cells in the adult brain, and are found both in grey and white matter regions where they give rise to oligodendrocytes. The finding that these cells receive synaptic contacts from excitatory and inhibitory neurons has not only raised major interest in the possible roles of these synapses, but also stimulated further research on the developmental and cellular functions of NG2-expressing (NG2(+)) progenitors themselves in the context of neural circuit physiology. Here we review recent findings on the functional properties of the synapses on NG2(+) cells in grey and white matter regions of the brain. In this review article we make an attempt to integrate current knowledge on the cellular and developmental properties of NG2(+) progenitors with the functional attributes of their synapses, in order to understand the physiological relevance of neuron-NG2(+) progenitor signal transmission. We propose that, although NG2(+) progenitors receive synaptic contact in all brain regions where they are found, their synapses might have different developmental and functional roles, probably reflecting the distinct functions of NG2(+) progenitors in the brain.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) has emerged as a promising tool to induce plastic changes that are thought in some cases to reflect N-methyl-d-aspartate-sensitive changes in synaptic efficacy. As in animal experiments, there is some evidence that the sign of rTMS-induced plasticity depends on the prior history of cortical activity, conforming to the Bienenstock-Cooper-Munro (BCM) theory. However, experiments exploring these plastic changes have only examined priming-induced effects on a limited number of rTMS protocols, often using designs in which the priming alone had a larger effect than the principle conditioning protocol. The aim of this study was to introduce a new rTMS protocol that gives a broad range of after-effects from suppression to facilitation and then test how each of these is affected by a priming protocol that on its own has no effect on motor cortical excitability, as indexed by motor-evoked potential (MEP). Repeated trains of four monophasic TMS pulses (quadripulse stimulation: QPS) separated by interstimulus intervals of 1.5-1250 ms produced a range of after-effects that were compatible with changes in synaptic plasticity. Thus, QPS at short intervals facilitated MEPs for more than 75 min, whereas QPS at long intervals suppressed MEPs for more than 75 min. Paired-pulse TMS experiments exploring intracortical inhibition and facilitation after QPS revealed effects on excitatory but not inhibitory circuits of the primary motor cortex. Finally, the effect of priming protocols on QPS-induced plasticity was consistent with a BCM-like model of priming that shifts the crossover point at which synaptic plasticity reverses from depression to potentiation. The broad range of after-effects produced by the new rTMS protocol opens up new possibilities for detailed examination of theories of metaplasticity in humans.
Dysfunction of the basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor circuit is a fundamental model to account for motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). Using high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the supplementary motor area (SMA), we investigated whether modulation of SMA excitability engenders therapeutic effects on motor symptoms in PD. In this double-blind placebo-controlled study, 99 patients were enrolled and assigned randomly to SMA-stimulation and sham-stimulation groups. For SMA stimulation, 20 trains of 50 transcranial magnetic stimuli at 5 Hz were delivered at an intensity of 110% active motor threshold for leg muscles in one session. The sham stimulation was 20 trains of electric stimuli given through electrodes fixed on the head to mimic the cutaneous sensation during rTMS. Each session of intervention was carried out once a week for the first 8 weeks. The SMA stimulation, in contrast to the sham stimulation, engendered significant improvements in total scores and motor scores of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Mean improvements in motor scores were 4.5 points in the SMA-stimulation group and -0.1 points in the sham-stimulation group. Results indicate that 5 Hz rTMS over SMA modestly improves motor symptoms in PD patients; SMA is a potential stimulation site for PD treatment.
We have evaluated the detailed mapping of the norepinephrine transporter (NET) in the human brain with (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) using a template method and the generation of functional ROIs based on the PET information. Brain PET measurements were performed from 90 to 210 min after the injection of (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) in 20 healthy male subjects. Binding potential (BP(ND)) was calculated as late time ratio of the target region to the reference region (caudate) minus one. BP(ND) template images were generated from mean parametric images obtained in a group of 10 subjects using SPM2. On the BP(ND)/MRI template images, functional ROIs based on several different BP(ND) thresholds for the thalamus and brainstem were generated automatically using PMOD 2.8 software in addition to anatomical ROIs. PET/MRI data of another group of 10 subjects were used to evaluate the validity of the template method and the functional ROIs. NET BP(ND) template images demonstrated higher binding in the medial thalamus whereas the anterior and the pulvinar divisions had lower binding. In the brainstem, high binding was detected around the cerebral aqueduct of the midbrain and within the dorsal pons, in a volume comprising locus coeruleus. Functional ROIs with higher BP(ND) thresholds naturally yielded higher BP(ND) and lower coefficients of variance than did anatomical ROIs. This study indicated that (S,S)-[(18)F]FMeNER-D(2) combined with a template method provides detailed information on the distribution of NET in vivo and that functional ROIs on the template would be useful in further clinical studies.
Using dynamic causal modelling (DCM), we have presented provisional evidence to suggest: (i) the mismatch negativity (MMN) is generated by self-organised interactions within a hierarchy of cortical sources [Garrido, M.I., Kilner, J.M., Kiebel, S.J., Stephan, K.E., Friston, K.J., 2007. Dynamic causal modelling of evoked potentials: a reproducibility study. NeuroImage 36, 571-580] and (ii) the MMN rests on plastic change in both extrinsic (between-source) and intrinsic (within source) connections (Garrido et al., under review). In this work we re-visit these two key issues in the context of the roving paradigm. Critically, this paradigm allows us to discount any differential response to differences in the stimuli per se, because the standards and oddballs are physically identical. We were able to confirm both the hierarchical nature of the MMN generation and the conjoint role of changes in extrinsic and intrinsic connections. These findings are consistent with a predictive coding account of repetition-suppression and the MMN, which gracefully accommodates two important mechanistic perspectives; the model-adjustment hypothesis [Winkler, I., Karmos, G., Ntnen, R., 1996. Adaptive modelling of the unattended acoustic environment reflected in the mismatch negativity event-related potential. Brain Res. 742, 239-252; Ntnen, R., Winkler, I., 1999. The concept of auditory stimulus representation in cognitive neuroscience. Psychol Bull 125, 826-859; Sussman, E., Winkler, I., 2001. Dynamic sensory updating in the auditory system. Brain Res. Cogn Brain Res. 12, 431-439] and the adaptation hypothesis [May, P., Tiitinen, H., Ilmoniemi, R.J., Nyman, G., Taylor, J.G., Ntnen, R., 1999. Frequency change detection in human auditory cortex. J. Comput. Neurosci. 6, 99-120; Jskelinen, I.P., Ahveninen, J., Bonmassar, G., Dale, A.M., Ilmoniemi, R.J., Levnen, S., Lin, F.H., May, P., Melcher, J., Stufflebeam, S., Tiitinen, H., Belliveau, J.W., 2004. Human posterior auditory cortex gates novel sounds to consciousness. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 101, 6809-6814].
Spatial transformation of MR brain images is a standard tool used in automated anatomical parcellation and other quantitative and qualitative methods to assess brain tissue volume, composition, and distribution. Despite widespread use, the quantitative effects of spatial transformation on regional brain volume estimates have been little studied. We report on the effects of transformation on regional brain volumes of 38 (17M, 21F) manually parcellated brains. After tracing in native space, regions of interest were transformed using a classic piecewise-linear Talairach transformation (Tal) or a nonlinear registration (AIR 5th order nonlinear algorithm, 158 parameters) to one of three Talairach-based templates: 1) Tal50, constructed from 50 Talairach-transformed normal brains, 2) the MNI 305 atlas, 3) IA38, constructed from MNI305-transformed scans of the 38 subjects used in this study. Native volumes were compared to the transformed volumes. We found that: 1) significant group-level differences can be obtained in transformed data sets that are in the opposite direction of effects obtained in native space; 2) the effects of transformation are heterogeneous across brain regions, even after covarying for total brain volume and age; 3) volumetric intra-class correlations between native and transformed brains differ by registration method and template choice, region, and tissue type; and 4) transformed brains produced hippocampus and corpus callosum volume proportions that were significantly different from those obtained in native space. Our results suggest that region-based volumetric differences uncovered by spatial-transformation-based methods should be replicated in native-space brains, and that meta-analyses should take into account whether volumes are determined using spatially-transformed images and/or specific automated methods.
In this fMRI study, we explore the connectivity among brain regions in a shape-from-motion task using the causal mapping analysis of structural equation modeling (SEM). An important distinction of our approach is that we have adapted SEM from its traditional role in confirmatory analysis to provide utility as an exploratory mapping technique. Our current approaches include (I) detecting brain regions that fit well in a hypothesized neural network model, and (II) identifying the best connectivity model at each brain region. We demonstrate that SEM effectively detects the dorsal and ventral visual pathways from the covariance structure in fMRI data, confirming previous neuroscience results. Further, our SEM mapping methodology found that the two pathways interact through specific cortical areas such as the superior lateral occipital cortex in the perception of shape from motion.

Human functional imaging studies are increasingly focusing on the identification of large-scale neuronal networks, their temporal properties, their development, and their plasticity and recovery after brain lesions. A method targeting large-scale networks in rodents would open the possibility to investigate their neuronal and molecular basis in detail. We here present a method to study such networks in mice with minimal invasiveness, based on the simultaneous recording of epicranial EEG from 32 electrodes regularly distributed over the head surface. Spatiotemporal analysis of the electrical potential maps similar to human EEG imaging studies allows quantifying the dynamics of the global neuronal activation with sub-millisecond resolution. We tested the feasibility, stability and reproducibility of the method by recording the electrical activity evoked by mechanical stimulation of the mystacial vibrissae. We found a series of potential maps with different spatial configurations that suggested the activation of a large-scale network with generators in several somatosensory and motor areas of both hemispheres. The spatiotemporal activation pattern was stable both across mice and in the same mouse across time. We also performed 16-channel intracortical recordings of the local field potential across cortical layers in different brain areas and found tight spatiotemporal concordance with the generators estimated from the epicranial maps. Epicranial EEG mapping thus allows assessing sensory processing by large-scale neuronal networks in living mice with minimal invasiveness, complementing existing approaches to study the neurophysiological mechanisms of interaction within the network in detail and to characterize their developmental, experience-dependent and lesion-induced plasticity in normal and transgenic animals.

Using functional imaging, we recently investigated how repeated painful stimulation over several days is processed, perceived and modulated in the healthy human brain. Considering that activation-dependent brain plasticity in humans on a structural level has already been demonstrated in adults, we were interested in whether repeated painful stimulation may lead to structural changes of the brain. 14 healthy subjects were stimulated daily with a 20 min pain paradigm for 8 consecutive days, using structural MRI performed on days 1, 8, 22 and again after 1 year. Using voxel based morphometry, we are able to show that repeated painful stimulation resulted in a substantial increase of gray matter in pain transmitting areas, including mid-cingulate and somatosensory cortex. These changes are stimulation dependent, i.e. they recede after the regular nociceptive input is stopped. This data raises some interesting questions regarding structural plasticity of the brain concerning the experience of both acute and chronic pain.
We performed an updated quantitative meta-analysis of 162 neuroimaging studies of emotion using a novel multi-level kernel-based approach, focusing on locating brain regions consistently activated in emotional tasks and their functional organization into distributed functional groups, independent of semantically defined emotion category labels (e.g., &quot;anger,&quot; &quot;fear&quot;). Such brain-based analyses are critical if our ways of labeling emotions are to be evaluated and revised based on consistency with brain data. Consistent activations were limited to specific cortical sub-regions, including multiple functional areas within medial, orbital, and inferior lateral frontal cortices. Consistent with a wealth of animal literature, multiple subcortical activations were identified, including amygdala, ventral striatum, thalamus, hypothalamus, and periaqueductal gray. We used multivariate parcellation and clustering techniques to identify groups of co-activated brain regions across studies. These analyses identified six distributed functional groups, including medial and lateral frontal groups, two posterior cortical groups, and paralimbic and core limbic/brainstem groups. These functional groups provide information on potential organization of brain regions into large-scale networks. Specific follow-up analyses focused on amygdala, periaqueductal gray (PAG), and hypothalamic (Hy) activations, and identified frontal cortical areas co-activated with these core limbic structures. While multiple areas of frontal cortex co-activated with amygdala sub-regions, a specific region of dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC, Brodmann's Area 9/32) was the only area co-activated with both PAG and Hy. Subsequent mediation analyses were consistent with a pathway from dmPFC through PAG to Hy. These results suggest that medial frontal areas are more closely associated with core limbic activation than their lateral counterparts, and that dmPFC may play a particularly important role in the cognitive generation of emotional states.
In this paper we introduce a new method to characterize the intravoxel anisotropy based on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). The proposed solution, under a fully Bayesian formalism, deals with the problem of joint Bayesian Model selection and parameter estimation to reconstruct the principal diffusion profiles or primary fiber orientations in a voxel. We develop an efficient stochastic algorithm based on the reversible jump Markov chain Monte Carlo (RJMCMC) method in order to perform the Bayesian computation. RJMCMC is a good choice for this problem because of its ability to jump between models of different dimensionality. This methodology provides posterior estimates of the parameters of interest (fiber orientation, diffusivities etc) unconditional of the model assumed. It also gives an empirical posterior distribution of the number of primary nerve fiber orientations given the DWI data. Different probability maps can be assessed using this methodology: 1) the intravoxel fiber orientation map (or orientational distribution function) that gives the probability of finding a fiber in a particular spatial orientation; 2) a three-dimensional map of the probability of finding a particular number of fibers in each voxel; 3) a three-dimensional MaxPro (maximum probability) map that provides the most probable number of fibers for each voxel. In order to study the performance and reliability of the presented approach, we tested it on synthetic data; an ex-vivo phantom of intersecting capillaries; and DWI data from a human subject.
Complicated Grief (CG) occurs when an individual experiences prolonged, unabated grief. The neural mechanisms distinguishing CG from Noncomplicated Grief (NCG) are unclear, but hypothesized mechanisms include both pain-related activity (related to the social pain of loss) and reward-related activity (related to attachment behavior). Bereaved women (11 CG, 12 NCG) participated in an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging scan, during grief elicitation with idiographic stimuli. Analyses revealed that whereas both CG and NCG participants showed pain-related neural activity in response to reminders of the deceased, only those with CG showed reward-related activity in the nucleus accumbens (NA). This NA cluster was positively correlated with self-reported yearning, but not with time since death, participant age, or positive/negative affect. This study supports the hypothesis that attachment activates reward pathways. For those with CG, reminders of the deceased still activate neural reward activity, which may interfere with adapting to the loss in the present.
The integrity of decision-making under emotionally evocative circumstances is critical to navigating complex environments, and dysfunctions in these processes may play an important role in the emergence and maintenance of various psychopathologies. The goal of the present study was to examine the spatial and temporal dynamics of neural responses to emotional stimuli and emotion-modulated response inhibition. High-density event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were measured as participants (N=25) performed an emotional Go/NoGo task that required button presses to words of a &quot;target&quot; emotional valence (i.e., positive, negative, neutral) and response inhibition to words of a different &quot;distractor&quot; valence. Using scalp ERP analyses in conjunction with source-localization techniques, we identified distinct neural responses associated with affective salience and affect-modulated response inhibition, respectively. Both earlier (approximately 300 ms) and later (approximately 700 ms) ERP components were enhanced with successful response inhibition to emotional distractors. Only ERPs to target stimuli differentiated affective from neutral cues. Moreover, source localization analyses revealed right ventral lateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) activation in affective response inhibition regardless of emotional valence, whereas rostral anterior cingulate activation (rACC) was potentiated by emotional valence but was not modulated by response inhibition. This dissociation was supported by a significant Region x Trial Type x Emotion interaction, confirming that distinct regional dynamics characterize neural responses to affective valence and affective response-inhibition. The results are discussed in the context of an emerging affective neuroscience literature and implications for understanding psychiatric pathologies characterized by a detrimental susceptibility to emotional cues, with an emphasis on major depressive disorder.
We assessed the locomotor capacity of the left half of the spinal cord hindlimb enlargement in low-spinal turtles. Forward swimming was evoked in the left hindlimb by electrical stimulation of the right dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) at the anterior end of the third postcervical spinal segment (D3). Animals were held by a band-clamp in a water-filled tank so that hindlimb movements could be recorded from below with a digital video camera. Left hindlimb hip and knee movements were tracked while electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded from left hip and knee muscles. In turtles with intact spinal cords, electrical stimulation of the right D3 DLF evoked robust forward swimming movements of the left hindlimb, characterized by rhythmic alternation between hip flexor (HF) and hip extensor (HE) EMG discharge, with knee extensor (KE) bursts occurring during the latter part of each HE-off phase. After removing the right spinal hemi-enlargement (D8-S2), DLF stimulation still evoked rhythmic locomotor movements and EMG bursts in the left hindlimb that included HF-HE alternation and KE discharge. However, post-surgical movements and EMG bursts had longer cycle periods, and movements showed lower amplitudes compared to controls. These results show that (1) sufficient locomotor CPG circuitry resides within the turtle spinal hemi-enlargement to drive major components of the forward swim motor pattern, (2) contralateral circuitry contributes to the excitation of the locomotor CPG for a given limb, and (3) a sufficient portion of the descending DLF pathway crosses over to the contralateral cord anterior to the hindlimb enlargement to activate swimming.
Vgf, is a neuro-endocrine specific gene encoding for a large protein precursor of different peptides. A role for VGF in pain modulation has been suggested from immunohistochemical studies showing VGF mRNA widely expressed in primary sensory neurons. In this study, the presence of VGF on the primary sensory afferents in mice was confirmed by showing its immunostaining in cultured neurons of dorsal root ganglia in secretory granule varicosities colocalized with Substance P. Moreover, the functional role of a C-terminal internal VGF-derived peptide, i.e. TLQP-21, was assessed by investigating its peripheral (1, 2, 4, 8mM) and central (1, 2, 4 mM) effects on inflammatory pain in the formalin test. A significant increase of pain-related licking response following peripheral injection of TLQP-21 (4 and 8mM) was observed in the second inflammatory phase of the test. In addition, an increase in licking response was detected when 4 mM of the peptide was injected alone without formalin. On the other hand, the central administration of TLQP-21 induced an U-shaped curve, with the dose of 2 mM being analgesic during the second phase. This study shows for the first time that a VGF-derived peptide may be involved in inflammatory pain in vivo and demonstrates a different action for TLQP21 at the peripheral and central levels of the nociceptive pathways.
Inflammation-mediated dysregulation of the kynurenine pathway has been implicated as a contributor to a number of major brain disorders. Consequently, we examined the impact of a systemic inflammatory challenge on kynurenine pathway enzyme expression in rat brain. Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) expression was induced in cortex and hippocampus following systemic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration. Whilst IDO expression was paralleled by increased circulating interferon (IFN)-gamma concentrations, IFN-gamma expression in the brain was only modestly altered following LPS administration. In contrast, induction of IDO was associated with increased central tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6 expression. Similarly, in cultured glial cells LPS-induced IDO expression was accompanied by increased TNF-alpha and IL-6 expression, whereas IFN-gamma was not detectable. These findings indicate that IFN-gamma is not required for LPS-induced IDO expression in brain. A robust increase in kynurenine-3-monooxygenase (KMO) expression was observed in rat brain 24h post LPS, without any change in kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II) expression. In addition, we report that constitutive expression of KAT II is approximately 8-fold higher than KMO in cortex and 20-fold higher in hippocampus. Similarly, in glial cells constitutive expression of KAT II was approximately 16-fold higher than KMO, and expression of KMO but not KAT II was induced by LPS. These data are the first to demonstrate that a systemic inflammatory challenge stimulates KMO expression in brain; a situation that is likely to favour kynurenine metabolism in a neurotoxic direction. However, our observation that expression of KAT II is much higher than KMO in rat brain is likely to counteract potential neurotoxicity that could arise from KMO induction following an acute inflammation.
This study sought to test for differences in regional brain activity between stage-1 sleep immediately following wake and immediately preceding stage-2 sleep. Data were collected during daytime fMRI sessions with simultaneous EEG acquisition. A stage-1 interval was defined as follows: &gt; or =30s of wake, immediately followed by &gt; or =60s of continuous stage 1, immediately followed by &gt; or =30s of stage 2. We compared brain activity between the first 30s of stage 1 (early stage 1), the last 30s of stage 1 (late stage 1), and isolated wake. A conjunction analysis sorted each voxel into one of a series of mutually exclusive categories that represented the various possible combinations of a significant increase, decrease, or no difference among these three states. The initial dataset consisted of 14 healthy volunteers. A total of 22 sessions in these participants yielded six stage-1 intervals (from four participants) that met criteria for inclusion in the analysis. There were multiple clusters of significant voxels. Examples include changes in default-mode network areas where activity increased compared to wake only in early stage 1 and a bilateral change in the hippocampus where activity increased compared to wake only in late stage 1. These results suggest that activity in anatomically identifiable, volumetric brain regions exhibit differences during stage-1 sleep that would not have been detected with the EEG. These differences may also have specific relevance to understanding the process of sleep onset as well as the neural mechanisms of performance lapses during sleep deprivation.

We show that weak common inhibition applied to a network of bursting neurons with strong desynchronizing connections can induce burst and complete synchronization. We demonstrate that the weak synchronizing inhibition from the same pacemaker neuron can win out over much stronger desynchronizing connections within the network, provided that the neuron's duty cycle is sufficiently long. We also gain insight into how the changes in burst duty cycles can trigger unexpected clusters of synchrony in bursting networks.
The Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) is a well-established self-report questionnaire measuring four temperament and three character dimensions. However, surprisingly few studies have used it to examine the personality of patients with schizophrenia, and none in Japan. Moreover, possible gender differences in personality among patients with schizophrenia have not been well documented. We administered the TCI to 86 Japanese patients with schizophrenia and 115 age- and gender-matched healthy controls to characterize personality traits in patients with schizophrenia and to examine their relationships with clinical variables, particularly gender and symptoms. Compared with controls, patients demonstrated significantly lower novelty seeking, reward dependence, self-directedness and cooperativeness, and higher harm avoidance and self-transcendence. Male patients showed even more pronounced personality alteration than female patients when both of them were compared with healthy people. Personality dimensions were moderately correlated with symptom dimensions assessed by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). These results, together with prior findings in several other countries, suggest that schizophrenia patients have a unique personality profile which appears to be present across cultures and that the greater alteration of personality in schizophrenia males might be related to their poorer social and community functioning.
Recent advances in social neuroscience suggest a link between empathy and the mirror neuron system (MNS). Impaired empathy is one of the core diagnostic features of psychopathic personality disorder. In the present study, we investigated whether psychopathic personality traits in a non-psychiatric sample were related to MNS function. Healthy participants viewed short videos known to activate the sensorimotor MNS for pain (a needle penetrating a human hand) while transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)-induced motor evoked potentials (MEP) were recorded as a measure of motor cortex excitability. Individual psychopathic personality traits were assessed using the Psychopathic Personality Inventory (PPI) and correlated with the MEP findings. Consistent with previous data, observation of the painful stimulus was associated with a significant reduction in the amplitude of the TMS-induced MEP. Interestingly, the level of corticospinal excitability modulation was positively correlated with individual scores on the coldheartedness subscale of the PPI, such that individuals with the greatest MEP reduction were the ones scoring highest on the coldheartedness measure. These data suggest the existence of a functional link between 'motor empathy' and psychopathy.
The extent to which synaptic activity can signal a sensory stimulus limits the information available to a neuron. We determined the contribution of individual synapses to sensory representation by recording excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in cerebellar granule cells during a time-varying, quantifiable vestibular stimulus. Vestibular-sensitive synapses faithfully reported direction and velocity, rather than position or acceleration of whole-body motion, via bidirectional modulation of EPSC frequency. The lack of short-term synaptic dynamics ensured a highly linear relationship between velocity and charge transfer, and as few as 100 synapses provided resolution approaching psychophysical limits. This indicates that highly accurate stimulus representation can be achieved by small networks and even within single neurons.


In the mammalian central nervous system, slow synaptic excitation involves the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). It has been proposed that C1-type transient receptor potential (TRPC1) channels underlie this synaptic excitation, but our analysis of TRPC1-deficient mice does not support this hypothesis. Here, we show unambiguously that it is TRPC3 that is needed for mGluR-dependent synaptic signaling in mouse cerebellar Purkinje cells. TRPC3 is the most abundantly expressed TRPC subunit in Purkinje cells. In mutant mice lacking TRPC3, both slow synaptic potentials and mGluR-mediated inward currents are completely absent, while the synaptically mediated Ca2+ release signals from intracellular stores are unchanged. Importantly, TRPC3 knockout mice exhibit an impaired walking behavior. Taken together, our results establish TRPC3 as a new type of postsynaptic channel that mediates mGluR-dependent synaptic transmission in cerebellar Purkinje cells and is crucial for motor coordination.
Intracellular recordings of neuronal membrane potential are a central tool in neurophysiology. In many situations, especially in vivo, the traditional limitation of such recordings is the high electrode resistance and capacitance, which may cause significant measurement errors during current injection. We introduce a computer-aided technique, Active Electrode Compensation (AEC), based on a digital model of the electrode interfaced in real time with the electrophysiological setup. The characteristics of this model are first estimated using white noise current injection. The electrode and membrane contribution are digitally separated, and the recording is then made by online subtraction of the electrode contribution. Tests performed in vitro and in vivo demonstrate that AEC enables high-frequency recordings in demanding conditions, such as injection of conductance noise in dynamic-clamp mode, not feasible with a single high-resistance electrode until now. AEC should be particularly useful to characterize fast neuronal phenomena intracellularly in vivo.
NMDA-dependent plasticity in VTA dopamine neurons has been hypothesized to be an important first step in the development of long-term changes in the brain reward circuitry that underlie addiction. Two papers from Zweifel et al. and Engblom et al. in this issue of Neuron raise new questions concerning the role of NMDA receptors within VTA dopamine neurons in mediating the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse.


Emerging evidence indicates that chemokines can regulate both the physiology and biochemistry of CNS neurons and glia. In the current study, Western blot analysis showed that in rat hippocampal neuronal/glial cultures the signal transduction pathway activated by CCL2, a chemokine expressed in the normal brain and at elevated levels during neuroinflammation, involves a G-protein coupled receptor, p38 MAPK as well as its immediate upstream kinase MKK3/6, and the downstream transcription factor CREB. ERK 1/2 and the transcription factors STAT1 and STAT3 do not play a prominent role. CCL2 also altered Ca(2+) influx and synaptic network activity in the hippocampal neurons. These results suggest an important role for p38 MAPK and CREB in hippocampal actions of CCL2.
An immunological function has been proposed for the choroid plexus (CP). In multiple sclerosis (MS) brains, CPs show (immunohistochemistry to HLA-DR, CD3, CD20, CD68, VCAM-1, CD138) T lymphocytes in vessels and stroma, VCAM-1 expression on endothelia, intense HLA-DR immunostaining on cells in CP stroma, among CP epithelium and on epiplexus cells. CPs in control or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis brains do not show such inflammatory changes. Intense CP inflammation is observed in viral encephalitis. Changes in MS CPs suggest persisting immune activation, with intensity similar to acute encephalitis, even in MS phases in which neurodegeneration prevails. In MS, CPs could represent a site for lymphocyte entry in the CSF and for CSF antigens presentation.
Recent imaging studies have shown that the human posterior parietal cortex (PPC) contains four topographically organized areas along the intraparietal sulcus (IPS1-IPS4). Using a memory-guided saccade paradigm, we confirmed the locations and retinotopic organization of IPS1-IPS4 and identified two additional areas, IPS5 and superior parietal lobule 1 (SPL1). IPS5 is located at the intersection of the intraparietal and postcentral sulcus; SPL1 branches off the IPS and extends into the superior parietal lobule. Both areas, as well as IPS1-IPS4, each contain a representation of the contralateral visual hemifield. We then probed core functions of the dorsal pathway in these areas, that is, the representation of eye movements and visual motion, to compare the functional characteristics of human PPC to physiologically and anatomically defined areas in monkey PPC. First, as in monkey PPC, a gradient representation of eye movements was found along the IPS with decreasing responses for saccades and increasing responses for smooth pursuit eye movements from posterior/medial to anterior/lateral. The greatest preference for saccades was found in SPL1 and for smooth pursuit in IPS5. Second, and again similar to monkey PPC, all topographically organized PPC areas responded to different types of motion including planar, circular, and radial optic flow, as assessed using adaptation paradigms. Areas in posterior IPS preferred radial optic flow over planar motion, whereas areas in anterior PPC did not show preference for a particular motion type. Together, our results indicate strikingly similar characteristics in the general functional organization of human and monkey PPC, but also reveal some notable differences.
During the early developmental stage, a neural circuit is established between the entorhinal cortex (EC) and the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) via the perforant pathway. However, the manner in which the perforant fibers are navigated has mostly remained a mystery. Here, we analyzed the functional role of a chemokine, namely, stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha), in the navigation of the perforant fibers. SDF-1alpha was observed to promote neurite growth, which is dependent on mDia1, in cultured entorhinal cortical neurons obtained from rats at postnatal day 0. We then used entorhino-hippocampal cocultures comprising green fluorescence-labeled EC and DG slices to assess the projection of the perforant fibers from the EC. Although the specific laminar termination of the entorhinal axons was observed with this system, the number of appropriately terminating entorhinal axons decreased significantly when the SDF-1alpha signaling pathway was blocked by a neutralizing antibody against SDF-1alpha or by the specific SDF-1alpha receptor antagonist AMD3100 (1,1'-[1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)]bis-1,4,8,11-tetra-azacyclotetradecane octahydrochloride). Furthermore, inhibition of the SDF-1alpha signaling pathway resulted in a decrease in the immunoreactivity for PSD-95 (postsynaptic density protein-95) in the DG, possibly because of a reduction in the number of projecting perforant fibers. These results demonstrate that SDF-1alpha plays a critical role in promoting the growth of perforant fibers from the EC to the DG.
Our ability to perceive weak signals is correlated among consecutive trials and fluctuates slowly over time. Although this &quot;streaking effect&quot; has been known for decades, the underlying neural network phenomena have remained largely unidentified. We examined the dynamics of human behavioral performance and its correlation with infraslow (0.01-0.1 Hz) fluctuations in ongoing brain activity. Full-band electroencephalography revealed prominent infraslow fluctuations during the execution of a somatosensory detection task. Similar fluctuations were predominant also in the dynamics of behavioral performance. The subjects' ability to detect the sensory stimuli was strongly correlated with the phase, but not with the amplitude of the infraslow EEG fluctuations. These data thus reveal a direct electrophysiological correlate for the slow fluctuations in human psychophysical performance. We then examined the correlation between the phase of infraslow EEG fluctuations and the amplitude of 1-40 Hz neuronal oscillations in six frequency bands. Like the behavioral performance, the amplitudes in these frequency bands were robustly correlated with the phase of the infraslow fluctuations. These data hence suggest that the infraslow fluctuations reflect the excitability dynamics of cortical networks. We conclude that ongoing 0.01-0.1 Hz EEG fluctuations are prominent and functionally significant during execution of cognitive tasks.
The amygdala has long been considered a primary locus in mediating the effects of previously drug-associated stimuli on subsequent drug-seeking behavior, and the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptor within the amygdala is important for the consolidation of associations between environmental conditioned stimuli and the effects of addictive drugs. Here we demonstrate that amygdala NMDA receptors are also necessary for the reconsolidation of drug-associated memories. Using a behavioral task that specifically measures the conditioned reinforcing properties of a previously drug-paired stimulus, we show that infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-APV) into the basolateral amygdala before a memory reactivation session disrupted the drug-associated memory and abolished subsequent instrumental responding for conditioned reinforcement. This effect was memory reactivation dependent, and the memory deficit persisted for at least 4 weeks. In contrast, infusion of d-APV immediately after the memory reactivation session had no effect on subsequent responding for conditioned reinforcement, indicating that NMDA receptors have a temporally limited role in the reconsolidation process. Furthermore, in molecular studies, we show that the reconsolidation-impairing effect of D-APV is correlated with downstream reductions in expression of the plasticity-related immediate early gene, zif268. We also demonstrate that systemic antagonism of NMDA receptors with MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-SH-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate] before memory reactivation subsequently reduced previously acquired instrumental drug-seeking behavior that depends on drug-associated cues acting as conditioned reinforcers. These data suggest that drugs modulating glutamatergic transmission at the NMDA receptor may be useful in the future treatment of relapse prevention in drug addiction through memory reconsolidation blockade.
Within the Ras superfamily of GTPases, Rap1 and Rap2 are the closest homologs to Ras. In non-neural cells, Rap signaling can antagonize Ras signaling. In neurons, Rap also seems to oppose Ras in terms of synaptic function. Whereas Ras is critical for long-term potentiation (LTP), Rap1 has been shown to be required for long-term depression (LTD), and Rap2 has been implicated in depotentiation. Moreover, active Rap1 and Rap2 cause loss of surface AMPA receptors and reduced miniature EPSC amplitude and frequency in cultured neurons. The role of Rap signaling in vivo, however, remains poorly understood. To study the function of Rap2 in the brain and in behavior, we created transgenic mice expressing either constitutively active (Rap2V12) or dominant-negative (Rap2N17) mutants of Rap2 in postnatal forebrain. Multiple lines of Rap2N17 mice showed only weak expression of the transgenic protein, and no phenotype was observed. Rap2V12 mice displayed fewer and shorter dendritic spines in CA1 hippocampal neurons, and enhanced LTD at CA3-CA1 synapses. Behaviorally, Rap2V12 mice showed impaired spatial learning and defective extinction of contextual fear, which correlated with reduced basal phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and blunted activation of ERK during fear extinction training. Our data support the idea that Rap2 opposes Ras-ERK signaling in the brain, thereby inhibiting dendritic spine development/maintenance, promoting synaptic depression rather than LTP, and impairing learning. The findings also implicate Rap2 signaling in fear extinction mechanisms, which are thought to be aberrant in anxiety disorders and posttraumatic stress disorder.

Estrogens are potent neuroprotective hormones and mitochondria are the site of cellular life-death decisions. As such, it is not surprising that we and others have shown that estrogens have remarkable effects on mitochondrial function. Herein we provide evidence for a primary effect of estrogens on mitochondrial function, achieved in part by the import of estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) into the mitochondria where it mediates a number of estrogen actions on this vital organelle. ERbeta is imported into the mitochondria, through tethering to cytosolic chaperone protein and/or through direct interaction with mitochondrial import proteins. In the mitochondria, ERbeta can affect transcription of critical mitochondrial genes through the interaction with estrogen response elements (ERE) or through protein-protein interactions with mitochondrially imported transcription factors. The potent effects of estrogens on mitochondrial function, particularly during mitochondrial stress, argues for a role of estrogens in the treatment of mitochondrial defects in chronic neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) and more acute conditions of mitochondrial compromise, like cerebral ischemia and traumatic brain injury.
Best described outside the nervous system, caveolins are structural proteins that form caveolae, functional microdomains at the plasma membrane that cluster related signaling molecules. Caveolin-associated proteins include G protein-coupled receptors and G proteins, receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as protein kinases, ion channels and various other signaling enzymes. Not surprisingly, a wide array of biological disorders are thought to be rooted in caveolin dysfunction. In addition, caveolins traffic and cluster estrogen receptors to caveolae. Interactions between the estrogen receptors ERalpha and ERbeta with caveolins appear critical in many non-neuronal cell types, e.g., disruption of normal function may underlie many forms of breast cancer. Recent findings suggest caveolins may also play an essential role in membrane estrogen receptor function in the nervous system. Not only are they expressed in neurons and glia, but different caveolin isoforms also appear necessary to generate distinct functional signaling complexes. With membrane estrogen receptors responsible for the efficient activation of a multitude of intracellular signaling pathways, which in turn influence a wide variety of nervous system functions, caveolin proteins are poised to act as the central coordinators of these processes.


The past few years have seen rapid advances in our understanding of the genetics and molecular biology of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) with the identification of the CCM1, CCM2, and CCM3 genes. Recently, we have recruited a patient with an X/3 balanced translocation that exhibits CCM. By fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis, sequence analysis tools and database mining procedures, we refined the critical region to an interval of 200-kb and identified the interrupted ZPLD1 gene. We detected that the mRNA expression level of ZPLD1 gene is consistently decreased 2.5-fold versus control (P=0.0006) with allelic loss of gene expression suggesting that this protein may be part of the complex signaling pathway implicated in CCM formation.
Cytidine-5-diphosphocholine (CDP-choline or citicholine) is an essential molecule that is required for biosynthesis of cell membranes. In adult humans it is used as a memory-enhancing drug for treatment of age-related dementia and cerebrovascular conditions. However the effect of CDP-choline on perinatal brain is not known. We administered CDP-choline to Long Evans rats each day from conception (maternal ingestion) to postnatal day 60 (P60). Pyramidal neurons from supragranular layers 2/3, granular layer 4 and infragranular layer 5 of somatosensory cortex were examined with Golgi-Cox staining at P240. CDP-choline treatment significantly increased length and branch points of apical and basal dendrites. Sholl analysis shows that the complexity of apical and basal dendrites of neurons is maximal in layers 2/3 and layer 5. In layer 4 significant increases were seen in basilar dendritic arborization. CDP-choline did not increase the number of primary basal dendrites on neurons in the somatosensory cortex. Primary cultures from somatosensory cortex were treated with CDP-choline to test its effect on neuronal survival. CDP-choline treatment neither enhanced the survival of neurons in culture nor increased the number of neurites. However significant increases in neurite length, branch points and total area occupied by the neurons were observed. We conclude that exogenous supplementation of CDP-choline during development causes stable changes in neuronal morphology. Significant increase in dendritic growth and branching of pyramidal neurons from the somatosensory cortex resulted in enlarging the surface area occupied by the neurons which we speculate will augment processing of sensory information.
Nutrient transporters and ABC efflux pumps at the blood-brain barrier are major determinants of drug penetration into the brain. Immunohistochemical analysis of transporter subcellular localization is challenging due to the close apposition of the luminal and abluminal microvessel plasma membranes. We employed in vivo perfusion of biotinylation reagent through rat brain microvessels to domain-specifically label proteins exposed on the microvessel luminal surface. Using this approach, we analyzed the luminal/abluminal localization of a number of blood-brain barrier transporters identified by quantitative PCR profiling as being highly expressed and enriched in rat brain endothelial cells compared with whole brain. We also examined the apical/basal-lateral distribution of transporters in the choroid plexus, a secondary site for transport of nutrients between the blood and CNS. We detected P-glycoprotein (Pgp) (Abcb1), ATP-binding cassette (Abc) g2, multidrug resistance protein (Mrp) 4 (Abcc4), glucose transporter 1 (Glut1) (Slc2a1), Lat1 (Slc7a5), and monocarboxylate transporter-1 (Mct1) (Slc16a1) on the luminal surface of rat cerebral microvessels by both immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting of in vivo biotinylated proteins. Mrp1 (Abcc1) appeared primarily abluminal by immunofluorescence staining, and was barely detectable in the biotinylated protein fraction. Organic anion transporter (Oat) 3 (Slc22a8), organic anion transporter polypeptide (Oatp) 2b1 (Slco2b1, Oatpb), and Mrp5 (Abcc5) were not detected on the luminal surface using either method, while Oatp1a4 (Slco1a4, Oatp2) appeared to partially localize to the microvessel lumen by immunofluorescence staining, but was not detected in the biotinylated protein fraction by Western blotting. Lat1, Mrp1 and Mrp4 were detected on the basal-lateral surface of lateral ventricle choroid plexus epithelial cells. Mrp5, Oct3 and Oatp2b1 (Oatpb) were detected in the ependymal cells lining the ventricle. We did not detect Pgp expression in choroid plexus by immunofluorescence staining. In vivo biotinylation provides a method for domain-specific labeling of luminal surface proteins within the capillaries of the blood-brain barrier, allowing for biochemical analysis of protein localization and facilitating optical discrimination of the luminal and abluminal endothelial surfaces.
Alpha2-delta (alpha2-delta) is a membrane-spanning auxiliary protein subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels found in muscle and brain. Of the four subtypes of alpha2-delta, only alpha2-delta types 1 and 2 (alpha2-delta-1 and alpha2-delta-2) bind the drugs gabapentin (Neurontin) and pregabalin (Lyrica). Although recent findings indicate that drug binding to alpha2-delta-1 is required for pharmacology of pregabalin and gabapentin, previous work has not addressed the location of alpha2-delta-1 protein within nervous tissues. A monoclonal antibody to alpha2-delta-1 revealed intense immunostaining in certain areas of rat brain, spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia, and skeletal muscle, with weaker staining in heart muscle, gut and liver. Little immunostaining was seen in spleen, kidney, thymus and lung. Staining was dense in some regions of the CNS including spinal dorsal horn, anterior olfactory nucleus, anterior amygdala, basolateral (ventral) amygdala and cortical amygdala, and the piriform, perirhinal, insular and entorhinal cortices. In hippocampus, staining was heterogeneous with greater density in areas of glutamate terminals (mossy fiber endings on CA3 pyramidal cells and perforant path endings on granule cells and CA1 stratum radiatum). Moderate staining occurred in the lateral posterior nucleus of the thalamus, superficial layers of neocortex, periaqueductal gray, substantia nigra, stria terminalis, nucleus accumbens shell and tegmental nucleus. We propose that areas of dense alpha2-delta-1 staining in brain and spinal cord are likely sites of action for the analgesic, anticonvulsant and anxiolytic-like actions of pregabalin and gabapentin in animal models.
There is growing evidence indicating that neurogenesis in adulthood is influenced by certain types of the central diseases such as neuroinflammation, however, its mechanism is not fully understood. This study was, therefore, designed to examine the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a bacterial endotoxin known to cause the neuroinflammation, on the neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of adult mice using the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) -pulse chase method. LPS failed to affect the number of BrdU-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus 2 h after BrdU injection, indicating no effects of LPS on the proliferation of the neural stem cells (NSCs). On the other hand, we found that LPS dose-dependently (0.1, 0.5, 1 mg/kg) decreased the number of BrdU-labeled cells 7 and 21 days after BrdU injection. We also observed that LPS increased cell death in the dentate gyrus using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining, suggesting that LPS impaired the survival of newborn cells derived from the NSCs. The double-immunostaining for BrdU and specific cell type markers revealed that LPS did not alter the commitment of the NSCs to the neurons and astrocytes. The systemic injection of indomethacin, a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, and NS398, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, but not SC560, a selective COX-1 inhibitor, did not only ameliorate LPS-induced suppression of the newborn cell survival, they fully protected against the LPS effect. Furthermore, the central injection of NS398 also ameliorated LPS-induced suppression of the newborn cell survival in the dentate gyrus. The treatment with LPS increased the expression of COX-2 protein 7 h and 7 days after the injection in the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that LPS impairs the survival of newly generated cells derived from the NSCs in the dentate gyrus without affecting the differentiation fate, and these effects of LPS were mediated presumably by COX-2 expression in the dentate gyrus.
Electroacupuncture (EA) has long been used to treat pain including neuropathic pain, but its mechanisms remain to be delineated. Since cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has been reported to increase in the spinal dorsal horn following spinal nerve ligation (SNL) and it may play a role in the neuropathic pain, we hereby tested the hypothesis that EA may affect COX-2 expression and hence neuropathic nociception after SNL. The results showed that EA (2 Hz) can significantly reduce mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity following lumbar L5 SNL in rats. Immunostaining demonstrated suppression of COX-2 expression in the spinal L4-L6 dorsal horn after EA. The present results suggest that EA may alleviate neuropathic hypersensitivity by, at least partially, inhibiting COX-2 expression in the spinal cord.
Opioid mechanisms are involved in the control of water and NaCl intake and opioid receptors are present in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN), a site of important inhibitory mechanisms related to the control of sodium appetite. Therefore, in the present study we investigated the effects of opioid receptor activation in the LPBN on 0.3 M NaCl and water intake in rats. Male Holtzman rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally in the LPBN were used. In normohydrated and satiated rats, bilateral injections of the opioid receptor agonist beta-endorphin (2 nmol/0.2 microl) into the LPBN induced 0.3 M NaCl (17.8+/-5.9 vs. saline: 0.9+/-0.5 ml/240 min) and water intake (11.4+/-3.0 vs. saline: 1.0+/-0.4 ml/240 min) in a two-bottle test. Bilateral injections of the opioid antagonist naloxone (100 nmol/0.2 microl) into the LPBN abolished sodium and water intake induced by beta-endorphin into the LPBN and also reduced 0.3 M NaCl intake (12.8+/-1.5 vs. vehicle: 22.4+/-3.1 ml/180 min) induced by 24 h of sodium depletion (produced by the treatment with the diuretic furosemide s.c.+sodium deficient food for 24 h). Bilateral injections of beta-endorphin into the LPBN in satiated rats produced no effect on water or 2% sucrose intake when water alone or simultaneously with 2% sucrose was offered to the animals. The results show that opioid receptor activation in the LPBN induces hypertonic sodium intake in satiated and normohydrated rats, an effect not due to general ingestive behavior facilitation. In addition, sodium depletion induced 0.3 M NaCl intake also partially depends on opioid receptor activation in the LPBN. The results suggest that deactivation of inhibitory mechanisms by opioid receptor activation in the LPBN releases sodium intake if excitatory signals were activated (sodium depletion) or not.
Acute spinal cord injury evolves rapidly to produce secondary damage even to initially spared areas. The result is loss of locomotion, rarely reversible in man. It is, therefore, important to understand the early pathophysiological processes which affect spinal locomotor networks. Regardless of their etiology, spinal lesions are believed to include combinatorial effects of excitotoxicity and severe stroke-like metabolic perturbations. To clarify the relative contribution by excitotoxicity and toxic metabolites to dysfunction of locomotor networks, spinal reflexes and intrinsic network rhythmicity, we used, as a model, the in vitro thoraco-lumbar spinal cord of the neonatal rat treated (1 h) with either kainate or a pathological medium (containing free radicals and hypoxic/aglycemic conditions), or their combination. After washout, electrophysiological responses were monitored for 24 h and cell damage analyzed histologically. Kainate suppressed fictive locomotion irreversibly, while it reversibly blocked neuronal excitability and intrinsic bursting induced by synaptic inhibition block. This result was associated with significant neuronal loss around the central canal. Combining kainate with the pathological medium evoked extensive, irreversible damage to the spinal cord. The pathological medium alone slowed down fictive locomotion and intrinsic bursting: these oscillatory patterns remained throughout without regaining their control properties. This phenomenon was associated with polysynaptic reflex depression and preferential damage to glial cells, while neurons were comparatively spared. Our model suggests distinct roles of excitotoxicity and metabolic dysfunction in the acute damage of locomotor networks, indicating that different strategies might be necessary to treat the various early components of acute spinal cord lesion.
Blocking specific K+ channels has been proposed as a promising strategy for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Using a computational virtual screening approach and electrophysiological testing, we found four Aconitum alkaloids are potent blockers of the delayed rectifier K+ channel in rat hippocampal neurons. In the present study, we first tested the action of the four alkaloids on the voltage-gated K+, Na+ and Ca2+ currents in rat hippocampal neurons, and then identified that talatisamine is a specific blocker for the delayed rectifier K+ channel. External application of talatisamine reversibly inhibited the delayed rectifier K+ current (IK) with an IC50 value of 146.0+/-5.8 microM in a voltage-dependent manner, but exhibited very slight blocking effect on the voltage-gated Na+ and Ca2+ currents even at the high concentration of 1-3 mM. Moreover, talatisamine exerted a significant hyperpolarizing shift of the steady-state activation, but did not influence the steady state inactivation of IK and its recovery from inactivation, suggesting that talatisamine had no allosteric action on IK channel and was a pure blocker binding to the external pore entry of the channel. Our present study made the first discovery of potent and specific IK channel blocker from Aconitum alkaloids. It has been argued that suppressing K+ efflux by blocking IK channel may be favorable for Alzheimer's disease therapy. Talatisamine can therefore be considered as a leading compound worthy of further investigations.
Repeated cocaine alters glutamate neurotransmission, in part, by reducing cystine-glutamate exchange via system xc-, which maintains glutamate levels and receptor stimulation in the extrasynaptic compartment. In the present study, we undertook two approaches to determine the significance of plasticity involving system xc-. First, we examined whether the cysteine prodrug N-acetylcysteine attenuates cocaine-primed reinstatement by targeting system xc-. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (1 mg/kg/200 microl, i.v.) under extended access conditions (6 h/day). After extinction training, cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) primed reinstatement was assessed in rats pretreated with N-acetylcysteine (0-60 mg/kg, i.p.) in the presence or absence of the system xc- inhibitor (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine (CPG; 0.5 microM; infused into the nucleus accumbens). N-acetylcysteine attenuated cocaine-primed reinstatement, and this effect was reversed by co-administration of CPG. Secondly, we examined whether reduced system xc- activity is necessary for cocaine-primed reinstatement. To do this, we administered N-acetylcysteine (0 or 90 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to 12 daily self-administration sessions (1 mg/kg/200 microl, i.v.; 6 h/day) since this procedure has previously been shown to prevent reduced activity of system xc-. On the reinstatement test day, we then acutely impaired system xc- in some of the rats by infusing CPG (0.5 microM) into the nucleus accumbens. Rats that had received N-acetylcysteine prior to daily self-administration sessions exhibited diminished cocaine-primed reinstatement; this effect was reversed by infusing the cystine-glutamate exchange inhibitor CPG into the nucleus accumbens. Collectively these data establish system xc- in the nucleus accumbens as a key mechanism contributing to cocaine-primed reinstatement.
Considerable effort has been directed toward the development of methods to selectively activate specific subtypes of neurons. Focus has been placed on the heterologous expression of proteins that are capable of exciting neurons in which they are expressed. Here we describe the heterologous expression of the invertebrate FMRFamide (H-phenylalanine-methionine-arginine-phenylalanine-NH2) -gated sodium channel from Helix aspersa (HaFaNaC) in hippocampal slice cultures. HaFaNaC was co-expressed with a fluorescent protein (green fluorescent protein (GFP), red fluorescent protein from Discosoma sp (dsRed) or mutated form of red fluorescent protein from Discosoma sp (tdTomato)) in CA3 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slice cultures using single cell electroporation. Pressure application of the agonist FMRFamide to HaFaNaC-expressing neuronal somata produced large prolonged depolarizations and bursts of action potentials (APs). FMRFamide responses were inhibited by amiloride (100 microM). In contrast, pressure application of FMRFamide to the axons of neurons expressing HaFaNaC produced no response. Fusion of GFP to the N-terminus of HaFaNaC showed that GFP-HaFaNaC was absent from axons. Bath application of FMRFamide produced persistent AP firing in HaFaNaC-expressing neurons. This FMRFamide-induced increase in the frequency of APs was dose-dependent. The concentrations of FMRFamide required to activate HaFaNaC-expressing neurons were below that required to activate the homologous acid sensing ion channel normally found in mammalian neurons. Furthermore, the mammalian neuropeptides neuropeptide FF and RFamide-related peptide-1, which have amidated RF C-termini, did not affect HaFaNaC-expressing neurons. Antagonists of NPFF receptors (BIBP3226) also had no effect on HaFaNaC. Therefore, we suggest that heterologous-expression of HaFaNaC in mammalian neurons could be a useful method to selectively and persistently excite specific subtypes of neurons in intact nervous tissue.
Even though it is generally thought that umami stimuli such as monosodium glutamate (MSG) and sweet stimuli such as sucrose are detected by different taste receptors, these stimuli appear to share taste qualities when amiloride (a sodium channel blocker) is present to reduce the sodium taste. Single fiber recording studies of the facial and glossopharyngeal nerves have shown that encoding of L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate (L-AP4), a potent mGluR4 agonist that elicits a taste quite similar to MSG, may occur in the same fibers that also encode sweet stimuli. This suggests that L-AP4 and sweet substances may activate common receptors or afferent signaling mechanisms. We report results of behavioral experiments that test this hypothesis. In the first study, rats conditioned to avoid sucrose or L-AP4 generalized the aversion to the opposite substance, indicating that both substances elicited similar tastes. However, two taste discrimination experiments showed that rats easily discriminated between sucrose and L-AP4 over a wide range of concentrations, even when the cue function of sodium associated with L-AP4 was reduced by amiloride and neutralized by adding equimolar concentrations of NaCl to sucrose. These data suggest that even though L-AP4 and sucrose elicit similar taste qualities, one or both substances also elicit other taste qualities not shared by the opposite substance. They also suggest that the taste-mGluR4 receptor and the signal pathway activated by L-AP4 are not the same as those activated by sucrose. These data, when combined with fiber recording data, suggest that there is convergence of L-AP4 and sucrose signals at some point early in the gustatory pathway.
Tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) synthesizes neuronal 5-HT and its genetic variance is associated with numerous behavioral traits and psychiatric disorders. This study characterized the functional significance of two nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (C74A and G223A) in rhesus monkey TPH2 (mTPH2). Four haplotypes of mTPH2 were cloned into pcDNA3.1 and stably transfected into PC12 cells. The levels of mTPH2 mRNA and protein were assessed by quantitative real-time PCR and Western blot, respectively, while the intracellular 5-HT was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The variant A-A haplotype showed significantly higher levels of mTPH2 mRNA and protein, as well as significantly higher 5-HT production than the wild-type C-G haplotype, while the other two variant haplotypes (C-A and A-G) also tended to produce more 5-HT than C-G haplotype when stably expressed in PC12 cells. Both C74A and G223A were predicted to change mRNA secondary structure, and analysis of the mRNA stability showed that the wild-type C-G haplotype mRNA degrades more quickly than mRNAs of the mutant mTPH2 haplotypes in both stable PC12 and transient HEK-293 cells. This study demonstrates that nonsynonymous SNPs in mTPH2 can affect mRNA stability. Our findings provide an additional mechanism by which nonsynonymous SNPs affect TPH2 function, and further our understanding of TPH2 gene expression regulation.

The aim of this study was to show the presence, distribution and function of the pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) and its receptors in the CNS and peripheral nervous system of the mollusk, Helix pomatia. PACAP-like and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide receptor (PAC1-R)-like immunoreactivity was abundant both in the CNS and the peripheral nervous system of the snail. In addition several non-neuronal cells also revealed PACAP-like immunoreactivity. In inactive animals labeled cell bodies were mainly found and in the neuropile of active animals dense immunostained fiber system was additionally detected suggesting that expression of PACAP-like peptide was affected by the behavioral state of the animal. RIA measurements revealed the existence of both forms of PACAP in the CNS where the 27 amino acid form was found to be dominant. The concentration of PACAP27 was significantly higher in samples from active animals supporting the data obtained by immunohistochemistry. In Western blot experiments PACAP27 and PACAP38 antibodies specifically labeled protein band at 4.5 kDa both in rat and snail brain homogenates, and additionally an approximately 14 kDa band in snail. The 4.5 kDa protein corresponds to PACAP38 and the 14 kDa protein corresponds to the preproPACAP or to a PACAP-like peptide having larger molecular weight than mammalian PACAP38. In matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight (MALDI TOF) measurements fragments of PACAP38 were identified in brain samples suggesting the presence of a large molecular weight peptide in the snail. Applying antibodies developed against the PACAP receptor PAC1-R, immunopositive stained neurons and a dense network of fibers were identified in each of the ganglia. In electrophysiological experiments, extracellular application of PACAP27 and PACAP38 transiently depolarized or increased postsynaptic activity of neurons expressing PAC1-R. In several neurons PACAP elicited a long lasting hyperpolarization which was eliminated after 1.5 h continuous washing. Taken together, these results indicate that PACAP may have significant role in a wide range of basic physiological functions in snail.
Current cognitive models suggest that the processing of dynamic facial attributes, including social signals such as gaze direction and facial expression, involves the superior temporal sulcus, whereas the processing of invariant facial structure such as the individuals' identity involves the fusiform face area. Where facial attractiveness, a social signal that may emerge from invariant facial structure, is processed within this dual-route model of face perception is uncertain. Here, we present two studies. First, we investigated the explicit judgments of facial attractiveness and attractiveness-motivated behavior in patients with acquired prosopagnosia, a deficit in familiar face recognition usually associated with damage to medial occipitotemporal cortex. We found that both abilities were impaired in these patients, with some weak residual ability for attractiveness judgments found only in those patients with unilateral right occipitotemporal or bilateral anterior temporal lesions. Importantly, deficits in attractiveness perception correlated with the severity of the face recognition deficit. Second, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging study in healthy subjects that included an implicit and explicit processing of facial attractiveness. We found increased neural activity when explicitly judging facial attractiveness within a number of cortical regions including the fusiform face area, but not the superior temporal sulcus, indicating a potential contribution of the fusiform face area to this judgment. Thus, converging neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence points to a critical role of the inferior occipitotemporal cortex in the processing of facial attractiveness.
In recent years it has become increasingly clear that variations in voltage-gated channels, as well as highly diverse geometrical properties, shape the way axons conduct action potentials to their terminals. Numerous cell types in the mammalian neocortex form a dense network of connections, and the properties of their axons may have an effect on the processing performed by this network. We studied the conduction properties of local, inter-laminar axons emanating from regular-spiking (RS) pyramidal neurons and Martinotti type inhibitory neurons (MCs) in layer 5 of the mouse barrel neocortex by comparing the patterns of their antidromic activation from layer 1. Both types of axons had similarly slow conduction velocities ( approximately 0.3 m/s), compatible with thin unmyelinated fibers. In addition, in both types of neurons, subthreshold changes of the somatic membrane potential affected the stimulus threshold for evoking an antidromic spike in layer 1, a distance of 600-800 microm. However, the axons differed considerably in their antidromic activation profiles. 1) The antidromic latency in RS neurons was highly consistent while some MCs display considerable activation-latency jitter; 2) RS neurons displayed a steeper increase in excitability to repeated 40 Hz stimulation; 3) RS neurons displayed a sharp, step-like antidromic activation threshold to both somatic voltage and stimulus intensity, while MCs displayed a gradual recruitment pattern. Morphological differences in the branching pattern of the two types of neurons may account for some of these distinctions. These results suggest differences among excitatory and inhibitory neocortical neurons in the computational tasks of their local axons.
In vitro, nitric oxide (NO) inhibits the firing rate of magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and this effect has been attributed to GABAergic activation. However, little is known about the direct effects of NO in MNCs. We used the patch-clamp technique to verify the effect of L-arginine, a precursor for NO synthesis, and N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME), an inhibitor of NOS, on spontaneous electrical activity of MNCs after glutamatergic and GABAergic blockade in Wistar rat brain slices. 6-Cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) (10 microM) and dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (dl-AP5) (30 microM) were used to block postsynaptic glutamatergic currents, and picrotoxin (30 microM) and saclofen (30 microM) to block ionotropic and metabotropic postsynaptic GABAergic currents. Under these conditions, 500 microM L-arginine decreased the firing rate from 3.7+/-0.6 Hz to 1.3+/-0.3 Hz. Conversely, 100 microM L-NAME increased the firing rate from 3.0+/-0.3 Hz to 5.8+/-0.4 Hz. All points histogram analysis showed changes in resting potential from -58.1+/-0.8 mV to -62.2+/-1.1 mV in the presence of L-arginine and from -59.8+/-0.7 mV to -56.9+/-0.8 mV by L-NAME. Despite the nitrergic modulator effect on firing rate, some MNCs had no significant changes in their resting potential. In those neurons, hyperpolarizing after-potential (HAP) amplitude increased from 12.4+/-1.2 mV to 16.8+/-0.7 mV by L-arginine, but without significant changes by L-NAME treatment. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that NO can inhibit MNCs independent of GABAergic inputs. Further, our results point to HAP as a potential site for nitrergic modulation.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) has been implicated in the etiology of chronic pain. In this regard, this study sought to characterize the localization and expression pattern for the NMDAR-2D subunit in a rat model of neuropathic pain. To this end, one group of rats, 3 weeks post-dorsal root rhizotomy (DRR) and a second group, 3 weeks post-spinal nerve ligation (SNL) and sham surgery, were generated. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and/or lumbar spinal cord were excised from DRR, nave, SNL and sham rats. Both immunohistochemical and real-time PCR analysis confirmed discrete NMDAR-2D subunit expression within the DRG and dorsal horn. However, no overt differences in staining intensity or expression were noted between DRG and spinal cord sections obtained from the different surgical groups. Results also demonstrated that the NMDAR-2D subunit was present within Neu N+ cells in the spinal cord and DRG, but excluded from cells labeled with the astrocytic marker, GFAP, and the microglial maker, OX-42. Lastly, the NMDAR-2D subunit was not co-expressed within neurokinin-1 (NK-1)+ or neurofilament-52 (N-52)+ neurons, but the antibody did co-label a number of isolectin B4+ (IB4) DRG cells. Together, these findings seem to suggest that the NMDAR-2D receptor subunit is present within the cell body region of a population of small diameter sensory afferents and post-synaptically within second order dorsal horn neurons. Although these data suggest that the NMDAR-2D subunit is well poised anatomically to modulate pain neurotransmission, the expression pattern for this subunit is not altered in rats demonstrating the presence of neuropathic-like pain behavior.
Benzodiazepines are known to produce amnesia by involvement of GABAergic system and by interference of long term potentiation (LTP). In this study, we examined effect of Bacopa monniera on downstream molecules of LTP after diazepam-induced amnesia in mice. We used a Morris water maze scale for evaluating the effect of Bacopa monniera after screening for muscle coordination by rota rod. The index of acquisition and retrieval was recorded as escape latency time (ELT). Behavioral results showed that Bacopa monniera (120 mg kg(-1) oral) significantly reversed diazepam- (1.75 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced amnesia in Morris water maze task. The molecular studies revealed that diazepam upregulated mitogen activated protein kinase (MAP kinase), phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), while it downregulated nitrite, nitrate, total nitrite, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) expression, phosphodiesterase, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) without affecting calmodulin levels. Bacopa monniera suppressed the diazepam induced upregulation of MAP kinase, pCREB and iNOS and attenuated the downregulation of nitrite. It did not affect the cAMP, PDE, nitrate, total nitrite, total CREB level. These behavioral findings displayed the reversal of diazepam-induced amnesia by Bacopa monniera without qualifying the molecular details although some downstream molecules of LTP may be involved.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, enhances the development of pain and hyperalgesia, although the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. This study evaluated the hypothesis that TNFalpha increases the sensitivity of rat trigeminal neurons to capsaicin via two different mechanisms triggered by either brief or sustained exposure to the cytokine. A brief (5 min) application of TNFalpha significantly sensitized capsaicin-evoked accumulation of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) (226.4+/-37.7 nM vs. 167.5+/-31.3 nM) and increased capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior (78.3+/-9.7 vs. 30.9+/-3.6 s) as compared with vehicle pretreatment (P&lt;0.01 for both). Sustained (30 min to 4 h) exposure of cultured neurons to TNFalpha evoked a twofold increase in mRNA transcript (P&lt;0.05) and protein levels (P&lt;0.01) of transient potential receptor vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1). This long-term up-regulation of TRPV1 expression by TNFalpha correlated with enhancement in capsaicin-induced calcitonin gene-related peptide release (P&lt;0.05). Demonstration of colocalization of TNFalpha receptor subtypes I and II with TRPV1 in almost all (&gt;90%) TRPV1 expressing neurons provides evidence consistent with a direct interaction on the same subpopulation of sensory neurons. In summary, our data demonstrate that TNFalpha directly enhances the sensitivity of rat trigeminal neurons to capsaicin via both rapid, non-genomic mechanisms as well as sustained genomic regulation in TRPV1 expression. Thus, increased sensitization and up-regulation of TRPV1 constitutes a potential mechanism by which TNFalpha mediates inflammatory hyperalgesia and pain.
Recently we have shown that nitrous oxide (N2O) was able to block the expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. Because dopamine (DA) has also been associated with the positive place conditioning we hypothesize that exposure to N2O would be significantly associated with a modification of extracellular level of DA. Unbiased place conditioning method was used for mice and rats. Levels of DA, in the nucleus accumbens (Nac), in awake and freely moving rats during positive place conditioning after morphine chronic treatment has been measured by microdialysis. Expression of morphine-induced CPP was totally abolished in mice and rats exposed to N2O. Results of animals placed in the morphine-paired compartment showed a 75% increase in the extracellular levels of DA, which was blocked by exposure of animals to N2O. In conclusion we showed the capacity of N2O to block the expression of morphine-induced CPP in mice and in rats. Then we demonstrated an increase of DA extracellular level in the Nac when animals were placed in the morphine-paired compartment and these increase of DA level was blocked by N2O.
DYT1 dystonia is caused by a single GAG deletion in exon 5 of TOR1A, the gene encoding torsinA, a putative chaperone protein. In this study, central and peripheral nervous system perturbations (transient forebrain ischemia and sciatic nerve transection, respectively) were used to examine the systems biology of torsinA in rats. After forebrain ischemia, quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction identified increased torsinA transcript levels in hippocampus, cerebral cortex, thalamus, striatum, and cerebellum at 24 h and 7 days. Expression declined toward sham values by 14 days in striatum, thalamus and cortex, and by 21 days in cerebellum and hippocampus. TorsinA transcripts were localized to dentate granule cells and pyramidal neurons in control hippocampus and were moderately elevated in these cell populations at 24 h after ischemia, after which CA1 expression was reduced, consistent with the loss of this vulnerable neuronal population. Increased in situ hybridization signal in CA1 stratum radiatum, stratum lacunosum-moleculare, and stratum oriens at 7 days after ischemia was correlated with the detection of torsinA immunoreactivity in interneurons and reactive astrocytes at 7 and 14 days. Sciatic nerve transection increased torsinA transcript levels between 24 h and 7 days in both ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal root ganglia (DRG). However, increased torsinA immunoreactivity was localized to both ganglion cells and satellite cells in ipsilateral DRG but was restricted to satellite cells contralaterally. These results suggest that torsinA participates in the response of neural tissue to central and peripheral insults and its sustained up-regulation indicates that torsinA may contribute to remodeling of neuronal circuitry. The striking induction of torsinA in astrocytes and satellite cells points to the potential involvement of glial elements in the pathobiology of DYT1 dystonia.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) signals are highly subject-specific and vary considerably even between recording sessions of the same user within the same experimental paradigm. This challenges a stable operation of Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) systems. The classical approach is to train users by neurofeedback to produce fixed stereotypical patterns of brain activity. In the machine learning approach, a widely adapted method for dealing with those variances is to record a so called calibration measurement on the beginning of each session in order to optimize spatial filters and classifiers specifically for each subject and each day. This adaptation of the system to the individual brain signature of each user relieves from the need of extensive user training. In this paper we suggest a new method that overcomes the requirement of these time-consuming calibration recordings for long-term BCI users. The method takes advantage of knowledge collected in previous sessions: By a novel technique, prototypical spatial filters are determined which have better generalization properties compared to single-session filters. In particular, they can be used in follow-up sessions without the need to recalibrate the system. This way the calibration periods can be dramatically shortened or even completely omitted for these 'experienced' BCI users. The feasibility of our novel approach is demonstrated with a series of online BCI experiments. Although performed without any calibration measurement at all, no loss of classification performance was observed.
CK2 is a ubiquitous and pleiotropic Ser/Thr-specific protein kinase that phosphorylates more than 300 protein substrates at sites specified by an acidic consensus sequence in which positions n + 3 and n + 1 are particularly important. Recognition of substrates by CK2 is known to rely on basic residues located in the catalytic site of the alpha subunit which make electrostatic contacts with the negative charges in the substrate consensus sequence, thereby assuring optimal binding; the regulatory beta subunit is believed to play a protective and stabilizing role. We describe a biochemical and structural analysis of CK2-mediated phosphorylation of a 22-mer synthetic peptide corresponding to the N-terminal tail of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2beta. Results demonstrate that this peptide still displays phosphorylation features similar to full-length eIF2beta and the CK2 beta subunit also contributes to recognition of the protein substrate by establishing both polar and hydrophobic interactions with specificity determinants located downstream from the phosphoacceptor site. In particular, the N-terminal domain of the beta subunit appears to be of crucial importance for optimizing high-affinity phosphorylation of the eIF2beta peptide. This domain includes an acidic cluster whose electrostatic contacts with basic residues of the substrate attenuate intrasteric pseudosubstrate inhibition while strengthening substrate-kinase binding.
Parenting is the 'clean water' of healthy psychological development and parenting interventions remain the number one treatment at the individual and community levels for early-onset aggression and antisocial behaviour in children. However, recent progress in child psychopathology research is specifying a number of biological mechanisms that interact with environmental risk to influence pathways into aggression and antisocial behaviour. After a brief review of the parent training literature, we focus on child factors, especially callous-unemotional traits, that parse 'aggressive' children into more homogeneous groupings, and then review selected ideas about the origins of aggression coming from the neurosciences (such as neurobehavioural responsivity to emotional stimuli; hypothalamic-pituitary axis abnormalities influencing low cortisol and low serotonin production). We review human and, where relevant, animal models of neurobiological system changes with particular attention to developmental timing and interactions with environmental factors, especially parenting. Based on this innovative research, we then discuss a number of ideas that hold potential for interventions. We conclude that the future will see the development of interventions that aim for synergy between specific biological processes and psychological experiences as they unfold developmentally. The use of D-cycloserine in fear extinction and oxytocin in affiliative bonds is used as an example of these futuristic approaches.
This paper reviews existing psychophysiological studies of aggression and violent behaviour including research employing autonomic, electrocortical and neuroimaging measures. Robust physiological correlates of persistent aggressive behaviour evident in this literature include low baseline heart rate, enhanced autonomic reactivity to stressful or aversive stimuli, enhanced EEG slow wave activity, reduced P300 brain potential response and indications from structural and functional neuroimaging studies of dysfunction in frontocortical and limbic brain regions that mediate emotional processing and regulation. The findings are interpreted within a conceptual framework that draws on two integrative models in the literature. The first is a recently developed hierarchical model of impulse control (externalizing) problems, in which various disinhibitory syndromes including aggressive and addictive behaviours of different kinds are seen as arising from common as well as distinctive aetiologic factors. This model represents an approach to organizing these various interrelated phenotypes and investigating their common and distinctive aetiologic substrates. The other is a neurobiological model that posits impairments in affective regulatory circuits in the brain as a key mechanism for impulsive aggressive behaviour. This model provides a perspective for integrating findings from studies employing different measures that have implicated varying brain structures and physiological systems in violent and aggressive behaviour.
This paper addresses four common assumptions and related controversies regarding neurobiological factors explaining violence: (i) scholars often assume stability of individual differences in neurobiological factors pertaining to violence, yet much change occurs in aggression/violence during the life course, (ii) individual differences in aggression/violence reflect one or more underlying mechanisms that are believed to have neurobiological origins, yet there is little agreement about which underlying mechanisms apply best, (iii) the development of aggression/violence to some degree can be explained by social, individual, economic and environmental factors, yet it is unclear to what extent neurobiological factors can explain the escalation to, and desistance from, violence over and above social, individual, economic and environmental factors, and (iv) violence waxes and wanes in society over time, yet the explanation of secular differences in violence by means of neurobiological and other factors is not clear. Longitudinal analyses from the Pittsburgh Youth Study are used to illustrate several of these issues.
This paper will broadly review the currently available twin and adoption data on antisocial behaviour (AB). It is argued that quantitative genetic research can make a significant contribution to further the understanding of how AB develops. Genetically informative study designs are particularly useful for investigating several important questions such as whether: the heritability estimates vary as a function of assessment method or gender; the relative importance of genetic and environmental influences varies for different types of AB; the environmental risk factors are truly environmental; and genetic vulnerability influences susceptibility to environmental risk. While the current data are not yet directly translatable for prevention and treatment programmes, quantitative genetic research has concrete translational potential. Quantitative genetic research can supplement neuroscience research in informing about different subtypes of AB, such as AB coupled with callous-unemotional traits. Quantitative genetic research is also important in advancing the understanding of the mechanisms by which environmental risk operates.

Perceptual learning of visual features occurs when multiple stimuli are presented in a fixed sequence (temporal patterning), but not when they are presented in random order (roving). This points to the need for proper stimulus coding in order for learning of multiple stimuli to occur. We examined the stimulus coding rules for learning with multiple stimuli. Our results demonstrate that: (1) stimulus rhythm is necessary for temporal patterning to take effect during practice; (2) learning consolidation is subject to disruption by roving up to 4 h after each practice session; (3) importantly, after completion of temporal-patterned learning, performance is undisrupted by extended roving training; (4) roving is ineffective if each stimulus is presented for five or more consecutive trials; and (5) roving is also ineffective if each stimulus has a distinct identity. We propose that for multi-stimulus learning to occur, the brain needs to conceptually &quot;tag&quot; each stimulus, in order to switch attention to the appropriate perceptual template. Stimulus temporal patterning assists in tagging stimuli and switching attention through its rhythmic stimulus sequence.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder thought to be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. Loss of function mutations in the putative mitochondrial protein PINK1 (PTEN-induced kinase 1) have been linked to familial forms of PD, but the relation of PINK1 to mammalian mitochondrial function remains unclear. Here, we report that germline deletion of the PINK1 gene in mice significantly impairs mitochondrial functions. Quantitative electron microscopic studies of the striatum in PINK1(-/-) mice at 3-4 and 24 months revealed no gross changes in the ultrastructure or the total number of mitochondria, although the number of larger mitochondria is selectively increased. Functional assays showed impaired mitochondrial respiration in the striatum but not in the cerebral cortex at 3-4 months of age, suggesting specificity of this defect for dopaminergic circuitry. Aconitase activity associated with the Krebs cycle is also reduced in the striatum of PINK1(-/-) mice. Interestingly, mitochondrial respiration activities in the cerebral cortex are decreased in PINK1(-/-) mice at 2 years compared with control mice, indicating that aging can exacerbate mitochondrial dysfunction in these mice. Furthermore, mitochondrial respiration defects can be induced in the cerebral cortex of PINK1(-/-) mice by cellular stress, such as exposure to H(2)O(2) or mild heat shock. Together, our findings demonstrate that mammalian PINK1 is important for mitochondrial function and provides critical protection against both intrinsic and environmental stress, suggesting a pathogenic mechanism by which loss of PINK1 may lead to nigrostriatal degeneration in PD.
Evolutionary selection pressures have been one of the factors proposed to underlie sex differences in inhibitory control. Consequently, inhibitory control may vary as a function of the menstrual cycle and may be modulated by the stimuli being processed if these stimuli are related to reproductive success. We used functional MRI to study women's brain activation across the menstrual cycle on a GO/NOGO response inhibition task using attractive male and female faces as stimuli. We detected brain activity changes for both successful inhibitions and errors of commission that were unique to the male stimuli during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. That is, when pregnancy was possible women had superior inhibitory brain function and heightened detection of inhibitory failures when processing male stimuli. Moreover, we show that individual differences between females in sexual desire and social risk taking negatively correlate with error-related brain activity to the male stimuli during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. These results suggest an interaction between hormonal influences and stimulus-specific effects in producing an endophenotypic outcome predicted by evolutionary psychology, and suggest that the functioning of the brain's monitoring system can predict individual differences in both traits and real-world risk-taking behaviours.
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) system is altered in post-mortem brains of individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD), but the functional relevance of this observation remains to be elucidated. To this end, we tested whether administering agents that act on FGF receptors would have antidepressant-like effects in rodents. We microinjected either FGF2 (200 ng, i.c.v.) or the FG loop (FGL) of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) (5 microg, i.c.v.) into the lateral ventricle of rats and tested them on the forced swim test. Activating FGF receptors acutely had an antidepressant-like effect in the forced swim test. Furthermore, chronic FGF2 decreased depression-like behavior as assessed by two independent tests. Finally, the FGF system itself was altered after FGF2 administration. Specifically, there was an increase in FGFR1 mRNA in the dentate gyrus 24 h post-FGF2, suggesting the potential for self-amplification of the initial signal. These results support the potential therapeutic use of FGF2 or related molecules in the treatment of MDD and point to alternate mechanisms of neuronal remodeling that may be critical in this treatment.
Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that frequently move, divide, and fuse with one another to maintain their architecture and functions. However, the signaling mechanisms involved in these processes are still not well characterized. In this study, we analyze mitochondrial dynamics and morphology in neurons. Using time-lapse imaging, we find that Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels (VDCCs) causes a rapid halt in mitochondrial movement and induces mitochondrial fission. VDCC-associated Ca2+ signaling stimulates phosphorylation of dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) at serine 600 via activation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase Ialpha (CaMKIalpha). In neurons and HeLa cells, phosphorylation of Drp1 at serine 600 is associated with an increase in Drp1 translocation to mitochondria, whereas in vitro, phosphorylation of Drp1 results in an increase in its affinity for Fis1. CaMKIalpha is a widely expressed protein kinase, suggesting that Ca2+ is likely to be functionally important in the control of mitochondrial dynamics through regulation of Drp1 phosphorylation in neurons and other cell types.
The dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) is a major molecular target of the psychostimulant amphetamine (AMPH). AMPH, as a result of its ability to reverse DAT-mediated inward transport of DA, induces DA efflux thereby increasing extracellular DA levels. This increase is thought to underlie the behavioral effects of AMPH. We have demonstrated previously that insulin, through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling, regulates DA clearance by fine-tuning DAT plasma membrane expression. PI3K signaling may represent a novel mechanism for regulating DA efflux evoked by AMPH, since only active DAT at the plasma membrane can efflux DA. Here, we show in both a heterologous expression system and DA neurons that inhibition of PI3K decreases DAT cell surface expression and, as a consequence, AMPH-induced DA efflux.
We recently reported that the level of ZNF23, a KRAB-containing zinc finger protein, is reduced in human cancers and it inhibits cell growth by inducing cell cycle arrest. Here we showed that ZNF23 also induces apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. The protein level of ZNF23 in ovarian cancers was greatly down-regulated compared with that in the normal ovaries. Introduction of ZNF23 into ovarian cancer cells led to apoptosis as demonstrated by activation of caspase-3, nuclear condensation and formation of a sub-G1 peak. This apoptotic process was correlated with loss in mitochondrial membrane potential, cytochrome c release and caspase-9 activation. Furthermore, ZNF23 induced apoptosis partially via down-regulation of Bcl-XL. Thus, our results suggest that ZNF23 may also induce apoptosis to suppress tumor cell growth and points to the possibility that its down-regulation might facilitate ovarian cancer cell survival.
Because emotions enhance memory processes and music evokes strong emotions, music could be involved in forming memories, either about pieces of music or about episodes and information associated with particular music. A recent study in BMC Neuroscience has given new insights into the role of emotion in musical memory.
Skilled reaching for food is an evolutionary ancient act and is displayed by many animal species, including those in the sister clades of rodents and primates. The video describes a test situation that allows filming of repeated acts of reaching for food by the rat that has been mildly food deprived. A rat is trained to reach through a slot in a holding box for food pellet that it grasps and then places in its mouth for eating. Reaching is accomplished in the main by proximally driven movements of the limb but distal limb movements are used for pronating the paw, grasping the food, and releasing the food into the mouth. Each reach is divided into at least 10 movements of the forelimb and the reaching act is facilitated by postural adjustments. Each of the movements is described and examples of the movements are given from a number of viewing perspectives. By rating each movement element on a 3-point scale, the reach can be quantified. A number of studies have demonstrated that the movement elements are altered by motor system damage, including damage to the motor cortex, basal ganglia, brainstem, and spinal cord. The movements are also altered in neurological conditions that can be modeled in the rat, including Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. Thus, the rating scale is useful for quantifying motor impairments and the effectiveness of neural restoration and rehabilitation. Because the reaching act for the rat is very similar to that displayed by humans and nonhuman primates, the scale can be used for comparative purposes. from a number of viewing perspectives. By rating each movement element on a 3-point scale, the reach can be quantified. A number of studies have demonstrated that the movement elements are altered by motor system damage, including damage to the motor cortex, basal ganglia, brainstem, and spinal cord. The movements are also altered in neurological conditions that can be modeled in the rat, including Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. Thus, the rating scale is useful for quantifying motor impairments and the effectiveness of neural restoration and rehabilitation. Experiments on animals were performed in accordance with the guidelines and regulations set forth by the University of Lethbridge Animal Care Committee in accordance with the regulations of the Canadian Council on Animal Care. The experiment involves training rats to reach for food and then filming the movements used for reaching. 1. Long Evans laboratory rats are mildly deprived of food for 10 days, then adapted to a box containing a slot through which they can reach for food pellets. 2. After about 10 days of training the rats reach consistently and display a preference of one paw. 3. The reaching act is filmed using a high shutter speed (1,000 f/sec) and filming is done from a number of perspectives. 4. The reaching act is then replayed using frame by frame replay. 5. The movements are described in the accompanying video.
There is increasing evidence that the cholinergic habenulo-interpeduncular pathway and the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway may jointly mediate the reinforcing properties of addictive drugs. However, the effects of addictive drug on the functioning of the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway have not been well-characterized. Thus, several drugs of abuse (i.e., nicotine, cocaine, amphetamine) have been shown to alter the morphology of the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway, causing selective degeneration of the cholinergic neurons in this area. On the other hand, morphine was shown to alter the neurochemistry of the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway, inducing biphasic changes in acetylcholine release in the interpeduncular nucleus. In order to determine the effects of cocaine, amphetamine and nicotine on cholinergic neurotransmission in the habenulo-interpeduncular pathway, levels of acetylcholine were assessed during microdialysis in freely moving rats. Nicotine (0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg s.c.) produced a dose-dependent decrease in extracellular levels of acetylcholine, while methamphetamine (1 and 4 mg/kg i.p.) produced an increase in acetylcholine release in the interpeduncular nucleus. Cocaine (5 and 20 mg/kg i.p.) produced a biphasic effect on extracellular acetylcholine release, i.e., a low dose enhanced the release of acetylcholine and a high dose decreased its release. These results suggest that the habenulo-intepeduncular pathway may be a common target for drugs of abuse and, by modulating the mesolimbic pathway, may mediate unique aspects of the rewarding effects of different drugs.
In the lactating rat there is a dramatic increase in food intake that peaks at around day 15 postpartum, a time when pups are near weaning age, yet still fully dependant on maternal nourishment. We examined whether the orexigenic hormone ghrelin plays a role in increasing food intake during lactation. To do this, we compared plasma levels ghrelin, as well as brain and pituitary expression of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R 1a) rats in one of three groups: (1) dams whose litters were removed the day after giving birth (non-lactating); (2) dams whose litters were removed on day 13 postpartum (litter removed), and dams allowed keeping their litters (lactating). On day 15 postpartum, all dams were decapitated and trunk blood collected for plasma analysis of active ghrelin levels. Also, brain and pituitaries were collected and snap frozen using liquid nitrogen and stored at -80 degrees C before mRNA extraction and RT-PCR analysis. Results show no differences in ghrelin concentrations between lactating and non-lactating rats. Hypothalamic and pituitary expression of GHS-R 1a, however, was significantly increased in lactating animals compared to non-lactating animals. Interestingly, litter removed dams had higher levels of plasma ghrelin concentrations than either lactating or non-lactating females. Furthermore, GHS-R mRNA expression in these animals remained elevated in the pituitary but not the hypothalamus. These data suggest that the hypothalamus and pituitary of lactating rats are more sensitive to the effects of ghrelin, and that hypothalamic sensitivity to ghrelin depends on the presence of a suckling litter.
A brief sub-lethal ischaemic stimulus has been reported to protect against subsequent ischaemic damage in vivo, and in vitro following periods of hypoxia or oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Preconditioning against neurotoxic stimuli has been linked to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, since receptor blockade prevents the protection afforded by OGD, and low doses of NMDA treatment are capable of preconditioning. The current study demonstrated that NMDA preconditioning also protects against 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA), a generator of both excitotoxic and oxidative damage, in addition to glutamate. Cerebellar granule neuronal (CGN) cultures prepared from 8-day neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats were maintained for 8 days prior to NMDA stimulation for 6h. At 9 days in vitro (DIV), preconditioned and control cultures were subjected to a toxic insult (1 microM-10 mM glutamate or 1 microM-10 mM 3-NPA). Neuronal viability was assessed by use of a fluorescein diacetate assay. Protection was effective with 100 microM NMDA preconditioning for 6 h against 1-100 microM glutamate, and also against 1-500 microM 3-NPA. The study demonstrates that NMDA preconditioning can be beneficial against excitotoxic treatments, even when these are potentially complicated by associated oxidative damage and metabolic compromise, as is the case for 3-NPA.
Our ability to remember what we have seen is very limited. Most current views characterize this limit as a fixed number of items-only four objects-that can be held in visual working memory. We show that visual memory capacity is not fixed by the number of objects, but rather is a limited resource that is shared out dynamically between all items in the visual scene. This resource can be shifted flexibly between objects, with allocation biased by selective attention and toward targets of upcoming eye movements. The proportion of resources allocated to each item determines the precision with which it is remembered, a relation that we show is governed by a simple power law, allowing quantitative estimates of resource distribution in a scene.
To sustain or repair cooperation during a social exchange, adaptive creatures must understand social gestures and the consequences when shared expectations about fair exchange are violated by accident or intent. We recruited 55 individuals afflicted with borderline personality disorder (BPD) to play a multiround economic exchange game with healthy partners. Behaviorally, individuals with BPD showed a profound incapacity to maintain cooperation, and were impaired in their ability to repair broken cooperation on the basis of a quantitative measure of coaxing. Neurally, activity in the anterior insula, a region known to respond to norm violations across affective, interoceptive, economic, and social dimensions, strongly differentiated healthy participants from individuals with BPD. Healthy subjects showed a strong linear relation between anterior insula response and both magnitude of monetary offer received from their partner (input) and the amount of money repaid to their partner (output). In stark contrast, activity in the anterior insula of BPD participants was related only to the magnitude of repayment sent back to their partner (output), not to the magnitude of offers received (input). These neural and behavioral data suggest that norms used in perception of social gestures are pathologically perturbed or missing altogether among individuals with BPD. This game-theoretic approach to psychopathology may open doors to new ways of characterizing and studying a range of mental illnesses.

Nanotechnologies are emerging platforms that could be useful in measuring, understanding, and manipulating stem cells. Examples include magnetic nanoparticles and quantum dots for stem cell labeling and in vivo tracking; nanoparticles, carbon nanotubes, and polyplexes for the intracellular delivery of genes/oligonucleotides and protein/peptides; and engineered nanometer-scale scaffolds for stem cell differentiation and transplantation. This review examines the use of nanotechnologies for stem cell tracking, differentiation, and transplantation. We further discuss their utility and the potential concerns regarding their cytotoxicity.
In a recent paper in Nature Neuroscience, Jessberger et al. (2008) report that overexpression of ASCL1 (mash1) directs adult hippocampal progenitors to adopt an oligodendrocytic fate. The effect is specific to the hippocampal niche in vivo, indicating that cell-autonomous and niche-defined factors collaborate to instruct cell fate choices.


PDZ domain scaffold proteins are capable of assembling macromolecular protein complexes in diverse cellular processes through PDZ-mediated binding to a short peptide fragment at the carboxyl tail of target proteins. How each PDZ domain specifically recognizes its target protein(s) remains a major conceptual question, as at least a few out of the several hundred PDZ domains in each eukaryotic genome share overlapping binding properties with any given target protein. Here, we show that the domain-swapped dimerization of zonula occludens-1 PDZ2 generates a distinct interface that functions together with the well-separated canonical carboxyl tail-binding pocket in each PDZ unit in binding to connexin43 (Cx43). We further demonstrate that the charge-charge interaction network formed by residues in the PDZ dimer interface and upstream residues of the Cx43 peptide not only provides the unprecedented interaction specificity for the complex but may also function as a phosphorylation-mediated regulatory switch for the dynamics of the Cx43 gap junctions. Finally, we provide evidence that such domain-swapped dimer assembly also occurs in other PDZ domain scaffold proteins. Therefore, our findings present a new paradigm for understanding how some PDZ domain proteins specifically bind to and regulate the functions of their target proteins.
NR3 subtype glutamate receptors have a unique developmental expression profile, but are the least well-characterized members of the NMDA receptor gene family, which have key roles in synaptic plasticity and brain development. Using ligand binding assays, crystallographic analysis, and all atom MD simulations, we investigate mechanisms underlying the binding by NR3A and NR3B of glycine and D-serine, which are candidate neurotransmitters for NMDA receptors containing NR3 subunits. The ligand binding domains of both NR3 subunits adopt a similar extent of domain closure as found in the corresponding NR1 complexes, but have a unique loop 1 structure distinct from that in all other glutamate receptor ion channels. Within their ligand binding pockets, NR3A and NR3B have strikingly different hydrogen bonding networks and solvent structures from those found in NR1, and fail to undergo a conformational rearrangement observed in NR1 upon binding the partial agonist ACPC. MD simulations revealed numerous interdomain contacts, which stabilize the agonist-bound closed-cleft conformation, and a novel twisting motion for the loop 1 helix that is unique in NR3 subunits.
Fear extinction is a form of new learning that results in the inhibition of conditioned fear. Trait deficits in fear extinction are a risk factor for anxiety disorders. There are few examples of naturally occurring animal models of impaired extinction. The present study compared fear extinction in a panel of inbred mouse strains. This strain survey revealed an impairment in fear extinction in 129/SvImJ (129S1). The phenotypic specificity of this deficit was evaluated by comparing 129S1 and C57BL/6J for one-trial and multitrial fear conditioning, nociception, and extinction of conditioned taste aversion and an appetitive instrumental response. 129S1 were tested for sensitivity to the extinction-facilitating effects of extended training, as well as d-cycloserine and yohimbine treatment. To elucidate the neural basis of impaired 129S1 fear extinction, c-Fos and Zif268 expression was mapped after extinction recall. Results showed that impaired fear extinction in 129S1 was unrelated to altered fear conditioning or nociception, and was dissociable from intact appetitive extinction. Yohimbine treatment facilitated extinction in 129S1, but neither extended extinction training nor d-cycloserine treatment improved 129S1 extinction. After extinction recall, 129S1 showed reduced c-Fos and Zif268 expression in the infralimbic cortex and basolateral amygdala, and elevated c-Fos or Zif268 expression in central nucleus of the amygdala and medial paracapsular intercalated cell mass, relative to C57BL/6J. Collectively, these data demonstrate a deficit in fear extinction in 129S1 associated with a failure to properly engage corticolimbic extinction circuitry. This common inbred strain provides a novel model for studying impaired fear extinction in anxiety disorders.
The 5-HT(1A) receptor (5-HT(1A)R) is the most extensively characterized serotonin (5-HT) receptor mainly because of its involvement in the mode of action of antidepressants. The 5-HT(1A)R is confined to the somatodendritic domain of central neurons, where it mediates serotonin-evoked hyperpolarization. Our previous studies underlined the role of the short 5-HT(1A)R C-terminal domain in receptor targeting to dendrites. We used this 17 aa region as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen, and identified, for the first time, an intracellular protein interacting with the 5-HT(1A)R. This protein is homologous to the yeast Yif1p, previously implicated in vesicular trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi apparatus, but not yet characterized in mammals. We confirmed 5-HT(1A)R-Yif1B interaction by glutathione S-transferase pull-down experiments using rat brain extracts and transfected cell lines. Yif1B is highly expressed in the brain, and specifically in raphe 5-HT(1A)R-expressing neurons. Colocalization of Yif1B and 5-HT(1A)R was observed in small vesicles involved in transient intracellular trafficking. Last, inhibition of endogenous expression of Yif1B in primary neuron cultures by small interfering RNA specifically prevented the addressing of 5-HT(1A)R to distal portions of the dendrites, without affecting other receptors, such as sst2A, P2X(2), and 5-HT(3A) receptors. Together, our results provide strong evidence that Yif1B is a member of the ER/Golgi trafficking machinery, which plays a key role in specific targeting of 5-HT(1A)R to the neuronal dendrites. This finding opens up new pathways for the study of 5-HT(1A)R regulation by partner proteins and for the development of novel antidepressant drugs.
To further our understanding of the function of conscious experience we need to know which cognitive processes require awareness and which do not. Here, we show that an unconscious stimulus can trigger inhibitory control processes, commonly ascribed to conscious control mechanisms. We combined the metacontrast masking paradigm and the Go/No-Go paradigm to study whether unconscious No-Go signals can actively trigger high-level inhibitory control processes, strongly associated with the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Behaviorally, unconscious No-Go signals sometimes triggered response inhibition to the level of complete response termination and yielded a slow down in the speed of responses that were not inhibited. Electroencephalographic recordings showed that unconscious No-Go signals elicit two neural events: (1) an early occipital event and (2) a frontocentral event somewhat later in time. The first neural event represents the visual encoding of the unconscious No-Go stimulus, and is also present in a control experiment where the masked stimulus has no behavioral relevance. The second event is unique to the Go/No-Go experiment, and shows the subsequent implementation of inhibitory control in the PFC. The size of the frontal activity pattern correlated highly with the impact of unconscious No-Go signals on subsequent behavior. We conclude that unconscious stimuli can influence whether a task will be performed or interrupted, and thus exert a form of cognitive control. These findings challenge traditional views concerning the proposed relationship between awareness and cognitive control and stretch the alleged limits and depth of unconscious information processing.
Age-dependent alterations in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) are well documented, providing a likely neural basis for memory decline associated with aging. Studies of neural plasticity are also important to understand the neural basis of individual differences in aging, ranging from significant cognitive impairment to preservation of function on a par with younger adults. To examine the cellular mechanisms that distinguish such outcomes, we studied the induction of LTP in male outbred young and aged rats behaviorally characterized in hippocampal-dependent spatial learning. We evaluated, in vitro, the magnitude of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent and -independent forms of LTP induced in the Schaffer collateral to CA1 synapses. We found that age substantially reduces NMDAR-dependent LTP across the spectrum of cognitive outcomes, whereas increased NMDAR-independent LTP occurs distinctively in high-performing aged rats. Moreover, in young rats, behavioral performance correlates strongly with the magnitude of NMDAR-LTP, whereas NMDAR-independent LTP correlates with behavioral performance only in aged rats. Together with similar previous findings on the mechanisms for LTD in this model, these results support the notion that a shift from NMDAR-dependent to NMDAR-independent mechanisms for neural plasticity during aging is associated with better cognitive outcomes.
Spreading depression (SD) is wave of profound depolarization that propagates throughout brain tissue and can contribute to the spread of injury after stroke or traumatic insults. The contribution of Ca(2+) influx to SD differs depending on the stimulus, and we show here that Zn(2+) can play a critical complementary role in murine hippocampal slices. In initial studies, we used the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase inhibitor ouabain and found conditions in which SD was always prevented by L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers; however, Ca(2+) influx was not responsible for L-type effects. Cytosolic Ca(2+) increases were not detectable in CA1 neurons before SD, and removal of extracellular Ca(2+) did not prevent ouabain-SD. In contrast, cytosolic Zn(2+) increases were observed in CA1 neurons before ouabain-SD, and L-type channel block prevented the intracellular Zn(2+) rises. A slow mitochondrial depolarization observed before ouabain-SD was abolished by L-type channel block, and Zn(2+) accumulation contributed substantially to initial mitochondrial depolarizations. Selective chelation of Zn(2+) with N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN) abolished SD, implying that Zn(2+) entry can play a critical role in the generation of ouabain-SD. TPEN was most effective when synaptic activity was reduced by adenosine A(1) receptor activation, and a combination of Ca(2+) and Zn(2+) removal was required to prevent ouabain-SD when A(1) receptors were blocked. Similarly, Zn(2+) chelation could prevent SD triggered by oxygen/glucose deprivation but Zn(2+) accumulation did not contribute to SD triggered by localized high K(+) exposures. These results identify Zn(2+) as a new target for the block of spreading depolarizations after brain injury.
The highest incidence of seizures during lifetime is found in the neonatal period and neonatal seizures lead to a propensity for epilepsy and long-term cognitive deficits. Here, we identify potential mechanisms that elucidate a critical role for AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in epileptogenesis during this critical period in the developing brain. In a rodent model of neonatal seizures, we have shown previously that administration of antagonists of the AMPARs during the 48 h after seizures prevents long-term increases in seizure susceptibility and seizure-induced neuronal injury. Hypoxia-induced seizures in postnatal day 10 rats induce rapid and reversible alterations in AMPAR signaling resembling changes implicated previously in models of synaptic potentiation in vitro. Hippocampal slices removed after hypoxic seizures exhibited potentiation of AMPAR-mediated synaptic currents, including an increase in the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs as well as increased synaptic potency. This increased excitability was temporally associated with a rapid increase in phosphorylation at GluR1 S845/S831 and GluR2 S880 sites and increased activity of the protein kinases CaMKII (calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II), PKA, and PKC, which mediate the phosphorylation of these AMPAR subunits. Postseizure administration of AMPAR antagonists NBQX (2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfonyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline), topiramate, or GYKI-53773 [(1)-1-(4-aminophenyl)-3-acetyl-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-3,4-dihydro-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine] attenuated the AMPAR potentiation, phosphorylation, and kinase activation and prevented the concurrent increase in in vivo seizure susceptibility. Thus, the potentiation of AMPAR-containing synapses is a reversible, early step in epileptogenesis that offers a novel therapeutic target in the highly seizure-prone developing brain.
Neural synchronization is of wide interest in neuroscience and has been argued to form the substrate for conscious attention to stimuli, movement preparation, and the maintenance of task-relevant representations in active memory. Despite a wealth of possible functions, the mechanisms underlying synchrony are still poorly understood. In particular, in vitro preparations have demonstrated synchronization with no apparent periodicity, which cannot be explained by simple oscillatory mechanisms. Here, we investigate the possible origins of nonperiodic synchronization through biophysical simulations. We show that such aperiodic synchronization arises naturally under a simple set of plausible assumptions, depending crucially on heterogeneous cell properties. In addition, nonperiodicity occurs even in the absence of stochastic fluctuation in membrane potential, suggesting that it may represent an intrinsic property of interconnected networks. Simulations capture some of the key aspects of population-level synchronization in spontaneous network spikes (NSs) and suggest that the intrinsic nonperiodicity of NSs observed in reduced cell preparations is a phenomenon that is highly robust and can be reproduced in simulations that involve a minimal set of realistic assumptions. In addition, a model with spike timing-dependent plasticity can overcome a natural tendency to exhibit nonperiodic behavior. After rhythmic stimulation, the model does not automatically fall back to a state of nonperiodic behavior, but keeps replaying the pattern of evoked NSs for a few cycles. A cluster analysis of synaptic strengths highlights the importance of population-wide interactions in generating this result and describes a possible route for encoding temporal patterns in networks of neurons.
At the immature calyx of Held, the fast decay phase of a Ca(2+) transient induced by tetanic stimulation (TS) was followed by a period of elevated [Ca(2+)](i) for tens of seconds, referred to as posttetanic residual calcium (Ca(res)). We investigated the source of Ca(res) and its contribution to posttetanic potentiation (PTP). After TS (100 Hz for 4 s), posttetanic Ca(res) at the calyx of Held was largely abolished by tetraphenylphosphonium (TPP(+)) or Ru360, which inhibit mitochondrial Na(+)-dependent Ca(2+) efflux and Ca(2+) uniporter, respectively. Whereas the control PTP lasted longer than Ca(res), inhibition of Ca(res) by TPP(+) resulted in preferential suppression of the early phase of PTP, the decay time course of which well matched with that of Ca(res). TS induced significant increases in release probability (P(r)) and the size of the readily releasable pool (RRP), which were estimated from plots of cumulative EPSC amplitudes. TPP(+) or Ru360 suppressed the posttetanic increase in P(r), whereas it had little effect on the increase in RRP size. Moreover, the posttetanic increase in P(r), but not in RRP size, showed a linear correlation with the amount of Ca(res). In contrast, myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) inhibitors and blebbistatin reduced the posttetanic increase in RRP size with no effect on the increase in P(r). Application of TPP(+) in the presence of MLCK inhibitor peptide caused further suppression of PTP. These findings suggest that Ca(res) released from mitochondria and activation of MLCK are primarily responsible for the increase in P(r) and that in the RRP size, respectively.
Protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma), which is concentrated in interneurons of the inner part of lamina II of the dorsal horn, has been implicated in injury-induced allodynia, a condition wherein pain is produced by innocuous stimuli. Although it is generally assumed that these interneurons receive input from the nonpeptidergic, IB4-positive subset of nociceptors, the fact that PKCgamma cells do not express Fos in response to noxious stimulation suggests otherwise. Here, we demonstrate that the terminal field of the nonpeptidergic population of nociceptors, in fact, lies dorsal to that of PKCgamma interneurons. There was also no overlap between the PKCgamma-expressing interneurons and the transganglionic tracer wheat germ agglutinin which, after sciatic nerve injection, labels all unmyelinated nociceptors. However, transganglionic transport of the beta-subunit of cholera toxin, which marks the medium-diameter and large-diameter myelinated afferents that transmit non-noxious information, revealed extensive overlap with the layer of PKCgamma interneurons. Furthermore, expression of a transneuronal tracer in myelinated afferents resulted in labeling of PKCgamma interneurons. Light and electron microscopic double labeling further showed that the VGLUT1 subtype of vesicular glutamate transmitter, which is expressed in myelinated afferents, marks synapses that are presynaptic to the PKCgamma interneurons. Finally, we demonstrate that a continuous non-noxious input, generated by walking on a rotarod, induces Fos in the PKCgamma interneurons. These results establish that PKCgamma interneurons are activated by myelinated afferents that respond to innocuous stimuli, which suggests that injury-induced mechanical allodynia is transmitted through a circuit that involves PKCgamma interneurons and non-nociceptive, VGLUT1-expressing myelinated primary afferents.
To recover surface reflectance and illuminance from the raw luminance signal, the visual system must use prior assumptions and strategies that make use of additional sources of information. Indeed, it has been found that depending on experimental conditions, lightness (apparent reflectance) may refer to judgments that are similar to brightness judgments (apparent luminance), that are similar to local brightness-contrast judgments, or that represent an independent third dimension of achromatic experience which exists only when the illumination across regions of the display is visibly non-uniform (L. E. Arend &amp; B. Spehar, 1993a, 1993b). This means that lightness data generated in one experimental condition may not be comparable to lightness data measured in other conditions. We investigate this problem with regard to a history of data on simultaneous brightness-contrast by measuring brightness, brightness-contrast, and lightness in stimuli similar to those used in Gilchrist's edge-substitution studies (A. Gilchrist, S. Delman, &amp; A. Jacobsen, 1983) and in stimuli similar to those used to test Gilchrist's intrinsic-image model against his newer anchoring model (A. Gilchrist, 2006). Our results clarify confusions that appear to stem from comparing different types of lightness judgments and from inadvertently using brightness as an index of lightness under conditions where independent lightness judgments are possible.
The theory of memory reconsolidation relates to the hypothesized restabilisation process that occurs following the reactivation of a memory through retrieval. Thus the demonstration of reactivation-dependent amnesia for a previously acquired memory is a prerequisite for showing that such a memory undergoes reconsolidation. Here we show that the appetitive Pavlovian representations that underlie Pavlovian approach and Pavlovian-instrumental transfer are destabilized following their retrieval. This reactivation-dependent amnesia demonstrates that the general motivational or incentive properties of appetitive conditioned stimuli, as well as their conditioned reinforcing properties, can be reduced by blocking memory reconsolidation.
Understanding the dynamics of memory change is one of the current challenges facing cognitive neuroscience. Recent animal work on memory reconsolidation shows that memories can be altered long after acquisition. When reactivated, memories can be modified and require a restabilization (reconsolidation) process. We recently extended this finding to human episodic memory by showing that memory reactivation mediates the incorporation of new information into existing memory. Here we show that the spatial context plays a unique role for this type of memory updating: Being in the same spatial context during original and new learning is both necessary and sufficient for the incorporation of new information into existing episodic memories. Memories are automatically reactivated when subjects return to an original learning context, where updating by incorporating new contents can occur. However, when in a novel context, updating of existing memories does not occur, and a new episodic memory is created instead.
According to the modulation hypothesis, arousal is the crucial factor in the emotional enhancement of memory (EEM). However, the multifactor theory of the EEM recently proposed that cognitive characteristics of emotional stimuli, e.g., relatedness and distinctiveness, also play an important role. The current study aimed to investigate the individual contribution of arousal to the neural correlates of the EEM by controlling for these additional cognitive factors. We observed the characteristic neuronal correlates of the EEM, in particular enhanced activity in the amygdala and hippocampus, which provides evidence for an arousal-driven EEM in the amygdala as proposed by the modulation hypothesis.
The ketogenic diet, a high-fat diet, is a therapeutic alternative in the treatment of refractory epilepsy, especially in children. However, there are concerns that a high-fat diet may influence the normal development of the central nervous system and cognition. In this study we investigated the influence of ketogenic diet on adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus. Rats were provided with either a high-fat diet (80% fat) or a standard rat diet (5% fat) ad libitum for 4 weeks. In both female and male rats, the amounts of bromodeoxyuridine immunoreactive cells in the dentate gyrus were the same in the different groups. Our results suggest that the ketogenic diet does not disturb the neurogenesis in the rat dentate gyrus.
Up to 80% of patients with Anorexia Nervosa (AN) demonstrate hyperactivity. Hyperactivity counteracts weight gain during treatment and is associated with poor outcome of the disease. We hypothesized that hyperactivity in AN patients has a neurobiological basis and used an animal model-based translational approach to gain insight in mechanisms underlying this hyperactivity. Previously we and others showed that leptin treatment attenuates hyperactivity in the rat activity-based anorexia (ABA) model. The mechanisms involved in this process are, however, unknown. Here we describe potential downstream effector mechanisms involved in the attenuation of hyperactivity by leptin treatment in ABA rats.
During normal development oligodendrocyte precursors (OPCs) are generated in the ventral spinal cord in response to Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signalling. There is also a second, late wave of oligodendrogenesis in the dorsal spinal cord independent of Shh activity. Two signalling pathways, controlled by bone morphogenetic protein and fibroblast growth factor (FGF), are active players in dorsal spinal cord specification. In particular, BMP signalling from the roof plate has a crucial role in setting up dorsal neural identity and its inhibition is sufficient to generate OPCs both in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, FGF signalling can induce OPC production from dorsal spinal cord cultures in vitro. In this study, we examined the cross-talk between mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and BMP signalling in embryonic dorsal spinal cord cultures at the SMAD1/5/8 (SMAD1) transcription factor level, the main effectors of BMP activity. We have previously shown that FGF2 treatment of neural precursor cells (NPCs) derived from rat E14 dorsal spinal cord is sufficient to generate OPCs in vitro. Utilising the same system, we now show that FGF prevents BMP-induced nuclear localisation of SMAD1-phosphorylated at the C-terminus (C-term-pSMAD1). This nuclear exclusion of C-term-pSMAD1 is dependent on MAPK activity and correlates with OLIG2 upregulation, the obligate transcription factor for oligodendrogenesis. Furthermore, inhibition of the MAPK pathway abolishes OLIG2 expression. We also show that SMAD4, which acts as a common partner for receptor-regulated Smads including SMAD1, associates with a Smad binding site in the Olig2 promoter and dissociates from it upon differentiation. Taken together, these results suggest that FGF can promote OPC generation from embryonic NPCs by counteracting BMP signalling at the Smad1 transcription factor level and that Smad-containing transcriptional complexes may be involved in direct regulation of the Olig2 promoter.
There is compelling evidence to support the idea that autophagy has a protective function in neurons and its disruption results in neurodegenerative disorders. Neuronal damage is well-documented in the brains of HIV-infected individuals, and evidence of inflammation, oxidative stress, damage to synaptic and dendritic structures, and neuronal loss are present in the brains of those with HIV-associated dementia. We investigated the role of autophagy in microglia-induced neurotoxicity in primary rodent neurons, primate and human models. We demonstrate here that products of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected microglia inhibit neuronal autophagy, resulting in decreased neuronal survival. Quantitative analysis of autophagy vacuole numbers in rat primary neurons revealed a striking loss from the processes. Assessment of multiple biochemical markers of autophagic activity confirmed the inhibition of autophagy in neurons. Importantly, autophagy could be induced in neurons through rapamycin treatment, and such treatment conferred significant protection to neurons. Two major mediators of HIV-induced neurotoxicity, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and glutamate, had similar effects on reducing autophagy in neurons. The mRNA level of p62 was increased in the brain in SIV encephalitis and as well as in brains from individuals with HIV dementia, and abnormal neuronal p62 dot structures immunoreactivity was present and had a similar pattern with abnormal ubiquitinylated proteins. Taken together, these results identify that induction of deficits in autophagy is a significant mechanism for neurodegenerative processes that arise from glial, as opposed to neuronal, sources, and that the maintenance of autophagy may have a pivotal role in neuroprotection in the setting of HIV infection.

Several lines of evidence suggest that mitochondrial genetic factors may influence susceptibility to multiple sclerosis. To explore this hypothesis further, we re-sequenced the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) from 159 patients with multiple sclerosis and completed a haplogroup analysis including a further 835 patients and 1,506 controls. A trend towards over-representation of super-haplogroup U was the only evidence for association with mtDNA that we identified in these samples. In a parallel analysis of nuclear encoded mitochondrial genes, we also found a trend towards association with the complex I gene, NDUFS2. These results add to the evidence suggesting that variation in mtDNA and nuclear encoded mitochondrial genes may contribute to disease susceptibility in multiple sclerosis.



When a part of the body moves, the sensation evoked by a probe stimulus to that body part is attenuated. Two mechanisms have been proposed to explain this robust and general effect. First, feedforward motor signals may modulate activity evoked by incoming sensory signals. Second, reafferent sensation from body movements may mask the stimulus. Here we delivered probe stimuli to the right index finger just before a cue which instructed subjects to make left or right index finger movements. When left and right cues were equiprobable, we found attenuation for stimuli to the right index finger just before this finger was cued (and subsequently moved). However, there was no attenuation in the right finger just before the left finger was cued. This result suggests that the movement made in response to the cue caused 'postdictive' attenuation of a sensation occurring prior to the cue. In a second experiment, the right cue was more frequent than the left. We now found attenuation in the right index finger even when the left finger was cued and moved. This attenuation linked to a movement that was likely but did not in fact occur, suggests a new expectation-based mechanism, distinct from both feedforward motor signals and postdiction. Our results suggest a new mechanism in motor-sensory interactions in which the motor system tunes the sensory inputs based on expectations about future possible actions that may not, in fact, be implemented.
Previously encountered stimuli can bring to mind a vivid memory of the episodic context in which the stimulus was first experienced (&quot;remembered&quot; stimuli), or can simply seem familiar (&quot;known&quot; stimuli). Past studies suggest that more attentional resources are required to encode stimuli that are subsequently remembered than known. However, it is unclear if the attentional resources are distributed differently during encoding and recognition of remembered and known stimuli. Here, we record eye movements while participants encode photos, and later while indicating whether the photos are remembered, known or new. Eye fixations were more clustered during both encoding and recognition of remembered photos relative to known photos. Thus, recognition of photos that bring to mind a vivid memory for the episodic context in which they were experienced is associated with less distributed overt attention during encoding and recognition. The results suggest that remembering is related to encoding of a few distinct details of a photo rather than the photo as a whole. In turn, during recognition remembering may be trigged by enhanced memory for the salient details of the photos.
Intravenous injections of cocaine HCl are habit-forming because, among their many actions, they elevate extracellular dopamine levels in the terminal fields of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system. This action, thought to be very important for cocaine's strong addiction liability, is believed to have very short latency and is assumed to reflect rapid brain entry and pharmacokinetics of the drug. However, while intravenous cocaine HCl has almost immediate effects on behavior and extracellular dopamine levels, recent evidence suggests that its central pharmacological effects are not evident until 10 or more seconds after IV injection. Thus the immediate effects of a given intravenous cocaine injection on extracellular dopamine concentration and behavior appear to occur before there is sufficient time for cocaine to act centrally as a dopamine uptake inhibitor. To explore the contribution of peripheral effects of cocaine to the early activation of the dopamine system, we used brain microdialysis to measure the effects of cocaine methiodide (MI)--a cocaine analogue that does not cross the blood brain barrier--on glutamate (excitatory) input to the dopamine cells. IP injections of cocaine MI were ineffective in cocaine-nave animals but stimulated ventral tegmental glutamate release in rats previously trained to lever-press for cocaine HCl. This peripherally triggered glutamate input was sufficient to reinstate cocaine-seeking in previously trained animals that had undergone extinction of the habit. These findings offer an explanation for short-latency behavioral responses and immediate dopamine elevations seen following cocaine injections in cocaine-experienced but not cocaine-nave animals.


The paths of embryonic chick spinal commissural neurons originating from the lumbosacral (LS) 2 spinal segment and born around Hamburger-Hamilton stage (HH) 18 were observed by labeling the axons with an in ovo electroporation method designed to limit the electroporated area to approximately one somite length. After crossing the floor plate, these axons followed two major paths, one ventral and one dorsal, and a minor path running between the major ones. These axons reached the brachial region by HH28, passed through the cervical region at HH29, and entered the medullary area by HH30. The dorsal axons entered the developing cerebellum by HH33, crossed the midline again, and spread into the rostral-ipsilateral area of the developing cerebellum so that most of them were confined to lobules II-III by HH39. A small population of ventrally running axons turned to enter the cerebellum, and the rest entered the superior medullary velum between the cerebellum and the midbrain. The LS2-originating axons that ascended ipsilaterally into the cerebellum followed a single path, and their extension was delayed compared with that of the commissural axons. Some of the ipsilateral axons innervated the cerebellum; the rest entered the superior medullary velum. These direct observations of the formation of part of the spinocerebellar projections in chick will be a useful reference for future analyses of the underlying mechanisms.
Regeneration was once thought to be exclusive to young neurons. Now, a new study shows that functional and interconnected hippocampal neurons have the potential to quickly recover from losing an axon. They do so by signaling a dendrite to change its specification and replace the missing axon by rearranging the microtubule cytoskeleton.
Perceptual distortions induced by adaptation (aftereffects) arise through selective changes in the response properties of discrete subpopulations of neurons tuned to particular image features at the adapted spatial location. The systematic and well-documented increase of cortical receptive field sizes with eccentricity dictates that visual aftereffects ought to become less tightly tuned for location as stimuli are moved away from fixation. Here, we demonstrate that while this pattern holds for archetypal orientation and spatial frequency aftereffects, the effects of motion adaptation are characterized by precisely the opposite relationship. Surprisingly, adaptation to translational motion close to fixation induces distortions of perceived position and dynamic motion aftereffects that propagate centrifugally across visual space, resulting in a lack of location specificity. In contrast, motion adaptation in more peripheral locations produces aftereffects that are largely limited to the adapted spatial region. These findings suggest that central motion adaptation has the unique capacity to influence the response state of spatially distant neural populations that do not themselves encode the adapting stimulus.
Current antipsychotics provide symptomatic relief for patients suffering from schizophrenia and related psychoses; however, their effectiveness is variable and many patients discontinue treatment due to side effects. Although the etiology of schizophrenia is still unclear, a leading hypothesis implicates an imbalanced dopaminergic system. Muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors regulate dopamine levels in key areas of the brain involved in psychosis, with the M(4) subtype emerging as a key regulator of dopaminergic hyperactivity. Unfortunately, no selective small molecule tools exist to provide pharmacological validation of this hypothesis. Here, we describe the discovery of a small molecule modulator, LY2033298, that is highly selective for human M(4) receptors by virtue of targeting an allosteric site on this receptor. Pharmacological assays confirmed the selectivity of LY2033298 for the M(4) receptor and revealed the highest degree of positive allosteric enhancement of ACh potency thus far identified. Radioligand binding assays also show this compound to directly potentiate agonist binding while having minimal effects on antagonist binding. Mutational analysis identified a key amino acid (D(432)) in the third extracellular loop of the human M(4) receptor to be critical for selectivity and agonist potentiation by LY2033298. Importantly, LY2033298 was active in animal models predictive of clinical antipsychotic drug efficacy indicating its potential use as a first-in-class, selective, allosteric muscarinic antipsychotic agent.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by both neurological and systemic abnormalities. We examined the peripheral immune system and found widespread evidence of innate immune activation detectable in plasma throughout the course of HD. Interleukin 6 levels were increased in HD gene carriers with a mean of 16 years before the predicted onset of clinical symptoms. To our knowledge, this is the earliest plasma abnormality identified in HD. Monocytes from HD subjects expressed mutant huntingtin and were pathologically hyperactive in response to stimulation, suggesting that the mutant protein triggers a cell-autonomous immune activation. A similar pattern was seen in macrophages and microglia from HD mouse models, and the cerebrospinal fluid and striatum of HD patients exhibited abnormal immune activation, suggesting that immune dysfunction plays a role in brain pathology. Collectively, our data suggest parallel central nervous system and peripheral pathogenic pathways of immune activation in HD.

Persistent abdominal pain directly induced by a peritoneal catheter of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt, which is associated with no other complications such as bowel perforation, pseudocyst or infection, has not been previously reported. A 65-year-old woman with hydrocephalus developed persistent lower abdominal pain radiating to the perineal area after shunt insertion. Radiography suggested that the distal end of a peritoneal catheter was located in a cul-de-sac of the pelvis. Otherwise, all studies were negative for shunt infection, fluid collection, or other abdominal and pelvic events. The patient's pain resolved completely after surgery in which the peritoneal catheter was shortened. In the presence of unexplained, persistent lower abdominal pain after shunt placement, the need to shorten the peritoneal catheter should be considered.
Using post-embedding immunogold electron microscopy, TAR DNA-binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) was localized to neuronal cytoplasmic (NCI) and intranuclear (NII) inclusions, as well as unmyelinated neurites, in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitinated inclusions (FTLD-U), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's (AD), Pick's disease (PiD) and Lewy body disease (LBD). The TDP-43 immunoreactive structures were morphologically heterogeneous. The most common was characterized by bundles of 10-20 nm diameter straight filaments with electron dense granular material within NCI, NII and neurites. This type of pathology was found in FTLD-U, ALS and some cases of AD. Less often, inclusions in neuritic processes of FTLD-U and some cases of AD contained 10-17 nm diameter straight filaments without granular material. A final type of TDP-43 immunoreactivity was labeling of filaments and granular material associated with tau filaments in neurofibrillary tangles of AD and Pick bodies of PiD or alpha-synuclein filaments in Lewy bodies of LBD. The results suggest that TDP-43 is the primary component of the granulofilamentous inclusions in FTLD-U and ALS. Similar inclusions sometimes accompany filamentous aggregates composed of other abnormal proteins in AD, PiD and LBD.


Fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) is now a first choice method for studying swallowing disorders on account of the various advantages it offers: easy to use, very well tolerated, allows bedside examination and is economic. Nevertheless, this diagnostic procedure is not without risks, the most probable consequences of which include discomfort, gagging and/or vomiting, vasovagal syncope, epistaxis, mucosal perforation, adverse reactions to topical anaesthetics and laryngospasm. The risks involved with FEES stress the importance of informing the patient of these; this is an important aspect in medicine that necessarily and immediately implies receiving the patient's so-called &quot;informed consent&quot;. Informed consent should be obtained not only by means of specific printed forms but also after the patient has had an interview with the physician who will be performing the procedure and who will offer information according to the personal clinical, psychological, cultural and linguistic situation of the patient and in keeping with the type of procedure proposed. In the case of FEES, as with other invasive or non-invasive diagnostic procedures, therefore, routine written and signed consent, together with a patient/physician interview should fulfil what is known as &quot;complete information&quot;. In this report, a specific form for informed consent to FEES procedures, is proposed.




Care of patients with diabetes should include assessment of bone health. The extension of the average life expectancy of people with diabetes, which has accompanied improvements in medical care, has also increased the significance of osteoporosis. In addition to the usual causes of osteoporosis associated with aging, bone health is also compromised by diabetes. Studies on bone involvement in patients with diabetes mellitus have generated conflicting results, largely because of the pathogenetic complexity of the condition. It is now clear that patients with type 1 diabetes have lower bone mineral density (BMD) and a higher risk of fractures. Evidence is emerging that patients with type 2 diabetes who have complications are also at increased risk of certain types of osteoporotic fractures, despite having a higher BMD when compared to patients with type 1 diabetes. Although many factors, including number and type of falls, visual impairment, neuropathy, and reduced muscle strength, influence the probability of fractures, the most significant factor seems to be the strength of the bone itself. Thus, sarcopenia, a reduction in muscle mass and muscle strength, is considered one of the main determinants of bone fragility. The aim of this review is to examine the occurrence of osteoporosis in type 1 and type 2 diabetes.

Few studies have examined the relationship between naturally rewarding behaviors and ethanol drinking behaviors in mice. Although natural and drug reinforcers activate similar brain circuitry, there is behavioral evidence suggesting food and drug rewards differ in perceived value. The primary goal of the present study was to investigate the relationships between naturally reinforcing stimuli and consumption of ethanol in ethanol preferring C57BL/6J mice. Mouse behaviors were observed after the following environmental manipulations: standard or enhanced environment, accessible or inaccessible wheel, and presence or absence of ethanol. Using a high-resolution volumetric drinking monitor and wheel running monitor, we evaluated whether alternating access to wheel running modified ethanol-related behaviors and whether alternating access to ethanol modified wheel running or subsequent ethanol-related behaviors. We found that ethanol consumption remains stable with alternating periods of wheel running. Wheel running increases in the absence of ethanol and decreases upon reintroduction of ethanol. Upon reintroduction of ethanol, an alcohol deprivation effect was seen. Collectively, the results support theories of hedonic substitution and suggest that female C57BL/6J mice express ethanol seeking and craving under these specific conditions.
Previous studies have shown that the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is an important target for the actions of ethanol in the brain. N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors are glutamate-activated ion channels that are highly expressed in neurons. They are activated during periods of significant glutamatergic synaptic activity and are an important source of the signaling molecule calcium in the postsynaptic spine. Alterations in the function of NMDA receptors by drugs or disease are associated with deficits in motor, sensory and cognitive processes of the brain. Acutely, ethanol inhibits ion flow through NMDA receptors whereas sustained exposure to ethanol can induce compensatory changes in the density and localization of the receptor. Defining factors that govern the acute ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors is an important step in understanding how an individual responds to ethanol. In the present study, we investigated the effect of calcium-calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) on the ethanol sensitivity of recombinant NMDA receptors. Calcium-calmodulin dependent protein kinase II is a major constituent of the postsynaptic density and is critically involved in various forms of learning and memory. NMDA receptor subunits were transiently expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells along with CaMKII-alpha or CaMKII-beta tagged with the green fluorescent protein. Whole cell currents were elicited by brief exposures to glutamate and were measured using patch-clamp electrophysiology. Neither CaMKII-alpha or CaMKII-beta had any significant effect on the ethanol inhibition of NR1/2A or NR1/2B receptors. Ethanol inhibition was also unaltered by deletion of CaMKII binding domains in NR1 or NR2 subunits or by phospho-site mutants that mimic or occlude CaMKII phosphorylation. Chronic treatment of cortical neurons with ethanol had no significant effect on the expression of CaMKII-alpha or CaMKII-beta. The results of this study suggest that CaMKII is not involved in regulating the acute ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors.




Joubert syndrome (JS) and related disorders are a group of autosomal-recessive conditions sharing the &quot;molar tooth sign&quot; on axial brain MRI, together with cerebellar vermis hypoplasia, ataxia, and psychomotor delay. JS is suggested to be a disorder of cilia function and is part of a spectrum of disorders involving retinal, renal, digital, oral, hepatic, and cerebral organs. We identified mutations in ARL13B in two families with the classical form of JS. ARL13B belongs to the Ras GTPase family, and in other species is required for ciliogenesis, body axis formation, and renal function. The encoded Arl13b protein was expressed in developing murine cerebellum and localized to the cilia in primary neurons. Overexpression of human wild-type but not patient mutant ARL13B rescued the Arl13b scorpion zebrafish mutant. Thus, ARL13B has an evolutionarily conserved role mediating cilia function in multiple organs.
Autosomal-dominant sensorineural hearing loss is genetically heterogeneous, with a phenotype closely resembling presbycusis, the most common sensory defect associated with aging in humans. We have identified SLC17A8, which encodes the vesicular glutamate transporter-3 (VGLUT3), as the gene responsible for DFNA25, an autosomal-dominant form of progressive, high-frequency nonsyndromic deafness. In two unrelated families, a heterozygous missense mutation, c.632C--&gt;T (p.A211V), was found to segregate with DFNA25 deafness and was not present in 267 controls. Linkage-disequilibrium analysis suggested that the families have a distant common ancestor. The A211 residue is conserved in VGLUT3 across species and in all human VGLUT subtypes (VGLUT1-3), suggesting an important functional role. In the cochlea, VGLUT3 accumulates glutamate in the synaptic vesicles of the sensory inner hair cells (IHCs) before releasing it onto receptors of auditory-nerve terminals. Null mice with a targeted deletion of Slc17a8 exon 2 lacked auditory-nerve responses to acoustic stimuli, although auditory brainstem responses could be elicited by electrical stimuli, and robust otoacoustic emissions were recorded. Ca(2+)-triggered synaptic-vesicle turnover was normal in IHCs of Slc17a8 null mice when probed by membrane capacitance measurements at 2 weeks of age. Later, the number of afferent synapses, spiral ganglion neurons, and lateral efferent endings below sensory IHCs declined. Ribbon synapses remaining by 3 months of age had a normal ultrastructural appearance. We conclude that deafness in Slc17a8-deficient mice is due to a specific defect of vesicular glutamate uptake and release and that VGLUT3 is essential for auditory coding at the IHC synapse.
Unexplained intrauterine growth restriction of the fetus (IUGR) results from impaired placental development, frequently associated with maternal malperfusion. Some cases are complicated further by preeclampsia (PE+IUGR). Here, we provide the first evidence that placental protein synthesis inhibition and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress play key roles in IUGR pathophysiology. Increased phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha suggests suppression of translation initiation in IUGR placentas, with a further increase in PE+IUGR cases. Consequently, AKT levels were reduced at the protein, but not mRNA, level. Additionally, levels of other proteins in the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin pathway were decreased, and there was associated dephosphorylation of 4E-binding protein 1 and activation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta. Cyclin D1 and the eukaryotic initiation factor 2B epsilon subunit were also down-regulated, providing additional evidence for this placental phenotype. The central role of AKT signaling in placental growth regulation was confirmed in Akt1 null mice, which display IUGR. In addition, we demonstrated ultrastructural and molecular evidence of ER stress in human IUGR and PE+IUGR placentas, providing a potential mechanism for eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha phosphorylation. In confirmation, induction of low-grade ER stress in trophoblast-like cell lines reduced cellular proliferation. PE+IUGR placentas showed elevated ER stress with the additional expression of the pro-apoptotic protein C/EBP-homologous protein/growth arrest and DNA damage 153. These findings may account for the increased microparticulate placental debris in the maternal circulation of these cases, leading to endothelial cell activation and impairing placental development.
There is increased prevalence of abdominal pain and diarrhea and decreased gastric sensation with increased body mass index (BMI). Our hypothesis is that increased BMI is associated with increased colonic motility and sensation. The study aim was to assess effect of BMI on colonic sensory and motor functions and transit. We used a database of colonic tone, compliance, and perception of distensions measured by intracolonic, barostat-controlled balloon, and gastrointestinal transit was measured by validated scintigraphy in healthy obese and nonobese subjects. Regression analysis was applied to assess the association of BMI with colonic sensory and motor functions. We included adjustments for sex differences, age, height, balloon volumes during distension, and psychological stress. Among 165 participants (87 women, 78 men), increased BMI was associated with decreased colonic compliance (P &lt; 0.006, adjusted), decreased pain rating during distensions (P = 0.02, adjusted), and a higher threshold for pain (P = 0.042, adjusted). Sensation for gas, colonic tone, and contraction after meal ingestion were not significantly associated with BMI. Transit was assessed in 72 participants (41 women, 31 men); colonic transit was faster with BMI &gt;30 kg/m(2) (P = 0.003 unadjusted, P = 0.08 adjusted for gender). In conclusion, BMI &gt;25 kg/m(2) is associated with decreased colonic compliance and pain sensation; colonic transit is accelerated particularly with BMI &gt;30 kg/m(2) in women. These data suggest that colonic dysfunction may contribute to diarrhea, but the cause of increased abdominal pain in obesity is not explained by the studies of colonic sensation and requires further study of afferent, spinal, and central mechanisms.
Adrenergic and serotonergic (ADR-SER) mechanisms alter gut (GI) function; these effects are mediated through G protein transduction. Candidate genetic variations in ADR-SER were significantly associated with somatic scores in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and gastric emptying but not small bowel or colonic transit. Our aim was to assess whether candidate ADR-SER genes are associated with motor and sensory GI functions in IBS and subgroups on the basis of bowel dysfunction. In 122 patients with IBS and 39 healthy controls, we assessed gastrointestinal somatic symptoms and affect by validated questionnaires. We measured: gastric volume (GV), maximum tolerated volume, rectal compliance, sensation thresholds and ratings, and genetic variations including alpha2A (C-1291G), alpha2C (Del 332-325), GNbeta3 (C825T), and 5-HTTLPR. Demographics and genotype distributions were similar in the patients with IBS subgrouped on bowel function. There were significant associations between 5-HTTLPR SS genotype and absence of IBS symptoms and between 5-HTTLPR LS/SS genotype and increased rectal compliance and increased pain ratings, particularly at 12 and 24 mmHg distensions. GNbeta3 was associated only with fasting GV; we did not detect associations between alpha2A genotype and the gastrointestinal sensory or motor functions tested. We concluded that 5-HTTLPR LS/SS genotype is associated with both increased pain sensation and increased rectal compliance though the latter effect is unlikely to contribute to increased pain sensation ratings with LS/SS genotype. The data suggest the hypotheses that the endophenotype of visceral hypersensitivity in IBS may be partly related to genetic factors, and the association of GNbeta3 with fasting GV may explain, in part, the reported association of GNbeta3 with dyspepsia.
We tested the hypothesis that vagal withdrawal plays a role in the rapid (phase I) cardiopulmonary response to exercise. To this aim, in five men (24.6+/-3.4 yr, 82.1+/-13.7 kg, maximal aerobic power 330+/-67 W), we determined beat-by-beat cardiac output (Q), oxygen delivery (QaO2), and breath-by-breath lung oxygen uptake (VO2) at light exercise (50 and 100 W) in normoxia and acute hypoxia (fraction of inspired O2=0.11), because the latter reduces resting vagal activity. We computed Q from stroke volume (Qst, by model flow) and heart rate (fH, electrocardiography), and QaO2 from Q and arterial O2 concentration. Double exponentials were fitted to the data. In hypoxia compared with normoxia, steady-state fH and Q were higher, and Qst and VO2 were unchanged. QaO2 was unchanged at rest and lower at exercise. During transients, amplitude of phase I (A1) for VO2 was unchanged. For fH, Q and QaO2, A1 was lower. Phase I time constant (tau1) for QaO2 and VO2 was unchanged. The same was the case for Q at 100 W and for fH at 50 W. Qst kinetics were unaffected. In conclusion, the results do not fully support the hypothesis that vagal withdrawal determines phase I, because it was not completely suppressed. Although we can attribute the decrease in A1 of fH to a diminished degree of vagal withdrawal in hypoxia, this is not so for Qst. Thus the dual origin of the phase I of Q and QaO2, neural (vagal) and mechanical (venous return increase by muscle pump action), would rather be confirmed.

Although the cognitive model of depression has evolved appreciably since its first formulation over 40 years ago, the potential interaction of genetic, neurochemical, and cognitive factors has only recently been demonstrated. Combining findings from behavioral genetics and cognitive neuroscience with the accumulated research on the cognitive model opens new opportunities for integrated research. Drawing on advances in cognitive, personality, and social psychology as well as clinical observations, expansions of the original cognitive model have incorporated in successive stages automatic thoughts, cognitive distortions, dysfunctional beliefs, and information-processing biases. The developmental model identified early traumatic experiences and the formation of dysfunctional beliefs as predisposing events and congruent stressors in later life as precipitating factors. It is now possible to sketch out possible genetic and neurochemical pathways that interact with or are parallel to cognitive variables. A hypersensitive amygdala is associated with both a genetic polymorphism and a pattern of negative cognitive biases and dysfunctional beliefs, all of which constitute risk factors for depression. Further, the combination of a hyperactive amygdala and hypoactive prefrontal regions is associated with diminished cognitive appraisal and the occurrence of depression. Genetic polymorphisms also are involved in the overreaction to the stress and the hypercortisolemia in the development of depression--probably mediated by cognitive distortions. I suggest that comprehensive study of the psychological as well as biological correlates of depression can provide a new understanding of this debilitating disorder.
Taurine, a known antioxidant and neuroprotector has been investigated for its free radical scavenging action in vitro in isolated mitochondria, and tested whether it protects against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration in mice. Taurine (0.1-10 mM) did not affect 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium-induced hydroxyl radical production in isolated mitochondria. Systemic administration of taurine (250 mg/kg, i.p.) caused a small, but significant loss of dopamine levels in the striatum of mice. Taurine failed to reverse MPTP-induced striatal dopamine depletion, but caused significant increase in dopamine turnover in these animals. In the light of the present study it may be suggested that consumption of taurine may neither help in scavenging of neurotoxic hydroxyl radicals in the brain mitochondria, nor would it help in blocking the process of neurodegeneration.
More than 100 point mutations spanning the 153 amino acid SOD1 sequence have been identified in individuals with ALS. In 1999 the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Database (ALSOD) was generated to store these mutations along with ALS patient information to facilitate the identification of a correlation between the SOD1 genotype with the ALS phenotype. Here we report our ongoing development and redesign of the ALSOD database and its automated procedures. The significant new features have improved ALSOD, helping link the mutations of the SOD1 gene to the hypothetical three-dimensional protein structural rearrangement, and the resulting ALS phenotype. Additionally, ALSOD now provides a more comprehensive knowledge base for ALS, detailing genetic, proteomic, and bioinformatics information associated with the disease. ALSOD can be accessed at http://alsod.iop.kcl.ac.uk/als/.
Free radical accumulation and oxidative stress have been proposed as contributing to the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (motor neuron disease). A range of antioxidant medications is available, and has been studied. We aimed to examine the effects of antioxidant medication in the treatment of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Trials register (August 2005), MEDLINE (January 1966 to August 2005), EMBASE (January 1980 to August 2005) and other sources. Selection criteria were all randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials of antioxidant treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The authors independently applied the selection criteria, assessed study quality and two authors performed independent data extraction. The search identified 23 studies for consideration but only nine studies met the inclusion criteria. Only two studies used our predetermined primary outcome measure as the primary outcome measure (survival at 12 months treatment). However, sufficient data were available from four studies to allow analysis of this outcome measure, and a meta-analysis was performed. In the individual studies no significant effect was observed for vitamin E 500 mg twice daily; vitamin E 1 g five times daily; acetylcysteine 50 mg/kg daily subcutaneous infusion; or a combination of L-methionine 2 g, vitamin E 400 International Units, and selenium 0.03 mg three times daily (Alsemet). No significant effect on the primary outcome measure was observed in a meta analysis of all antioxidants combined. No significant differences were demonstrated in any of the secondary outcome measures. In the opinion of the reviewers, there is insufficient evidence of efficacy of individual antioxidants, or antioxidants in general, in the treatment of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. One study reported a mild positive effect, but this was not supported by the analysis we used. Generally, the studies were poorly designed, and underpowered, with low numbers of participants and of short duration. Further well-designed trials of medications such as vitamin C and E are unlikely to be performed. If future trials of antioxidant medications are performed, careful attention should be given to sample size, outcome measures, and duration of the trial. The high tolerance and safety, and relatively low cost of vitamins C and E, and other considerations related to the lack of other effective treatments for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, explain the continuing use of these vitamins by physicians and people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. While there is no substantial clinical trial evidence to support their clinical use, there is no clear contraindication.
Gene expression analysis by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) allows accurate quantifications of messenger RNA (mRNA) levels over different samples. Corrective methods for different steps in the qRT-PCR reaction have been reported; however, statistical analysis and presentation of substantially variable biological repeats present problems and are often not meaningful, for example, in a biological system such as mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation. Based on a series of sequential corrections, including log transformation, mean centering, and autoscaling, we describe a robust and powerful standardization method that can be used on highly variable data sets to draw statistically reliable conclusions.

Sleep loss can severely impact on the integrity of cognitive functions. This review highlights the recent functional neuroimaging studies on the brain's response while performing cognitive tasks when deprived of sleep. Among sleep-deprived healthy volunteers, reduced attention, accompanied by lowered parieto-occipital activation, may underlie performance decrements seen in other &quot;higher cognitive domains&quot;. Functional neuroimaging in this setting has increased our understanding of how the brain responds to, and compensates for, sleep loss. Functional neuroimaging may also provide a safe, reproducible and non-invasive means to evaluate the cognitive and neural impact of therapeutic interventions designed to treat sleep disorders and/ or to reduce the negative cognitive impact of sleep loss.
Human African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is a neglected disease, and it continues to pose a major threat to 60 million people in 36 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Transmitted by the bite of the tsetse fly, the disease is caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Trypanosoma and comes in two types: East African human African trypanosomiasis caused by Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense and the West African form caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense. There is an early or hemolymphatic stage and a late or encephalitic stage, when the parasites cross the blood-brain barrier to invade the central nervous system. Two critical current issues are disease staging and drug therapy, especially for late-stage disease. Lumbar puncture to analyze cerebrospinal fluid will remain the only method of disease staging until reliable noninvasive methods are developed, but there is no widespread consensus as to what exactly defines biologically central nervous system disease or what specific cerebrospinal fluid findings should justify drug therapy for late-stage involvement. All four main drugs used for human African trypanosomiasis are toxic, and melarsoprol, the only drug that is effective for both types of central nervous system disease, is so toxic that it kills 5% of patients who receive it. Eflornithine, alone or combined with nifurtimox, is being used increasingly as first-line therapy for gambiense disease. There is a pressing need for an effective, safe oral drug for both stages of the disease, but this will require a significant increase in investment for new drug discovery from Western governments and the pharmaceutical industry.
p27SJ is a novel protein from a callus culture of St. John's wort that modulates transcription of the HIV-1 promoter in several mammalian cells [Darbinian-Sarkissian, N., Darbinyan, A., Otte, J., Radhakrishnan, S., Sawaya, B.E., Arzumanyan, A., Chipitsyna, G., Popov, Y., Rappaport, J., Amini, S., Khalili, K., 2006. p27(SJ), a novel protein from St. John's wort, that suppresses expression of HIV-1 genome. Gene Ther. 13, 288-295]. Here, we armed p27SJ with signals from Ig-kappa light chain that allow its efficient excretion from the cells, and from HIV-1 Tat that facilitates its uptake by other cells for its utilization by a protein transduction method. We demonstrate that treatment of cells containing the HIV-1 LTR with conditioned media from cells expressing the armed p27SJ ((exc)p27SJ(upt)) results in suppression of the viral activation by the C/EBPbeta transcription factor. Once imported into the cells, (exc)p27SJ(upt) impacts the nuclear localization of C/EBPbeta and by retaining the protein in the cytoplasm affects its DNA binding and hence transcriptional activity. The armed p27SJ also inhibits Tat-induced activation of the LTR and decreases the level of viral replication in promonocytic cells including U-937 and T-lymphocytic cells. Our observations introduce a new bi-directional protein transduction system with a broad spectrum of applications for manufacturing therapeutic peptides by a specific group of cells called donor, and delivery to the target cells named recipient. Furthermore, our results support the utility of soluble p27SJ in suppressing transcription and replication of HIV-1 by interfering with the function of cellular proteins such as C/EBPbeta and viral activators including Tat.
Resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is a phytochemical believed to be partly responsible for the cardioprotective effects of red wine due to its numerous biological activities. Here, we studied biochemical pathways underlying peroxynitrite-mediated apoptosis in endothelial cells and potential mechanisms responsible for resveratrol cytoprotective action. Peroxynitrite triggered endothelial cell apoptosis through caspases-8, -9 and -3 activation implying both mitochondrial and death receptor apoptotic pathways. Resveratrol was able to prevent peroxynitrite-induced caspases-3 and -9 activation, but not caspase-8 activation. Additionally, peroxynitrite increased intracellular levels of Bax without affecting those of Bcl-2, increasing consequently the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. This ratio decreased when cells where pre-incubated with 10 and 50 muM resveratrol, mainly due to resveratrol ability per se to increase Bcl-2 intracellular levels without affecting Bax intracellular levels. These results propose an additional mechanism whereby resveratrol may exert its cardioprotective effects and suggest a key role for Bcl-2 in the resveratrol anti-apoptotic action, especially in disrupting peroxynitrite-triggered mitochondrial pathway.






Atg16L is a factor that is essential for elongation of the isolation membrane (also called phagophore), a precursor of the autophagosome. Atg16L facilitates LC3/Atg8-conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine by forming an oligomeric complex with Atg12-conjugated Atg5 and recruiting an LC3-Atg3 intermediate to elongating isolation membranes. Although Atg16L is responsible for the isolation membrane localization of the complex, the mechanism by which Atg16L is targeted to or recognizes isolation membranes remains largely unknown. We recently reported finding that Atg16L specifically and directly interacts with the Golgi-resident small GTPase Rab33B (and Rab33A) via the coiled-coil domain of Atg16L. Since expression of a GTPase-deficient mutant of Rab33B or the coiled-coil domain of Atg16L modulates macroautophagy (simply referred to as autophagy below), Atg16L (or the Atg12-5/16L complex) is likely to function as a specific effector molecule for Rab33 in autophagosome formation. Future study of the cross talk between Atg16L-mediated autophagosome formation and Rab33-mediated membrane trafficking should provide an important clue to unresolved issues in autophagosome formation, specifically, the membrane source of autophagosomes.
Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is expressed abundantly in neurons and has been reported to be a major target of oxidative/carbonyl damage associated with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). The I93M mutation in UCH-L1 is also associated with familial PD. We recently reported that UCH-L1 physically interacts with LAMP-2A, the lysosomal receptor for chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), and Hsc70 and Hsp90, both of which can function as components of the CMA pathway. We found that the levels of these interactions were aberrantly increased by the I93M mutation, and that expression of I93M UCH-L1 in cells induced the CMA inhibition-associated increase in the amount of alpha-synuclein, a risk factor for PD. The interactions of UCH-L1 with LAMP-2A, Hsc70 and Hsp90 were also abnormally enhanced by carbonyl modification of UCH-L1. We propose that aberrant interactions of UCH-L1 variants with CMA machinery, at least partly, underlie the pathogenesis of I93M UCH-L1-associated PD, and possibly of sporadic PD. Our findings may provide novel insights into the links between familial and sporadic PD.
The understanding of decision-making systems has come together in recent years to form a unified theory of decision-making in the mammalian brain as arising from multiple, interacting systems (a planning system, a habit system, and a situation-recognition system). This unified decision-making system has multiple potential access points through which it can be driven to make maladaptive choices, particularly choices that entail seeking of certain drugs or behaviors. We identify 10 key vulnerabilities in the system: (1) moving away from homeostasis, (2) changing allostatic set points, (3) euphorigenic &quot;reward-like&quot; signals, (4) overvaluation in the planning system, (5) incorrect search of situation-action-outcome relationships, (6) misclassification of situations, (7) overvaluation in the habit system, (8) a mismatch in the balance of the two decision systems, (9) over-fast discounting processes, and (10) changed learning rates. These vulnerabilities provide a taxonomy of potential problems with decision-making systems. Although each vulnerability can drive an agent to return to the addictive choice, each vulnerability also implies a characteristic symptomology. Different drugs, different behaviors, and different individuals are likely to access different vulnerabilities. This has implications for an individual's susceptibility to addiction and the transition to addiction, for the potential for relapse, and for the potential for treatment.
We tested the hypothesis that functional cortico-muscular coupling of brain rhythms is implied in the control of lower limb muscles for upright standing. Electroencephalographic (EEG; Be-plus Eb-Neuro) and electromyographic (EMG) data were recorded in 18 fencing and 19 karate elite athletes, 14 karate amateurs, and 9 non-athletes, during quiet upright standing with open and closed eyes conditions. Cortico-muscular coupling was evaluated by computing EEG-EMG spectral coherence and directed transfer function (DTF). Body sway area did not differ among the groups. In non-athletes, the EEG-EMG coherence (gastrocnemius lateralis) at centro-parietal and parasylvian alpha rhythms (about 8-12 Hz) was higher during the open than closed eyes condition. This was not true in the elite athletes. At the same alpha rhythms, the sport amateurs presented values halfway between the non-athletes and elite athletes. Finally, the DTF was higher for cortico-muscular than muscular-cortical direction. These results suggest that visual information affects cortico-muscular coherence at 8-12 Hz in non-athletes and amateur athletes but not in elite athletes. In elite athletes, this might be due to a long training for the control of equilibrium based on proprioceptive and tactile inputs.
Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were trained on a trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning task to a criterion of 10 consecutive EB conditioned responses (CRs). One week later, ibotenic acid or sham lesions were made in the mPFC centered on the prelimbic region (Brodmann's area 32) or the cingulate cortex (Brodmann's area 24). Following a 1-week postoperative recovery period, all animals were retrained for 4 consecutive days using the same parameters as during acquisition, given 1 week off, and retrained for another 4 days. Mean EB conditioning deficits in the group with area 32 lesions occurred on the first and second days of each retraining period. However, by the third and fourth days of retraining, these lesioned animals were performing at a level comparable to that of the sham group. Lesions of area 24 did not produce deficits at either retesting period. These findings were interpreted to indicate that area 32, but not area 24, is involved in retrieval processes, rather than consolidation or storage, in that the animals were impaired at both retesting times, but were able to relearn the task.
Noradrenergic projections from the locus coeruleus (LC) project to the olfactory bulb (OB), a cortical structure implicated in odor learning and perceptual differentiation among similar odorants. The authors tested the role of OB noradrenaline (NA) in short-term olfactory memory using an animal model of LC degeneration coupled with intrabulbar infusions of NA. Specifically, the authors lesioned cortical noradrenergic fibers in mice with the noradrenergic neurotoxin N-Ethyl-N-(2-chloroethyl)-2-bromobenzylamine hydrochloride (DSP4) and measured the effects on an olfactory habituation/spontaneous discrimination task. DSP4-treated mice failed to habituate to repeated odor presentations, indicating that they could not remember odors over the 5-min intertrial interval. The authors then infused NA bilaterally into the OBs of both DSP4-treated and nonlesioned control animals at two concentrations (10(-3)M and 10(-5)M, 2 microl/side). In DSP4-treated animals, NA administration at either concentration restored normal habituation and spontaneous discrimination performance, indicating that noradrenergic neuromodulation mediates these aspects of perceptual learning and that its efficacy does not require activity-dependent local regulation of NA release. Functional OB learning mechanisms may be necessary for normal odor recognition and differentiation among physically similar odorants.
Estrogens have been shown to both enhance and impair cognitive function depending on several factors, including regimen of hormone treatment, age of subject, and task attributes. In rodent models, estradiol tends to enhance spatial learning and impair response or cued learning, but effects on executive functions are less well-studied. In this experiment, spatial working memory and response inhibition were tested using delayed spatial alternation (DSA) and differential reinforcement of low rates of responding (DRL) tasks in ovariectomized rats that were given chronic estradiol via Silastic implants resulting in serum estradiol concentrations of 86.2 +/- 8.2 (SEM) pg/ml. Rats were tested for 25 days DSA with variable delays of 0, 3, 6, 9, and 18 seconds between lever presentations, followed by 30 days on a DRL-15s operant schedule. Estradiol-replaced rats showed a significantly lower proportion of correct responses on the DSA task compared to vehicle-implanted ovariectomized animals. On DRL, estradiol-treated rats showed a lower ratio of reinforced to nonreinforced presses. These data suggest that chronic estrogen exposure may impair rats' abilities on measures of executive function including working memory and response inhibition.
Traditional behavioral tests, such as the open field test, measure an animal's responsiveness to a novel environment. However, it is generally difficult to assess whether the behavioral response obtained from these tests relates to the expression level of motor activity and/or to avoidance of anxiogenic areas. Here, an automated home cage environment for mice was designed to obtain independent measures of motor activity levels and of sheltered feeding preference during three consecutive days. Chronic treatment with the anxiolytic drug chlordiazepoxide (5 and 10 mg/kg/day) in C57BL/6J mice reduced sheltered feeding preference without altering motor activity levels. Furthermore, two distinct chromosome substitution strains, derived from C57BL/6J (host strain) and A/J (donor strain) inbred strains, expressed either increased sheltering preference in females (chromosome 15) or reduced motor activity levels in females and males (chromosome 1) when compared to C57BL/6J. Longitudinal behavioral monitoring revealed that these phenotypic differences maintained after adaptation to the home cage. Thus, by using new automated behavioral phenotyping approaches, behavior can be dissociated into distinct behavioral domains (e.g., anxiety-related and motor activity domains) with different underlying genetic origin and pharmacological responsiveness.
Many researchers across many experimental domains utilize the latency of spoken responses as a dependent measure. These measurements are typically made using a voice key, an electronic device that monitors the amplitude of a voice signal, and detects when a predetermined threshold is crossed. Unfortunately, voice keys have been repeatedly shown to be alarmingly errorful and biased in accurately detecting speech onset latencies. We present SayWhen--an easy-to-use software system for offline speech onset latency measurement that (1) automatically detects speech onset latencies with high accuracy, well beyond voice key performance, (2) automatically detects and flags a subset of trials most likely to have mismeasured onsets, for optional manual checking, and (3) implements a graphical user interface that greatly speeds and facilitates the checking and correction of this flagged subset of trials. This automatic-plus-selective-checking method approaches the gold standard performance of full manual coding in a small fraction of the time.
DEAD box [a motif named after its amino acid sequence (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp)] RNA helicases are known to play key roles in all cellular processes that require modulation of RNA structure. However, in recent years, several of these proteins have been found to function in transcriptional regulation. In the present paper, we shall review the literature demonstrating the action of p68 and, where data are available, p72 as transcriptional co-regulators for a range of transcription factors, namely ERalpha (oestrogen receptor alpha), the tumour suppressor p53, the myogenic regulator MyoD and Runx2, a transcription factor essential for osteoblast development. We shall also discuss evidence indicating that, in some cases at least, p68 and p72 have distinct, non-redundant, roles.
The coordinated regulation of gene expression and protein interactions determines how mammalian nervous systems develop and retain function and plasticity over extended periods of time such as a human life span. By studying mutations that occur in a group of genes associated with chronic neurodegeneration, the polyglutamine (polyQ) disorders, it has emerged that CAG/glutamine stretches play important roles in transcriptional regulation and protein-protein interactions. However, it is still unclear what the many structural and functional roles of CAG and other low-complexity sequences in eukaryotic genomes are, despite being the most commonly shared peptide fragments in such proteomes. In this review we examine the function of genes responsible for at least 10 polyglutamine disorders in relation to the nervous system and how expansion mutations lead to neuronal dysfunction, by particularly focusing on Huntington's disease (HD). We argue that the molecular and cellular pathways that turn out to be dysfunctional during such diseases, as a consequence of a CAG expansion, are also involved in the ageing of the central nervous system. These are pathways that control protein degradation systems (including molecular chaperones), axonal transport, redox-homeostasis and bioenergetics. CAG expansion mutations confer novel properties on proteins that lead to a slow-progressing neuronal pathology and cell death similar to that found in other age-related conditions such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Translin and Trax are components of an evolutionarily conserved RNA binding complex. Deletion of Translin in yeast, Drosophila and mouse produces a dramatic loss of Trax protein indicating that its stable expression is dependent on its association with Translin. Analysis of Translin KO mice has revealed multiple behavioral abnormalities and alterations in levels of transcripts encoding synaptic proteins. A confluence of localization, biochemical and RNA trafficking studies supports the view that this complex mediates dendritic trafficking of RNAs, a process thought to play a critical role in synaptic plasticity. However, further studies are needed to define its RNA cargoes, its precise role in this process, and how its binding activity and localization are regulated. Nevertheless, there is sufficient evidence to suggest that the Translin/Trax complex be included among the cadre of RNA binding complexes, such as Staufen and CPEB, that regulate dendritic trafficking of RNA in neurons.
gamma-Secretase mediates the intramembranous proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein (APP), Notch and other cellular substrates and is considered a prime pharmacological target in the development of therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We describe here an efficient, new, simple, sensitive and rapid assay to quantify gamma-secretase activity in living cells by flow cytometry using two membrane-bound fluorescent probes, APP-GFP or C99-GFP, as substrates for gamma-secretase. The principle of the assay is based on the fact that the soluble intracellular domain of GFP-tagged APP (AICD-GFP) is released from the membrane into the cytosol following gamma-secretase cleavage. Using this feature, enzymatic activity of gamma-secretase could be deduced from the extent of the membrane retention of the probe observed after plasma membrane permeabilization and washout of the cleaved fraction. By applying two well-known gamma-secretase inhibitors (DAPT and L-685,458), we validated our assay showing that the positional GFP-based probes for gamma-secretase activity behave properly when expressed in different cell lines, providing the basis for the further development of a high-throughput and high content screening for AD targeted drug discovery. Moreover, by co-expression of different familial AD-linked mutated forms of presenilin--the key component of the gamma-secretase complex--in cells devoid of any endogenous gamma-secretase, our method allowed us to evaluate in situ the contribution of different presenilin variants to the modulation of the enzyme.
An emerging theme in the field of neuroscience is that processes critical for neurodevelopment have been co-opted by the adult nervous system to subserve synaptic plasticity and cognition. In this review, we highlight a surprising intersection of two developmental processes that together play a critical role in synaptic plasticity, memory formation and cognition. Reelin, a large glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix, is crucial for cortical and cerebellar development. Recent data from several groups indicate that reelin plays a unique modulatory role in the induction of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, and that normal levels of reelin in the adult brain are essential for successful formation of certain forms of long-term memory. Given that both increases and decreases in reelin expression have significant effects on plasticity and memory, regulation of reelin expression is predicted to have significant effects on neural function. Epigenetic regulation of transcription is critical for differentiation of cellular phenotype in metazoans. Dozens of reports in the last few years have demonstrated that epigenetics is involved in modulating gene expression in the adult nervous system and subserves plasticity and memory formation. We review a series of studies that demonstrate that the reelin promoter is subject to differential DNA methylation in the adult nervous system, and that perturbations in reelin promoter methylation correlate with alterations in memory formation and cognition. Thus, two distinct developmental processes, reelin-mediated signaling and epigenetic-based transcriptional regulation, appear to have synergized in the adult nervous system to create a sensitive and robust system for modulation of synaptic plasticity, and ultimately provide a powerful set of tools to probe the molecular basis of cognition.
The chromosome 18q22-23 region has been shown to be implicated in bipolar disorder (BPAD) by several studies. PHLPP1 gene, in the locus (chromosome 18q22-23), is involved in circadian pathways and bears modules like 'PH domain and leucine rich repeat protein phosphatase'. This gene also contains a polyglutamine (CAG or PolyQ) repeat motif at the carboxyl terminal end. A comparative analysis of the PolyQ repeats of the PHLPP1 gene in humans, non-human primates and other species has been attempted in order to investigate the possible significance of repeat length as seen in other triplet-repeat associated diseases. Sequencing of the CAG repeat in humans and in non-human primates revealed that the CAG repeat is not polymorphic in humans; whereas, in other species it shows an area of high variability, both in length and sequence composition. Despite the conservation of circadian clock components in different species, there is remarkable diversity in the protein structure, regulation and biochemical functions of the circadian orthologs. These can be due to specific adaptations in accordance with the physiology of the particular species providing a species-specific biological advantage.


We report a novel approach to quantitatively determine complete size distributions of surface-bound objects using fluorescence microscopy. We measure the integrated intensity of single particles and relate it to their size by taking into account the object geometry and the illumination profile of the microscope, here a confocal laser scanning microscope. Polydisperse (as well as monodisperse) size distributions containing objects both below and above the optical resolution of the microscope are recorded and analyzed. The data is collected online within minutes, which allows the user to correlate the size of an object with the response from any given fluorescence-based biochemical assay. We measured the mean diameter of extruded fluorescently labeled lipid vesicles using the proposed method, dynamic light scattering, and cryogenic transmission electron microscopy. The three techniques were in excellent agreement, measuring the same values within 7-9%. Furthermore we demonstrated here, for the first time that we know of, the ability to determine the full size distribution of polydisperse samples of nonextruded lipid vesicles. Knowledge of the vesicle size distribution before and after extrusion allowed us to propose an empirical model to account for the effect of extrusion on the complete size distribution of vesicle samples.
Accumulating evidence has shown that various lengths of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences are widely present in polyadenylated RNA. This review article will discuss these polyadenylated rRNA containing transcripts (PART). PART are highly abundant and widely expressed in various tissues. It appears that there may be two types of PART. One type, type I, contains the rRNA segments (from approximately 10 nucleotides up to several hundred nucleotides) located within the transcripts. It has been demonstrated that short rRNA sequences within type I PART may function as cis-regulatory elements that regulate translational efficiency. The other type, type II, contains large portions or almost entire sequences of rRNA with a cap at the 5' end and poly(A) at 3' end. Recent work has shown that some type II PART have functional significance for some neurodegenerative disease processes and may play an important role in the pathogenesis of diseases. Further investigation in this area is critical to understanding the basic biology of PART and the potential role of PART in diseases.
Throughout the ages, art and neuroscience have had a delicate yet definite relationship with reciprocal influence. By virtue of their superior power of observation, artists have often preserved neurological signs through detailed brush strokes or meticulous carvings long before it is described in scientific literature. There has been an increasing tendency to use paintings and drawings as independent sources for investigation of scientific history. In neuroanatomy, these tools have helped reveal the complex interrelation between arts and neurosciences that on the surface often appear as highly polarized worlds. In this article we begin by giving a brief introduction to the general relationship between neuroscience and art as depicted in paintings and drawings, and describe the artistic tendencies of the early neuroanatomists. We aim to highlight the existence of neurosurgical themes within paintings and drawings from different eras.
Although tethering of the spinal cord in the lumbosacral region, particularly following repair of congenital anomalies, such as myelomeningocele, is a well-known phenomenon, only sporadic reports of tethering along the rest of the neuraxis, including the hindbrain, cervical and thoracic spinal cord have been documented. In this report, we describe a woman who developed symptoms related to tethering of the cervical spinal cord 5 years after suboccipital decompressive surgery of the posterior fossa for Chiari I malformation. The authors discuss the diagnosis, treatment, and postoperative course of this entity.
Continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen (ITB) via a subcutaneously implanted pump has developed over the last 20 years as a powerful tool in the management of spasticity in various adult and paediatric neurological conditions. Acting more focally on spinal GABA receptors, ITB causes fewer systemic side effects than orally administered baclofen. The result is facilitation of daily caring, and symptomatic relief from painful spasm. With increasing experience of ITB use, novel applications and indications are emerging. These include the management of dystonia and chronic neuropathic pain. However, despite some recent authoritative reviews, there is still uncertainty about optimal use and evaluation of this therapy. Many challenges remain. How can efficacy of therapy best be assessed both at primary testing and after pump implantation? What is the precise mechanism of baclofen action in different brain and spinal disorders associated with spasticity and dystonia? Does placement of the spinal catheter tip influence efficacy? What is the cranio-caudal gradient of CSF baclofen levels at given pump flow rates and does this matter? What CSF baclofen levels are efficacious in various conditions? Why do some patients with the same primary condition require large differences in ITB dose? What are the relative merits of programmable versus constant infusion rate pumps? What are the implications of setting up multidisciplinary teams for long term follow up? This review evaluates these questions and highlights other areas for further investigation.
The vasoconstrictor substance named serotonin was identified as 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by Maurice Rapport in 1949. In 1951, Rapport gave Gaddum samples of 5-HT substance allowing him to develop a bioassay to both detect and measure the amine. Gaddum and colleagues rapidly identified 5-HT in brain and showed that lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) antagonized its action in peripheral tissues. Gaddum accordingly postulated that 5-HT might have a role in mood regulation. This review examines the role of UK scientists in the first 20 years following these major discoveries, discussing their role in developing assays for 5-HT in the CNS, identifying the enzymes involved in the synthesis and metabolism of 5-HT and investigating the effect of drugs on brain 5-HT. It reviews studies on the effects of LSD in humans, including Gaddum's self-administration experiments. It outlines investigations on the role of 5-HT in psychiatric disorders, including studies on the effect of antidepressant drugs on the 5-HT concentration in rodent and human brain, and the attempts to examine 5-HT biochemistry in the brains of patients with depressive illness. It is clear that a rather small group of both preclinical scientists and psychiatrists in the UK made major advances in our understanding of the role of 5-HT in the brain, paving the way for much of the knowledge now taken for granted when discussing ways that 5-HT might be involved in the control of mood and the idea that therapeutic drugs used to alleviate psychiatric illness might alter the function of cerebral 5-HT.
The pulvinar is an important structure for visual attention function. Spatial and temporal attention was examined in three patients with varying pulvinar lesions. Spatial and temporal deficits were dissociable. The patient with anterior damage showed strong spatial but not temporal attention deficits, while the patient with posterior damage showed clear temporal attention deficits, but much reduced spatial problems. A third patient with intermediate damage showed intermediate behaviours. These findings are discussed within the scope of models of visual attention in which the pulvinar facilitates communication between different brain areas: depending upon the specifics of pulvinar damage, communication with different cortical areas may be degraded, thereby producing distinct patterns of deficit.
Cognitive deficits are very common in Parkinson's disease particularly for 'executive functions' associated with frontal cortico-striatal networks. Previous work has identified deficits in tasks that require attentional control like task-switching, and reward-based tasks like gambling or reversal learning. However, there is a complex relationship between the specific cognitive problems faced by an individual patient, their stage of disease and dopaminergic treatment. We used a bimodality continuous performance task during fMRI to examine how patients with Parkinson's disease represent the prospect of reward and switch between competing task rules accordingly. The task-switch was not separately cued but was based on the implicit reward relevance of spatial and verbal dimensions of successive compound stimuli. Nineteen patients were studied in relative 'on' and 'off' states, induced by dopaminergic medication withdrawal (Hoehn and Yahr stages 1-4). Patients were able to successfully complete the task and establish a bias to one or other dimension in order to gain reward. However the lateral prefrontal cortex and caudate nucleus showed a non-linear U-shape relationship between motor disease severity and regional brain activation. Dopaminergic treatment led to a shift in this U-shape function, supporting the hypothesis of differential neurodegeneration in separate motor and cognitive cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuits. In addition, anterior cingulate activation associated with reward expectation declined with more severe disease, whereas activation following actual rewards increased with more severe disease. This may facilitate a change in goal-directed behaviours from deferred predicted rewards to immediate actual rewards, particularly when on dopaminergic treatment. We discuss the implications for investigation and optimal treatment of this common condition at different stages of disease.
Using functional MRI (fMRI) we investigated 13 upper limb amputees with phantom limb pain (PLP) during hand and lip movement, before and after intensive 6-week training in mental imagery. Prior to training, activation elicited during lip purse showed evidence of cortical reorganization of motor (M1) and somatosensory (S1) cortices, expanding from lip area to hand area, which correlated with pain scores. In addition, during imagined movement of the phantom hand, and executed movement of the intact hand, group maps demonstrated activation not only in bilateral M1 and S1 hand area, but also lip area, showing a two-way process of reorganization. In healthy participants, activation during lip purse and imagined and executed movement of the non-dominant hand was confined to the respective cortical representation areas only. Following training, patients reported a significant reduction in intensity and unpleasantness of constant pain and exacerbations, with a corresponding elimination of cortical reorganization. Post hoc analyses showed that intensity of constant pain, but not exacerbations, correlated with reduction in cortical reorganization. The results of this study add to our current understanding of the pathophysiology of PLP, underlining the reversibility of neuroplastic changes in this patient population while offering a novel, simple method of pain relief.
Recent findings in experimental models and in the clinical setting highlight the possibility that inflammatory processes in the brain contribute to the etiopathogenesis of seizures and to the establishment of a chronic epileptic focus. Prototypical inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1 beta, TNF-alpha and IL-6 have been shown to be overexpressed in experimental models of seizures in brain areas of seizure generation and propagation, prominently by glia and to a lesser extent by neurons. Cytokines receptors are also upregulated, and the related intracellular signalling is activated, in both cell populations highlighting autocrine and paracrine actions of cytokines in the brain. Cytokines have been shown to profoundly affect seizures in rodents; in particular, IL-1 beta is endowed of proconvulsant activity in a large variety of seizure models. The recent demonstration of functional interactions between cytokines and classical neurotransmitters such as glutamate and GABA, suggest the possibility that these interactions underlie the cytokine-mediated changes in neuronal excitability, thus promoting seizure phenomena and the associated neuropathology. These findings point out at novel glio-neuronal communications in diseased conditions and highlight potential new targets for therapeutic intervention.
Autism together with Asperger syndrome and pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified form a spectrum of conditions (autism spectrum disorders or ASD) that is characterized by disturbances in social behavior, impaired communication and the presence of stereotyped behaviors or circumscribed interests. Recent estimates indicate a prevalence of ASD of 1 per 150 (Kuehn, 2007). The cause(s) of most cases of ASD are unknown but there is an emerging consensus that ASD have multiple etiologies. One proposed cause of ASD is exposure of the fetal brain to maternal autoantibodies during pregnancy [Dalton, P., Deacon, R., Blamire, A., Pike, M., McKinlay, I., Stein, J., Styles, P., Vincent, A., 2003. Maternal neuronal antibodies associated with autism and a language disorder. Ann. Neurol. 53, 533-537]. To provide evidence for this hypothesis, four rhesus monkeys were exposed prenatally to human IgG collected from mothers of multiple children diagnosed with ASD. Four control rhesus monkeys were exposed to human IgG collected from mothers of multiple typically developing children. Five additional monkeys were untreated controls. Monkeys were observed in a variety of behavioral paradigms involving unique social situations. Behaviors were scored by trained observers and overall activity was monitored with actimeters. Rhesus monkeys gestationally exposed to IgG class antibodies from mothers of children with ASD consistently demonstrated increased whole-body stereotypies across multiple testing paradigms. These monkeys were also hyperactive compared to controls. Treatment with IgG purified from mothers of typically developing children did not induce stereotypical or hyperactive behaviors. These findings support the potential for an autoimmune etiology in a subgroup of patients with neurodevelopmental disorders. This research raises the prospect of prenatal evaluation for neurodevelopmental risk factors and the potential for preventative therapeutics.
Regulation of neuronal plasticity by the immune system is an evolving field of modern neuroscience. Here we employ immune deficient mice to examine the role of the immune system in learning behavior of mice in a variety of cognitive tasks. While no motivation or motor function deficits are evident in severe combined immune deficient (scid) mice, there was significant impairment in acquisition of cognitive tasks as compared to wild-type (WT) control mice. Moreover, acute depletion of adaptive immunity in adult WT mice significantly impaired learning behavior. Passive transfer of autologous T cells into WT mice following ablation of adaptive immunity restored previously impaired cognitive function. These results suggest that throughout lifetime, immune system supports cognitive function and may therefore have far-reaching therapeutic implications for cognitive disorders.
Over the past few years, the light-gated cation channel Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) has seen a remarkable diversity of applications in neuroscience. However, commonly used wide-field illumination provides poor spatial selectivity for cell stimulation. We explored the potential of focal laser illumination to map photocurrents of individual neurons in sparsely transfected hippocampal slice cultures. Interestingly, the best spatial resolution of photocurrent induction was obtained at the lowest laser power. By adjusting the light intensity to a neuron's spike threshold, we were able to trigger action potentials with a spatial selectivity of less than 30 microm. Experiments with dissociated hippocampal cells suggested that the main factor limiting the spatial resolution was ChR2 current density rather than scattering of the excitation light. We conclude that subcellular resolution can be achieved only in cells with a high ChR2 expression level and that future improved variants of ChR2 are likely to extend the spatial resolution of photocurrent induction to the level of single dendrites.
Genetically encoded probes based on Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) enable us to decipher spatiotemporal information encoded in complex tissues such as the brain. Firstly, this review focuses on FRET probes wherein both the donor and acceptor are fluorescence proteins and are incorporated into a single molecule, i.e. unimolecular probes. Advantages of these probes lie in their easy loading into cells, the simple acquisition of FRET images, and the clear evaluation of data. Next, we introduce our recent study which encompasses FRET imaging and in silico simulation. In nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, we found positive and negative signaling feedback loops. We propose that these feedback loops determine neurite-budding sites. We would like to emphasize that it is now time to accelerate crossover research in neuroscience, optics, and computational biology.
Children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often exhibit sleep and behavioral disorders. Treatment of sleep disorders can be difficult in these children. Clonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been shown to be effective in reducing impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity, as well as in serving as a sedative for medial procedures. An open labeled retrospective study of clonidine in treatment of insomnia, and/or hyperactivity, inattention, mood disorder, and aggressive behaviors was conducted using parent reports of sleep initiation and maintenance, as well as behaviors prior and during clonidine treatment. Clonidine was effective in reducing sleep initiation latency and night awakening, to a less degree in improving attention deficits hyperactivity, mood instability and aggressiveness in this cohort of 19 children with ASD. The side effects were largely tolerable. Further evaluation with placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial of clonidine use in ASD will provide more insight into the clinical efficacy and safety of the medicine in ASD.

Awake surgery has been reported to play a role in the safe removal of brain tumors and detection of the functional localization of the cortex or neuronal tracts. In our hospital, from November 2004 to May 2007, we performed awake surgery with continuous tasks in 33 cases of brain tumors within or near the primary motor area (M1). The relationship between the extent of resection and postoperative motor function in awake surgery cases was compared with that in cases of surgery under general anesthesia, which were performed prior to November 2004. In 32 of 33 cases of awake surgery, the final postoperative motor function was either preserved or improved relative to the preoperative levels; however, in 9 of 14 patients who underwent surgery under general anesthesia, deterioration in motor function was noted after surgery. Gross total removal (GTR) was achieved in 20 of 33 cases of awake surgery and in 8 of 14 cases of surgery under general anesthesia, indicating that the extent of resection was similar between awake surgery and surgery under general anesthesia. In most cases of awake surgery, neurological deterioration occurred during internal decompression of the tumors or compression of the normal brain, while surgical manipulation of the tumor margin did not induce neurological deterioration in most cases of surgery under general anesthesia. Moreover, various new findings regarding the function of the cortex or neuronal tract have been reported in awake surgery. We discussed the advantages and future directions of awake surgery. In conclusion, awake surgery plays an important role in neurosurgery and neuroscience.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia with very few drugs available for its treatment. In 1999, Schenk et al reported that Abeta 1-42 peptide vaccination in AD model mice causes the reduction in Abeta deposits. Thereafter, a vaccine therapy was developed for the curative treatment of AD. Clinical trials of active vaccination for AD patients were halted due to the development of meningoencephalitis in some patients; however, vaccine therapy is thought to be effective based on the clinical and pathological findings of the vaccinated patients. Based on this information, active and passive vaccines have been developed, some of which are now urdergoing clinical trials in Europe and USA. However, there are still some problems for general application of such drugs for AD patients. Recently, we developed nonviral DNA vaccines and used them to obtain a substantial Abeta reduction in AD model mice without any side effects. In this article, we will review conventional vaccine therapies and introduce our non-viral DNA vaccine therapy. Finally, we will present data regarding the mechanisms of Abeta reduction after DNA vaccination. DNA vaccination for AD may open up new avenues in vaccine therapy for the treatment of AD.
Intracranial dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) are acquired abnormal epidural arteriovenous shunts, particularly at the sinus wall. Most of the DAVFs are associated with progressive sinus occlusion. They are located in the cavernous sinus, lateral (transverse-sigmoid) sinus, superior-sagittal sinus, anterior condylar confluence, tentorial sinus, craniocervical junction, and anterior skull base (ethmoidal sinus). The treatment strategy differs based on the etiology and drainage pattern of DAVFs. The most effective treatment for DAVFs at the sinus wall is transvenous embolization (TVE) with coils. The target coil packing is effective if the sinus point is identified. Certain cases that are difficult to approach transvenously are treated with transarterial embolization (TAE) by using liquid materials like such glue. In particular cases with sinus occlusive lesion sinus reconstruction with sinoplasty is effective. The cases with failed or impossible endovascular approach should be treated with surgical interruption of shunts or by radiosurgery. The most frequent complication of TAE is brain and nerve ischemia due to the overembolization or migration, and that in TVE is the bleeding due to obstruction of the drainage route and nerve compression due to overpacking of coils.

Common architecture of cytokine receptors and G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) may underlie pathological receptor heteromer formation and signaling. Here, we clarify how chemokines and cytokines can participate in pathogenic processes of Parkinson's disease, especially in dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra. Possible common architecture of GPCRs and cytokine receptors suggests that they may act as molecular switches similar to the prototypical innate immune receptors: Toll-like receptors. Thus, pathological signaling (as well as trafficking and internalization) of receptors may be initiated by their incorrect dimerization depending on direct or indirect (via adaptor proteins) receptor-receptor interactions, leading to neuroinflammatory responses.
The predominance of dopamine (DA) receptors at extrasynaptic vs. synaptic sites implies that DA signaling is by diffusion-based volume transmission. In this review, we compare characteristics that regulate extracellular DA behavior in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and striatum, including regional differences in structure (a 40% greater extracellular volume fraction in SNc vs. striatum) and in dynamic DA uptake (a 200-fold greater DA uptake rate in striatum vs. SNc). Furthermore, we test the assumption of diffusion-based volume transmission for SNc and striatum by modeling dynamic DA behavior after quantal release using region-specific parameters for diffusion and uptake at 37 degrees C. Our model shows that DA uptake does not affect peak DA concentration within 1 mum of a release site in either SNc or striatum because of the slow kinetics of DATs vs. diffusion. Rather, diffusion and dilution are the dominant factors governing DA concentration after quantal release. In SNc, limited DAT efficacy is reflected in a lack of influence of uptake on either amplitude or time course of DA transients after quantal release up to 10 mum from a release site. In striatum, the lack of effect of the DAT within 1 mum of a release site means that perisynaptic DATs do not &quot;gate&quot; synaptic spillover. This contrasts with the conventional view of DA synapses, in which DATs efficiently recycle DA by re-uptake into the releasing axon terminal. However, the model also shows that a primary effect of striatal uptake is to curtail DA lifetime after release. In both SNc and striatum, effective DA radius after quantal release is ~2 mum for activation of low-affinity DA receptors and 7-8 mum for high-affinity receptors; the corresponding spheres of influence would encompass tens to thousands of synapses. Thus, the primary mode of intercellular communication by DA, regardless of region, is volume transmission.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by a loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Recently, PD research has been stimulated by the identification of genes that are implicated in rare familial forms of PD. However, despite these discoveries, the primary cause of PD is still unclear. Various pathogenic mechanisms may be involved including mitochondrial dysfunction, proteasomal dysfunction/protein aggregation, oxidative damage, environmental factors and genetic disposition. Furthermore, dopamine has also been implicated in contributing to the pathogenesis of PD. This review will focus on the genes that have been identified to be associated with PD and how they may impair dopamine metabolism. Understanding the role of these PD-related genes in dopamine neurobiology may provide insight into the underpinning pathogenic mechanisms of PD.
Future therapies for diseases associated with altered dopaminergic signaling, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and drug addiction or drug dependence may substantially build on the existence of intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions within dopamine receptor containing receptor mosaics (RM; dimeric or high-order receptor oligomers) where it is believed that the dopamine D(2) receptor may operate as the 'hub receptor' within these complexes. The constitutive adenosine A(2A)/dopamine D(2) RM, located in the dorsal striato-pallidal GABA neurons, are of particular interest in view of the demonstrated antagonistic A(2A)/D(2) interaction within these heteromers; an interaction that led to the suggestion and later demonstration that A(2A) antagonists could be used as novel anti-Parkinsonian drugs. Based on the likely existence of A(2A)/D(2)/mGluR5 RM located both extrasynaptically on striato-pallidal GABA neurons and on cortico-striatal glutamate terminals, multiple receptor-receptor interactions within this RM involving synergism between A(2A)/mGluR5 to counteract D(2) signaling, has led to the proposal of using combined mGluR5 and A(2A) antagonists as a future anti-Parkinsonian treatment. Based on the same RM in the ventral striato-pallidal GABA pathways, novel strategies for the treatment of schizophrenia, building on the idea that A(2A) agonists and/or mGluR5 agonists will help reduce the increased dopaminergic signaling associated with this disease, have been suggested. Such treatment may ensure the proper glutamatergic drive from the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus to the prefrontal cortex, one which is believed to be reduced in schizophrenia due to a dominance of D(2)-like signaling in the ventral striatum. Recently, A(2A) receptors also have been shown to counteract the locomotor and sensitizing actions of cocaine and increases in A(2A) receptors have also been observed in the nucleus accumbens after extended cocaine self-administration, probably representing a compensatory up-regulation to counteract the cocaine-induced increases in dopamine D(2) and D(3) signaling. Therefore, A(2A) agonists, through antagonizing D(2) and D(3) signaling within A(2A)/D(2) and A(2A)/D(3) RM heteromers in the nucleus accumbens, may be found useful as a treatment for cocaine dependence. Furthermore, antagonistic cannabinoid CB(1)/D(2) interactions requiring A(2A) receptors have also been discovered and possibly operate in CB(1)/D(2)/A(2A) RM located principally on striatal glutamate terminals but also on some ventral striato-pallidal GABA neurons, thereby opening up a new mechanism for the integration of endocannabinoid, DA and adenosine mediated signals. Thus, A(2A), mGluR5 and/or CB(1) receptors can form integrative units with D(2) receptors within RM displaying different compositions, topography and localization. Also galaninR/5-HT(1A) RM probably participates in the transmission of the ascending 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons, where galanin receptors antagonize 5-HT(1A) recognition and signaling. Subtype specific galanin receptor antagonists may therefore represent novel antidepressant drugs. These results suggest the importance of a complete understanding of the function of these RM with regard to disease. Ultimately receptor-receptor interactions within RM that modify dopaminergic and serotonergic signaling may give new strategies for treatment of a wide range of diseases associated with altered dopaminergic and serotonergic signaling.
There are two distinct inhibitory GABAergic circuits in the neostriatum. The feedforward circuit consists of a relatively small population of GABAergic interneurons that receives excitatory input from the neocortex and exerts monosynaptic inhibition onto striatal spiny projection neurons. The feedback circuit comprises the numerous spiny projection neurons and their interconnections via local axon collaterals. This network has long been assumed to provide the majority of striatal GABAergic inhibition and to sharpen and shape striatal output through lateral inhibition, producing increased activity in the most strongly excited spiny cells at the expense of their less strongly excited neighbors. Recent results, mostly from recording experiments of synaptically connected pairs of neurons, have revealed that the two GABAergic circuits differ markedly in terms of the total number of synapses made by each, the strength of the postsynaptic response detected at the soma, the extent of presynaptic convergence and divergence and the net effect of the activation of each circuit on the postsynaptic activity of the spiny neuron. These data have revealed that the feedforward inhibition is powerful and widespread, with spiking in a single interneuron being capable of significantly delaying or even blocking the generation of spikes in a large number of postsynaptic spiny neurons. In contrast, the postsynaptic effects of spiking in a single presynaptic spiny neuron on postsynaptic spiny neurons are weak when measured at the soma, and unable to significantly affect spike timing or generation. Further, reciprocity of synaptic connections between spiny neurons is only rarely observed. These results suggest that the bulk of the fast inhibition that has the strongest effects on spiny neuron spike timing comes from the feedforward interneuronal system whereas the axon collateral feedback system acts principally at the dendrites to control local excitability as well as the overall level of activity of the spiny neuron.
Recently, a new cytoarchitectonic map of the human inferior parietal lobule (IPL) has been proposed, with the IPL consisting of seven cytoarchitectonically distinct areas (Caspers et al. in Neuroimage 33(2):430-448, 2006). The aim of the present study was to investigate the different aspects of variability of these IPL areas. As one aspect of variability, we analysed the topographical relationship between the localisation of the borders of the areas and macroanatomical landmarks. Although five areas occupy the surface supramarginal gyrus and two the angular gyrus, their borders cannot be reliably detected by means of macroanatomy. To account for variability in size and extent of the areas in stereotaxic space, cytoarchitectonic probabilistic maps have been calculated for each IPL area. Hemisphere- and gender-related differences have been investigated on basis of volumes of cytoarchitectonic areas. For one of them, area PFcm, a significant gender difference in volume was found with males having larger volumes than females; this difference exceeds that of gender differences in total brain volume. The different aspects of variability and volumetric asymmetry may underlie some of the well-known functional asymmetries in the IPL, observed, for example during fMRI experiments analysing spatial attention or motor attention, and planning. The cytoarchitectonic probabilistic maps of the seven IPL areas provide a robust anatomical reference and open new perspectives for further structure-function investigations of the human IPL.
The midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei (MITN), locus coeruleus (LC) and cingulate cortex contain nociceptive neurons. The MITN that project to cingulate cortex have a prominent innervation by norepinephrinergic axons primarily originating from the LC. The hypothesis explored in this study is that MITN neurons that project to cingulate cortex receive a disproportionately high LC input that may modulate nociceptive afferent flow into the forebrain. Ten cynomolgus monkeys were evaluated for dopamine-beta hydroxylase (DBH) immunohistochemistry, and nuclei with moderate or high DBH activity were analyzed for intermediate neurofilament proteins, calbindin (CB), and calretinin (CR). Sections of all but DBH were thionin counterstained to assure precise localization in the mediodorsal and MITN, and cytoarchitecture was analyzed with neuron-specific nuclear binding protein. Moderate-high levels of DBH-immunoreactive (ir) axons were generally associated with high densities of CB-ir and CR-ir neurons and low levels of neurofilament proteins. The paraventricular, superior centrolateral, limitans and central nuclei had relatively high and evenly distributed DBH, the magnocellular mediodorsal and paracentral nuclei had moderate DBH-ir, and other nuclei had an even and low level of activity. Some nuclei also have heterogeneities in DBH-ir that raised questions of functional segregation. The anterior multiformis part of the mediodorsal nucleus but not middle and caudal levels had high DBH activity. The posterior parafascicular nucleus (Pf) was heterogeneous with the lateral part having little DBH activity, while its medial division had most DBH-ir axons and its multiformis part had only a small number. These findings suggest that the LC may regulate nociceptive processing in the thalamus. The well established role of cingulate cortex in premotor functions and the projections of Pf and other MITN to the limbic striatum suggests a specific role in mediating motor outflow for the LC-innervated nuclei of the MITN.

Two isoforms of the ryanodine receptor subtype 3 (RYR3) have been described in smooth muscle. The RYR3 short isoform (RYR3S) negatively regulates the calcium-induced calcium release mechanism encoded by the RYR2, whereas the role of the full length isoform of RYR3 (RYR3L) was still unclear. Here, we describe RYR-dependent spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations measured in 10% of native duodenum myocytes. We investigated the role of RYR3 isoforms in these spontaneous Ca(2+) signals. Inhibition of RYR3S expression by antisense oligonucleotides revealed that both RYR2 and RYR3L were able to propagate spontaneous Ca(2+) waves that were distinguishable by frequency analysis. When RYR3L expression was inhibited, the spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations were never observed, indicating that RYR3S inhibited the function of RYR2. RYR2 expression inhibition led to Ca(2+) oscillations identical to those observed in control cells suggesting that RYR3S did not functionally interact with RYR3L. The presence and frequency of RYR3L-dependent Ca(2+) oscillations were dependent on sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) content as revealed by long-term changes of the extracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Our study shows that, in native duodenal myocytes, the spontaneous Ca(2+) waves are encoded by the RYR3L alone, which activity is regulated by sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) loading.
LINGO-1 has been critically implicated in the central regulation of CNS axon regeneration and oligodendrocyte maturation. We have recently demonstrated that pretreatment with LINGO-1 antagonist (LINGO-1-Fc) inhibited low potassium-induced cerebellar granular neurons (CGNs) apoptosis. In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective mechanism of LINGO-1-Fc by Western blot and in situ GST pull-down assay. CGN cultures were preincubated in medium with LINGO-1-Fc or control protein at the concentration of 10 mug/ml for 2 h and then switched to low potassium medium in the presence of corresponding proteins. Cultures were harvested at indicated time intervals for successive analysis. Several apoptosis-associated signaling factors, GSK-3beta, ERK1/2, and Rho GTPases, were observed to be activated in response to potassium deprivation and the activation/dephosphorylation of GSK-3beta was suppressed by LINGO-1-Fc pretreatment compared with control group. Besides, the endogenous LINGO-1 expression level of CGN cultures was augmented by low potassium stimuli and restrained by LINGO-1 antagonist treatment. Although the protein level of p75(NTR) and Nogo-A were down-regulated in different patterns during apoptosis, neither of them was affected by LINGO-1-Fc application. Taken together, these results suggest a new mechanism of LINGO-1 antagonist regulated neuronal survival involving protein synthesis of LINGO-1 and inactivation of GSK-3 pathway.
(1) Field potential study in conscious rats provides a convenient and effective animal model for pain mechanism and pharmacological research. However, the spatial-temporal character of nociception processing in cortex revealed by field potential technique in conscious rats remains unclear. (2) In the present study, multi-channel field potentials evoked by noxious laser stimulation applied to the hind paw of conscious rats were recorded through 12 chronically implanted skull electrodes. Independent component analysis (ICA) was used to remove possible artifacts and to extract the specific nociception-related component. (3) Two fast sharp responses and one slow blunt response were evoked by noxious laser stimulation. Systemic morphine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) preferentially attenuated the amplitude of the slow blunt response while had no significant effect on the first two sharp responses. ICA revealed that those responses came from activities of contralateral anterior parietal area, medial frontal area and posterior parietal area. A movement artifact was also detected in this study. Partial directed coherence (PDC) analysis showed that there were changes of information flows from medial frontal and posterior parietal area to anterior parietal area after noxious laser stimulation. (4) Characterization of the spatio-temporal responses to noxious laser stimulation may be a valuable model for the study of pain mechanisms and for the assessment of analgesia.
Occipital stimulation in a small group of refractory chronic migraine and cluster headache patients has been suggested as a novel therapeutic approach with promising results. In an earlier study we have shown that a drug-induced block of the greater occipital nerve (GON) inhibits the nociceptive blink reflex (nBR). Now, we sought to examine the effects of low-frequency (3 Hz) short-time nociceptive stimulation of the GON on the trigeminal system. We recorded the nBR responses before and after stimulation in 34 healthy subjects. Selectivity of GON stimulation was confirmed by eliciting somatosensory evoked potentials of the GON upon stimulation. In contrast to an anaesthetic block of the occipital nerve, no significant changes of the R2-latencies and R2-response areas of the nBR can be elicited following GON stimulation. Various modes of electrical stimulation exist with differences in frequency, stimulus intensity, duration of stimulation and pulse width. One explanation for a missing modulatory effect in our study is the relatively short duration of the stimulation.
Reorganization of motor circuits in the cerebral cortex is thought to contribute to recovery following stroke. These can be examined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) using measures of corticospinal tract integrity and intracortical excitability. However, little is known about how these changes develop during the important early period post-stroke and their influence on recovery. We used TMS to obtain multiple measures bilaterally in a group of 10 patients during the early days and weeks and up to 6 months post-stroke, in order to examine correlations with tests of hand function. Ten age-matched healthy subjects were also studied. After stroke, day-to-day variation in performance was unrelated to physiological measures in the first 3 weeks. Measures of corticospinal integrity averaged over the same period correlated well with hand function, but this relationship became weaker at 3 months. In contrast, most intracortical excitability measures did not correlate acutely but did so strongly at 3 months. Thus in the acute stage, patients' performance is limited by damage to corticospinal output. Improved performance at 3 months may depend on reorganization in alternative cortical networks to maximize the efficiency of remaining corticospinal pathways--intracortical disinhibition may aid recovery by promoting access to these networks.
Foxg1 is a transcription factor that is critical for forebrain development. Foxg1(+/Cre) mice were used to test the hypotheses 1) that the subventricular zone (SZ) generates supragranular neurons, 2) that Foxg1-regulated activities define the output from the SZ, and 3) that Foxg1 is involved in the suppression of p21-initiated cell-cycle exit. Foxg1(+/Cre) mice have thinner neocortices than wild-type controls, specifically in the supragranular layers, as detected by Brn2 immunostaining. Cell proliferation in the ventricular zone (VZ) and SZ was examined to investigate the reduction in upper layer neurons. The number of cycling VZ cells was similar in Foxg1(+/+) and Foxg1(+/Cre) brains. Interestingly, cell proliferation in the SZ and intermediate progenitor cell (IPC) production (noted by Tbr2-immunostaining) was reduced in Foxg1(+/Cre) brains. These decreases coincided with increased expression of the cell-cycle inhibitor p21 in the VZ and SZ. Furthermore, colocalization of p21 with markers of cell proliferation and IPCs indicated that p21 was temporally expressed to influence the proliferative fate of IPCs. Thus, the present data are consistent with the above hypotheses, particularly, that during corticogenesis, Foxg1-regulated activities enable the expansion of the IPC population likely through suppression of p21-dependent cell-cycle exit.
In mammals, the visual field is split along the midline, each hemisphere representing the contralateral hemifield. We determined that, in the ferret, an 8- to 10-deg-wide strip of visual field near the midline is represented in both hemispheres. Bright squares (1.5 deg) were flashed at different azimuths within the central 20 deg of the visual field. Stimuli were flashed either alone or sequentially, and the responses were analyzed with the voltage-sensitive dye (VSD) RH 795 and/or by recording local field potentials (LFPs). In both VSD and LFP experiments, each stimulus evoked a cortical response field that extended over visual areas 17 and 18 up to a surface of 1-1.5 mm(2) and then shrank again. Amplitude of the responses decreased approaching the visual midline and the latency increased. These positional differences are likely to originate from the spatiotemporal structure of the peripheral response fields (PRFs) that form a mosaic in areas 17 and 18, interrupted near the visual midline. Unexpectedly, interhemispheric connections appear not to modify these PRFs' effects and may not contribute to the responses to discrete, flashed stimuli.
Medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons respond to Pavlovian conditioned stimuli, and these responses depend on input from the basolateral amygdala (BLA). In this study, we examined the mPFC efferent circuits mediating conditioned responding by testing whether specific subsets of mPFC projection neurons receive BLA input and respond to conditioned stimuli. In urethane-anesthetized rats, we identified mPFC neurons that projected to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) or to the contralateral mPFC (cmPFC) using antidromic activation. Stimulation of the BLA and Pavlovian conditioned odors selectively activated a subpopulation of ventral mPFC neurons that projected to NAcc, but elicited virtually no activation in mPFC neurons that projected to cmPFC. BLA stimulation typically evoked inhibitory responses among nonactivated neurons projecting to either site. These results suggest that the ventral mPFC-to-NAcc pathway may support behavioral responses to conditioned cues. Furthermore, because projections from the BLA (which also encode affective information) and the mPFC converge within the NAcc, the BLA may recruit the mPFC to drive specific sets of NAcc neurons, and thereby exert control over prefrontal cortical-striato-thalamocortical information flow.
Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is widely used in neuroscience to study brain activity. However, BOLD fMRI does not measure neuronal activity directly but depends on cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) consumption. Using fMRI, CBV, CBF, neuronal recordings, and CMRO(2) modeling, we investigated how the signals are related during seizures in rats. We found that increases in hemodynamic, neuronal, and metabolic activity were associated with positive BOLD signals in the cortex, but with negative BOLD signals in hippocampus. Our data show that negative BOLD signals do not necessarily imply decreased neuronal activity or CBF, but can result from increased neuronal activity, depending on the interplay between hemodynamics and metabolism. Caution should be used in interpreting fMRI signals because the relationship between neuronal activity and BOLD signals may depend on brain region and state and can be different during normal and pathological conditions.
Learning from errors is a critical feature of human cognition. It underlies our ability to adapt to changing environmental demands and to tune behavior for optimal performance. The posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC) has been implicated in the evaluation of errors to control behavior, although it has not previously been shown that activity in this region predicts learning from errors. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we examined activity in the pMFC during an associative learning task in which participants had to recall the spatial locations of 2-digit targets and were provided with immediate feedback regarding accuracy. Activity within the pMFC was significantly greater for errors that were subsequently corrected than for errors that were repeated. Moreover, pMFC activity during recall errors predicted future responses (correct vs. incorrect), despite a sizeable interval (on average 70 s) between an error and the next presentation of the same recall probe. Activity within the hippocampus also predicted future performance and correlated with error-feedback-related pMFC activity. A relationship between performance expectations and pMFC activity, in the absence of differing reinforcement value for errors, is consistent with the idea that error-related pMFC activity reflects the extent to which an outcome is &quot;worse than expected.&quot;
Studies of working memory load effects on human EEG power have indicated divergent effects in different frequency bands. Although gamma power typically increases with load, the load dependency of the lower frequency theta and alpha bands is uncertain. We obtained intracranial electroencephalography measurements from 1453 electrode sites in 14 epilepsy patients performing a Sternberg task, in order to characterize the anatomical distribution of load-related changes across the frequency spectrum. Gamma power increases occurred throughout the brain, but were most common in the occipital lobe. In the theta and alpha bands, both increases and decreases were observed, but with different anatomical distributions. Increases in theta and alpha power were most prevalent in frontal midline cortex. Decreases were most commonly observed in occipital cortex, colocalized with increases in the gamma range, but were also detected in lateral frontal and parietal regions. Spatial overlap with group functional magnetic resonance imaging results was minimal except in the precentral gyrus. These findings suggest that power in any given frequency band is not a unitary phenomenon; rather, reactivity in the same frequency band varies in different brain regions, and may relate to the engagement or inhibition of a given area in a cognitive task.
One working hypothesis behind transsexuality is that the normal sex differentiation of certain hypothalamic networks is altered. We tested this hypothesis by investigating the pattern of cerebral activation in 12 nonhomosexual male-to-female transsexuals (MFTRs) when smelling 4,16-androstadien-3-one (AND) and estra-1,3,5(10),16-tetraen-3-ol (EST). These steroids are reported to activate the hypothalamic networks in a sex-differentiated way. Like in female controls the hypothalamus in MFTRs activated with AND, whereas smelling of EST engaged the amygdala and piriform cortex. Male controls, on the other hand, activated the hypothalamus with EST. However, when restricting the volume of interest to the hypothalamus activation was detected in MFTR also with EST, and explorative conjunctional analysis revealed that MFTR shared a hypothalamic cluster with women when smelling AND, and with men when smelling EST. Because the EST effect was limited, MFTR differed significantly only from male controls, and only for EST-AIR and EST-AND. These data suggest a pattern of activation away from the biological sex, occupying an intermediate position with predominantly female-like features. Because our MFTRs were nonhomosexual, the results are unlikely to be an effect of sexual practice. Instead, the data implicate that transsexuality may be associated with sex-atypical physiological responses in specific hypothalamic circuits, possibly as a consequence of a variant neuronal differentiation.


1. The spatial relationship between intracellular molecules and their local concentrations are two critical parameters required for a better understanding of protein-protein interactions in the cell. 2. Determination of the local concentration of proteins in individual cells using more sophisticated techniques and determination of the spatial relationship between a molecular platform and its partners is essential for allow us to obtain more convincing and concrete scientific conclusions. 3. As a reasonable goal, development of molecular tomography of the cell is proposed.


Acute lung injury results in a severe inflammatory response, which leads to priming and activation of leucocytes, release of reactive oxygen and reactive nitrogen species, destruction of pulmonary endothelium, extravasation of protein-rich fluid into the interstitium and formation of oedema. Recently, H2S (hydrogen sulfide) has been shown to decrease the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines, reduce leucocyte adherence to the endothelium and subsequent diapedesis of these cells from the microvasculature in in vivo studies, and to protect cells in culture from oxidative injury. In the present study, we hypothesized that a parenteral formulation of H2S would reduce the lung injury induced by burn and smoke inhalation in a novel murine model. H(2)S post-treatment significantly decreased mortality and increased median survival in mice. H2S also inhibited IL (interleukin)-1beta levels and significantly increased the concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in lung tissue. Additionally, H2S administration attenuated protein oxidation following injury and improved the histological condition of the lung. In conclusion, these results suggest that H2S exerts protective effects in acute lung injury, at least in part through the activation of anti-inflammatory and antioxidant pathways.
Introduction: Evidence from phenomenological, family, genetic, and treatment studies from Western centers have suggested that tic-related obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) could be different from non-tic-related OCD. This study from India investigated the differences in OCD with and without tics, with respect to sociodemographics, symptom profile, and comorbidity, including obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders, to examine whether the clinical profile of tic-related OCD is similar to that reported previously. Methods: Fifty subjects with OCD and tics (chronic motor tics and Tourette syndrome) were compared with 141 OCD subjects without tics. Results: Subjects having OCD with tics tended to be males, and had an earlier onset of illness. They had more of symmetry/aggressive and religious obsessions, and cleaning, ordering/arranging, hoarding, and repeating compulsions and were associated with trichotillomania and hypochondraisis. Stepwise backward (Wald) regression analysis showed that an early age of onset, male gender, aggressive obsessions, cleaning compulsions, and trichotillomania were significantly associated with tic-related OCD. Conclusion: The findings of this study from India are broadly similar to those reported previously from the West indicating the universality of differences in tic- and non-tic-related OCD. Our findings also support the existing evidence that tics contribute to the heterogeneity of OCD.
Learning word order is one of the earliest feats infants accomplish during language acquisition [Brown, R. (1973). A first language: The early stages, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.]. Two theories have been proposed to account for this fact. Constructivist/lexicalist theories [Tomasello, M. (2000). Do young children have adult syntactic competence? Cognition, 74(3), 209-253.] argue that word order is learned separately for each lexical item or construction. Generativist theories [Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.], on the other hand, claim that word order is an abstract and general property, determined from the input independently of individual words. Here, we show that eight-month-old Japanese and Italian infants have opposite order preferences in an artificial grammar experiment, mirroring the opposite word orders of their respective native languages. This suggests that infants possess some representation of word order prelexically, arguing for the generativist view. We propose a frequency-based bootstrapping mechanism to account for our results, arguing that infants might build this representation by tracking the order of functors and content words, identified through their different frequency distributions. We investigate frequency and word order patterns in infant-directed Japanese and Italian corpora to support this claim.
Rule-based and information-integration category learning were compared under minimal and full feedback conditions. Rule-based category structures are those for which the optimal rule is verbalizable. Information-integration category structures are those for which the optimal rule is not verbalizable. With minimal feedback subjects are told whether their response was correct or incorrect, but are not informed of the correct category assignment. With full feedback subjects are informed of the correctness of their response and are also informed of the correct category assignment. An examination of the distinct neural circuits that subserve rule-based and information-integration category learning leads to the counterintuitive prediction that full feedback should facilitate rule-based learning but should also hinder information-integration learning. This prediction was supported in the experiment reported below. The implications of these results for theories of learning are discussed.
The present study investigated whether lexical access is affected by a regular phonological variation in connected speech: voice assimilation in French. Two associative priming experiments were conducted to determine whether strongly assimilated, potentially ambiguous word forms activate the conceptual representation of the underlying word. Would the ambiguous word form [sud] (either assimilated soute 'hold' or soude 'soda') facilitate &quot;bagage&quot; 'luggage', which is semantically related to soute but not to soude? In Experiment 1, words in either canonical or strongly assimilated form were presented as primes. Both forms primed their related target to the same extent. Potential lexical ambiguity did not modulate priming effects. In Experiment 2, the primes such as assimilated soute pronounced [sud] used in Experiment 1 were replaced with primes such as soude canonically pronounced [sud]. No semantic priming effect was obtained with these primes. Therefore, the effect observed for assimilated forms in Experiment 1 cannot be due to overall phonological proximity between canonical and assimilated forms. We propose that listeners must recover the intended words behind the assimilated forms through the exploitation of the remaining traces of the underlying form, however subtle these traces may be.
Ion channels are attractive targets for drug discovery with recent estimates indicating that voltage and ligand-gated channels account for the third and fourth largest gene families represented in company portfolios after the G protein coupled and nuclear hormone receptor families. A historical limitation on ion channel targeted drug discovery in the form of the extremely low throughput nature of the gold standard assay for assessing functional activity, patch clamp electrophysiology in mammalian cells, has been overcome by the implementation of multi-well plate format cell-based screening strategies for ion channels. These have taken advantage of various approaches to monitor ion flux or membrane potential using radioactive, non-radioactive, spectroscopic and fluorescence measurements and have significantly impacted both high-throughput screening and lead optimization efforts. In addition, major advances have been made in the development of automated electrophysiological platforms to increase capacity for cell-based screening using formats aimed at recapitulating the gold standard assay. This review addresses the options available for cell-based screening of ion channels with examples of their utility and presents case studies on the successful implementation of high-throughput screening campaigns for a ligand-gated ion channel using a fluorescent calcium indicator, and a voltage-gated ion channel using a fluorescent membrane potential sensitive dye.
A mathematical description of the restoring ionic mechanisms in a compartmentalized electrochemical model of neuronal tissues was developed aiming at studying the essential conditions for refractoriness of Leo's spreading depression (SD). The model comprehends the representation of a plexiform layer, composed by synaptic terminals and glial process immersed in an extracellular space where the space-temporal variations of the ionic concentrations were described by electrodiffusion equations. The synaptic transmission was described by differential equations representing the corresponding chemical reactions associated with the neurotransmitter release, diffusion, binding to its receptor in the postsynaptic membrane and the uptake by the presynaptic terminals. The effect of the neurotransmitter binding to the receptor induces changes in the permeability of the postsynaptic membrane and the corresponding transmembrane fluxes were calculated. The fluxes promote changes in the external ionic concentrations, changing the ionic electrodiffusion through the extracellular space. The description of these mechanisms provides the reaction-diffusion structure of the model and allows simulating the wave propagation. The simulations of experimental maneuvers of application of two consecutive stimuli for inducing SD suggest: (i) the extracellular space acts coupling the postsynaptic terminals and glial cells recovery mechanisms in such a way that the extracellular ionic concentrations change only during the wave front; (ii) the potassium removed from the extracellular by the glial cells, originated from the depolarization of the synaptic terminals returns slowly limited by the glial release, contributing for the refractoriness of the tissue; (iii) critical points for sodium and potassium transmembrane fluxes could be identified, allowing proposing specific conditions for the interplay between channels and pumps fluxes for determining the absolute and relative refractory periods.

There is well documented evidence for the increasing and widespread use of complementary and alternative medicine in the treatment of symptoms of both physical and mental disorders within Western populations. This paper aims to provide a focused review of recent literature on the use of one of these therapies, namely aromatherapy, in nursing and mental health care of people suffering from anxiety and depressive disorders. The evidence base for the efficacy of aromatherapy used to treat these conditions remains poor with a particular paucity of methodologically rigorous studies. However, there are some promising results which suggest that further research is warranted to investigate the potential of essential oils in treating anxiety, depression and symptoms of stress. The experimentally designed inhalation studies are of particular importance as both health professionals and consumers demand more accurate and scientifically based information about the effects and safety of essential oils.
The accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau is a common feature of several dementias. Tau is one of the brain microtubule-associated proteins. Here we discuss tau's function in microtubule assembly and stabilization and with regards to tau's interactions with other proteins, membranes, and DNA. We describe and analyze important posttranslational modifications: hyperphosphorylation, glycosylation, ubiquitination, glycation, polyamination, nitration, and truncation. We discuss how these post-translational modifications can alter tau's biological function and what is known about tau self-assembly, and we propose a mechanism of tau polymerization. We analyze the impact of natural mutations on tau that cause fronto-temporal dementia associated with chromosome 17 (FTDP-1 7). Finally, we consider whether tau accumulation or its conformational change is related to tau-induced neurodegeneration, and we propose a mechanism of neurodegeneration.
Recently, a number of Alzheimer's disease (AD) multi-center clinical trials (CT) have failed to provide statistically significant evidence of drug efficacy. To test for possible design or execution flaws we analyzed in detail CTs for two failed drugs that were strongly supported by preclinical evidence and by proven CT AD efficacy for other drugs in their class. Studies of the failed commercial trials suggest that methodological flaws may contribute to the failures and that these flaws lurk within current drug development practices ready to impact other AD drug development [1]. To identify and counter risks we considered the relevance to AD drug development of the following factors: (1) effective dosing of the drug product, (2) reliable evaluations of research subjects, (3) effective implementation of quality controls over data at research sites, (4) resources for practitioners to effectively use CT results in patient care, (5) effective disease modeling, (6) effective research designs. New drugs currently under development for AD address a variety of specific mechanistic targets. Mechanistic targets provide AD drug development opportunities to escape from many of the factors that currently undermine AD clinical pharmacology, especially the problems of inaccuracy and imprecision associated with using rated outcomes. In this paper we conclude that many of the current problems encountered in AD drug development can be avoided by changing practices. Current problems with human errors in clinical trials make it difficult to differentiate drugs that fail to evidence efficacy from apparent failures due to Type II errors. This uncertainty and the lack of publication of negative data impede researchers' abilities to improve methodologies in clinical pharmacology and to develop a sound body of knowledge about drug actions. We consider the identification of molecular targets as offering further opportunities for overcoming current failures in drug development.

Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) was widely believed to be a monophasic event whereby cell death occurs from the initial space-occupying effects of the hematoma. However, we now know that secondary degenerative events contribute to delayed cell death, functional impairment and clinical deterioration. In three experiments, we further characterized the long-term maturation of injury in the collagenase model of striatal ICH in rat. First, we quantified the volume of tissue lost from 7 to 60 days showing that tissue loss more than doubled over this time. As the volume of tissue lost does not distinguish gray from white matter damage, gold chloride staining was used in a second experiment in ICH rats that survived 7 or 60 days. The mid-sagittal area of the corpus callosum significantly declined (22%) over this period, whereas the hippocampal and anterior commissures were not affected. A third experiment used the Golgi-Cox stain to examine dendritic arborization of peri-hematoma and contralateral medium spiny neurons of the striatum. We found an early and sustained increase in dendritic arborization in the non-lesioned hemisphere, whereas there was initial atrophy of peri-hematoma striatal neurons that eventually recovered to normal. These findings show that tissue loss, including white matter atrophy, continues over extended periods after ICH making it a potential target for cytoprotective agents. Finally, the dendritic alterations in both ipsi- and contralateral striatal neurons likely influence spontaneous recovery and are potential targets to further improve it.


Studies show that while the cortical mechanisms of two-dimensional (2D) form and motion processing are similar in touch and vision, the mechanisms of three-dimensional (3D) shape processing are different. 2D form and motion are processed in areas 3b and 1 of SI cortex by neurons with receptive fields (RFs) composed of excitatory and inhibitory subregions. 3D shape is processed in area 2 and SII and relies on the integration of cutaneous and proprioceptive inputs. The RFs of SII neurons vary in size and shape with heterogeneous structures consisting of orientation-tuned fingerpads mixed with untuned excitatory or inhibitory fingerpads. Furthermore, the sensitivity of the neurons to cutaneous inputs changes with hand conformation. We hypothesize that these RFs are the kernels underlying tactile object recognition.
Although it is now generally accepted that the thalamus is more than a simple relay of sensory signals to the cortex, we are just beginning to gain an understanding of how corticothalamic feedback influences sensory processing. Results from an increasing number of studies across sensory systems and different species reveal effects of feedback both on the receptive fields of thalamic neurons and on the transmission of sensory information between the thalamus and cortex. Importantly, these studies demonstrate that the cortico-thalamic projection cannot be viewed in isolation, but must be considered as an integral part of a thalamo-corticothalamic circuit which intimately interconnects the thalamus and cortex for sensory processing.







Viral infections of the central nervous system (CNS) necessitate rapid, yet tightly controlled responses to contain viral spread while limiting tissue damage. All CNS resident cell types are equipped with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) to respond to viruses. The resulting activation of IFN-alpha/beta, pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines is dependent on the virus replication strategy, tropism and PRR distribution. Although IFN-alpha/beta induced antiviral mediators are essential to restrict initial viral spread, adaptive immunity promoted by chemokines, cytokines and metalloproteinases is equally crucial in lowering viral burden. Recognition of viral antigen presented by MHC molecules is crucial for T cell retention and function. Non-lytic clearance mechanisms mediated by IFN-gamma and antibodies prevail in providing protection. Targeted intervention can be achieved by PRR stimulation, chemokine-receptor blockade and immune modulation of T cell function. However, owing to the extensive positive and negative feedback signaling cascades linking innate and adaptive immune responses, enhanced anti-viral functions will have to be counterbalanced to avoid pathology.
Microglia are the immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS). They patrol the brain environment with their ramifications and they respond quickly in the presence of pathogens and brain damages. Others and we have recently reported the existence of two different types of microglia, the resident and the newly differentiated microglia that are derived from the bone marrow stem cells. Of great interest is the fact that blood-derived microglial cells are associated with amyloid plaques and these cells are able to prevent the formation or eliminate the presence of amyloid deposits in mice that develop the major hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These cells are also recruited in the brain of other mouse models of brain diseases and acute injuries. They represent, therefore, a fantastic new vehicle for delivering key molecules to improve recovery, repair, and elimination of toxic proteins. However, recent studies have challenged this concept and raised concerns regarding the physiological relevance of bone-marrow-derived microglia. This review discusses both sides of the story and why the models used to follow the phenotypic fate of these cells are so crucial to reach the proper conclusion. Blood-derived progenitors have the ability to populate the CNS, especially during injuries and chronic diseases. However they do not do it in an efficient manner. Such a lack of proper recruitment may explain the delay in recovery and repair after acute damages and accumulation of toxic proteins in chronic brain diseases.
This review discusses headaches secondary to disorders of homeostasis, formerly known as &quot;headaches associated with metabolic or systemic diseases.&quot; They include the headaches attributed to 1) hypoxia and/or hypercapnia (high altitude, diving, sleep apnea); 2) dialysis; 3) arterial hypertension; 4) hypothyroidism; 5) fasting; and 6) cardiac cephalalgia. For each headache type, we discuss the clinical features and diagnosis, as well as therapeutic strategies.
The use of intrathecal analgesics is an important treatment consideration for many patients with chronic cancer pain. This review describes the various opioid and nonopioid analgesics that have been used in this setting, including morphine, hydromorphone, fentanyl, meperidine, methadone, sufentanil, local anesthetics, clonidine, ketamine, baclofen, midazolam, betamethasone, and octreotide. We discuss available evidence for their analgesic and adverse effects.
Despite the expansion of available antipsychotic drugs over the past 50 years, functional outcomes for individuals with schizophrenia have not markedly improved. These agents are efficacious for psychosis but do not adequately address other core domains of schizophrenia psychopathology, namely negative symptoms and cognitive impairment, which have a greater impact on functional outcomes, including vocational or academic performance and interpersonal relationships. In addition, treatment-refractory psychosis still precludes functional improvement in many patients. Schizophrenia is a clinical syndrome consisting of these domains, which likely have some disparities in their respective pathophysiologies. This suggests that drug development should look to other molecular targets besides the D2 receptor, which characterizes the mechanism of available medications for schizophrenia. In this report, we review novel pharmacologic approaches that aim to specifically address each individual domain of schizophrenia. The goal of this future pharmacotherapy strategy is to advance outcomes beyond psychosis remission and toward functional recovery.

Circumstantial evidence has suggested that the primary cilium might function as a gravity sensor. Direct evidence of its gravity-sensing function has recently been provided by studies of rohon beard neurons. These neurons showed changes in the variability of gene expression levels that are linked to the cyclic changes in the Earth's gravitational field due to the Sun and Moon. These cyclic changes also cause the tides. Rohon beard neurons, after the primary cilia have been selectively destroyed, no longer show changes in gene expression variability linked to the cyclic changes in Earth's gravitational field. After the neurons regrow their primary cilia, the link between variability in gene expression levels and the Earth's changing gravitational field returns. This suggests two new functions for the primary cilia, detecting the cyclical changes in the Earth's gravitational field and transducing those changes into changes in the variability (stochastic nature) of gene expression.
Mammalian whole embryo culture (WEC) was developed long before transgenic and gene targeted animals are widely used. Electroporation (EP) into cultured rodent embryos has expanded the potential to analyze gene functions in mammalian embryos by transferring exogenous plasmid vectors or small nucleotides in region- and stage-specific ways. This method is quite simple, and therefore enables us to analyze gene functions more quickly than genetic manipulation. In this review, we introduce combinatorial methods of WEC and EP, and summarize various applications in developmental neurobiology.
Mouse genetic manipulations, such as the production of gene knock-out, knock-in, and transgenic mice, have provided excellent systems for analysis of numerous genes functioning during development. Nevertheless, the lack of specific promoters and enhancers that control gene expression in specific regions and at specific times, limits usage of these techniques. However, progress in in utero systems of electroporation into mouse embryos has opened a new window, permitting new approaches to answering important questions. Simple injection of plasmid DNA solution and application of electrical current to mouse embryos results in transient area- and time-dependent transfection. Further modification of the technique, arising from variations in types of electrodes used, has made it possible to control the relative size of the region of transfection, which can vary from a few cells to entire tissues. Thus, this technique is a powerful means not only of characterizing gene function in various settings, but also of tracing the migratory routes of cells, due to its high efficiency and the localization of gene expression it yields. We summarize here some of the potential uses and advantages of this technique for developmental neuroscience research.
Axon tracing is an essential method to reveal neuronal connection patterns and characteristics of growing axons during development. Here we introduce an electroporation-based gene transfer technique with a fluorescent protein (FP), which enables us to observe a small number of axons. The result also demonstrates that dynamics of axon behavior can be followed for more than a week. Thus, such labeling with FP is a powerful tool for axon tracing.
Mammalian neural stem cells generate transit amplifying progenitors that expand the neuronal population, but these type of progenitors have not been studied in Drosophila. The Drosophila larval brain contains approximately 100 neural stem cells (neuroblasts) per brain lobe, which are thought to bud off smaller ganglion mother cells (GMCs) that each produce two post-mitotic neurons. Here, we use molecular markers and clonal analysis to identify a novel neuroblast cell lineage containing &quot;transit amplifying GMCs&quot; (TA-GMCs). TA-GMCs differ from canonical GMCs in several ways: each TA-GMC has nuclear Deadpan, cytoplasmic Prospero, forms Prospero crescents at mitosis, and generates up to 10 neurons; canonical GMCs lack Deadpan, have nuclear Prospero, lack Prospero crescents at mitosis, and generate two neurons. We conclude that there are at least two types of neuroblast lineages: a Type I lineage where GMCs generate two neurons, and a type II lineage where TA-GMCs have longer lineages. Type II lineages allow more neurons to be produced faster than Type I lineages, which may be advantageous in a rapidly developing organism like Drosophila.
The atypical protein kinase C (aPKC) is required for cell polarization of many cell types, and is upregulated in several human tumors. Despite its importance in cell polarity and growth control, relatively little is known about how aPKC activity is regulated. Here, we use a biochemical approach to identify Dynamin-associated protein 160 (Dap160; related to mammalian intersectin) as an aPKC-interacting protein in Drosophila. We show that Dap160 directly interacts with aPKC, stimulates aPKC activity in vitro and colocalizes with aPKC at the apical cortex of embryonic neuroblasts. In dap160 mutants, aPKC is delocalized from the neuroblast apical cortex and has reduced activity, based on its inability to displace known target proteins from the basal cortex. Both dap160 and aPKC mutants have fewer proliferating neuroblasts and a prolonged neuroblast cell cycle. We conclude that Dap160 positively regulates aPKC activity and localization to promote neuroblast cell polarity and cell cycle progression.
Dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) arise from trunk neural crest cells that emerge from the dorsal neuroepithelium and coalesce into segmental streams that migrate ventrally along the developing somites. Proper formation of DRGs involves not only normal trunk neural crest migration, but also the ability of DRG progenitors to pause at a particular target location where they can receive DRG-promoting signals. In mammalian embryos, a receptor tyrosine kinase proto-oncogene, ErbB3, is required for proper trunk neural crest migration. Here, we show that in zebrafish mutants lacking ErbB3 function, neural crest cells do not pause at the location where DRGs normally form and DRG neurons are not generated. We also show that these mutants lack trunk neural crest-derived sympathetic neurons, but that cranial neural crest-derived enteric neurons appear normal. We isolated three genes encoding neuregulins, ErbB3 ligands, and show that two neuregulins function together in zebrafish trunk neural crest cell migration and in DRG formation. Together, our results suggest that ErbB3 signaling is required for normal migration of trunk, but not cranial, neural crest cells.



Previous empirical studies have shown that the personality trait of shyness, either alone or in combination with varying levels of sociability (i.e., a socially-conflicted profile--high shyness with high sociability) to be a reliable predictor of various psychopathologies, including substance abuse and mood disorders. Extending these findings to other forms of dysregulated behaviours, we examined multiple measures of eating problems in relation to self-reported shyness and sociability in a sample of 520 undergraduate females (M = 20.7 years). Analyses revealed a consistent significant main effect for shyness across all measures of disordered eating. These findings extend earlier work on shyness to another form of psychopathology (i.e., eating problems) not previously examined in a non-clinical sample.
The glucose sensitivity of bursting electrical activity and pulsatile insulin release from pancreatic islets was determined in absence of functional K(ATP) channels. Membrane potential, [Ca(2+)](i) and 5-HT/insulin release were measured by intracellular recording, fura-2 fluorescence and 5-HT amperometry, respectively. Single mouse islets, bathed in tolbutamide or glibenclamide and high extracellular Ca(2+) (Ca(2+)(o)), displayed bursting activity and concomitant fast [Ca(2+)](i) and 5-HT/insulin oscillations. Sulphonylurea block of K(ATP) channel current was unaffected by raising Ca(2+)(o). Raising glucose or alpha-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) concentration from 3 to 30 mM increased spiking activity and burst plateau duration. Staurosporine did not impair glucose potentiation of electrical activity, ruling out the involvement of serine/threonine kinases. Glucose enhanced both [Ca(2+)](i) and 5-HT/insulin oscillatory activity, causing a approximately 3-fold increase in overall 5-HT release rate. Cells lacking bursting activity in high Ca(2+)(o) and low glucose (or KIC) developed a pattern of intensified spiking in response to 11 mM glucose. It is concluded that beta-cells exhibit graded oscillatory electrical and secretory responses to glucose in absence of functional K(ATP) channels. This suggests that, under physiological conditions, early glucose sensing may involve other channels besides the K(ATP) channel.
The G protein-coupled receptor GPR54, and its peptide ligand kisspeptin (Kp), are crucial for the induction and maintenance of mammalian reproductive function. GPR54 is expressed by GnRH neurons and is directly activated by Kp to stimulate GnRH release. We hypothesized that Kp may be able to act at the GnRH nerve terminals located in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) region. To test this hypothesis, we used organotypic culture of MBH explants challenged with Kp, followed by RIA to detect GnRH released into the cultured medium. Kp stimulation for 1 h induced GnRH release from wild-type male MBH in a dose-dependent manner, whereas this did not occur in MBH explants isolated from Gpr54 null mice. Continuous Kp stimulation caused a sustained GnRH release for 4 h, followed by a decrease of GnRH release, suggesting a desensitization of GPR54 activity. Tetrodotoxin did not alter the Kp-induced GnRH release, indicating that Kp can act directly at the GnRH nerve terminals. To localize Gpr54 expression within the MBH, we used transgenic mice, in which Gpr54 expression is tagged with an IRES-LacZ reporter gene and can be visualized by beta-galactosidase staining. Gpr54 expression was detected outside of the median eminence, in the pars tuberalis. In conclusion, our results provide evidence for a potent stimulating effect of Kp at GnRH nerve terminals in the MBH of the mouse. This study suggests a new point at which Kp can act on GnRH neurons.
In mammals, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and its receptors PAC1-R, VPAC1-R, and VPAC2-R play a role in various physiological processes, including proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression. We have previously found that PACAP stimulates POMC gene expression, POMC biosynthesis, and alpha-MSH secretion in the melanotrope cell of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. This cell hormonally controls the process of skin color adaptation to background illumination. Here, we have tested the hypothesis that PACAP is involved in the regulation of Xenopus melanotrope cell activity during background adaptation and that part of this regulation is through the control of the expression of autocrine acting BDNF. Using quantitative RT-PCR, we have identified the Xenopus PACAP receptor, VPAC1-R, and show that this receptor in the melanotrope cell is under strong control of the background light condition, whereas expression of PAC1-R was absent from these cells. Moreover, we reveal by quantitative immunocytochemistry that the neural pituitary lobe of white-background adapted frogs possesses a much higher PACAP content than the neural lobe of black-background adapted frogs, providing evidence that PACAP produced in the hypothalamic magnocellular nucleus plays an important role in regulating the activity of Xenopus melanotrope cells during background adaptation. Finally, an in vitro study demonstrates that PACAP stimulates the expression of BDNF transcript IV.
Estrogen and its receptors influence growth and differentiation by stimulating the production and secretion of growth factors. Our previous studies indicate an increased expression of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha and decreased growth factor synthesis in the olfactory bulb of reproductive senescent female rats as compared with young animals. The present study tests the hypothesis that abnormal overexpression of ERalpha contributes to decreased growth factor synthesis. We developed the HeLa-Tet-On cell line stably transfected with ERalpha (HTERalpha) that expresses increasing amounts of ERalpha with increasing doses of doxycycline (Dox). Increasing doses of Dox had no effect on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion in HTERalpha cells. However, in the presence of 40 nm 17beta-estradiol, VEGF secretion increased in low-dose Dox-exposed HTERalpha cultures, which was attenuated by the ERalpha antagonist, 1,3-Bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4-methyl-5-[4-(2-piperidinylethoxy)phenol]1H-pyrazole dihydrochloride. However, at high-dose Dox and, consequently, high ERalpha levels, estradiol failed to increase VEGF. In the HeLa X6 cell line in which the Tet-On construct is upstream of an unrelated gene (Pitx2A), estradiol failed to induce VEGF at any Dox dose. Furthermore, in the HTERalpha cell line, estradiol selectively down-regulates phospho-ERK2 and phospho-Akt at high ERalpha expression. This study clearly demonstrates that the dose of receptor critically mediates estradiol's ability to regulate growth factors and survival kinases. The present data also support the hypothesis that 17beta-estradiol treatment to an ERalpha overexpressing system, such as the senescent brain, could reverse the normally observed beneficial effect of estrogen.
The effects of peripheral glucagon like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) stimulation on feeding, gastric emptying, and energetic responses involve vagal transmission and central nervous system processing. Despite a lack of studies aimed at determining which central nervous system regions are critical for the GLP-1R response production, hypothalamic/forebrain processing is regarded as essential for these effects. Here the contribution of the caudal brainstem to the control of food intake, core temperature, heart rate, and gastric emptying responses generated by peripheral delivery of the GLP-1R agonist, exendin-4 (Ex-4), was assessed by comparing responses of chronic supracollicular decerebrate (CD) rats to those of pair-fed intact control rats. Responses driven by hindbrain intracerebroventricular (fourth i.c.v) delivery of Ex-4 were also evaluated. Intraperitoneal Ex-4 (1.2 and 3.0 microg/kg) suppressed glucose intake in both CD rats (5.0+/-1.2 and 4.4+/-1.1 ml ingested) and controls (9.4+/-1.5 and 7.7+/-0.8 ml ingested), compared with intakes after vehicle injections (13.1+/-2.5 and 13.2+/-1.7 ml ingested, respectively). Hindbrain ventricular Ex-4 (0.3 microg) also suppressed food intake in CD rats (4.7+/-0.6 ml ingested) and controls (11.0+/-2.9 ml ingested), compared with vehicle intakes (9.3+/-2.1 and 19.3+/-4.3 ml ingested, respectively). Intraperitoneal Ex-4 (0.12, 1.2, 2.4 microg/kg) reduced gastric emptying rates in a dose-related manner similarly for both CD and control rats. Hypothermia followed ip and fourth i.c.v Ex-4 in awake, behaving controls (0.6 and 1.0 C average suppression) and CD rats (1.5 and 2.5 C average suppression). Intraperitoneal Ex-4 triggered tachycardia in both control and CD rats. Results demonstrate that caudal brainstem processing is sufficient for mediating the suppression of intake, core temperature, and gastric emptying rates as well as tachycardia triggered by peripheral GLP-1R activation and also hindbrain-delivered ligand. Contrary to the literature, hypothalamic/forebrain processing and forebrain-caudal brainstem communication is not required for the observed responses.
Pharmaceuticals are typically found in very low concentrations in the aquatic environment. Accordingly, environmental effects clearly assigned to residual drugs are consistent with high affinity interactions with conserved targets in affected wildlife species rather than with a general toxic effect. Thus, evolutionarily well-conserved targets in a given species are associated with an increased risk. In this study orthologs for 1318 human drug targets were predicted in 16 species of which several are relevant for ecotoxicity testing. The conservation of different functional categories of targets was also analyzed. Zebrafish had orthologs to 86% of the drug targets while only 61% were conserved in Daphnia and 35% in green alga. The predicted presence and absence of orthologs agrees well with published experimental data on the potential for specific drug target interaction in various species. Based on the conservation of targets we propose that aquatic environmental risk assessments for human drugs should always include comprehensive studies on aquatic vertebrates. Furthermore, individual targets, especially enzymes, are well conserved suggesting that tests on evolutionarily distant organisms would be highly relevant for certain drugs. We propose that the results can guide environmental risk assessments by improving the possibilities to identify species sensitive to certain types of pharmaceuticals or to other contaminants that act through well defined mechanisms of action. Moreover, we suggest that the results can be used to interpret the relevance of existing ecotoxicity data.
Seizures are not uncommon in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and with the upsurge in HIV infection this may be an important cause for acute symptomatic seizures. Seizures may rarely be the presenting manifestation of HIV infection. Opportunistic infections such as toxoplasmosis, tuberculosis, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML), cryptococcal meningitis and polymicrobial infections, metabolic and electrolyte disturbances, and drugs are common causes of new-onset seizures in HIV-seropositive individuals. In the absence of any cause, primary HIV infection may be considered responsible for seizures. Because seizures tend to recur in and because they are a poor prognostic indicator in HIV infection, treatment with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is the norm. The treatment of HIV-infected individuals with seizures comprises of the administration of AEDs, specific treatment of the underlying conditions, and antiretroviral drugs. Clinicians must consider both therapy-compromising drug-drug and drug-disease interactions while choosing appropriate AEDs. The ideal AED in this setting is one that does not affect viral replication, have limited protein binding, and have no effects on the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme system. The risks for AED-induced allergic skin rash appears to be high in HIV-seropositive individuals.


Human succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder of GABA metabolism associated with motor impairment and epileptic seizures. Similarly, mice with targeted deletion of the Aldh5a1 gene (Aldh5a1(-/-)) exhibit SSADH deficiency and seizures early in life. These seizures begin as absence seizures the second week of life, but evolve into generalized convulsive seizures that increase in severity and become lethal during the fourth postnatal week. The seizures are alleviated and survival is prolonged when the mutant animals are weaned onto a ketogenic diet (KD). The persistence of spontaneous, recurrent, generalized tonic-clonic seizures in KD-treated adult Aldh5a1(-/-) mice allowed us to quantify their daily (circadian) distribution using a novel behavioral method based on the detection of changes in movement velocity. Adult KD-treated Aldh5a1(-/-) mice exhibited a seizure phenotype characterized by fits of wild running clonus accompanied by jumping and bouncing. These hypermotor seizures were largely spontaneous and occurred daily in a nonrandom pattern. The seizure rhythm showed a peak shortly after dark phase onset (2008 hours) with near-24-hour periodicity. Age-matched wild-type littermates showed no evidence of abnormal motor behavior. These new data suggest that generalized tonic-clonic seizures in Aldh5a1(-/-) mice are more frequent during a specific time of day and will provide useful information to clinicians for the treatment of seizures associated with human SSADH deficiency.

We have investigated cross-reactivity of rash among the current aromatic antiepileptic drugs, particularly between the new and the traditional compounds. A retrospective survey of medical records concerning all aromatic antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment in consecutive adult patients with epilepsy was performed. Altogether 663 patients were included comprising 2567 exposures to AEDs. Skin reactions occurred in 93 patients and sequential rashes related to aromatic drugs in 17. Phenytoin (PHT), carbamazepine (CBZ) and oxcarbazepine (OXC) caused rashes in the range of 27-35% in patients with a history of another AED-related rash, whereas lamotrigine (LTG) caused another rash in 17%. A history of an AED-related rash was significantly associated with reactions to PHT, CBZ, and OXC (p&lt;0.001). The association was only borderline significant for LTG (p=0.05). Nevertheless, the occurrence was consistently increased in all subgroups with reactions to other AEDs. A CBZ rash was not significantly associated with an LTG reaction, and vice versa, but the number of patients was limited. Less than one third of patients with a CBZ rash also reacted to OXC. No evidence for increased severity of sequential rashes was found. Clinicians should be aware of the cross-reactivity of the aromatic AEDs regarding cutaneous adverse events, as well as their differences in this respect. LTG appears to be involved in cross-reactions less often than CBZ, OXC and PHT.
It is currently unknown what processes take place at the interface between non-ictal and ictal activity during seizure initiation. In this study, using paralysed awake rats, we focally inhibited astrocytic metabolism with fluorocitrate (FC), causing seizures. We measured changes in electroencephalogram (EEG) (0-300 Hz), and extracellular ion-concentrations during ictal onsets defining possible relationships with impedance-determined cell swelling. In animals showing ictal activity (69%) there were spike-wave discharges, spike-wave discharges followed by spreading depression and spreading depression without any discharges. In a high proportion of spike-wave discharges (&gt;95%), just prior to the first spike-wave discharge, there was a decrease in the volume of the extracellular space. Following the initiation of cell swelling and prior to discharges, there were increases in high-frequency (150-300 Hz) EEG activity, increases in extracellular potassium- and decreases in extracellular calcium-concentrations. We suggest that EEG and ionic changes are not causative of cell swelling. Cell swelling due to metabolic failure in astrocytes at the injected site may release excitatory amino acids. At the same time, our results suggest ion homeostasis is not maintained and increased neuronal excitability and synchronisation occur. These could be the drivers changing normal brain activity into ictal activity.

Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome (MSS) is a rare autosomal recessively inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by cerebellar ataxia, cataracts, mental retardation, and progressive myopathy. Recently, mutations in the SIL1 gene, which encodes an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident cochaperone, were identified as a major cause of MSS. We here report four novel mutations in SIL1, including the first missense substitution p.Leu457Pro described in MSS. In addition, we excluded three functional candidate genes, HSPA5, HYOU1, and AARS, as causative genes in SIL1 mutation-negative patients. To understand the mechanisms of disturbed SIL1 function, we studied the subcellular localization of the missense mutant Leu457Pro protein in COS-1 cells. Moreover, we studied a mutant protein lacking the putative C-terminal ER retrieval signal. In contrast to the wild-type protein's localization to ER and Golgi apparatus, both mutant proteins formed aggregates within the ER depending on the expression level. These data imply that aggregation of mutant proteins may contribute to MSS pathogenesis. The genetic background of a subgroup of patients with MSS remains uncovered.
Cervical spondylosis occurs universally, with cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) as its most serious consequence. The electrical property of the spinal cord and its susceptibility to injury renders electrophysiology relevant to the management of CSM, as addressed in this review. Somatosensory-evoked potentials evaluate spinal cord integrity with regards to posterior column functions exclusively. Although motor-evoked potentials may be more sensitive than the former and may be utilized intraoperatively, they are susceptible to interference by inhalational anaesthetics. Electromyography may play a role in minimizing C5 root damage and spinal cord-evoked potentials can localize spinal conduction block during CSM surgery. Critically reviewing the available evidence, electrophysiology cannot be universally recommended as mandatory in the management of CSM at present. It may, however, play emergent, isolated roles in the diagnosis, follow-up and treatment of this common disorder.
Elevation of intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) concentrations and subsequent regulation of downstream target gene expression through phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) is hypothesized to underlie the mechanism(s) of long-term memory (LTM) formation. The phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) enzyme family is believed to play a key role in LTM by regulating cAMP levels. Thus far, four PDE4 isoforms have been identified (PDE4A, B, C and D); however, the requisite involvement of each of these isoforms in mediating LTM has yet to be elucidated. In the present study, genetic knockout mice were used to investigate the involvement of the PDE4D isoform in both in vitro and in vivo models of learning and memory. Hippocampal synaptic transmission measured electrophysiologically in CA1 slice preparations was similar between wild-type and PDE4D (-/-) mice yet, relative to wild-type controls, knockout mice displayed enhanced early long-term potentiation (LTP) following multiple induction protocols. Interestingly, the PDE4D (-/-) animals exhibited significant behavioral deficits in associative learning using a conditioned fear paradigm as compared with control littermates. The impairment in fear conditioning observed in the PDE4D (-/-) mice could not be attributed to differences in acquisition of the task, alterations in locomotor activity or effects on shock sensitivity. Overall, the in vitro and in vivo alterations in synaptic plasticity observed in the PDE4D (-/-) mice may be explained by adaptive responses occurring throughout development, and suggest that the PDE4D isoform may be an important mediator of LTM formation.
Letters and speech sounds are the basic units of correspondence between spoken and written language. Associating auditory information of speech sounds with visual information of letters is critical for learning to read; however, the neural mechanisms underlying this association remain poorly understood. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigates the automaticity and behavioral relevance of integrating letters and speech sounds. Within a unimodal auditory identification task, speech sounds were presented in isolation (unimodally) or bimodally in congruent and incongruent combinations with visual letters. Furthermore, the quality of the visual letters was manipulated parametrically. Our analyses revealed that the presentation of congruent visual letters led to a behavioral improvement in identifying speech sounds, which was paralleled by a similar modulation of cortical responses in the left superior temporal sulcus. Under low visual noise, cortical responses in superior temporal and occipito-temporal cortex were further modulated by the congruency between auditory and visual stimuli. These cross-modal modulations of performance and cortical responses during an unimodal auditory task (speech identification) indicate the existence of a strong and automatic functional coupling between processing of letters (orthography) and speech (phonology) in the literate adult brain.
Neurons in primary visual cortex exhibit well documented centre-surround receptive field organization, whereby the centre is dominated by excitatory influences and the surround is generally dominated by inhibitory influences. These effects have largely been established by measuring the output of neurons, i.e. their spiking activity. How excitation and inhibition are reflected in the local field potential (LFP) is little understood. As this can bear on the interpretation of human fMRI BOLD data and on our understanding of the mechanisms of local field potential oscillations, we measured spatial integration and centre-surround properties in single- and multiunit recordings of V1 in the awake fixating macaque monkey, and compared these to spectral power in different frequency bands of simultaneously recorded LFPs. We quantified centre-surround organization by determining the size of the summation and suppression area in spiking activity as well as in different frequency bands of the LFP, with the main focus on the gamma band. Gratings extending beyond the summation area usually inhibited spiking activity while the LFP gamma-band activity increased monotonically for all grating sizes. This increase was maximal for stimuli infringing upon the near classical receptive field surround, where suppression started to dominate spiking activity. Thus, suppressive influences in primary cortex can be inferred from spiking activity, but they also seem to affect specific features of gamma-band LFP activity.
In humans the hippocampus plays a role in both episodic memory and spatial navigation. Similar findings have been shown in other animals including monkeys and rats. The relationship between the processing of episodic and spatial related inputs within the hippocampus remains a puzzle. One approach to understanding how the hippocampus processes information is to examine how hippocampal cell activity corresponds to environmental experience. Hippocampal pyramidal cells can alter their spatial tuning (re-map) in response to changes in task demands. The degree to which this re-mapping is related to contextual/episodic information or to changes in spatial navigation/trajectories is unclear. The current study was designed to examine cell activity under two conditions that differed in contextual information without alterations in the goal-directed trajectories taken by the animals. Adult and aged rats were trained to do an alternation task on a fixed pathway [J. A. Oler et al. (2005)Neuroscience, 131, 1-12]. The animals ran this pathway during either 'safe' or 'unsafe' (a tone indicating a shock region) trials, with hesitation during 'unsafe' trials providing a clear behavioral measure of discrimination between these two conditions. Relatively few place cells displayed re-mapping between the two conditions. We propose that the principle source of re-mapping in the dorsal hippocampus is changes in the animal's trajectories rather than behavioral context. Possible reasons why so few cells responded to the change in context are discussed.
Oxytocin (80 ng) injected into the caudal mesencephalic ventral tegmental area (VTA) of male rats induces penile erection. Such an effect occurs together with an increase in nitric oxide (NO) production, as measured by the augmented concentration of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) found in the dialysate obtained from this brain area by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Both effects are abolished by d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (1 microg), an oxytocin receptor antagonist, by S-methyl-l-thiocitrulline acetate (20 microg), a neuronal NO synthase inhibitor, or by omega-conotoxin GVIA (50 ng), a N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, all injected into the VTA 15 min before oxytocin. In contrast, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (40 microg), a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, given into the VTA 15 min before oxytocin, abolishes penile erection, but not the increase in NO production, while haemoglobin (40 microg), a NO scavenger, injected immediately before oxytocin reduces the increase in NO production, but not penile erection. 8-Bromo-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (0.5-10 microg) microinjected into the VTA induces penile erection with an inverted U-shaped dose-response curve; the maximal effective dose being 3 microg. Immunohistochemistry reveals that in the caudal VTA oxytocin-containing axons/fibres (originating from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus) contact cell bodies of mesolimbic dopaminergic (tyrosine hydroxylase-positive) neurons containing both NO synthase and guanylate cyclase. These results suggest that oxytocin injected into the VTA induces penile erection by activating NO synthase in the cell bodies of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons. NO in turn activates guanylate cyclase present in these neurons, thereby increasing cyclic GMP concentration.
We propose a top-down approach to the symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) based on a statistical dynamical framework. An increased depth in the basins of attraction of attractor network states in the brain makes each state too stable, so that it tends to remain locked in that state and can not easily be moved on to another state. We suggest that the different symptoms that may be present in OCD could be related to changes of this type in different brain regions. For example, the difficulty in attentional and cognitive set switching could be related to networks operating in this way in the prefrontal cortex. Repetitive actions and a difficulty in moving to new actions could be related to overstability in networks in the higher order motor, including cingulate areas. In integrate-and-fire network simulations, an increase in the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and/or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor conductances, which increases the depth of the attractor basins, increases the stability of attractor networks, and makes them less easily moved on to another state by a new stimulus. Increasing gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-receptor activated currents can partly reverse this overstability. There is now some evidence for overactivity in glutamate transmitter systems in OCD, and the hypothesis presented here shows how some of the symptoms of OCD could be produced by the increase in the stability of attractor networks that is produced by increased glutamatergic activity.
Parkinson's disease and other motor disorders of midbrain basal ganglia dopaminergic functioning are often characterized by alterations of brainstem and limbic systems with accompanying co-morbid anxiety and depressive symptoms. Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammatory processes may play an important role in such neurodegenerative and psychiatric pathology. In this regard, inhibition of the inflammatory enzyme cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was reported to limit the impact of stressors as well as the neurodegenerative effects of dopaminergic toxins. The present investigation assessed the impact of the putative dopamine toxin paraquat (a widely used herbicide) upon motor functioning, behavioural indices of anxiety-like states and central monoamine levels and whether these effects were altered in mice lacking COX-2. Indeed, paraquat did induce motor impairment and altered dopamine utilization within the striatum, and COX-2 deletion moderately attenuated these effects. Conversely, COX-2 deficiency enhanced the impact of paraquat upon indices of anxiety (open field exploration) and on serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic alterations within two brain regions implicated in stressor-related pathologies, namely the dorsal hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that COX-2 might differentially influence the motor and psychiatric symptoms associated with environmental toxin exposure. Furthermore, these data indicate that the neurochemical impact of paraquat is not restricted to the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway but also involves stressor-sensitive limbic regions. It is possible that COX-2 may play a dual role by contributing to the motor impairment induced by paraquat, but acting to moderate the effects of paraquat upon processes aligned with anxiety and depression.
Neocortical neuronal circuits are refined by experience during the critical period of early postnatal life. The shift of ocular dominance in the visual cortex following monocular deprivation has been intensively studied to unravel the mechanisms underlying the experience-dependent modification. Synaptic plasticity is considered to be involved in this process. We previously showed in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons of rat visual cortex that low-frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory synapses, which requires the activation of Ni(2+)-sensitive (R-type or T-type) voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs) for induction, shared a similar age and experience dependence with ocular dominance plasticity. In this study, we examined whether this LTP is involved in ocular dominance plasticity. In visual cortical slices, LTP was blocked by mibefradil, kurtoxin and R-(-)-efonidipine, T-type VGCC blockers, but not by SNX-482, an R-type VGCC blocker, indicating that LTP induction requires T-type VGCC activation. Mibefradil did not affect synaptic transmission even at a dose about 30 times higher than that required for LTP blockade. Therefore, this drug was used to test the effect of T-type VGCC blockade on ocular dominance shift produced by 6 days of monocular deprivation during the critical period using visual evoked potentials (VEPs). Although this monocular deprivation commonly produced both depression of deprived eye responses and potentiation of nondeprived eye responses, only the former change occurred when mibefradil was infused into the visual cortex during monocular deprivation. Mibefradil infusion produced no acute effects on VEPs. These results suggest that T-type VGCC-dependent LTP contributes to the experience-dependent enhancement of visual responses.

Loss of spinal inhibitory mechanisms is thought to contribute to the pathophysiology of abnormal pain states, including neuropathic pain. By using an evoked spinal field potential technique, the hypothesis was tested here that decreased spinal GABAergic control underlies poor response to morphine (MOR) that often accompanies neuropathic pain. Therefore, field potentials evoked by electrical peripheral nerve stimulation during spinal superfusion with MOR were recorded in rats rendered neuropathic by a spinal nerve ligation (SNL) procedure, and compared to responses recorded in nave rats. MOR effects on evoked field potentials were then assessed in rats in which spinal GABAergic inhibition had been acutely reduced by treatment with GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor-antagonists. In nave animals, field potentials evoked by peripheral C fibre-input were significantly decreased by spinal superfusion with 1 microM MOR, whereas those elicited by Adelta fibre input were reduced to a lesser extent also (10 microM, p &lt; 0.05). Nine to eleven days after surgery,animals subjected to SNL exhibited significantly reduced thresholds to plantar stimulation with von Frey filaments. In electrophysiological experiments, a small but significant decrease of the IC50 value (2.17 +/- 0.38 microM) for MOR was found in rats subjected to SNL, relative to nave rats (8.65 +/- 0.76 microM). In contrast, MOR failed to reduce field potentials evoked by peripheral Adelta fibre-activation at any dose tested (up to 1 mM). C fibre- and Adelta fibre-evoked spinal field potentials disinhibited by prior application of the GABA(B) or GABA(A) receptor-antagonists CGP35348 (1 mM) or bicuculline (50 microM), respectively, were both significantly reduced by MOR, with IC50 values not significantly differing from those in nave animals. Two-way analysis of variance revealed no interaction of MOR with either CGP354348 (p = 0.42) or BIC (p = 0.14). Evidence is presented here that injury to the primary afferent system results in significant changes in the ability of spinal MOR to depress field potentials evoked by peripheral input. However, the present findings do not support a pathogenic role for decreased GABAergic inhibition in such changes.
Reduced efficacy of opioid analgesics in some abnormal pain states is a common clinical observation. We tested whether the depressing effect of spinally administered morphine (MOR) on C fibre-evoked spinal field potentials is diminished during long-term potentiation (LTP) induced in the spinal dorsal horn by high-frequency stimulation (HFS). MOR distinctly reduced evoked field potentials 2 h after LTP induction, yet MOR doses suppressing spinal responses in control rats (500 microM) failed to achieve so in HFS-receiving rats. However, HFS and MOR administration at the 0.01-0.1 mM range were found to interact positively as independent variables, suggesting that LTP induction may trigger an endogenous factor enhancing the effectiveness of spinally applied MOR. The present findings suggest that LTP-like, long-lasting enhancement of synaptic strength in the spinal dorsal horn can contribute to increasing MOR doses required for antinociception in some forms of abnormal pain.


Cocaine addicts are reported to have decreased numbers of striatal dopamine D2 receptors. However, in rodents, repeated cocaine administration consistently produces hypersensitivity to the psychomotor activating effects of both indirect dopamine agonists, such as cocaine itself, and importantly, to direct-acting D2 receptor agonists. The current study reports a possible resolution to this long-standing paradox. The dopamine D2 receptor exists in both a low and a high-affinity state, and dopamine exerts its effects via the more functionally relevant high-affinity D2 receptor (D2 High). We report here that cocaine self-administration experience produces a large (approximately 150%) increase in the proportion of D2 High receptors in the striatum with no change in the total number of D2 receptors, and this effect is evident both 3 and 30 days after the discontinuation of cocaine self-administration. Changes in D2 High receptors would not be evident with the probes used in human (and non-human primate) imaging studies. We suggest, therefore, that cocaine addicts and animals previously treated with cocaine may be hyper-responsive to dopaminergic drugs in part because an increase in D2 High receptors results in dopamine supersensitivity. This may also help explain why stimuli that increase dopamine neurotransmission, including drugs themselves, are so effective in producing relapse in individuals with a history of exposure to cocaine.



This short review describes the conceptual development in the search for the enteric neural circuits with the initial identifications of the classes of enteric neurons on the bases of their morphology, neurochemistry, biophysical properties, projections and connectivity. The discovery of the presence of multiple neurochemicals in the same nerve cells in specific combinations led to the concept of &quot;chemical coding&quot; and of &quot;plurichemical transmission&quot;. The proposal that enteric reflexes are largely responsible for the propulsion of contents led to investigations of polarised reflex pathways and how these may be activated to generate the coordinated propulsive behaviour of the intestine. The research over the past decades attempted to integrate information of chemical neuroanatomy with functional studies, with the development of methods combining anatomical, functional and pharmacological techniques. This multidisciplinary strategy led to a full accounting of all functional classes of enteric neurons in the guinea-pig, and advanced wiring diagrams of the enteric neural circuits have been proposed. In parallel, investigations of the actual behaviour of the intestine during physiological motor activity have advanced with the development of spatio-temporal analysis from video recordings. The relation between neural pathways, their activities and the generation of patterns of motor activity remain largely unexplained. The enteric neural circuits appear not set in rigid programs but respond to different physico-chemical contents in an adaptable way (neuromechanical hypothesis). The generation of the complex repertoire of motor patterns results from the interplay of myogenic and neuromechanical mechanisms with spontaneous generation of migratory motor activity by enteric circuits.

Cigarette smoking represents an enormous, global public health threat. Nearly five million premature deaths during a single year are attributable to smoking. Despite the resounding message of risks associated with smoking and numerous public health initiatives, cigarette smoking remains the most common preventable cause of disease in the United States. Fortunately, even in an adult smoker, smoking cessation can reverse many of the potential harmful effects. The symptoms associated with nicotine withdrawal represent the major obstacle to smoking cessation. This minireview examines the roles of various nicotinic receptors in the mechanisms of nicotine dependence, discusses the potential role of the habenula-interpeduncular nucleus axis in nicotine withdrawal, and highlights nicotinic receptors containing the beta4 subunit as a potential pharmacological target for smoking cessation strategies.
In two experiments, we examined the effect of selective attention at encoding on repetition priming in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients for objects presented visually (experiment 1) or haptically (experiment 2). We used a repetition priming paradigm combined with a selective attention procedure at encoding. Reliable priming was found for both young adults and healthy older participants for visually presented pictures (experiment 1) as well as for haptically presented objects (experiment 2). However, this was only found for attended and not for unattended stimuli. The results suggest that independently of the perceptual modality, repetition priming requires attention at encoding and that perceptual facilitation is maintained in normal aging. However, AD patients did not show priming for attended stimuli, or for unattended visual or haptic objects. These findings suggest an early deficit of selective attention in AD. Results are discussed from a cognitive neuroscience approach.
A startling auditory stimulus delivered unexpectedly can activate subcortical structures triggering a prepared movement involuntarily and shortening reaction times. We investigated the effects of the startle acceleration of response on sensory suppression, a phenomenon linked to the voluntary motor command whereby a tactile stimulus is less likely to be perceived on a moving body-part prior to voluntary movement than at rest. Subjects had to detect weak shocks which were delivered to the index finger after a Go signal on some trials. We found that detection rates on movement trials were lower than on non-movement trials, consistent with sensory suppression. In addition, a loud acoustic stimulus was presented at the same time as the Go signal on some trials (startle trials). Reaction times were significantly shorter on startle trials than on other trials, replicating previous startle acceleration of reaction time effects attributed to the operation of subcortical pathways. However, we found no overall difference in premovement sensory suppression effects between baseline and startle movement trials. Rather, startle acceleration of voluntary reactions produced a corresponding acceleration of sensory suppression. Our results provide evidence for a subcortical contribution to sensory suppression and suggest that sensory suppression is a highly general form of motor and sensory interaction.
The essential metals copper and zinc play vital roles in retinal cell survival and are crucial for the normal functioning of antioxidant enzymes. Retinal zinc deficiencies and decreased cellular antioxidative capacity have been linked to human retinal diseases including age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We recently reported that cadmium (a toxic metal with no known physiological function that interferes with copper and zinc metabolism) accumulates in human retinal tissues during aging. Moreover, cadmium content was higher in specific retinal tissues of aged women compared to men. Since cadmium, zinc and copper bind to similar proteins, we hypothesized that Cu and Zn content of human retinal tissues change as functions of cadmium accumulation during aging. Thus, we assessed the distribution of zinc and copper in the neural retina, retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and choroid (Bruch's membrane-choroid; BMC) in male and female donors aged 1.5-87 years. Two independent methods, graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry and inductively-coupled plasma mass spectrometry, were used to measure Cd, Zn, and Cu in retinal tissues in human eyes from donors aged 1.5 to 87 years and the resulting values were normalized to protein concentration. Zn levels were approximately 5 times higher than Cu levels in the same tissues. The relative tissue distributions of these metals were: BMC&gt;RPE&gt;neural retina (Zn) and BMC&gt;RPE=neural retina (Cu). In the choroid, mean Cu and Zn levels were higher in aged donors (&gt;or=55 years old) than young donors (&lt;55 years) and levels of these metals were strongly correlated with each other (r=0.90). In the neural retina, Cu and Zn both significantly decreased as a function of age. Several sex-related differences were found in the RPE. Specifically, copper levels were significantly higher in males than in females. In addition, both Zn and Cu levels in males were positively correlated with cadmium content, whereas this association did not occur in females. The results are consistent with co-regulation of zinc and copper stores in retinal tissues and suggest that the balance of these metals is associated with cadmium accumulation and gender. Thus, the roles of cadmium and gender differences in retinal metal balance warrant further investigation as factors in age-related retinal disease.
Age-related locomotor impairment in humans is important clinically because it is associated with several co-morbidities and increased risk of death. One of the hallmarks of age-related locomotor impairment in humans is a decrease in walking speed with age. Genetically tractable model organisms such as Drosophila are essential for delineating mechanisms underlying age-related locomotor impairment and age-related decreases in locomotor speed. Negative geotaxis, the ability of flies to move vertically when startled, is a common measure of locomotor behavior that declines with age in Drosophila. Toward further developing Drosophila as a model for age-related locomotor impairment, we investigated whether negative geotaxis reflects climbing or a combination of climbing and other behaviors such as flying and jumping. Additionally, we investigated whether locomotor speed in negative geotaxis assays declines with age in flies as found for walking speed in humans. We find that the vast majority of flies climb during negative geotaxis assays and that removal of hind legs, but not wings, impairs the behavior. We also find that climbing speed decreases with age in four wild type genetic backgrounds, in flies housed at different temperatures, and in control and long-lived flies harboring a mutation in OR83b. The decreases in climbing speed correlate with the age-related impairments in the distance climbed. These studies establish negative geotaxis in Drosophila as a climbing behavior that declines with age due to a decrease in climbing speed. Age-related decreases in locomotor speed are common attributes of locomotor senescence in flies and humans.
Changes in the levels of calcium binding proteins are known to occur in different parts of the brain during aging. In our study we attempted to define the effect that aging has on the parvalbumin-expressing system of neurons in the higher parts of the central auditory system. Age-related changes in parvalbumin immunoreactivity were investigated in the inferior colliculus (IC), medial geniculate body (MGB) and auditory cortex (AC) in two rat strains, normally aging Long-Evans (LE) and fast aging Fischer 344 (F344). The results demonstrate that the changes in PV-immunoreactivity are strain-dependent with an increase in the number of PV-immunoreactive (PV-ir) neurons occurring in the inferior colliculus of old LE rats and a pronounced decline in the number of PV-ir neurons appearing in the auditory cortex of aged F344 animals. In some parts of the AC of old F344 animals no PV-ir neurons were present at all. The number of PV-ir neurons in the MGB in all examined animals was very low independent of the strain and age. The loss of PV-ir neurons in the auditory cortex of Fischer 344 rats with aging may contribute to the substantial deterioration of hearing function in this strain.
Mild hypothermia reduces injury in models of global and focal cerebral ischemia even when initiated after the insult. Neuroprotection depends critically upon the duration of hypothermia with longer treatments often being more efficacious. However, the ideal treatment duration is not known for most insults and this knowledge would facilitate clinical studies. Thus, we compared 12, 24 and 48 h of systemic hypothermia (33 degrees C vs. normothermia) initiated 1 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), which was produced by permanent occlusion of the carotid arteries and cauterization of the distal MCA in rat. Behavioral recovery and lesion volume were determined 7 days after pMCAO. All three treatments significantly and equally attenuated neurological deficits (e.g., forelimb placing response). Conversely, stepping error rate in the horizontal ladder test was significantly reduced only by the 24-h (18.7%) and 48-h treatments (11.7%) compared to normothermic rats (34.4%), and the 48-h treatment was significantly better than the 12-h treatment (28.8%). Similarly, brain injury was significantly reduced by 24-h (78.8 mm(3) lesion volume) and 48-h (66.8 mm(3)) treatments compared to normothermia (142.6 mm(3)), and the 48-h treatment was significantly better than the 12-h duration (114.6 mm(3)). In separate experiments cerebral edema was measured via wet-dry weight measurements and significantly reduced by hypothermia (e.g., from 83.7% water in the injured cortex of normothermic rats to 81.4% in rats cooled for one day), but for this there were no significant duration effects. In summary, prolonged hypothermia treatment provides superior protection overall, but this is not explained by reductions in edema.
High cervical spinal cord hemisection results in paralysis of the ipsilateral hemidiaphragm; however, functional recovery of the paralyzed hemidiaphragm can occur spontaneously. The mechanisms mediating this recovery are unknown. In chronic, experimental contusive spinal cord injury, an upregulation of the NMDA receptor 2A subunit and a downregulation of the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit have been correlated with improved hind limb motor recovery. Therefore, we hypothesized that NR2A is upregulated, whereas GluR2 is down-regulated following chronic C2 hemisection to initiate synaptic strengthening in respiratory motor pathways. Since NMDA receptor activation can lead to the delivery of AMPA receptor subunits to the post-synaptic membrane, we also hypothesized that there would be an upregulation of the GluR1 AMPA receptor subunit and that activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein may mediate the post-synaptic membrane delivery. Female rats were hemisected at C2 and allowed to recover for different time points following hemisection. At these time points, protein levels of NR2A, GluR1, and GluR2 subunits were assessed via Western blot analysis. Western blot analysis revealed that there were increases in NR2A subunit at six and twelve weeks post C2 hemisection. At six, twelve, and sixteen weeks post hemisection, the GluR1 subunit was increased over controls, whereas the GluR2 subunit decreased sixteen weeks post hemisection. Immunocytochemical data qualitatively supported these findings. Results also indicated that activity-regulated cytoskeletal associated protein may be associated with the above changes. These findings suggest a role of NR2A, GluR1, and GluR2 in mediating chronic spontaneous functional recovery of the paralyzed hemidiaphragm following cervical spinal cord hemisection.
Estrogen receptor (ER) activation in central autonomic nuclei modulates arterial blood pressure (ABP) and counteracts the deleterious effect of hypertension. We tested the hypothesis that hypertension, in turn, influences the expression and trafficking of gonadal steroid receptors in central cardiovascular circuits. Thus, we examined whether ER- and progestin receptor (PR)-immunoreactivity (ir) are altered in medullary and hypothalamic autonomic areas of cycling rats following chronic infusion of the hypertensive agent, angiotensin II (AngII). After 1 week AngII-infusion, systolic ABP was elevated from 103+/-4 to 172+/-8 mmHg (p&lt;0.05; N=8/group) and all rats were in diestrus (low estrogen). In AngII-infused rats the number of PR-immunoreactive nuclei was reduced (-72%) compared to saline-infused controls also in diestrus (p&lt;0.05). Furthermore, the intensity of ERalpha-ir increased selectively in nuclei (16%) and cytoplasm (21%) of cells in the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract (cNTS; p&lt;0.05) while neither the number nor intensity of ERbeta-labeled cells changed (p&gt;0.05). Following chronic AngII-infusion, electron microscopy showed a higher cytoplasmic-to-nuclear ratio of ERalpha-labeling selectively in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-labeled neurons in the cNTS. Furthermore, AngII-infusion increased ERalpha-ir in the cytosol of TH- and non-TH neuronal perikarya and increased the amount of ERalpha-ir associated with endoplasmic reticulum only in TH-containing perikarya. The data suggest that hypertension modulates the expression and subcellular distribution of ERalpha and PR in central autonomic regions involved in blood pressure control. Considering that ERalpha counteracts the central and peripheral effects of AngII, these receptor changes may underlie adaptive responses that protect females from the deleterious effects of hypertension.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) impairs sensory systems causing chronic allodynia. Mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain have been more extensively studied following peripheral nerve injury (PNI) than after central trauma. Microglial activation, pro-inflammatory cytokine production and activation of p38 MAP kinase pathways may induce at-level allodynia following PNI. We investigated whether midthoracic SCI elicits similar behavioral and cellular responses below the level of injury (lumbar spinal cord; L5). Importantly, we show that anatomical connections between L5 and supraspinal centers remain intact after moderate SCI allowing direct comparison to a well-established model of peripheral nerve injury. We found that SCI elicits below-level allodynia of similar magnitude to at-level pain caused by a peripheral nerve injury. Moreover, the presence of robust microglial activation in L5 cord predicted allodynia in 86% of rats. Also increased phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase occurred in the L5 dorsal horn of allodynic rats. For below-level allodynia after SCI, TNF-alpha and IL-1beta increased in the L5 dorsal horn by 7 dpo and returned to baseline by 35 dpo. Interestingly, IL-6 remains at normal levels early after SCI and increases at chronic time points. Increased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines also occurred in the thalamus after SCI-induced allodynia. These data suggest that remote microglial activation is pivotal in the development and maintenance of below-level allodynia after SCI. Fractalkine, a known activator of microglia, and astrocytes were not primary modulators of below-level pain. Although the mechanisms of remote microglial activation are unknown, this response may be a viable target for limiting or preventing neuropathic pain after SCI in humans.

Neurologic illnesses occur commonly in association with HIV infection, are frequently debilitating and often life-threatening. The commonly recognized HIV-related neurologic illnesses include encephalopathy (dementia), myelopathy, neuropathy and myopathy. Stroke as a HIV-related manifestation is an increasingly recognized and evolving issue. This article reviews the literature on the association of stroke and HIV, stroke risk and stroke mechanisms in HIV-infected patients, and the role of antiretroviral drugs in HIV-related stroke.
The neuronal endoplasmic reticulum (ER) contributes to many physiological and pathological processes in the brain. A subset of dendritic spines on hippocampal neurons contains ER that may contribute to synapse-specific intracellular signaling. Distribution of ER to spines is dynamic, but knowledge of the regulatory mechanisms is lacking. In live cell imaging experiments we now show that cultured hippocampal neurons rapidly lost ER from spines after phorbol ester treatment. ER loss was reduced by inhibiting gamma-secretase (DAPT at 2 microM) and metalloproteinase (TAPI-0 and GM6001 at 4 microM) activity. Inhibition of protein kinase C also diminished loss of ER by preventing exit of ER from spines. Furthermore, gamma-secretase and metalloproteinase inhibition, in the absence of phorbol ester, triggered a dramatic increase in spine ER content. Metalloproteinases and gamma-secretase cleave several transmembrane proteins. Many of these substrates are known to localize to adherens junctions, a structural specialization with which spine ER interacts. One interesting possibility is thus that ER content within spines may be regulated by proteolytic activity affecting adherens junctions. Our data demonstrate a hitherto unknown role for these two proteolytic activities in regulating dynamic aspects of cellular ultrastructure, which is potentially important for cellular calcium homeostasis and several intracellular signaling pathways.
BACE1 is a promising therapeutic and preventive target for Alzheimer's disease because it is essential for amyloid deposition. However, the recent demonstration of BACE1 in modulating developmental myelination in both peripheral and central nervous systems raises a concern of its effect on myelin maintenance or remyelination, and inhibition of these processes will potentially be detrimental to the BACE1 inhibitor users who are susceptible to myelination diseases such as adult peripheral nerve injury or multiple sclerosis. In this report, we investigated the role of BACE1 during peripheral nerve remyelination in wild-type (WT) and BACE1-null mice. We show here that genetic deletion of BACE1 affects sciatic nerve remyelination. The impaired remyelination appears to stem from the loss of neuregulin-1 cleavage by BACE1. To demonstrate a direct cleavage of neuregulin-1 by BACE1, we have identified a BACE1 cleavage site that turns out be highly conserved among neuregulin-1 paralogues. Moreover, we show that neuregulin-1 family member neuregulin-3 is also cleavable by BACE1. We hypothesize that the BACE1-cleaved extracellular domain of axonal neuregulin-1, perhaps neuregulin-3 as well, binds to Schwann cell ErbB receptors, which in turn regulate remyelination. Pharmacological inhibition of BACE1 should be carefully monitored to avoid alteration of signaling pathway that regulates remyelination.


Complementary deoxyribonucleic acid microarray data from 36 mice subjected for 1, 2, or 4 weeks of their early life to normal atmospheric conditions (normoxia) or chronic intermittent (CIH) or constant (CCH) hypoxia were analyzed to extract organizational principles of the developing heart transcriptome and determine the integrated response to oxygen deprivation. Although both CCH and CIH regulated numerous genes involved in a wide diversity of processes, the changes in maturational profile, expression stability, and coordination were vastly different between the two treatments, indicating the activation of distinct regulatory mechanisms of gene transcription. The analysis focused on the main regulators of translation and response to stress because of their role in the cardiac hypertrophy and cell survival in hypoxia. On average, the expression of each heart gene was tied to the expression of about 20% of other genes in normoxia but to only 8% in CCH and 9% in CIH, indicating a strong decoupling effect of hypoxia. In contrast to the general tendency, the interlinkages among components of the translational machinery and response to stress increased significantly in CIH and much more in CCH, suggesting a coordinated response to the hypoxic stress. Moreover, the transcriptomic networks were profoundly and differently remodeled by CCH and CIH.
Degeneration of microglial cells may be important for understanding the pathogenesis of aging-related neurodegeneration and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we analyzed the morphological characteristics of microglial cells in the nondemented and Alzheimer's disease (AD) human brain using ferritin immunohistochemistry. The central hypothesis was that expression of the iron storage protein ferritin increases the susceptibility of microglia to degeneration, particularly in the aged brain since senescent microglia might become less efficient in maintaining iron homeostasis and free iron can promote oxidative damage. In a primary set of 24 subjects (age range 34-97 years) examined, microglial cells immunoreactive for ferritin were found to constitute a subpopulation of the larger microglial pool labeled with an antibody for HLA-DR antigens. The majority of these ferritin-positive microglia exhibited aberrant morphological (dystrophic) changes in the aged and particularly in the AD brain. No spatial correlation was found between ferritin-positive dystrophic microglia and senile plaques in AD tissues. Analysis of a secondary set of human postmortem brain tissues with a wide range of postmortem intervals (PMI, average 10.94 +/- 5.69 h) showed that the occurrence of microglial dystrophy was independent of PMI and consequently not a product of tissue autolysis. Collectively, these results suggest that microglial involvement in iron storage and metabolism contributes to their degeneration, possibly through increased exposure of the cells to oxidative stress. We conclude that ferritin immunohistochemistry may be a useful method for detecting degenerating microglia in the human brain.
Brain inflammation is a suggested risk factor for neurodegenerative disease. Interestingly, severe inflammation in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) accelerates the onset and progression of Parkinson's disease. In this study, we examined the underlying mechanisms of severe inflammation in the SNpc by comparing the inflammatory process with that in the cortex. In intact brain, the densities of CD11b(+) microglia were similar in the SNpc and cortex. However, lipopolysaccharide injection enhanced the CD11b(+) cell number in the SNpc, but not in the cortex. Previously, we reported that CD11b and myeloperoxidase (MPO) double-positive neutrophils infiltrate the SNpc following LPS injection (GLIA 55:1577-88). Notably, the MPO(+) neutrophil number increased dramatically in the SNpc, but only slightly in the cortex. The extent of neutrophil infiltration appeared to correlate with neuronal damage. We confirmed that loss of neurons in the SNpc was significantly reduced in neutropenic rats versus normal rats following LPS injection. In addition, the densities of astrocytes were much lower in the intact SNpc, compared with the cortex. Furthermore, after LPS injection, damage of endothelial cells and astrocytes, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability was more pronounced in the SNpc. These results collectively suggest that excessive neutrophil infiltration and environmental factors, such as lower astrocyte density and higher BBB permeability, contribute to severe inflammation and neuronal death in the SNpc.
Chondroitin sulfate (CS) proteoglycans are major components of the cell surface and the extracellular matrix in the developing brain and bind to various proteins via CS chains in a CS structure-dependent manner. This study demonstrated the expression pattern of three CS sulfotransferase genes, dermatan 4-O-sulfotransferase (D4ST), uronyl 2-O-sulfotransferase (UST), and N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase (GalNAc4S-6ST), in the mouse postnatal cerebellum. These sulfotransferases are responsible for the biosynthesis of oversulfated structures in CS chains such as B, D, and E units, which constitute the binding sites for various heparin-binding proteins. Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated that the expression of UST increased remarkably during cerebellar development. The amounts of B and D units, which are generated by UST activity, in the cerebellar CS chains also increased during development. In contrast, the expression of GalNAc4S-6ST and its biosynthetic product, E unit, decreased during postnatal development. In situ hybridization experiments revealed the levels of UST and GalNAc4S-6ST mRNAs to correlate inversely in many cells including Purkinje cells, granule cells in the external granular layer, and inhibitory interneurons. In these neurons, the expression of UST increased and that of GalNAc4S-6ST decreased during development and/or maturation. D4ST was also expressed by many neurons, but its expression was not simply correlated with development, which might contribute to the diversification of CS structures expressed by distinct neurons. These results suggest that the CS structures of various cerebellar neurons change during development and such changes of CS are involved in the regulation of various signaling pathways.
Current steering and current focusing are stimulation techniques designed to increase the number of distinct perceptual channels available to cochlear implant (CI) users by adjusting currents applied simultaneously to multiple CI electrodes. Previous studies exploring current steering and current focusing stimulation strategies are reviewed, including results of research using computational models, animal neurophysiology, and human psychophysics. Preliminary results of additional neurophysiological and human psychophysical studies are presented that demonstrate the success of current steering strategies in stimulating auditory nerve regions lying between physical CI electrodes, as well as current focusing strategies that excite regions narrower than those stimulated using monopolar configurations. These results are interpreted in the context of perception and speech reception by CI users. Disparities between results of physiological and psychophysical studies are discussed. The differences in stimulation used for physiological and psychophysical studies are hypothesized to contribute to these disparities. Finally, application of current steering and focusing strategies to other types of auditory prostheses is also discussed.
Cochlear implants (CIs) stimulate the auditory nerve with trains of symmetric biphasic (BI) pulses. We review studies showing that more efficient stimulation can be achieved by modifying these pulses by (1) increasing the inter-phase gap (IPG) between the two phases of each pulse, thereby delaying the recovery of charge, (2) increasing the duration and decreasing the amplitude of one phase - so-called &quot;pseudomonophasic (PS)&quot; waveforms, and (3) combining the pseudomonophasic stimulus with an IPG in a &quot;delayed pseudomonophasic&quot; waveform (PS_IPG). These efficiency gains, measured using changes in threshold and loudness, occur at a wide range of pulse rates, including those commonly used in current CI systems. In monopolar mode, dynamic ranges are larger for PS and for long-IPG pulse shapes than for BI pulses, but this increase in DR is not accompanied by a higher number of discriminable loudness steps, and hence, in a better coding of loudness. Moreover, waveforms with relatively short and long interphase gaps do not yield different patterns of excitation despite the relatively large differences in threshold. Two important findings are that, contrary to data obtained in animal experiments, anodic currents are more effective than cathodic stimulation for human CI patients and that the thresholds decrease with increases in IPG over a much longer time course (more than 3 ms) than for animals. In this review it is discussed how these alternative pulse shapes may be beneficial in terms of reducing power consumption and channel interactions, which issues remain to be addressed, and how models contribute to guiding our research.
Human factors centered aviation accident analyses report that skill based errors are known to be cause of 80% of all accidents, decision making related errors 30% and perceptual errors 6%1. In-flight decision making error is a long time recognized major avenue leading to incidents and accidents. Through the past three decades, tremendous and costly efforts have been developed to attempt to clarify causation, roles and responsibility as well as to elaborate various preventative and curative countermeasures blending state of the art biomedical, technological advances and psychophysiological training strategies. In-flight related statistics have not been shown significantly changed and a significant number of issues remain not yet resolved. Fine Postural System and its corollary, Postural Deficiency Syndrome (PDS), both defined in the 1980's, are respectively neurophysiological and medical diagnostic models that reflect central neural sensory-motor and cognitive controls regulatory status. They are successfully used in complex neurotraumatology and related rehabilitation for over two decades. Analysis of clinical data taken over a ten-year period from acute and chronic post-traumatic PDS patients shows a strong correlation between symptoms commonly exhibited before, along side, or even after error, and sensory-motor or PDS related symptoms. Examples are given on how PDS related central sensory-motor control dysfunction can be correctly identified and monitored via a neurophysiological ocular-vestibular-postural monitoring system. The data presented provides strong evidence that a specific biomedical assessment methodology can lead to a better understanding of in-flight adaptive neurophysiological, cognitive and perceptual dysfunctional status that could induce in flight-errors. How relevant human factors can be identified and leveraged to maintain optimal performance will be addressed.
Severe and prolonged unmitigated SAS and SMS related symptoms have been thoroughly described in Astronauts during adaptation periods for orbital flight and post orbital flight. It has recently been shown that there is a strong correlation between these symptoms most often suffered by astronauts to that of the symptoms of patients suffering from Postural Deficiency Syndrome (PDS) on Earth that have been successfully assessed, diagnosed and treated. International peer-reviewed literature identifies PDS as a trauma induced medical condition which originates from central neural dysregulation of sensory-motor and cognitive controls; these dysfunctions can be accurately identified, measured, and monitored via a specific ocular-vestibular-postural monitoring system along with relevant clinical data. This higher level of understanding is necessary in order to reach the next stage of success for humans living and working in Space. Central sensory-motor and cognitive controls dysfunction underlie symptoms that can adversely impact and reflect alteration of eye-hand coordination, fine tuned dexterity, body positioning in space, space projection and trajectory control, perception of environment/obstacles, orientation in space and time, sensory motor and cognitive aspects of decision making, sensory-motor/cognitive error proneness. All of these factors are necessary for Astronaut's mission capabilities, while both carrying out operations in Space and performing the tasks required during and after re-entry. The objective of this paper is to elucidate how PDS related medical conditions are currently assessed, identified and monitored, and how these methodologies and technologies translate into a potential for better understanding of astronauts' potential incapacitation during space flight operations.
Three vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1-3) have previously been identified in the central nervous system, where they define the glutamatergic phenotype, and their expression is tightly regulated during brain development. In the present study we applied immunocytochemistry to examine the distribution of the immunoreactivity of all three VGLUTs during prenatal development of the myenteric plexus in the human small intestine. We also investigated changes in their localization in the different segments of the small intestine and in the different compartments of the developing myenteric ganglia. Immunoreactivity against all three VGLUTs was found predominantly in the ganglionic neuropil, interganglionic varicose fibers and perisomatic puncta, but cytoplasmic labeling with different intensities also occurred. Each transporter displayed a characteristic spatiotemporal expression pattern, with the transient increase or decrease of immunoreactive cell bodies, varicosities or perisomatic puncta, depending on the fetal age, the gut segment or the ganglionic compartment. Throughout gestational weeks 14-23, VGLUT1 immunoreactivity always predominated over VGLUT2 immunoreactivity, though both peaked around week 20. VGLUT3 immunoreactivity was less abundant in the developing myenteric plexus than those of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 immunoreactivity. It was mainly expressed in the ganglionic neuropil and in the perisomatic puncta throughout the examined gestational period. Neuronal perikarya immunoreactive for VGLUT3 were restricted to between weeks 18 and 20 of gestation and exclusively to the oral part of the small intestine.

Within species, color morphs may enhance camouflage, improve communication and/or confer reproductive advantage. However, in the male cichlid Astatotilapia burtoni, body color may also signal a behavioral strategy. A. burtoni live in a lek-like social system in Lake Tanganyika, Africa where bright blue or yellow territorial (T) males (together ~10-30% of the population) are reproductively capable and defend territories containing food with a spawning site. In contrast, non-territorial (NT) males are smaller, cryptically colored, shoal with females and have regressed gonads. Importantly, males switch between these social states depending on their success in aggressive encounters. Yellow and blue morphs were thought to be adaptations to particular habitats, but they co-exist both in nature and in the laboratory. Importantly, individual males can switch colors so we asked whether color influences behavioral and hormonal profiles. When pairing territorial males with opposite colored fish, yellow males became dominant over blue males significantly more frequently. Moreover, yellow T males had significantly higher levels of 11-ketotosterone than blue T males while only blue NT males had higher levels of the stress hormone cortisol compared to the other groups. Thus color differences alone predict dominance status and hormone profiles in T males. Since T males can and do change color, this suggests that A. burtoni may use color as a flexible behavioral strategy.
Reverse engineering takes the facts we know about a device or a process and reasons backwards to infer the principles underlying the structure-function relations. The goal of this review is to apply this approach to a well-studied hormone-controlled behavior, namely the reproductive stance of female rodents, lordosis. We first provide a brief overview on the considerable amount of progress in the analysis of female reproductive behavior. Then, we propose an analysis of the mechanisms of this behavior from a reverse-engineering perspective with the goal of generating novel hypotheses about the properties of the circuitry elements. In particular, the previously proposed neuronal circuit modules, feedback signals, and genomic mechanisms are considered to make predictions in this manner. The lordosis behavior itself appears to proceed ballistically once initiated, but negative and positive hormonal feedback relations are evident in its endocrine controls. Both rapid membrane-initiated and slow genomic hormone effects contribute to the behavior's control. We propose that the value of the reverse-engineering approach is based on its ability to provide testable, mechanistic hypotheses that do not emerge from either traditional evolutionary or simple reductionistic perspectives, and several are proposed in this review. These novel hypotheses may generalize to brain functions beyond female reproductive behavior. In this way, the reverse-engineering perspective can further develop our conceptual frameworks for behavioral and systems neuroscience.
Recent studies in adult male rats have shown that gonadal hormones influence performance on certain working memory and other types of cognitive tasks that are sensitive to lesions of the medial and/or orbital prefrontal cortices. This study asked whether gonadal hormone modulation of prefrontal cortical function in males also extends to the perirhinal division of the rat prefrontal cortex. Specifically, sham-operated control, gonadectomized, and gonadectomized rats supplemented with testosterone propionate or estradiol were tested on a spontaneous novel object recognition task, a paradigm where performance has been shown to be impaired by perirhinal cortical lesions. Using analyses of variance, regression analyses and post-hoc testing to evaluate group differences, it was found that during both the sample and test trials of the task all four groups spent similar absolute and proportional amounts of time ambulating, rearing, stationary, and exploring the two objects present. All groups also explored each of the two identical objects present during sample trials equally. However, during the test trials, only the control and gonadectomized rats given testosterone showed the expected increase in exploration of the novel objects presented, whereas the gonadectomized and gonadectomized, estradiol-supplemental groups continued to explore the novel and familiar objects equally. That regression analyses also identified significant correlations between low bulbospongiosus muscle weight and impaired novel vs. familiar object discrimination further indicates that gonadectomy in adult male rats adversely affects spontaneous novel object recognition in an androgen-sensitive, estrogen-insensitive manner.
We previously assessed the motivational properties of pups relative to those of cocaine in parturient female rats (dams) across the postpartum period and demonstrated that the larger subset of dams in early postpartum (PPD8) preferred the pup-associated chamber, whereas the majority of dams tested in late postpartum (PPD16) preferred the cocaine-associated chamber [Mattson, B.J., Williams, S., Rosenblatt, J.S., Morrell, J.I. 2001. Comparison of two positive reinforcing stimuli: pups and cocaine throughout the postpartum period. Behav. Neurosci., 115, 683-694; Seip, K.M., Morrell, J.I. 2007. Increasing the incentive salience of cocaine challenges preference for pup- over cocaine-associated stimuli during early postpartum: place preference and locomotor analyses in the lactating female rat. Psychopharmacology 194, 309-319]. The present study uses a dual-choice conditioned place preference to ask how the progression of the postpartum period, including natural pup development, influences maternal motivation for pups. Preferences for cued chambers associated with pups that were age-matched to the postpartum stage of the dam in contrast to a stimulus with little incentive salience were higher during the early than the late postpartum, suggesting that the incentive salience of pups diminishes as the postpartum period progresses. Preferences of the early postpartum dams deprived of pups for 15 min, 2, 6, 12 or 22 hrs prior to conditioning and testing did not differ statistically but there was a trend of more pup preference after 22 hr deprivation; pup age was not an important factor in early postpartum. In marked contrast, late postpartum dams only exhibited robust pup-associated place preference when they were conditioned with young (4-7 day-old) pups or after a 22 hr period of deprivation from contemporaneous pups. Together these results suggest that both forces are at work in the mother-pup dyad, changes in the pups as they develop and changes in the physiological and endocrine state of the female as she progresses through the postpartum period.
Mutations in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Among more than 100 ALS-associated SOD1 mutations, premature termination codon (PTC) mutations exclusively occur in exon 5, the last exon of SOD1. The molecular basis of ALS-associated toxicity of the mutant SOD1 is not fully understood. Here, we show that nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) underlies clearance of mutant mRNA with a PTC in the non-terminal exons. To further define the crucial ALS-associated SOD1 fragments, we designed and tested an exon-fusion approach using an artificial transgene SOD1(T116X) that harbors a PTC in exon 4. We found that the SOD1(T116X) transgene with a fused exon could escape NMD in cellular models. We generated a transgenic mouse model that overexpresses SOD1(T116X). This mouse model developed ALS-like phenotype and pathology. Thus, our data have demonstrated that a 'mini-SOD1' of only 115 amino acids is sufficient to cause ALS. This is the smallest ALS-causing SOD1 molecule currently defined. This proof of principle result suggests that the exon-fusion approach may have potential not only to further define a shorter ALS-associated SOD1 fragment, thus providing a molecular target for designing rational therapy, but also to dissect toxicities of other proteins encoded by genes of multiple exons through a 'gain of function' mechanism.

It remains uncertain whether bipolar disorder (BPD) patients in randomized-controlled trials (RCTs) are sufficiently representative of clinically encountered patients as to guide clinical-therapeutic practice. We complied inclusion/exclusion criteria by frequency from reports of 21 RCTs for mania, and applied them in a pilot study of patients hospitalized for DSM-IV BPD manic/mixed states to compare characteristics and clinical responses of patients who did versus did not meet exclusion criteria. From 27 initially identified inclusion/exclusion criteria ranked by citation frequency, we derived six inclusion, and 10 non-redundant-exclusion factors. Of 67 consecutive patients meeting inclusion criteria, 15 (22.4%) potential &quot;research subjects&quot; met all 10 exclusion criteria. The remaining 52 &quot;clinical patients&quot; differed markedly on exclusion criteria, including more psychiatric co-morbidity, substance abuse, involuntary hospitalization, and suicide attempts or violence, but were otherwise similar. In both groups responses to clinically determined inpatient treatments were similar, including improvement in mania ratings. Based on applying reported inclusion/exclusion criteria for RCTs to a pilot sample of hospitalized-manic patients, those likely to be included in modern RCTs were similar to patients who would be excluded, most notably in short-term antimanic-treatment responses. The findings encourage further comparisons of subjects included/excluded from RCTs to test potential clinical generalizability of research findings. The pilot study is limited in numbers and exposure times with which to test for the minor differences between &quot;research subjects&quot; and &quot;clinical patients.&quot;
Sympathetic nerves release norepinephrine and ATP onto mesenteric arteries. In deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats, there is increased arterial sympathetic neurotransmission attributable, in part, to impaired prejunctional regulation of norepinephrine release. Prejunctional regulation purinergic transmission in hypertension is less well understood. We hypothesized that alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor dysfunction alters purinergic neurotransmission to arteries in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats. Mesenteric artery preparations were maintained in vitro, and intracellular electrophysiological methods were used to record excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) from smooth muscle cells. EJP amplitude was reduced in smooth muscle cells from DOCA-salt (4+/-1 mV) compared with control arteries (9+/-1 mV; P&lt;0.05). When using short trains of stimulation (0.5 Hz; 5 pulses), the alpha(2)adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine (1 micromol/L) potentiated EJPs in control more than in DOCA-salt arteries (180+/-35% versus 86+/-7%; P&lt;0.05). Norepinephrine (0.1 to 3.0 micromol/L), the alpha(2)adrenergic receptor agonist UK 14304 (0.001 to 0.100 micromol/L), the A(1) adenosine receptor agonist cyclopentyladensosine (0.3 to 100.0 micromol/L), and the N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (0.0003 to 0.1000 micromol/L) decreased EJP amplitude equally well in control and DOCA-salt arteries. Trains of stimuli (10 Hz) depleted ATP stores more completely, and the latency to EJP recovery was longer in DOCA-salt compared with control arteries. These data indicate that there is reduced purinergic input to mesenteric arteries of DOCA-salt rats because of decreased ATP bioavailability in sympathetic nerves. These data highlight the potential importance of impaired purinergic regulation of arterial tone as a target for drug treatment of hypertension.
In this paper, we present a simple method to find networks of time-correlated brain sources, using a singular value decomposition (SVD) analysis of the source matrix estimated after any linear distributed inverse problem in magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG). Despite the high dimension of the source space, our method allows for the rapid computation of the source matrix. In order to do this, we use the linear relationship between sensors and sources, and show that the SVD can be calculated through a simple and fast computation. We show that this method allows the estimation of one or several global networks of correlated sources without calculating a coupling coefficient between all pairs of sources. A series of simulations studies were performed to estimate the efficiency of the method. In order to illustrate the validity of this approach in experimental conditions, we used real MEG data from a visual stimulation task on one test subject and estimated, in different time windows of interest, functional networks of correlated sources.
People with severe upper limb paralysis use devices that monitor head movements to control computer cursors. The three most common methods for producing mouse button clicks are dwell-time, sip-and-puff control, and voice-recognition. Here, we tested a new method in which small tooth-clicks were detected by an accelerometer contacting the side of the head. The resulting signals were paired with head tracking technology to provide combined cursor and button control. This system was compared with sip-and-puff control and dwell-time selection. A group of 17 people with disabilities and ten people without disabilities tested each system by producing mouse clicks as inputs to two software programs. Tooth-click/head-mouse control was much faster than dwell-time control and not quite as fast as sip-and-puff control, but it was more reliable and less cumbersome than the latter.
The dynamical behavior of learning is known to be very slow for the multilayer perceptron, being often trapped in the &quot;plateau.&quot; It has been recently understood that this is due to the singularity in the parameter space of perceptrons, in which trajectories of learning are drawn. The space is Riemannian from the point of view of information geometry and contains singular regions where the Riemannian metric or the Fisher information matrix degenerates. This paper analyzes the dynamics of learning in a neighborhood of the singular regions when the true teacher machine lies at the singularity. We give explicit asymptotic analytical solutions (trajectories) both for the standard gradient (SGD) and natural gradient (NGD) methods. It is clearly shown, in the case of the SGD method, that the plateau phenomenon appears in a neighborhood of the critical regions, where the dynamical behavior is extremely slow. The analysis of the NGD method is much more difficult, because the inverse of the Fisher information matrix diverges. We conquer the difficulty by introducing the &quot;blow-down&quot; technique used in algebraic geometry. The NGD method works efficiently, and the state converges directly to the true parameters very quickly while it staggers in the case of the SGD method. The analytical results are compared with computer simulations, showing good agreement. The effects of singularities on learning are thus qualitatively clarified for both standard and NGD methods.
Many interesting problems in reinforcement learning (RL) are continuous and/or high dimensional, and in this instance, RL techniques require the use of function approximators for learning value functions and policies. Often, local linear models have been preferred over distributed nonlinear models for function approximation in RL. We suggest that one reason for the difficulties encountered when using distributed architectures in RL is the problem of negative interference, whereby learning of new data disrupts previously learned mappings. The continuous temporal difference (TD) learning algorithm TD(lambda) was used to learn a value function in a limited-torque pendulum swing-up task using a multilayer perceptron (MLP) network. Three different approaches were examined for learning in the MLP networks; 1) simple gradient descent; 2) vario-eta; and 3) a pseudopattern rehearsal strategy that attempts to reduce the effects of interference. Our results show that MLP networks can be used for value function approximation in this task but require long training times. We also found that vario-eta destabilized learning and resulted in a failure of the learning process to converge. Finally, we showed that the pseudopattern rehearsal strategy drastically improved the speed of learning. The results indicate that interference is a greater problem than ill conditioning for this task.
Pharmacological studies indicate that vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) may be necessary for normal embryonic development in the mouse. For example, VIP antagonist treatment before embryonic day 11 resulted in developmental delays, growth restriction, modified adult brain chemistry and reduced social behavior. Here, developmental milestones, growth, and social behaviors of neonates of VIP-deficient mothers (VIP +/-) mated to VIP +/- males were compared with the offspring of wild type mothers (VIP +/+) mated to VIP +/+ and +/- males, to assess the contributions of both maternal and offspring VIP genotype. Regardless of their own genotype, all offsprings of VIP-deficient mothers exhibited developmental delays. No delays were seen in the offspring of wild type mothers, regardless of their own genotype. Body weights were significantly reduced in offspring of VIP-deficient mothers, with VIP null (-/-) the most affected. Regardless of genotype, all offspring of VIP-deficient mothers expressed reduced maternal affiliation compared with wild type offspring of wild type mothers; +/- offspring of wild type mothers did not differ in maternal affiliation from their wild type littermates. Play behavior was significantly reduced in all offsprings of VIP-deficient mothers. Maternal behavior did not differ between wild type and VIP-deficient mothers, and cross-fostering of litters did not change offspring development, indicating that offspring deficits were induced prenatally. This study illustrated that the VIP status of a pregnant mouse had a greater influence on the growth, development and behavior of her offspring than the VIP genotype of the offspring themselves. Deficiencies were apparent in +/+, +/- and -/- offspring born to VIP-deficient mothers; no deficiencies were apparent in +/- offspring born to normal mothers. These results underscore the significant contribution of the uterine environment to normal development and indicate a potential usefulness of the VIP knockout mouse in furthering the understanding of neurodevelopmental disorders with social behavior deficits such as autism.

Two main processes concurrently refine the nervous system over the course of development: cell death and selective synaptic pruning. We simulated large spiking neural networks (100 x 100 neurons &quot;at birth&quot;) characterized by an early developmental phase with cell death due to excessive firing rate, followed by the onset of spike timing dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP), driven by spatiotemporal patterns of stimulation. The cell death affected the inhibitory units more than the excitatory units during the early developmental phase. The network activity showed the appearance of recurrent spatiotemporal firing patterns along the STDP phase, thus suggesting the emergence of cell assemblies from the initially randomly connected networks. Some of these patterns were detected throughout the simulation despite the activity-driven network modifications while others disappeared.
Animal research has shown a diurnal variation in dopamine neurotransmission, with a reduced release at night. Variations in biomarkers for the dopamine system over the day have, however, not been investigated in human subjects. In this preliminary PET study, we used the radioligands [11C]raclopride and [11C]FLB 457 to determine dopamine D2-receptor binding in 16 human subjects in the morning and evening on the same day. The average difference between morning and evening examinations did not indicate a diurnal effect on D2 receptor availability. However, when age was taken into account in the analysis, a pattern emerged where individuals in the lower age range showed reduced evening binding while in older subjects binding potential increased. The product-moment correlation between morning-evening change and age was statistically significant in insula, medial frontal cortex and rostral anterior cingulate. The findings, if replicated, have direct relevance for applied PET studies and could also prove relevant with regard to age effects on dopamine-related behaviour such as arousal and cognitive performance.

We used event-related potentials (ERPs) to study the temporal dynamics of proactive interference in working memory. Participants performed a Sternberg item-recognition task to determine whether a probe was in a target memory set. Familiar negative probes were found to be more difficult to reject than less familiar ones. A fronto-central N2 component peaking around 300 ms post-probe-onset differentiated among target probes, familiar and less familiar non-target probes. The study identifies N2 as the ERP signature for proactive interference resolution. It also indicates that the resolution process occurs in the same time window as target/non-target discrimination and provides the first piece of electrophysiological evidence supporting a recent interference resolution model based on localization data [Jonides, J., Nee, D.E., 2006. Brain mechanisms of proactive interference in working memory. Neuroscience 139, 181-193].

Depression is one of the most frequent comorbid psychiatric disorders in Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, and is associated with worse quality of life, greater disability in activities of daily living, a faster cognitive decline, a high rate of nursing home placement, relatively higher mortality, and a higher frequency of depression and burden in caregivers. Depression in Alzheimer's disease is markedly under-diagnosed, and most patients with depression are either not treated or are on subclinical doses of antidepressants. This is related to the lack of validated diagnostic criteria and specific instruments to assess depression in dementia. Apathy and pathological affect-crying are the main differential diagnoses of depression in Alzheimer's disease. Left untreated, major depression in Alzheimer's disease may last for about 12 months. Recent randomized controlled trials demonstrated the efficacy of sertraline and moclobemide to treat depression in Alzheimer's disease. Other psychoactive compounds may be useful as well, but careful consideration must be given to potentially serious side-effects.




An earlier study examined the effects of exposure to seismic air guns on the hearing of three species of fish from the Mackenzie River Delta in Northern Canada [Popper et al. (2005). &quot;Effects of exposure to seismic airgun use on hearing of three fish species,&quot; J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 117, 3958-3971]. The sound pressure levels to which the fishes were exposed were a mean received level of 205-209 dB re 1 microPa (peak) per shot and an approximate received mean SEL of 176-180 dB re 1 microPa(2) s per shot. In this report, the same animals were examined to determine whether there were effects on the sensory cells of the inner ear as a result of the seismic exposure. No damage was found to the ears of the fishes exposed to seismic sounds despite the fact that two of the species, adult northern pike and lake chub, had shown a temporary threshold shift in hearing studies.
Vocal recognition is common among songbirds, and provides an excellent model system to study the perceptual and neurobiological mechanisms for processing natural vocal communication signals. Male European starlings, a species of songbird, learn to recognize the songs of multiple conspecific males by attending to stereotyped acoustic patterns, and these learned patterns elicit selective neuronal responses in auditory forebrain neurons. The present study investigates the perceptual grouping of spectrotemporal acoustic patterns in starling song at multiple temporal scales. The results show that permutations in sequencing of submotif acoustic features have significant effects on song recognition, and that these effects are specific to songs that comprise learned motifs. The observations suggest that (1) motifs form auditory objects embedded in a hierarchy of acoustic patterns, (2) that object-based song perception emerges without explicit reinforcement, and (3) that multiple temporal scales within the acoustic pattern hierarchy convey information about the individual identity of the singer. The authors discuss the results in the context of auditory object formation and talker recognition.

Anxious and dysthymic personality traits were measured in a euthymic, familial sample of bipolar (BPD) individuals and their affectively ill and unaffected relatives. According to the quantitative genetic model of bipolar spectrum illness [Evans, L., Akiskal, H.S., Keck, Jr., P.E., McElroy, S.L., Sadovnick, A.D., Remick, R.A., Kelsoe, J.R., 2005. Familiality of temperament in bipolar disorder: support for a genetic spectrum. J. Affect. Disord. 85, 153-168], these traits should be normally distributed with the bipolar disorder I (BPD I) group showing the highest and the unaffected relatives the least &quot;pathological&quot; scores. Three hundred individuals from 47 bipolar disorder families were administered a battery of personality questionnaires (Temperament Evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris, and San Diego; Temperament and Character Inventory; Affective Neuroscience Personality Scale) as well as a self-rating depression (Beck Depression Inventory) and mania (Altman Self-Rating Mania) scale. Out of the 300 participants, 58 were diagnosed with BPD I, 27 with bipolar disorder II (BPD II), 58 with recurrent major depression (MDE-R), 45 had one previous depressive episode (MDE-S), and 88 were unaffected. The BPD I group scored significantly higher than their unaffected relatives on the Harm Avoidance and Sadness scales of the TCI and ANPS, respectively, while the MDE-R but not the BPD samples scored significantly higher than unaffected relatives on the Anxious Temperament (AT) subscale of the TEMPS-A. In general, the mean dysthymic personality scores were highest in the BPD sample, followed by the MDE-R, MDE-S, and unaffected relative groups. Nevertheless, no significant personality differences were found between the psychiatrically-ill groups. While dysthymic temperament traits conform relatively well to the quantitative genetic model of affective illness, anxious traits as defined by the AT scale, are equally salient in BPD and unipolar depression.
Ventral roots in all mammalian species, including humans, contain significant numbers of unmyelinated axons, many of them afferents transmitting nociceptive signals from receptive fields in skin, viscera, muscles and joints. Observations in cats indicate that these afferents do not enter the spinal cord via the ventral root, but rather turn distally and enter the dorsal root. Some unmyelinated axons are postganglionic autonomic efferents that innervate blood vessels of the root and the pia mater. In the feline L7 segment, a substantial proportion of unmyelinated axons are not detectable until late in perinatal development. The mechanisms inducing this late ingrowth, and the recruitment of Schwann cells (indispensable, at this stage, for axonal survival and sustenance), are unknown. We have counted axons and Schwann cells in both ends of the L7 ventral root in young kittens and made the following observations. (1) The total number of axons detectable in the root increased throughout the range of investigated ages. (2) The number of myelinated axons was similar in the root's proximal and distal ends. The increased number of unmyelinated axons with age is thus due to increased numbers of small unmyelinated axons. (3) The number of separated large probably promyelin axons was about the same in the proximal and distal ends of the root. (4) Schwann cells appeared to undergo redistribution, from myelinated to unmyelinated axons. (5) During redistribution of Schwann cells they first appear as aberrant Schwann cells and then become endoneurial X-cells temporarily free of axonal contact. We hypothesize that unmyelinated axons invade the ventral root from its distal end, that this ingrowth is particularly intense during the first postnatal month and that disengaged Schwann cells, eliminated from myelinated motoneuron axons, provide the ingrowing axons with structural and trophic support.
Sensitization of vagal lung C fibers has been postulated to contribute to the development of asthma, but support for this notion is still lacking. We investigated the characteristics and function of pulmonary C fibers (PCFs) in ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized Brown Norway rats, an established animal model of asthma. Rats were sensitized with intraperitoneal injection of OVA or were treated with saline (control). In study 1, with the use of open-chest and artificially ventilated rats, inhalation of 5% OVA aerosol evoked an augmented increase in total lung resistance in the OVA-sensitized rats, compared with the control rats. Bilateral vagotomy or subcutaneous pretreatment with a high-dose of capsaicin for blocking of C-fiber function equally attenuated this augmented total lung resistance response, suggesting the involvement of PCFs. In study 2, with the use of anesthetized, spontaneously breathing rats, right atrial injection of capsaicin (1 microg/kg; a PCF stimulant) evoked an augmented apneic response in the OVA-sensitized rats, compared with the control rats. In study 3, with the use of open-chest, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated rats, the afferent PCF responses to right atrial injection of capsaicin (0.5 and 1.0 microg/kg), phenylbiguanide (8 microg/kg; a PCF stimulant), or adenosine (0.2 mg/kg; a PCF stimulant) were enhanced in the OVA-sensitized rats, compared with the control rats. However, the baseline activities of PCFs and their afferent responses to mechanical stimulation by lung hyperinflation in the OVA-sensitized and control rats were comparable. Our results suggested that OVA-sensitized Brown Norway rats possess sensitized vagal PCFs, which may participate in the development of the airway hyperreactivity observed in these animals.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH) has been found to protect brain from ischemic injury. We investigated whether IH mitigates brain oxidative stress and behavioral deficits in rats subjected to ethanol intoxication and abrupt ethanol withdrawal (EW). The effects of IH on overt EW behavioral signs, superoxide generation, protein oxidation, and mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) opening were examined. Male rats consumed dextrin or 6.5% (wt/vol) ethanol for 35 days. During the last 20 days, rats were treated with repetitive (5-8 per day), brief (5-10 min) cycles of hypoxia (9.5-10% inspired O2) separated by 4-min normoxia exposures. Cerebellum, cortex, and hippocampus were biopsied on day 35 of the diet or at 24 h of EW. Superoxide and protein carbonyl contents in tissue homogenates and absorbance decline at 540 nm in mitochondrial suspensions served as indicators of oxidative stress, protein oxidation, and PTP opening, respectively. Although IH altered neither ethanol consumption nor blood ethanol concentration, it sharply lowered the severity of EW signs including tremor, tail rigidity, and startle response. Compared with dextrin and ethanol per se, in the three brain regions, EW increased superoxide and protein carbonyl contents and accelerated PTP opening in a manner ameliorated by IH. Administration of antioxidant N-acetylcysteine throughout the IH program abrogated the reductions in EW signs and superoxide content, implicating IH-induced ROS as mediators of the salutary adaptations. We conclude that IH conditioning during chronic ethanol consumption attenuates oxidative damage to the brain and mitigates behavioral abnormalities during subsequent EW. IH-induced ROS may evoke this powerful protection.
Typical adults use predictable scan patterns while observing faces. Some research suggests that people with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) instead attend to eyes less, and perhaps to the mouth more. The current experiment was designed as a direct measure of scan paths that people with and without ASD use when identifying simple and complex emotions. Participants saw photos of emotions and chose emotion labels. Scan paths were measured via infrared corneal reflectance. Both groups looked significantly longer at eyes than mouth, and neither overall looking time at eyes nor first fixations distinguished the groups. These results are contrary to suggestions that those with ASD attend preferentially to the mouth and avoid the eyes. Furthermore, there was no interaction between group and area of the face: the ratio of attention between eyes and mouth did not differ between the ASD and control groups. However, those with ASD looked at the eyes less than the control group when viewing complex emotions.
Language and communication deficits are key diagnostic criteria for autism. However, not all aspects of language are equally affected. Here we present evidence of enhanced performance of a critical aspect of language-word processing-in children with autism. The results have implications for explanatory theories of autism and language, and for the development of therapeutic approaches.
The dynamic interaction between positive and negative signals is necessary for remodeling of postsynaptic structures at the neuromuscular junction. Here we report that Wnt3a negatively regulates acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering by repressing the expression of Rapsyn, an AChR-associated protein essential for AChR clustering. In cultured myotubes, treatment with Wnt3a or overexpression of beta-catenin, the condition mimicking the activation of the Wnt canonical pathway, inhibited Agrin-induced formation of AChR clusters. Moreover, Wnt3a treatment promoted dispersion of AChR clusters, and this effect was prevented by DKK1, an antagonist of the Wnt canonical pathway. Next, we investigated possible mechanisms underlying Wnt3a regulation of AChR clustering in cultured muscle cells. Interestingly, we found that Wnt3a treatment caused a decrease in the protein level of Rapsyn. In addition, Rapsyn promoter activity in cultured muscle cells was inhibited by the treatment with Wnt3a or beta-catenin overexpression. Forced expression of Rapsyn driven by a promoter that is not responsive to Wnt3a prevented the dispersing effect of Wnt3a on AChR clusters, suggesting that Wnt3a indeed acts to disperse AChR clusters by down-regulating the expression of Rapsyn. The role of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in dispersing AChR clusters was also investigated in vivo by electroporation of Wnt3a or beta-catenin into mouse limb muscles, where ectopic Wnt3a or beta-catenin caused disassembly of postsynaptic apparatus. Together, these results suggest that Wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays a negative role for postsynaptic differentiation at the neuromuscular junction, probably by regulating the expression of synaptic proteins, such as Rapsyn.
The recorded electrical activity of complex brain networks through the EEG reflects their intrinsic spatial, temporal and spectral properties. In this work we study the application of new penalized regression methods to i) the spatial characterization of the brain networks associated with the identification of faces and ii) the PARAFAC analysis of resting-state EEG. The use of appropriate constraints through non-convex penalties allowed three types of inverse solutions (Loreta, Lasso Fusion and ENet L) to spatially localize networks in agreement with previous studies with fMRI. Furthermore, we propose a new penalty based in the Information Entropy for the constrained PARAFAC analysis of resting EEG that allowed the identification in time, frequency and space of those brain networks with minimum spectral entropy. This study is an initial attempt to explicitly include complexity descriptors as a constraint in multilinear EEG analysis.
We show that synchronization processes can effectively be controlled with nonlinear delayed feedback. We demonstrate that nonlinear delayed feedback can have a twofold impact on the collective dynamics of large ensembles of coupled oscillators: synchronizing and, mostly, desynchronizing effects. By means of a model equation for the mean field, we explore the existence and stability of the feedback-induced desynchronized states, their multistability and dynamical properties. We propose nonlinear delayed feedback stimulation for the therapy of neurological diseases characterized by abnormal synchrony.
A major question in today's neuroscience is how the brain's complex operations and organization emerge from individual components. The robustness of neuronal properties with flexible linkages between regulatory processes conceivably accounts for the adaptive, tunable, multistable dynamics; the coding schemes; and the complexity of neuronal functional (sub)systems. Interneurons and neurotransmitter diversity, resonance phenomena due to properties of the cell, time/frequency-dependent activation of dedicated neuronal assemblies, and code- and frequency-specific oscillations interact in determining the brain functional setup and operations. Such an arrangement would also provide the functional requirements for access to neural mechanisms, dedicated neuronal circuitry and the proper timing allowing for the selective differentiation among cortical neurons due to performing in different tasks. No comprehensive theory or systematic methodological approach appears yet conceivable. The scenario, however incomplete and incompletely characterized, is nevertheless promising and warrants further investigation.
The daily biological clock regulates the timing of sleep and physiological processes that are of fundamental importance to human health, performance, and well-being. Environmental parameters of relevance to biological clocks include (1) daily fluctuations in light intensity and temperature, and (2) seasonal changes in photoperiod (day length) and temperature; these parameters vary dramatically as a function of latitude and locale. In wide-ranging species other than humans, natural selection has genetically optimized adaptiveness along latitudinal clines. Is there evidence for selection of clock gene alleles along latitudinal/photoperiod clines in humans? A number of polymorphisms in the human clock genes Per2, Per3, Clock, and AANAT have been reported as alleles that could be subject to selection. In addition, this investigation discovered several novel polymorphisms in the human Arntl and Arntl2 genes that may have functional impact upon the expression of these clock transcriptional factors. The frequency distribution of these clock gene polymorphisms is reported for diverse populations of African Americans, European Americans, Ghanaians, Han Chinese, and Papua New Guineans (including 5 subpopulations within Papua New Guinea). There are significant differences in the frequency distribution of clock gene alleles among these populations. Population genetic analyses indicate that these differences are likely to arise from genetic drift rather than from natural selection.
We have recently characterized a stem cell population isolated from the rodent amniotic membrane termed amnion-derived stem cells (ADSCs). In vitro ADSCs differentiate into cell types representing all three embryonic layers, including neural cells. In this study we evaluated the neuroectodermal potential of ADSCs in vivo after in utero transplantation into the developing rat brain. A clonal line of green fluorescent protein-expressing ADSCs were infused into the telencephalic ventricles of the developing embryonic day 15.5 rat brain. At E17.5 donor cells existed primarily as spheres in the ventricles with subsets fused to the ventricular walls, suggesting a mode of entry into the brain parenchyma. By E21.5 green fluorescent protein (GFP) ADSCs migrated to a number of brain regions. Examination at postnatal time points revealed that donor ADSCs expressed vimentin and nestin. Subsets of transplanted ADSCs attained neuronal morphologies, although there was no immunohistochemical evidence of neural or glial differentiation. Some donor cells migrated around blood vessels and differentiated into putative endothelial cells. Donor ADSCs transplanted in utero were present in recipients into adulthood with no evidence of immunological rejection or tumour formation. Long-term survival may suggest utility in the treatment of disorders where differentiation to a neural cell type is not required for clinical benefit.
CRC-associated P53 mutations have not been studied extensively in non-Western countries at relatively low CRC risk. We examined, for the first time, 196 paraffin-embedded CRC cases from Northern Iran for mutations in P53 exons 5-8 using PCR-direct sequencing. P53 status and mutation site/type were correlated with nuclear protein accumulation, clinicopathologic variables and data on K-ras mutations and high-level microsatellite instability (MSI-H). We detected 96 P53 mutations in 87 (44.4%) cases and protein accumulation in 84 cases (42.8%). P53 mutations correlated directly with stage and inversely with MSI-H. Distal CRCs were more frequently mutated at major CpG hotspot codons [248 (8/66, 12.1%), 175 (7/66, 10.6%), and 245 (7/66, 10.6%)], while in proximal tumors codon 213, emerged as most frequently mutated (5/28, 17.9% vs. 3/66, 4.5%, P = 0.048). Transitions at CpGs, the most common mutation type, were more frequent in non-mucinous (25% vs. 10.4% in mucinous, P = 0.032), and distal CRC (27% vs. 12.5% in proximal, P = 0.02), and correlated with K-ras transversions. Transitions at non-CpGs, second most common P53 mutation, were more frequent in proximal tumors (15.6% vs. 4.7% in distal, P = 0.01), and correlated with K-ras transitions and MSI-H. Overall frequency and types of mutations and correlations with P53 accumulation, stage and MSI-H were as reported for non-Iranian patients. However P53 mutation site/type and correlations between P53 and K-ras mutation types differed between proximal and distal CRC. The codon 213 P53 mutation that recurred in proximal CRC was previously reported as frequent in esophageal cancer from Northern Iran.
Kalirin, one of the few Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that contains spectrin-like repeats, plays a critical role in axon extension and maintenance of dendritic spines. PC12 cells were used to determine whether Cdk5, a critical participant in both processes, regulates the action of Kalirin. Expression of Kalirin-7 in nondifferentiated PC12 cells caused GEF-activity-dependent extension of broad cytoplasmic protrusions; coexpression of dominant-negative Cdk5 largely eliminated this response. The spectrin-like repeat region of Kalirin plays an essential role in this response, which is not mimicked by the GEF domain alone. Thr1590, which follows the first GEF domain of Kalirin, is the only Cdk5 phosphorylation site in Kalirin-7. Although mutant Kalirin-7 with Ala1590 retains GEF activity, it is unable to cause extension of protrusions. Kalirin-7 with an Asp1590 mutation has slightly increased GEF activity and dominant-negative Cdk5 fails to block its ability to cause extension of protrusions. Phosphorylation of Thr1590 causes a slight increase in GEF activity and Kalirin-7 solubility. Dendritic spines formed by cortical neurons in response to the expression of Kalirin-7 with Ala1590 differ in shape from those formed in response to wild-type Kalirin-7 or Kalirin-7 containing Asp1590. The presence of Thr1590 in each major Kalirin isoform would allow Cdk5 to regulate Kalirin function throughout development.

A 20-year-old woman with progressive leukoencephalopathy developed mental and motor disabilities and fell into a coma after suffering head trauma and febrile episodes from infancy. Brain imaging showed massive abnormal signals in the white matter. The electron spectroscopic imaging of biopsied brain tissue confirmed the electron-dense deposits to be associated with aluminum accumulation in the myelin sheath. Her brain pathology, which showed ferritin- and naphtochrome green-positive deposits, supported the imaging analysis. The clinicopathological features indicate a new form of progressive leukoencephalopathy.


We report a case of malignant sellar and suprasellar paraganglioma presenting as pituitary macroadenoma, causing headache and visual deficits. The characteristics of this tumor at this rare location are discussed.

Compared to young adults, older adults show not only a reduction in true memories but also an increase in false memories. We investigated the neural bases of these age effects using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a false memory task that resembles the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm. Young and older participants were scanned during a word recognition task that included studied words and new words that were strongly associated with studied words (critical lures). During correct recognition of studied words (true memory), older adults showed weaker activity than young adults in the hippocampus but stronger activity than young adults in the retrosplenial cortex. The hippocampal reduction is consistent with age-related deficits in recollection, whereas the retrosplenial increase suggests compensatory recruitment of alternative recollection-related regions. During incorrect recognition of critical lures (false memory), older adults displayed stronger activity than young adults in the left lateral temporal cortex, a region involved in semantic processing and semantic gist. Taken together, the results suggest that older adults' deficits in true memories reflect a decline in recollection processes mediated by the hippocampus, whereas their increased tendency to have false memories reflects their reliance on semantic gist mediated by the lateral temporal cortex.
Rat trigeminal ganglion neurons have been shown to contain a splice variant of choline acetyltransferase (pChAT). Here we report the distribution pattern of pChAT-containing afferents from the trigeminal ganglion to the brainstem, compared with that of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP), by use of the immunohistochemical techniques in the rat. Most of CGRP(+) SP(+) ganglion cells contain pChAT, whereas half of the pChAT(+) ganglion cells possess neither CGRP nor SP. In the brainstem, pChAT(+) nerve fibers are found exclusively in the trigeminal and solitary systems, although the distribution pattern differs from that of CGRP(+) or SP(+) fibers. First, the ventral portion of the principal sensory nucleus contains many pChAT(+) fibers, with few CGRP(+) or SP(+) fibers. Because this portion receives projections of nociceptive corneal afferents, a subpopulation of pChAT(+) CGRP(-) SP(-) primary afferents is most probably nonpeptidergic nociceptors innervating the cornea. Second, the superficial laminae of the medullary dorsal horn, the main target of nociceptive afferents, contain dense CGRP(+) and SP(+) fibers but sparse pChAT(+) fibers. Because pChAT occurs in most CGRP(+) SP(+) ganglion cells, such sparseness of pChAT(+) fibers implies poor transportation of pChAT to axon branchlets. Another important finding is that pChAT(+) axons are smooth and nonvaricose, whereas CGRP(+) or SP(+) fibers possess numerous varicosities. Our confocal microscopy suggests colocalization of these three markers in the same single axons in some brainstem regions. The difference in morphological appearance, nonvaricose or varicose, appears to reflect the difference in intraaxonal distribution between pChAT and CGRP or SP.
The expression profile of Lim homeodomain transcription factor Lmx1b in the mouse brain was investigated at different postnatal stages by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. At postnatal day (P) 7, many Lmx1b-expressing neurons were found in the posterior hypothalamic area, supramammillary nucleus, ventral premammillary nucleus, and subthalamic nucleus. In the midbrain, numerous Lmx1b-expressing neurons were present in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area. In the hindbrain, Lmx1b-expressing neurons were primarily observed in the raphe nuclei, parabrachial nuclei, principal sensory trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, and laminae I-II of the medullary dorsal horn as well as spinal dorsal horn. Although expression levels diminished as postnatal life progressed, persistent expression throughout the first year of life was observed in many of these regions. In contrast, Lmx1b was present in a few brain regions (e.g., principal sensory trigeminal nucleus) only in early life with expression expiring by P60. Lmx1b was observed in dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain and serotonergic neurons in the hindbrain, as determined by double labeling with specific markers. In addition, we found that Lmx1b-expressing neurons are not GABAergic, and Lmx1b was colocalized with Tlx3 in the parabrachial nuclei, principal sensory trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract. as well as the medullary and spinal dorsal horns, suggesting that Lmx1b-expressing cells in these areas are excitatory neurons. Our data suggest that Lmx1b is involved in the postnatal maturation of certain types of neurons and maintenance of their normal functions in the adult brain.
Experiments in visual cortex have shown that the firing rate of a neuron in response to the simultaneous presentation of a preferred and non-preferred stimulus within the receptive field is intermediate between that for the two stimuli alone (stimulus competition). Attention directed to one of the stimuli drives the response towards the response induced by the attended stimulus alone (selective attention). This study shows that a simple feedforward model with fixed synaptic conductance values can reproduce these two phenomena using synchronization in the gamma-frequency range to increase the effective synaptic gain for the responses to the attended stimulus. The performance of the model is robust to changes in the parameter values. The model predicts that the phase locking between presynaptic input and output spikes increases with attention.
Recent works on the response of barrel neurons to periodic deflections of the rat vibrissae have shown that the stimulus velocity is encoded in the corti cal spike rate (Pinto et al., Journal of Neurophysiology, 83(3), 1158-1166, 2000; Arabzadeh et al., Journal of Neuroscience, 23(27), 9146-9154, 2003). Other studies have reported that repetitive pulse stimulation produces band-pass filtering of the barrel response rate centered around 7-10 Hz (Garabedian et al., Journal of Neurophysiology, 90, 1379-1391, 2003) whereas sinusoidal stimulation gives an increasing rate up to 350 Hz (Arabzadeh et al., Journal of Neuroscience, 23(27), 9146-9154, 2003). To explore the mechanisms underlying these results we propose a simple computational model consisting in an ensemble of cells in the ventro-posterior medial thalamic nucleus (VPm) encoding the stimulus velocity in the temporal profile of their response, connected to a single barrel cell through synapses showing short-term depression. With sinusoidal stimulation, encoding the velocity in VPm facilitates the response as the stimulus frequency increases and it causes the velocity to be encoded in the cortical rate in the frequency range 20-100 Hz. Synaptic depression does not suppress the response with sinusoidal stimulation but it produces a band-pass behavior using repetitive pulses. We also found that the passive properties of the cell membrane eventually suppress the response to sinusoidal stimulation at high frequencies, something not observed experimentally. We argue that network effects not included here must be important in sustaining the response at those frequencies.
We present a non-parametric and computationally efficient method named NeuroXidence that detects coordinated firing of two or more neurons and tests whether the observed level of coordinated firing is significantly different from that expected by chance. The method considers the full auto-structure of the data, including the changes in the rate responses and the history dependencies in the spiking activity. Also, the method accounts for trial-by-trial variability in the dataset, such as the variability of the rate responses and their latencies. NeuroXidence can be applied to short data windows lasting only tens of milliseconds, which enables the tracking of transient neuronal states correlated to information processing. We demonstrate, on both simulated data and single-unit activity recorded in cat visual cortex, that NeuroXidence discriminates reliably between significant and spurious events that occur by chance.
The present study examined physical dating aggression in different adolescent relationships and assessed linear, threshold, and moderator risk models for recurrent aggressive relationships. The 621 participants (59% girls, 41% boys) were drawn from a 1-year longitudinal survey of Canadian high school youths ranging from Grade 9 through Grade 12. Approximately 13% of participants reported recurrent dating aggression across 2 different relationships. Using peer and dyadic risk factors from Time 1 of the study, the authors confirmed a linear risk model, such that adolescents in 2 different violent relationships had significantly more contextual risk factors than did adolescents in 1 or no violent relationship. Further, structural equation modeling assessing moderation of contextual risk factors indicated that, for adolescents with high acceptance of dating aggression, peer aggression and delinquency significantly predicted recurrent aggression in a new relationship. In comparison, for adolescents with low acceptance of dating aggression, negative relationship characteristics significantly predicted recurrent aggression. Acceptance did not moderate concurrent associations between risk factors and aggression in 1 relationship. Results support a developmental psychopathological approach to the understanding of recurrent aggression and its associated risk factors.
Previous reviews of outpatient interventions for adolescent substance abuse have been limited in the extent to which they considered the methodological quality of individual studies. The authors assessed 31 randomized trials of outpatient interventions for adolescent substance abuse on 14 attributes of trial quality. A quality of evidence score was calculated for each study and used to compare the evidence in support of different outpatient interventions. Across studies, frequently reported methodological attributes included presence of an active comparison condition, reporting of baseline data, use of treatment manuals, and verification of self-reported outcomes. Infrequently reported attributes included power and determination of sample size, techniques to randomize participants to condition, specification of hypotheses and primary outcomes, use of treatment adherence ratings, blind assessment, and inclusion of dropouts in the analysis. Treatment models with evidence of immediate superiority in 2 or more methodologically stronger studies included ecological family therapy, brief motivational interventions, and cognitive-behavioral therapy.
When attacked by predators, diverse animals actively or passively release molecules that evoke alarm and related anti-predatory behavior by nearby conspecifics. The actively released molecules are alarm pheromones, whereas the passively released molecules are alarm cues. For example, many insects have alarm-signaling systems that involve active release of alarm pheromones from specialized glands and detection of these signals using specific sensors. Many crustaceans passively release alarm cues, but the nature of the cues, sensors and responses is poorly characterized. Here we show in laboratory and field experiments that injured Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, passively release alarm cues via blood (hemolymph) that induce alarm responses in the form of avoidance and suppression of feeding. These cues are detected exclusively through specific olfactory chemosensors, the aesthetasc sensilla. The alarm cues for Caribbean spiny lobsters are not unique to the species but do show some phylogenetic specificity: P. argus responds primarily with alarm behavior to conspecific blood, but with mixed alarm and appetitive behaviors to blood from the congener Panulirus interruptus, or with appetitive behaviors to blood from the blue crab Callinectes sapidus. This study lays the foundation for future neuroethological studies of alarm cue systems in this and other decapod crustaceans.
Harmonic priming studies have shown that a musical context with its tonal center influences target chord processing. In comparison with targets following baseline contexts, which do not establish a specific tonal center, processing is facilitated for a strongly related target functioning as the tonic, but inhibited for unrelated (out-of-key) and less related (subdominant) targets. This study investigated cost and benefit patterns for the processing of the 3 most important chords of the harmonic hierarchy. Response time patterns reflected the chords' ranking: Processing was fastest for the tonic, followed by the dominant, and then the subdominant. The comparison with baseline contexts replicated the benefit of processing for tonic targets (Experiments 1 and 3) and the cost of processing for subdominant targets (Experiment 3), while dominant targets were situated at baseline level (Experiments 1 to 3). Findings indicate that listeners implicitly understand fine differences in tonal stabilities and confirm the special status of the tonic being the most expected and solely facilitated chord at the end of a tonal context. Findings are discussed with references to sensory and cognitive approaches of music perception.
In both behavior and neuroscience research, it is debated whether the processing of identity and location is closely bound throughout processing. One aspect of this debate is the possibly privileged processing of identity or location. For example, processing identity may have unlimited capacity, while processing location does not. The authors have investigated the possibility of such privileged processing by measuring set-size effects for a variety of identification and localization tasks. In particular, set-size effects in accuracy visual search are measured with either 1 or 2 possible targets. For 1-target tasks, set-size effects are smaller for identification than localization; for 2-target tasks, set-size effects are larger for identification than localization. The observed crossover interaction is inconsistent with a privileged processing hypothesis for either identity or location. Furthermore, this interaction is predicted by an independent channel model based on signal detection theory, in which the details of each decision determine the relative magnitude of the set-size effects. This result is consistent with the similar processing of identity and location, and it refutes the privileged processing hypothesis for either identity or location.
Parentification, a parent-child dynamic wherein children come to provide ongoing emotional support for their parents, has been documented extensively in the clinical literature; however, it rarely has been studied systematically. Using a community sample of 83 couples and their adolescent children (mean age = 15.26 years; 52% male, 48% female), the authors linked adolescent self-report of parentification to specific youth and adult behaviors using multiple methods and examined its associations with youth adjustment problems. The parentification measure demonstrated strong internal consistency and 1-year stability. Parentification was associated with marital conflict, youth perceptions of threat, low warmth in the parent-child relationship, and the tendency for youths to intervene in marital conflict. Links were also found with youth reports of internalizing and externalizing behavior and poorer competency in close friendships. These findings thus support the parentification construct and provide evidence that parentification may contribute to poor youth outcomes by burdening children with developmentally inappropriate responsibilities.
Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express bTREK-1 K(+) channels that set the resting membrane potential and function pivotally in the physiology of cortisol secretion. Inhibition of these K(+) channels by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) or cAMP is coupled to depolarization and Ca(2+) entry. The mechanism of ACTH and cAMP-mediated inhibition of bTREK-1 was explored in whole cell patch clamp recordings from AZF cells. Inhibition of bTREK-1 by ACTH and forskolin was not affected by the addition of both H-89 and PKI (6-22) amide to the pipette solution at concentrations that completely blocked activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in these cells. The ACTH derivative, O-nitrophenyl, sulfenyl-adrenocorticotropin (NPS-ACTH), at concentrations that produced little or no activation of PKA, inhibited bTREK-1 by a Ca(2+)-independent mechanism. Northern blot analysis showed that bovine AZF cells robustly express mRNA for Epac2, a guanine nucleotide exchange protein activated by cAMP. The selective Epac activator, 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP, applied intracellularly through the patch pipette, inhibited bTREK-1 (IC(50) = 0.63 microM) at concentrations that did not activate PKA. Inhibition by this agent was unaffected by PKA inhibitors, including RpcAMPS, but was eliminated in the absence of hydrolyzable ATP. Culturing AZF cells in the presence of ACTH markedly reduced the expression of Epac2 mRNA. 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP failed to inhibit bTREK-1 current in AZF cells that had been treated with ACTH for 3-4 d while inhibition by 8-br-cAMP was not affected. 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP failed to inhibit bTREK-1 expressed in HEK293 cells, which express little or no Epac2. These findings demonstrate that, in addition to the well-described PKA-dependent TREK-1 inhibition, ACTH, NPS-ACTH, forskolin, and 8-pCPT-2'-O-Me-cAMP also inhibit these K(+) channels by a PKA-independent signaling pathway. The convergent inhibition of bTREK-1 through parallel PKA- and Epac-dependent mechanisms may provide for failsafe membrane depolarization by ACTH.
Discrete state Markov models have proven useful for describing the gating of single ion channels. Such models predict that the dwell-time distributions of open and closed interval durations are described by mixtures of exponential components, with the number of exponential components equal to the number of states in the kinetic gating mechanism. Although the exponential components are readily calculated (Colquhoun and Hawkes, 1982, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B. 300:1-59), there is little practical understanding of the relationship between components and states, as every rate constant in the gating mechanism contributes to each exponential component. We now resolve this problem for simple models. As a tutorial we first illustrate how the dwell-time distribution of all closed intervals arises from the sum of constituent distributions, each arising from a specific gating sequence. The contribution of constituent distributions to the exponential components is then determined, giving the relationship between components and states. Finally, the relationship between components and states is quantified by defining and calculating the linkage of components to states. The relationship between components and states is found to be both intuitive and paradoxical, depending on the ratios of the state lifetimes. Nevertheless, both the intuitive and paradoxical observations can be described within a consistent framework. The approach used here allows the exponential components to be interpreted in terms of underlying states for all possible values of the rate constants, something not previously possible.
During relapsing fever borreliosis, a high pathogen load in the blood occurs at times of peak bacteremia. Specific IgM Abs are responsible for spirochetal clearance so in absence of B cells there is persistent high-level bacteremia. Previously, we showed that B cell-deficient mice persistently infected with Borrelia turicatae produce high levels of IL-10 and that exogenous IL-10 reduces bacteremia. This suggested that IL-10 helps reduce bacteremia at times of high pathogen load by a B cell-independent mechanism, most likely involving innate immunity. To investigate this possibility, we compared B. turicatae infection in RAG2/IL-10(-/-) and RAG2(-/-) mice. The results showed that IL-10 deficiency resulted in significantly higher bacteremia, higher TNF levels, and early mortality. Examination of the spleen and peripheral blood showed markedly increased apoptosis of immune cells in infected RAG2/IL-10(-/-) mice. Neutralization of TNF reduced apoptosis of leukocytes and splenocytes, increased production of IFN-gamma by NK cells, increased phagocytosis in the spleen, decreased spirochetemia, and rescued mice from early death. Our results indicate that at times of high pathogen load, as during peak bacteremia in relapsing fever borreliosis, IL-10 protects innate immune cells from apoptosis via inhibition of TNF resulting in improved pathogen control.
Acute hyperammonaemia (HA) causes cerebral oedema and severe brain damage in patients with urea cycle disorders (UCDs) or acute liver failure (ALF). Chronic HA is associated with developmental delay and intellectual disability in patients with UCDs and with neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with chronic liver failure. Treatment often cannot prevent severe brain injury and neurological sequelae. The causes of the brain oedema in hyperammonaemic encephalopathy (HAE) have been subject of intense controversy among physicians and scientists working in this field. Currently favoured hypotheses are astrocyte swelling due to increased intracellular glutamine content and neuronal cell death due to excitotoxicity caused by elevated extracellular glutamate levels. While many researchers focus on these mechanisms of cytotoxicity, others emphasize vascular causes of brain oedema. New data gleaned from expression profiling of astrocytes acutely isolated from hyperammonaemic mouse brains point to disturbed water and potassium homeostasis as regulated by astrocytes at the brain microvasculature and in the perisynaptic space as a potential mechanism of brain oedema development in hyperammonaemia.
Neurocognitive enhancement, or cosmetic neurology, offers the prospect of improving the learning, memory and attention skills of healthy individuals well beyond the normal human range. Much has been written about the ethics of such enhancement, but policy-makers in the USA, the UK and Europe have been reluctant to legislate in this rapidly developing field. However, the possibility of discrimination by employers and insurers against individuals who choose not to engage in such enhancement is a serious threat worthy of legislative intervention. While lawmakers should not prevent individuals from freely pursuing neurocognitive enhancement, they should act to ensure that such enhancement is not coerced. This paper offers one model for such legislation, based upon a proposed US law, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, to address precisely this particular pitfall of the impending neuroscience revolution.

Studies suggest that neuropsychological measures may provide prognostic information regarding SSRI treatment response, yet it is unclear which specific cognitive domains are the most effectual predictors. The aim of this study was to characterize the cognitive profile associated with SSRI nonresponse using a comprehensive set of neuropsychological tests. Participants (N = 32) met criteria for current major depressive episode. Assessment followed pre-treatment medication washout. Clinical response was measured after 3-month open-label SSRI treatment. Groups did not differ by demographic characteristics, intelligence or depression severity. Responders outperformed nonresponders across all cognitive domains, with the largest differences observed in executive, language and working memory functions. Results indicate poorer global cognitive functioning is predictive of treatment nonresponse. Deficits were most pronounced in tests demanding greater mental search and manipulation rather than speeded motor output. Cognitive slowing may mediate the working memory and executive function deficits found in nonresponders. These findings can inform exploration for pharmacogenetic endophenotypes.
Kynurenic acid is an endogenous product of the tryptophan metabolism. Studies on the mechanism of its action have revealed that kynurenic acid at high concentrations is a competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and acts as a neuroprotectant in different neurological disorders. This in vitro investigation was designed to show that kynurenic acid acts differently at low concentrations. In vitro electrophysiological examinations on the young rat hippocampus confirmed the well-known finding that kynurenic acid in micromolar concentrations exerts an inhibitory effect. However, in nanomolar concentrations, kynurenic acid does not give rise to inhibition, but in fact facilitates the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The results available so far are compatible with the idea that kynurenic acid in the concentration range between a few hundred nanomolar and micromolar displays different effects. Its probable action on different receptors, inducing the different mechanisms, is discussed. The findings strongly suggest the neuromodulatory role of kynurenic acid under both physiological and pathological circumstances.
The catechol and indole pathways are important components underlying plasticity in the frontal cortex and basal ganglia. This study demonstrates that administering rats either cocaine or a selective serotonin (or 5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) for 16 weeks results in reduced density of dopaminergic and noradrenergic terminals in the striatum and olfactory bulb, respectively, reflecting pruning of the terminal arbor of ventral midbrain dopaminergic and locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurones. In the striatum of cocaine-treated animals, basal dopamine levels, as well as cocaine-induced dopamine release, is diminished compared with controls. In contrast, serotonergic fibers, projecting from the raphe, sprout and have increased terminal density in the lateral septal nucleus and frontal cortex, following long-term cocaine or SSRI treatment. This is associated with elevated basal 5-HT and enhanced cocaine-induced 5-HT release in the frontal cortex. The anatomical and neurochemical changes in serotonergic fibers following cocaine or SSRI treatment may be explained by attenuated 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor function in the raphe. This study demonstrates extensive plasticity in the morphology and neurochemistry of the catechol and indole pathways that contribute to drug-induced plasticity of the corticostriatal (and other) projections. Moreover, our data suggest that drug-induced plastic adaptation is anatomically widespread and consequently, likely to have multiple and complex consequences.
The neurotrophin receptor homolog (NRH2) is closely related to the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR); however, its function and role in neurotrophin signaling are unclear. NRH2 does not bind to nerve growth factor (NGF), however, is able to form a receptor complex with tropomyosin-related kinase receptor A (TrkA) and to generate high-affinity NGF binding sites. Despite this, the mechanisms underpinning the interaction between NRH2 and TrkA remain unknown. Here, we identify that the intracellular domain of NRH2 is required to form an association with TrkA. Our data suggest extensive intracellular interaction between NRH2 and TrkA, as either the juxtamembrane or death domain regions of NRH2 are sufficient for interaction with TrkA. In addition, we demonstrate that TrkA signaling is dramatically influenced by the co-expression of NRH2. Importantly, NRH2 did not influence all downstream TrkA signaling pathways, but rather exerted a specific effect, enhancing src homology 2 domain-containing transforming protein (Shc) activation. Moreover, downstream of Shc, the co-expression of NRH2 resulted in TrkA specifically modulating mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway activation, but not the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. These results indicate that NRH2 utilizes intracellular mechanisms to not only regulate NGF binding to TrkA, but also specifically modulate TrkA receptor signaling, thus adding further layers of complexity and specificity to neurotrophin signaling.
Phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) enzymes encompass a superfamily of at least 13 extracellular and intracellular esterases that hydrolyze the sn-2 fatty acyl bonds of phospholipids to yield fatty acids and lysophospholipids. The purpose of this study was to characterize which phospholipase paralog regulates NMDA receptor-mediated arachidonic acid (AA) release. Using mixed cortical cell cultures containing both neurons and astrocytes, we found that [(3)H]-AA released into the extracellular medium following NMDA receptor stimulation (100 microM) increased with time and was completely prevented by the addition of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (10 microM) or by removal of extracellular Ca(2+). Neither diacylglycerol lipase inhibition (RHC-80267; 10 microM) nor selective inhibition of Ca(2+)-independent PLA(2) [bromoenol lactone (BEL); 10 microM] alone had an effect on NMDA receptor-stimulated release of [(3)H]-AA. Release was prevented by methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate (MAFP) (5 microM) and AACOCF(3) (1 microM), inhibitors of both cytosolic PLA(2) (cPLA(2)) and Ca(2+)-independent PLA(2) isozymes. This inhibition effectively translated to block of NMDA-induced prostaglandin (PG) production. An inhibitor of p38MAPK, SB 203580 (7.5 microM), also significantly reduced NMDA-induced PG production providing suggestive evidence for the role of cPLA(2)alpha. Its involvement in release was confirmed using cultures derived from mice deficient in cPLA(2)alpha, which failed to produce PGs in response to NMDA receptor stimulation. Interestingly, neither MAFP, AACOCF(3) nor cultures derived from cPLA(2)alpha null mutant animals showed any protection against NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity, indicating that inhibition of this enzyme may not be a viable protective strategy in disorders of the cortex involving over-activation of the NMDA receptor.
Tech is a RhoA guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) that is highly enriched in hippocampal and cortical neurons. To help define its function, we have conducted studies aimed at identifying partner proteins that bind to its C-terminal PDZ ligand motif. Yeast two hybrid studies using the Tech C-terminal segment as bait identified MUPP1, a protein that contains 13 PDZ domains and has been localized to the post-synaptic compartment, as a candidate partner protein for Tech. Co-transfection of Tech and MUPP1 in human embryonic kidney 293 cells confirmed that these full-length proteins interact in a PDZ-dependent fashion. Furthermore, we confirmed that endogenous Tech co-precipitates with MUPP1, but not PSD-95, from hippocampal and cortical extracts prepared from rat brain. In addition, immunostaining of primary cortical cultures revealed co-localization of MUPP1 and Tech puncta in the vicinity of synapses. In assessing which PDZ domains of MUPP1 mediate binding to Tech, we found that Tech can bind to either PDZ domain 10 or 13 of MUPP1 as mutation of both these domains is needed to disrupt their interaction. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that Tech binds to MUPP1 and suggest that it regulates RhoA signaling pathways in the vicinity of synapses.
Although cannabinoid-induced behavioral sensitization and cross-sensitization with opiates has been recently demonstrated, no information is available on the associated state and responsiveness of dopamine (DA) transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and core. In this study we investigate by means of dual probe microdialysis, the effect of exposure to a sensitizing regimen of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) and morphine on the extracellular concentrations of DA under basal conditions and after challenge with Delta(9)-THC and morphine in the NAc shell and core. Different groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered twice daily for 3 days with increasing doses of Delta(9)-THC (2, 4, and 8 mg/kg i.p.), morphine (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg s.c.), and vehicle. After 14-20 days from the last injection, the animals were implanted with two microdialysis probes, one aimed at the NAc shell and the other at the core. The following day animals pre-treated with Delta(9)-THC and vehicle controls were challenged with 150 microg/kg i.v. of Delta(9)-THC or 0.5 mg/kg i.v. of morphine. Animals pre-treated with morphine and their vehicle controls were administered with 150 microg/kg i.v. of Delta(9)-THC. Rats pre-exposed to Delta(9)-THC showed behavioral sensitization associated with a reduced stimulation of DA transmission in the NAc shell and an increased stimulation in the NAc core in response to Delta(9)-THC challenge. Pre-exposure to Delta(9)-THC induced behavioral sensitization to morphine also, but only a reduced stimulation of DA transmission in the NAc shell was observed. Animals pre-treated with morphine showed behavioral sensitization and differential changes of DA in the NAc shell and core in response to Delta(9)-THC challenge with a decreased response in the shell and an increased response in the core. The results show that Delta(9)-THC-induced behavioral sensitization is associated with changes in the responsiveness of DA transmission in the NAc subdivisions that are similar to those observed in the sensitization induced by other drugs of abuse.
The gaseous molecule hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has been proposed as an endogenous signal molecule and neuromodulator in mammals. Using a newly developed method, we report here for the first time the ability of intact and living brain and colonic tissue in the mouse to generate and release H(2)S. This production occurs through the activity of two enzymes, cystathionine-gamma-lyase and cystathionine-beta-synthase. The quantitative expression of messenger RNA and protein localization for both enzymes are described in the liver, brain, and colon. Expression levels of the enzymes vary between tissues and are differentially distributed. The observation that, tissues that respond to exogenously applied H(2)S can endogenously generate the gas, strongly supports its role as an endogenous signal molecule.
We investigated the role of Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC1) in conjunction with Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) in disruption of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+) homeostasis and ER stress development in primary cortical neurons following in vitro ischemia. Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and reoxygenation (REOX) caused a rise in [Na(+)](cyt) which was accompanied by an elevation in [Ca(2+)](cyt). Inhibition of NKCC1 with its potent inhibitor bumetanide abolished the OGD/REOX-induced rise in [Na(+)](cyt) and [Ca(2+)](cyt). Moreover, OGD significantly increased Ca(2+)(ER) accumulation. Following REOX, a biphasic change in Ca(2+)(ER) occurred with an initial release of Ca(2+)(ER) which was sensitive to inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R) inhibition and a subsequent refilling of Ca(2+)(ER) stores. Inhibition of NKCC1 activity with its inhibitor or genetic ablation prevented the release of Ca(2+)(ER). A similar result was obtained with inhibition of reversed mode operation of NCX (NCX(rev)). OGD/REOX also triggered a transient increase of glucose regulated protein 78 (GRP78), phospho-form of the alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (p-eIF2alpha), and cleaved caspase 12 proteins. Pre-treatment of neurons with NKCC1 inhibitor bumetanide inhibited upregulation of GRP78 and attenuated the level of cleaved caspase 12 and p-eIF2alpha. Inhibition of NKCC1 reduced cytochrome C release and neuronal death. Taken together, these results suggest that NKCC1 and NCX(rev) may be involved in ischemic cell damage in part via disrupting ER Ca(2+) homeostasis and ER function.
In mammals, resetting of the suprachiasmatic clock (SCN) by behavioral activation or serotonin (5-HT) agonists is mimicked by dark pulses, presented during subjective day in constant light (LL). Because behavioral resetting may be mediated in part by 5-HT inputs to the SCN, here we determined whether 5-HT system can modulate dark-induced phase-shifts in Syrian hamsters housed in LL. Two hours of darkness at mid-subjective day (circadian time 6; CT-6) resulted in increased concentrations of 5-HT in the SCN tissue and induction of c-FOS expression in the raphe nuclei. Injections of the 5-HT(1A/7) agonist +8-OH-DPAT or dark pulses at CT-6 induced phase-advances of the wheel-running activity rhythm and down-regulated the expression of the clock genes Per1-2 and c-FOS in the SCN in a similar way. The combination of both treatments [+8-OH-DPAT + dark pulses], however, resulted in larger phase-advances, while associated molecular changes were not significantly modified, except for the gene Dbp, in comparison to +8-OH-DPAT or dark pulses alone. Dark resetting was blocked by pre-treatment with a 5-HT(7) antagonist, but not with a 5-HT(1A) antagonist. The additive phase-shifts of two different cues to reset the SCN clock open wide the gateway for non-photic shifting, leading to new strategies in chronotherapy.
The understanding of mechanisms involved in ischaemic brain tolerance may provide new therapeutical targets for stroke. In vivo genomic studies revealed an up-regulation of adrenomedullin expression by hypoxic pre-conditioning. Furthermore, adrenomedullin reduced ischaemia-induced brain damage in rodents. However, whether adrenomedullin is involved in hypoxic pre-conditioning-induced tolerance and whether adrenomedullin protects directly neurons against ischaemia remain unknown. Using a neuronal model of hypoxic pre-conditioning and oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD), we showed that 0.1% or 0.5% of O2 pre-conditioning reduced the OGD-induced neuronal death, whereas 1% or 2% of O2 pre-treatment did not induce neuroprotection. Adrenomedullin expression increased following the hypoxic period, and following OGD only in pre-conditioned (0.1% or 0.5% of O2) neurons. Adrenomedullin pre-treatment and post-treatment reduced the OGD-induced neuronal death, partly through PI3kinase-dependent pathway. However, adrenomedullin antagonism during hypoxic pre-conditioning failed to inhibit the neuroprotection whereas adrenomedullin antagonism following OGD abolished the hypoxic pre-conditioning-induced neuroprotection. Finally, we showed that adrenomedullin is involved in neuroprotection induced by endothelial cells and microglia. In contrast, neuroprotection induced by astrocytes occurred through adrenomedullin-independent mechanisms. Altogether, our results suggest that adrenomedullin is an effector of the hypoxic pre-conditioning-induced neuronal tolerance and a potent autocrine and paracrine neuroprotective factor during cerebral ischaemia.
Beta-amyloid peptide 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) and hyperphosphorylated tau are associated with neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease. Emerging evidence indicates that Abeta(1-42) can potentiate hyperphosphorylation of tau in cell lines and in transgenic mice, but the underlying mechanism(s) remains unclear. In this study, Abeta(1-42)-induced tau phosphorylation was investigated in differentiated PC12 cells. Treatment of cells with Abeta(1-42) increased phosphorylation of tau at serine-202 as detected by AT8 antibody. This Abeta(1-42)-induced tau phosphorylation paralleled phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) at tyrosine-216 (GSK-3beta-pY216), which was partially inhibited by the GSK-3beta inhibitor, CHIR98023. Abeta(1-42)-induced tau phosphorylation and increase in GSK-3beta-pY216 phosphorylation were also partially attenuated by alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7 nAChR) selective ligands including agonist A-582941 and antagonists methyllycaconitine and alpha-bungarotoxin. The alpha7 nAChR agonist and the GSK-3beta inhibitor had no additive effect. These observations suggest that alpha7 nAChR modulation can influence Abeta(1-42)-induced tau phosphorylation, possibly involving GSK-3beta. This study provides evidence of nAChR mechanisms underlying Abeta(1-42) toxicity and tau phosphorylation, which, if translated in vivo, could provide additional basis for the utility of alpha7 nAChR ligands in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Substantial evidence indicates that predisposition to diseases can be acquired during early stages of development and interactions between environmental and genetic factors may be implicated in the onset of many pathological conditions. Data collected over several decades have shown that chemicals are among the relevant factors that can endanger CNS. We previously showed that perinatal exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) causes persistent changes in learning and motivational behavior in mice. In this study, we report that the depression-like behavior in MeHg-exposed male mice is reversed by chronic treatment with the antidepressant fluoxetine. Behavioral alterations are associated with a decrease in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and fluoxetine treatment restores BDNF mRNA expression. We also show that MeHg-exposure induces long-lasting repressive state of the chromatin structure at the BDNF promoter region, in particular DNA hypermethylation, an increase in histone H3-K27 tri-methylation and a decrease in H3 acetylation at the promoter IV. While fluoxetine treatment does not alter hypermethylation of H3-K27, it significantly up-regulates H3 acetylation at the BDNF promoter IV in MeHg-exposed mice. Our study shows that developmental exposure to low levels of MeHg predisposes mice to depression and induces epigenetic suppression of BDNF gene expression in the hippocampus.
The transcription factor Yin Yang 1 (YY1) is a multifunctional protein that can activate or repress gene expression depending on the cellular context. YY1 is ubiquitously expressed and highly conserved between species. However, its role varies in diverse cell types and includes proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This review will focus on the function of YY1 in the nervous system including its role in neural development, neuronal function, developmental myelination, and neurological disease. The multiple functions of YY1 in distinct cell types are reviewed and the possible mechanisms underlying the cell specificity for these functions are discussed.
Vitamin A-derived retinoic acids (RAs) are known to exert a variety of biological actions, including modulatory effects on cell differentiation and apoptosis. A recent study has demonstrated that 13-cis-RA and all-trans-RA suppressed neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus in adult mice. The present experiments were performed to see whether 13-cis-RA and all-trans-RA could alter the dendritic morphology of cultured hippocampal neurons via RA receptors: retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR). High doses of 13-cis-RA and all-trans-RA exerted a negative effect on the cultured hippocampal neurons, while a low dose of 13-cis-RA but not all-trans-RA caused a positive effect. The negative changes induced by 13-cis-RA and all-trans-RA were antagonized by RXR antagonists and RAR antagonists, respectively. The positive changes induced by a low dose of 13-cis-RA were blocked by both RXR antagonists and RAR antagonists. These results suggest that RAs at high concentrations cause a negative effect on the dendritic morphology of cultured hippocampal neurons through RA receptors, while RAs at low concentrations exert a positive influence on cultured hippocampal neurons.
The role of oestrogen replacement therapy in preventing or delaying age-associated cognitive decline is controversial. Therapy success may critically depend on the time of treatment initiation following cessation of ovarian function. The present study aimed to assess, in middle-aged rats, whether the ability of oestradiol to modulate the cholinergic system depends on the timing of treatment initiation following ovariectomy. Using western blotting, protein levels of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were measured in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC), which are both important areas with respect to cognitive function. In an initial experiment, we established the effects of oestradiol delivered via implanted capsules on ChAT levels in the hippocampus and PFC of young adult animals. In a second experiment, we tested the ability of the same oestradiol treatment paradigm to affect ChAT protein in 15-month-old middle-aged rats that had been ovariectomised either at the age of 10 months or at 15 months. In both experiments, rats were sacrificed 10 days after receiving implants and ChAT protein levels were measured. In both young adult and middle-aged animals, oestradiol treatment initiated immediately after ovariectomy significantly increased ChAT levels in the hippocampus but not in the PFC compared to cholesterol control treatment. However, when oestradiol treatment was initiated 5 months after ovariectomy, it failed to significantly increase ChAT levels in the hippocampus, but did so in the PFC. These data indicate that, after prolonged ovarian hormone deprivation, the ability of subsequent oestradiol treatment to modulate ChAT protein levels is altered in a site-specific manner.


Bilateral symptoms and signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) are often improved by unilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS). However, the mechanism for such bilateral effects is unknown. This study was intended to examine effects of unilateral STN-DBS using positron emission computed tomography (PET) and to elucidate mechanisms for bilateral improvement achieved by unilateral stimulation.We conducted (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)FDG) and (18)F-fluorodopa ((18)F-DOPA ) PET scans in PD patients whose bilateral limb symptoms and axial symptoms were improved by unilateral DBS. Two scans were performed in each PET study: when DBS was on and off. We compared those images using statistic parametric mapping (SPM) 99.The significant clinical improvement obtained by unilateral DBS was shown as improvements in bilateral motor limb, axial, and gait subscores of the Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS). Moreover, (18)FDG PET revealed significant metabolic increases in the ipsilateral ventrolateral thalamic areas and metabolic decrease at the contralateral globus pallidus interna (GPi). In contrast, (18)F-DOPA PET showed no significant differences between DBS on and off.Ipsilateral thalamic activation might induce ipsilateral motor cortical activation, which explains the improvement of contralateral limb symptoms. Furthermore, deactivation of the contralateral GPi might disinhibit the thalamus and contralateral motor cortex, which explains reduction of ipsilateral limb symptoms. These results suggest the mechanisms for bilateral improvement achieved by unilateral DBS.
Two patients with moderate Huntington's disease (HD) received bilateral fetal striatal allografts. One patient demonstrated, for the first time, increased striatal D2 receptor binding, evident with 11C-raclopride positron emission tomography, and prolonged clinical improvement over 5 years, suggesting long term survival and efficacy of the graft. The other patient did not improve clinically or radiologically. Our results indicate that striatal transplantation in HD may be beneficial but further studies are needed to confirm this.

The alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is a common management problem in hospital practice for neurologists, psychiatrists and general physicians alike. Although some patients have mild symptoms and may even be managed in the outpatient setting, others have more severe symptoms or a history of adverse outcomes that requires close inpatient supervision and benzodiazepine therapy. Many patients with AWS have multiple management issues (withdrawal symptoms, delirium tremens, the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, seizures, depression, polysubstance abuse, electrolyte disturbances and liver disease), which requires a coordinated, multidisciplinary approach. Although AWS may be complex, careful evaluation and available treatments should ensure safe detoxification for most patients.

The human polyomavirus JC (JCV) is a small DNA tumor virus and the etiologic agent of the progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. In progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, active JCV replication causes the lytic destruction of oligodendrocytes. The normal immune system prevents JCV replication and suppresses the virus into a state of latency so that expression of viral proteins cannot be detected. In a cellular context that is nonpermissive for viral replication, JCV can affect oncogenic transformation. For example, JCV is highly tumorigenic when inoculated into experimental animals, including rodents and monkeys. In these animal tumors, there is expression of early T-antigen but not of late capsid proteins, nor is there viral replication. Moreover, mice transgenic for JCV T-antigen alone develop tumors of neural tube origin. Detection of JCV genomic sequences and expression of viral T-antigen and agnoprotein suggest a possible association of this virus with a variety of human brain and non-CNS tumors. Here, we discuss the mechanisms involved in JCV oncogenesis, briefly review studies that do and do not support a causative role for this virus in human CNS tumors, and identify key issues for future research.
The retina can respond to a wide array of features in the visual input. It was recently reported that the retina can even recognize complicated temporal input patterns and signal violations in the patterns. When a sequence of flashes was presented, ganglion cells exhibited a variety of firing profiles and many cells showed an &quot;omitted stimulus response&quot; (OSR), in which they fired strongly if a flash in the sequence was omitted. We examined the synaptic origins of the OSR by recording excitatory synaptic currents from ganglion cells in the salamander retina in response to periodic flash sequences. Consistent with previous spike recordings, ganglion cells exhibited an OSR in their current response and the OSR shifted in time with a change in flash frequency such that it could predict when the next flash should have occurred. Although the behavior may seem sophisticated, we show that a simple linear-nonlinear model with a spike threshold can account for the OSR in on ganglion cells and that the variety of complex firing profiles seen in other ganglion cells can be explained by adding contributions from the off pathway. We discuss the physiological and simulation results and their implications for understanding retinal mechanisms of visual information processing.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and the parabrachial nuclei (PbN) are the first and second central relays for the taste pathway, respectively. Taste neurons in the NST project to the PbN, which further transmits taste information to the rostral taste centers. Nevertheless, details of the neural connections among the brain stem gustatory nuclei are obscure. Here, we investigated these relationships in the hamster brain stem. Three electrode assemblies were used to record the activity of taste neurons extracellularly and then to electrically stimulate these same areas in the order: left PbN, right PbN, and right NST. A fourth electrode, a glass micropipette, was used to record from gustatory cells in the left NST. Results showed extensive bilateral communication between brain stem nuclei at the same level: 1) 10% of 96 NST neurons projected to the contralateral NST and 58% received synaptic input from the contralateral NST; and 2) 12% of 43 PbN neurons projected to the contralateral PbN and 21% received synaptic input from the contralateral PbN. Results also showed extensive communication between levels: 1) as expected, the majority of 119 NST neurons, 82%, projected to the ipsilateral PbN, but 85% of the 20 NST neurons tested received synaptic input from the ipsilateral PbN, as did 59% of 22 NST neurons that did not project to the PbN; and 2) although few, 3%, of 119 NST cells projected to the contralateral PbN and 38% received synaptic input from the contralateral PbN. These results demonstrated that taste neurons in the NST not only project to, but also receive descending input from the bilateral PbN and that gustatory neurons in the NST and PbN also communicate with the corresponding nucleus on the contralateral side.
Sensory deafferentation results in rapid shifts in the receptive fields of cortical neurons, but the synaptic mechanisms underlying these changes remain unknown. The rapidity of these shifts has led to the suggestion that subthreshold inputs may be unmasked by a selective loss of inhibition. To study this, we used in vivo whole cell recordings to directly measure tone-evoked excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs in auditory cortical neurons before and after acoustic trauma. Here we report that acute acoustic trauma disrupted the balance of excitation and inhibition by selectively increasing and reducing the strength of inhibition at different positions within the receptive field. Inhibition was abolished for frequencies far below the trauma-tone frequency but was markedly enhanced near the edges of the region of elevated peripheral threshold. These changes occurred for relatively high-level tones. These changes in inhibition led to an expansion of receptive fields but not by a simple unmasking process. Rather, membrane potential responses were delayed and prolonged throughout the receptive field by distinct interactions between synaptic excitation and inhibition. Far below the trauma-tone frequency, decreased inhibition combined with prolonged excitation led to increased responses. Near the edges of the region of elevated peripheral threshold, increased inhibition served to delay rather than abolish responses, which were driven by prolonged excitation. These results show that the rapid receptive field shifts caused by acoustic trauma are caused by distinct mechanisms at different positions within the receptive field, which depend on differential disruption of excitation and inhibition.
Commissural interneurons in the lamprey coordinate activity of the hemisegmental oscillators to ensure proper left-right alternation during swimming. The activity of interneuronal axons at the ventral commissure was studied together with potential target motoneurons during fictive locomotion in the isolated lamprey spinal cord. To estimate the unperturbed activity of the interneurons, axonal recordings were chosen because soma recordings inevitably will affect the level of membrane depolarization and thereby spike initiation. Of 227 commissural axons recorded during locomotor activity, 14 produced inhibitory and 3 produced excitatory postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) in target motoneurons. The axons typically fired multiple spikes per locomotor cycle, with approximately 10 Hz sustained frequency. The average shortest spike interval in a burst corresponded to an instantaneous frequency of approximately 50 Hz for both the excitatory and inhibitory axons. The maximum number of spikes per locomotor cycle was inversely related to the locomotor frequency, in accordance with previous observations in the spinal hemicord preparation. In axons that fired multiple spikes per cycle, the mean interspike intervals were in the range in which the amplitude of the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) is large, providing further support for the role of the sAHP in spike timing. One hundred ninety-five axons (86%) fired rhythmically during fictive locomotion, with preferred phase of firing distributed over either the segmental locomotor burst phase (40% of axons) or the transitional phase (between bursts; 60%). Thus in lamprey commissural interneurons, we found a broad distribution of firing rates and phases during fictive locomotion.
Responses of on-center starburst amacrine cells to steady light stimuli were recorded in the dark-adapted mouse retina. The response to spots of dim white light appear to show two components, an initial peak that correspond to the onset of the light stimulus and a series of oscillations that ride on top of the initial peak relaxation. The frequency of oscillations during light stimulation was three time higher than the frequency of spontaneous oscillations recorded in the dark. The light-evoked responses in starburst cells were exclusively dependent on the release of glutamate likely from presynaptic bipolar axon terminals and the binding of glutamate to AMPA/kainate receptors because they were blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione. The synaptic pathway responsible for the light responses was blocked by AP4, an agonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors that hyperpolarize on-center bipolar cells on activation. Light responses were inhibited by the calcium channel blockers cadmium ions and nifedipine, suggesting that the release of glutamate was calcium dependent. The oscillatory component of the response was specifically inhibited by blocking the glutamate transporter with d-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid, suggesting that glutamate reuptake is necessary for the oscillatory release. GABAergic antagonists bicuculline, SR 95531, and picrotoxin increased the amplitude of the initial peak while they inhibit the frequency of oscillations. TTX had a similar effect. Strychnine, the blocker of glycine receptors did not affect the initial peak but strongly decreased the oscillations frequency. These inhibitory inputs onto the bipolar axon terminals shape and synchronize the oscillatory component.
Our previous studies have shown that extensive spinal lesions at T12 in the rabbit [ventral hemisection (VHS) or 3/4-section that spares one ventral quadrant (VQ)] severely damaged the postural system. When tested on the platform periodically tilted in the frontal plane, VHS and VQ animals typically were not able to perform postural corrective movements by their hindlimbs, although EMG responses (correctly or incorrectly phased) could be observed. We attempted to restore postural control in VHS and VQ rabbits by applying serotoninergic and noradrenergic drugs to the spinal cord below the lesion through the intrathecal cannula. It was found that serotonin and quipazine (5-HT1,2,3 agonist) did not re-establish postural corrective movements. However, when applied during a 10-day period after lesion, these drugs produced a twofold increase of the proportion of correct EMG responses to tilts. It was also found that methoxamine (alpha1 noradrenergic agonist), as well as the mixture of methoxamine and quipazine, did not re-establish postural corrective movements and did not increase the proportion of correct EMG responses. Serotonin (at later stages) and methoxamine induced periodical bursting in EMGs, suggesting activation of spinal rhythm-generating networks. Appearance of bursting seems to perturb normal operation of postural mechanisms, as suggested by methoxamine-induced abolishment of postural effects of quipazine. When applied in an intact animal, none of the tested drugs affected the value of postural corrections or evoked periodical bursting. We conclude that activation of the serotoninergic system (but not the noradrenergic one) causes selective enhancement of spinal postural reflexes during the earlier postlesion period.
Endocannabinoids released from the postsynaptic neuronal membrane can activate presynaptic CB1 receptors and inhibit neurotransmitter release. In hippocampal slices, depolarization of the CA1 pyramidal neurons elicits an endocannabinoid-mediated inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid release known as depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI). Using the highly reduced neuron/synaptic bouton preparation from the CA1 region of hippocampus, we have begun to examine endocannabinoid-dependent short-term depression (STD) of inhibitory synaptic transmission under well-controlled physiological and pharmacological conditions in an environment free of other cells. Application of the CB1 synthetic agonist WIN55212-2 and endogenous cannabinoids 2-AG and anandamide produced a decrease in spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) frequency and amplitude, indicating the presence of CB1 receptors at synapses in this preparation. Endocannabinoid-dependent STD is different from DSI found in hippocampal slices and the neuron/bouton preparation from basolateral amygdala (BLA) since depolarization alone was not sufficient to induce suppression of sIPSCs. However, concurrent application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) and postsynaptic depolarization resulted in a transient (30-50 s) decrease in sIPSC frequency and amplitude. Application of DHPG alone had no effect on sIPSCs. The depolarization/DHPG-induced STD was blocked by the CB1 antagonist SR141716A and the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP and was sensitive to intracellular calcium concentration. Comparing the present findings with earlier work in hippocampal slices and BLA, it appears that endocannabinoid release is less robust in isolated hippocampal neurons.
In all sensory systems, information is processed along several parallel streams. In the vibrissa-to-barrel cortex system, these include the lemniscal system and the lesser-known paralemniscal system. The posterior medial nucleus (POm) is the thalamic structure associated with the latter pathway. Previous studies suggested that POm response latencies are positively correlated with stimulation frequency and negatively correlated with response duration, providing a basis for a phase locked loop-temporal decoding of stimulus frequency. We tested this hypothesis by analyzing response latencies of POm neurons, in both awake and anesthetized rats, to vibrissae deflections at frequencies between 0.3 and 11 Hz. We found no significant, systematic correlation between stimulation frequency and the latency or duration of POm responses. We obtained similar findings from recording in awake rats, in rats under different anesthetics, and in anesthetized rats in which the reticular activating system was stimulated. These findings suggest that stimulus frequency is not reliably reflected in response latency of POm neurons. We also tested the hypothesis that POm neurons respond preferentially to sensor motion, that is, they respond to whisking in air, without contacts. We recorded from awake, head-restrained rats while monitoring vibrissae movements. All POm neurons responded to passive whisker deflections, but none responded to noncontact whisking. Thus like their counterparts in the trigeminal ganglion, POm neurons may not reliably encode whisking kinematics. These observations suggest that POm neurons might not faithfully encode vibrissae inputs to provide reliable information on vibrissae movements or contacts.
This study concerns Swedish nurses' experiences of workplace stress and the occurrence of ethical dilemmas in a neurological setting. Qualitative interviews were conducted with 21 nurses. The interview results were subjected to qualitative latent content analysis and sorted into 4 content areas: workplace distress, ethical dilemmas, managing distress and ethical dilemmas, and quality of nursing. Common workplace stressors were high workload and lack of influence. These were perceived to have negative consequences for the quality of nursing. Ethical dilemmas mainly concerned decision making on initiation or withdrawal of treatment, which was experienced as a troublesome situation where conflicts could arise. The nurses managed the distress and ethical dilemmas by accepting and adjusting to the situation and seeking support from colleagues. They also endeavored to gain new strength in their private lives.
The Canadian Neurological Scale (CNS), a validated stroke assessment tool, was implemented for the neurological assessment of patients with stroke. The purpose of this study was to explore nurses' values and perceptions of best-practice guidelines (BPGs) and the CNS assessment, to evaluate the effect of a workshop and implementation process on nurses' self-efficacy for CNS use, to determine whether the workshop and implementation process met the needs of the nurses, and to evaluate the accuracy and appropriateness of CNS assessment documentation. Nurses reported moderate-to-strong awareness and use of BPGs and expressed the belief that BPGs were valuable; however, they had some difficulty accessing BPGs. At 3 months after the workshop, nurses reported using the CNS assessment in practice but said that it was not easy to use and that it was not useful as a patient status communication tool or for documenting neurological changes. Nurses were moderately confident while performing the CNS assessment before the workshop. Confidence increased immediately afterward (p &lt; .0001), and then decreased slightly at 3 months. The majority of nurses said the workshop met their learning needs. A chart audit demonstrated that only 69% of patients appropriate for the CNS assessment were assessed with this tool. Although nurses are aware of BPGs, translating these changes into practice takes time and may require BPG modification to best fit the needs of the areas in which they will be used. When choosing a validated stroke assessment tool, clinicians must consider how often the tool will be used for assessments, particularly in the acute phase.

Serotonergic 5-HT(1A) receptor signaling leading to nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation appears to be critical for cell survival. Adenylyl cyclase and protein kinase A (AC/PKA) are effectors of the 5-HT(1A) receptor that are inhibited by Galpha(i) subunits. Conversely, Gbetagamma(i) subunits downstream from the 5-HT(1A) receptor participate in the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), Akt, and NF-kappaB. To model the contribution of pro- and antiapoptotic signaling cascades downstream of activated 5-HT(1A) receptor in cell survival, Chinese hamster ovarian (CHO) cells were employed that exogenously overexpress 5-HT(1A) receptors. Stimulation with the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT and pharmacological agonists of AC induced PKA and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) activity, which in turn inhibited: Akt activity, IkappaBalpha degradation, nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB, and expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP/BIRC4). Pharmacological inhibition of PP2A with calyculin A potentiated Akt activity while attenuating ERK1/2 signaling via increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Raf (pSer259). In contrast, increased cAMP levels enhanced Bax translocation to the mitochondria, resulting in the release of cytochrome c, caspase-3 activation, and apoptosis induction. Our data suggest a central role of cAMP/PKA-dependent PP2A in shifting the homeostasis of intracellular signaling downstream of activated 5-HT(1A) receptor toward cell death in biological systems linked to neuropsychiatric disorders.
The brain acid-soluble protein BASP1 (CAP-23, NAP-22) belongs to the family of growth-associated proteins, which also includes GAP-43, a protein recently shown to regulate neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-mediated neurite outgrowth. Here, the effects of BASP1 overexpression were investigated in PC12E2 cells and primary hippocampal neurons. BASP1 overexpression stimulated neurite outgrowth in both cell types. The effects of BASP1 and trans-homophilic NCAM interactions were additive, and BASP1-induced neurite outgrowth was not inhibited by ectopic expression of cytoplasmic NCAM domains. Furthermore, inhibition of signaling via the fibroblast growth factor receptor, Src-family nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, protein kinase C, or GSK3beta, and expression of constructs of the cytoskeletal proteins spectrin and tau inhibited NCAM- but not BASP1-induced neurite outgrowth. Expression of BASP1 mutated at the serine-5 phosphorylation site stimulated neurite outgrowth to a degree comparable to that observed in response to overexpression of wild-type BASP1, whereas expression of BASP1 mutated at the myristoylation site at glycine-1 completely abrogated the stimulatory effects of the protein on neurite outgrowth. Finally, coexpression experiments with dominant negative and wild-type versions of GAP-43 and BASP1 demonstrated that the two proteins could substitute for each other with respect to induction of NCAM-independent neurite outgrowth, whereas BASP1 was unable to replace the stimulatory effect of GAP-43 on NCAM-mediated neurite outgrowth. These observations demonstrate that BASP1 and GAP-43 have overlapping, but not identical, functions in relation to neurite outgrowth and indicate that the main function of BASP1 is to regulate the organization and morphology of the plasma membrane.
The mammalian striatum plays a critical function in motor control, motor and reward learning, and cognition. Dysfunction and degeneration of the striatal neurons are implicated in major neurological and psychiatric disorders. The vast majority of striatal neurons are medium spiny neurons (MSNs). MSNs can be further subdivided into distinct subtypes based on their physical localization in the striatal patch vs. matrix compartments and based on their axonal projections and marker gene expression (i.e., striatonigral MSNs vs. striatopallidal MSNs). Despite our extensive knowledge on the striatal cytoarchitecture and circuitry, little is known about the molecular mechanisms controlling the development of the MSN subtypes in the striatum. Early B-cell factor 1 (Ebf1) is a critical transcription factor implicated in striatal MSN development. One study shows that Ebf1 is critical for the differentiation of MSNs in the matrix, and our separate study demonstrates that Ebf1 is selectively expressed in the striatonigral MSNs and is essential for their postnatal differentiation. In the present study, we further validate the striatonigral MSN deficits in Ebf1(-/-) mice using multiple striatonigral MSN reporter mice. Moreover, we demonstrate that the striatonigral MSN deficits in these mice are restricted to those in the matrix, with relative sparing of those in the patch. Finally, we demonstrate that Ebf1 deficiency also results in reduced expression of another striatonigral-specific transcription factor, zinc finger binding protein 521 (Zfp521), which is a known Ebf1 functional partner. Overall, our study reveals that Ebf1 may play an essential role in controlling the differentiation of the striatonigral MSNs in the matrix compartment.
There have been fewer than 60 cases of malignant teratocarcinosarcoma (TCS) described in the literature, usually arising in the nose and paranasal sinuses. The authors report on a patient who presented with neurological symptoms caused by a frontal lobe TCS, and in whom widespread spinal tumor dissemination developed. In rare cases, TCSs can occur with a predominantly cranial and neurological presentation and spread to the spinal canal.


Cerebral gene expressions change in response to traumatic brain injury (TBI), and future trauma treatment may improve with increased knowledge about these regulations. We subjected C57BL/6J mice to injury by controlled cortical impact (CCI). At various time points post-injury, mRNA from neocortex and hippocampus was isolated, and transcriptional alterations studied using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and gene array analysis. Spatial distribution of enhanced expression was characterized by in situ hybridization. Products of the upregulated transcripts serve functions in a range of cellular mechanisms, including stress, inflammation and immune responses, and tissue remodeling. We also identified increased transcript levels characterizing reactive astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia, and furthermore, we demonstrated a novel pattern of scattered cell clusters expressing the chemokine Cxcl10. Notably, a sustained increase in integrin alpha X (Itgax), characterizing antigen-presenting dendritic cells, was found with the transcript located to similar cell clusters. In contrast, T-cell receptor alpha transcript showed only a modest increase. The induced P-selectin (Selp) expression level in endothelial cells, and chemokines from microglia, may guide perivascular accumulation of extravasating inflammatory monocytes differentiating into dendritic cells. In conclusion, our study shows that following TBI, secondary injury chiefly involves inflammatory processes and chemokine signaling, which comprise putative targets for pharmaceutical neuroprotection.
Here the authors discuss evidence in human and animal models supporting two opposing views regarding the pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the central nervous system (CNS): (1) HIV infection in the CNS is a compartmentalized infection, with the virus-infected macrophages entering the CNS early, infecting resident microglia and astrocytes, and achieving a state of latency with evolution toward a fulminant CNS infection late in the course of disease; or alternatively, (2) events in the periphery lead to altered monocyte/macrophage (MPhi) homeostasis, with increased CNS invasion of infected and/or uninfected MPhis. Here the authors have reevaluated evidence presented in the favor of the latter model, with a discussion of phenotypic characteristics distinguishing normal resident microglia with those accumulating in HIV encephalitis (HIVE). CD163 is normally expressed by perivascular MPhi s but not resident microglia in normal CNS of humans and rhesus macaques. In agreement with other studies, the authors demonstrate expression of CD163 by brain MPhi s in HIVE and simian immunodeficiency virus encephalitis (SIVE). CNS tissues from HIV-sero positive individuals with HIVE or HIV-associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) were also examined. In HIVE, the authors further demonstrate colocalization of CD163 and CD16 (Fcgamma III recptor) gene expression, the latter marker associated with HIV infection of monocyte in vivo and permissivity of infection. Indeed, CD163(+) MPhis and microglia are often productively infected in HIVE CNS. In SIV infected rhesus macaques, CD163(+) cells accumulate perivascularly, within nodular lesions and the parenchyma in animals with encephalitis. Likewise, parenchymal microglia and perivascular MPhi s are CD163(+) in HIVE. In contrast to HIVE, CD163(+)perivascular and parenchymal MPhi s in HIV-associated PML were only associated with areas of demyelinating lesions. Interestingly, SIV-infected rhesus macaques whose viral burden was predominantly at 1 x 10(6) copies/ml or greater developed encephalitis. To further investigate the relationship between CD163(+)/CD16(+) MPhis/microglia in the CNS and altered homeostasis in the periphery, the authors performed flow-cytometric analyses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from SIV-infected rhesus macaques. The results demonstrate an increase in the percent frequency of CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocytes in animals with detectable virus that correlated significantly with increased viral burden and CD4(+) T-cell decline. These results suggest the importance of this monocyte subset in HIV/SIV CNS disease, and also in the immune pathogenesis of lentiviral infection. The authors further discuss the potential role of CD163(+)/CD16(+) monocyte/MPhi subset expansion, altered myeloid homeostasis, and potential consequences for immune polarization and suppression. The results and discussion here suggest new avenues for the development of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) therapeutics and vaccine design.
With the increased survival of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals resulting from therapy, disorders in other target organs of the virus, such as the brain, are becoming more prevalent. Here the author reviews his laboratory's work on the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)/nonhuman model of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), which has revealed unique characteristics of both the virus that infects the brain, and the innate and adaptive immune response within the central nervous system (CNS) to infection. Similar to findings in humans, neurocognitive/neurobehavioral disorders during the chronic phase of infection can be detected in monkeys, and recent findings reveal potential mechanisms of CNS damage due to the virus-host interaction.
Recent neuropharmacological research has suggested that certain constituents of tea may have modulatory effects on brain state. The bulk of this research has focused on either L-theanine or caffeine ingested alone (mostly the latter) and has been limited to behavioral testing, subjective rating, or neurophysiological assessments during resting. Here, we investigated the effects of both L-theanine and caffeine, ingested separately or together, on behavioral and electrophysiological indices of tonic (background) and phasic (event-related) visuospatial attentional deployment. Subjects underwent 4 d of testing, ingesting either placebo, 100 mg of L-theanine, 50 mg of caffeine, or these treatments combined. The task involved cued shifts of attention to the left or right visual hemifield in anticipation of an imperative stimulus requiring discrimination. In addition to behavioral measures, we examined overall, tonic attentional focus as well as phasic, cue-dependent anticipatory attentional biasing, as indexed by scalp-recorded alpha-band (8-14 Hz) activity. We found an increase in hit rate and target discriminability (d') for the combined treatment relative to placebo, and an increase in d' but not hit rate for caffeine alone, whereas no effects were detected for L-theanine alone. Electrophysiological results did not show increased differential biasing in phasic alpha across hemifields but showed lower overall tonic alpha power in the combined treatment, similar to previous findings at a larger dosage of L-theanine alone. This may signify a more generalized tonic deployment of attentional resources to the visual modality and may underlie the facilitated behavioral performance on the combined ingestion of these 2 major constituents of tea.
Recent work has shown that salient perceptual singularities occur in visual textures even in the absence of feature gradients. In smoothly varying orientation-defined textures, these striking non-smooth percepts can be predicted from two texture curvatures, one tangential and one normal [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA103, 15704 (2006)]. We address the issue of detecting these perceptual singularities in a biologically plausible manner and present three different models to compute the tangential and normal curvatures using early cortical mechanisms. The first model relies on the response summation of similarly scaled even-symmetric simple cells at different positions by utilizing intercolumnar interactions in the primary visual cortex (V1). The second model is based on intracolumnar interactions in a two-layer mechanism of simple cells having the same orientation tuning but significantly different scales. Our third model uses a three-layer circuit in which both even-symmetric and odd-symmetric receptive fields (RFs) are used to compute all possible directional derivatives of the dominant orientation, from which the tangential and normal curvatures at each spatial position are selected using nonlinear shunting inhibition. We show experimental results of all three models, we outline an extension to oriented textures with multiple dominant orientations at each point, and we discuss how our results may be relevant to the processing of general textures.


Previous studies have suggested that histamine (HA) acts as an autocrine growth factor. We have explored the modulation of cell proliferation by HA using McA-RH7777 hepatoma cells. High L-histidine decarboxylase (HDC) expression and HA synthesis were found in McA-RH7777 cells. Whereas extracellular HA reached submicromolar concentrations, intracellular levels were very low, indicating that HA was secreted by the cells. McA-RH7777 cells also express H3-receptor (H3R) transcripts and proteins. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis detected only transcripts for the long isoform. Immunocytochemistry performed with a selective H3R antibody showed that most cells were immunoreactive. H3R binding sites (Bmax approximately 30 fmol/mg protein) were identified when [125I] iodoproxyfan binding was displaced by the agonist imetit. High-affinity binding also occurred at cytochrome P450 enzymes. This binding was not inhibited by HA, H3R agonists, or by a nonimidazole H3R antagonist but was displaced by imidazole H3R antagonists or by ketoconazole, a imidazole-containing cytochrome inhibitor. HA inhibited proliferation of McA-RH7777 hepatoma cells. The absence of uptake system, its much higher potency at H3Rs, and its low intracellular levels suggested that HA interacted with H3Rs rather than cytochromes. In agreement, both imidazole H3R antagonists, a nonimidazole H3R antagonist, and the HDC inhibitor alpha-monofluoromethyl histidine increased cell proliferation (up to approximately 60%), revealing a H3R-mediated inhibition by endogenous HA. Moreover, exogenous HA inhibited the increase induced by alpha-FMH or H3R antagonists with a nanomolar potency. In conclusion, our findings show that HA regulates proliferation of McA-RH7777 hepatoma cells by interacting with autoinhibitory H3Rs.
Natively expressed serotonin 5-HT(3) receptors typically possess a negative-slope conductance region in their I-V curve, due to a voltage-dependent block by external Ca(2+) ions. However, in almost all studies performed with heterologously expressed 5-HT(3) receptors, this feature was not observed. Here we show that mere addition of ATP to the pipette solution is sufficient to reliably observe a voltage-dependent block in homomeric (h5-HT(3A)) and heteromeric (h5-HT(3AB)) receptors expressed in HEK293 cells. A similar block was observed with a plethora of molecules containing a phosphate moiety, thus excluding a role of phosphorylation. A substitution of three arginines in the intracellular vestibule of 5-HT(3A) with their counterpart residues from the 5-HT(3B) subunit (RRR-QDA) was previously shown to dramatically increase single channel conductance. We find this mutant to have a linear I-V curve that is unaffected by the presence of ATP, with a fractional Ca(2+) current (Pf%) that is reduced (1.8 +/- 0.2%) compared to that of the homomeric receptor (4.1 +/- 0.2%), and similar to that of the heteromeric form (2.0 +/- 0.3%). Moreover, whereas ATP decreased the Pf% of the homomeric receptor, this was not observed with the RRR-QDA mutant. Finally, ATP was found to be critical for voltage-dependent channel block also in hippocampal interneurons that natively express 5-HT(3) receptors. Taken together, our results indicate a novel mechanism by which ATP, and similar molecules, modulate 5-HT(3) receptors via interactions with the intracellular vestibule of the receptor.
We sought to explore nonselective vs. selective COX mechanisms in ECS-induced retrograde amnesia using indomethacin and celecoxib as in vivo probes. Adult Wistar rats (n=72) which showed adequate learning on a passive avoidance task received 5 once-daily 30 mC true or sham ECS. During the learning and ECS periods, indomethacin (4 mg/kg/day), celecoxib (15 mg/kg/day), or vehicle were orally administered. One day after the fifth ECS, recall of pre-ECS learning was tested. There were no baseline or pre-ECS differences in learning between groups. ECS seizure duration did not differ across groups. ECS-treated rats showed impaired recall in the vehicle but not indomethacin and celecoxib groups. Celecoxib but not indomethacin significantly protected against ECS-induced retrograde amnesia. We interpret these results as follows: ECS may impair cognition by pathologically upregulating glutmatergic signalling, thereby causing cation and water influx, oxidative stress, and saturation of hippocampal LTP. These may result from glutamatergic disinhibition through COX-2-mediated removal of endogenous cannabinoids, and by ECS-activated, NMDA-mediated upregulation of platelet activating factor and COX-2 signalling pathways. Thus, indomethacin and celecoxib, by inhibiting COX-2, may protect against ECS-induced amnesia. Furthermore, COX-2 mediated increase in hippocampal kynurenic acid may impair glutamate-dependent learning and memory processes at ionotropic glutamatergic receptor sites; the inhibition of kynurenic acid synthesis by celecoxib and its induction by indomethacin may explain the greater benefits with celecoxib. These findings suggest new avenues for the study of the neurobiology of ECT-induced amnesia and the attenuation thereof.
Psilocybin has been used for centuries for religious purposes; however, little is known scientifically about its long-term effects. We previously reported the effects of a double-blind study evaluating the psychological effects of a high psilocybin dose. This report presents the 14-month follow-up and examines the relationship of the follow-up results to data obtained at screening and on drug session days. Participants were 36 hallucinogen-nave adults reporting regular participation in religious/ spiritual activities. Oral psilocybin (30 mg/70 kg) was administered on one of two or three sessions, with methylphenidate (40 mg/70 kg) administered on the other session(s). During sessions, volunteers were encouraged to close their eyes and direct their attention inward. At the 14-month follow-up, 58% and 67%, respectively, of volunteers rated the psilocybin-occasioned experience as being among the five most personally meaningful and among the five most spiritually significant experiences of their lives; 64% indicated that the experience increased well-being or life satisfaction; 58% met criteria for having had a 'complete' mystical experience. Correlation and regression analyses indicated a central role of the mystical experience assessed on the session day in the high ratings of personal meaning and spiritual significance at follow-up. Of the measures of personality, affect, quality of life and spirituality assessed across the study, only a scale measuring mystical experience showed a difference from screening. When administered under supportive conditions, psilocybin occasioned experiences similar to spontaneously occurring mystical experiences that, at 14-month follow-up, were considered by volunteers to be among the most personally meaningful and spiritually significant of their lives.


The objective of this investigation was to examine the cognitive characteristics of individuals who demonstrate successful and unsuccessful self-regulation of physical activity behavior. In Study 1, participants articulated 1-week intentions for physical activity and wore a triaxial accelerometer over the subsequent 7 days. Among those who were motivated to increase their physical activity, those who were most and least successful were administered an IQ test. In Study 2, a second sample of participants completed the same protocol and a smaller subset of matched participants attended a functional imaging (fMRI) session. In Study 1, successful self-regulators (SSRs) scored significantly higher than unsuccessful self-regulators (USRs) on a test of general cognitive ability, and this difference could not be accounted for by favorability of attitudes toward physical activity or conscientiousness. In Study 2, the IQ effect was replicated, with SSRs showing a full standard deviation advantage over USRs. In the imaging protocol, USRs showed heavier recruitment of cognitive resources relative to SSRs in the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex during performance of a Stroop task; SSRs showed heavier recruitment in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.


According to Spence, the learning researcher's task is to explain the relationship between experimental variables and behavior changes occurring with practice. Spence eschewed biological speculation. In contrast, for a biologist, &quot;explanation&quot; consists of ascertaining how the observed behavior increases reproductive success. Fundamental to achieving reproductive success is survival to sexual maturity, and such survival depends on homeostatic mechanisms attenuating the effects of physiological disturbances that threaten existence. Drugs are one way of disrupting homeostatic functioning, and studies of drug effects indicate that homeostatic mechanisms are engaged not just by pharmacological perturbations, but also by stimuli that signal such perturbations. Similarly, we attenuate the effects of a variety of nonpharmacological stimuli by such anticipatory homeostatic adjustments. The learning researcher is a homeostasis researcher.
Hair cells and supporting cells of the mammalian cochlea terminally differentiate during development. Recent in vitro evidence suggests the presence of hair cell progenitors in the postnatal cochlea. Phenotypic properties of these cells and factors that promote their ability to generate spheres in aggregate cultures have not been reported. We define an in vitro system that allows stem/progenitor cells harvested from the early postnatal cochlea to develop into spheres. These spheres contain Abcg2, Jagged1 and Notch1 positive progenitor cells that can divide and generate new hair cell-like cells, i.e. immunopositive for specific hair cell markers, including Myosin VI, Myosin VIIa, Math1 and ability to uptake FM1-43. We demonstrate that reducing Notch signaling with a gamma secretase inhibitor decreases the number of spheres generated following treatment of the stem/progenitor cell cultures. Additionally, activation of Notch by an exogenous soluble form of a Notch ligand, i.e. Jagged1 protein, promotes sphere formation and the sensory potential of cochlear stem/progenitor cells. Our findings suggest that Notch1/Jagged1 signaling plays a role in maintaining a population of Abcg2 sensory stem/progenitor cells in the postnatal cochlea.

Autism is a medical enigma, lacking truly effective treatments. Both genetics and environmental factors are recognized as players in the development of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). Nevertheless, the exact mechanism(s) for the development of ASDs is (are) not known primarily because current understanding about the etiology of the disease is limited. Selective loss of Purkinje cells and the cerebellar atrophies are the neurological abnormalities most consistently found in persons diagnosed with autism. Because Purkinje cells are involved in motor coordination, working memory and learning, loss of these cells are likely to cause symptoms defining behavioral parameters of ASD. Currently the mechanism(s) for the loss of Purkinje cells in the cerebella of autistic individual is (are) not understood. Here we postulate a hypothesis for the development of autistic symptoms, severity of which is based on the extent of Purkinje cell loss triggered by Glutamate acid decarboxylase antibody (GAD-Ab). This model accommodates any genetic basis of autism and immunogenic triggers resulting GAD-Ab in the blood of the mother while pregnant with the child diagnosed autistic after birth or of an individual diagnosed with autism some time in the life time. Identification and characterization of GAD-Abs from pregnant mothers with a family history of autism, from children with autistic siblings, and individuals diagnosed with autism may allow find preventive and new therapeutic avenues.
In neuroscience, the notion has emerged that the brain abides by two principles: segregation and integration. Segregation into functionally specialized systems and integration of information flow across systems are basic principles that are thought to shape the functional architecture of the brain. A measure called integration, originating from information theory and derived from mutual information, has been proposed to characterize the global integrative state of a network. In this paper, we show that integration can be applied in a hierarchical fashion to quantify functional interactions between compound systems, each system being composed of several regions. We apply this method to fMRI datasets from patients with low-grade glioma and show how it can efficiently extract information related to both intra- and interhemispheric reorganization induced by lesional brain plasticity.

Functional neuroimaging with magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) provides the methodology to unravel some of the fascinating, but hitherto largely unresolved interactions between physical exercise and brain function. Phenomena such as raised mood, pain modulation, and sport addiction associated with physical exercise are highly interesting psychophysical models that require further in depth understanding at the neurotransmitter level. PET ligand displacement studies allow in vivo monitoring of endogenous transmitter trafficking in the entire brain and, thereby, to identify the link between exercise-induced behavioral measures and the endogenous neurotransmitter release. This review focuses on the methodology of ligand displacement in the opioidergic system, which together with the dopaminergic system has been considered as a central neurotransmitter system underlying diverse sport-induced psychophysical effects. Understanding the basic principles of exercise-induced transmitter release in the brain will potentially aid clinical applications of endurance training, both as a preventative or therapeutic intervention.
Sports and exercise psychology finds itself in a most unfortunate situation these days. While all other branches of the psychological sciences help themselves freely to the glitzy new toys of modern neuroscience--MRI and PET, mostly--exploring the neural underpinnings of whatever cognitive function they are interested in exploring, the sport sciences are left out of the fun for the simple reason that these imaging instruments preclude motion--the very thing then that is the subject of interest to them. There are several legitimate ways around this problem but the one that seems to be most popular is, I think, not--legitimate, that is. The basic idea, unduly sharpened here, is the following. Neuroimaging studies have shown that imagined and actual motion share the same neural substrates or, alternatively, imagining an action corresponds to a subliminal activation of the same brain areas required for its execution. It follows from this, the arguments runs, that motor imagery can be used as a proxy for real motor performance, et voil, the sports sciences can go wild with all the snazzy brain imaging tools after all--just like everyone else. This notion is, I believe, misbegotten, a house of cards that threatens to cast a long shadow over the field. The present article, then, is, to be frank, intended to put a machete to this kind of thinking. It does this by exposing this conclusion to be based on an unholy marriage of selective data reporting and gross overgeneralization. The result is a wild goose chase fueled by wishful thinking.
To investigate exercise-induced regional metabolic and perfusion changes in the human brain, various methods are available, such as positron emission tomography (PET), functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and electroencephalography (EEG). In this paper, details of methods of metabolic measurement using PET, [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) and [(15)O]radio-labelled water ([(15)O]H(2)O) will be explained. Functional neuroimaging in the field of neuroscience was started in the 1970s using an autoradiography technique on experimental animals. The first human functional neuroimaging exercise study was conducted in 1987 using a rough measurement system known as (133)Xe inhalation. Although the data was useful, more detailed and exact functional neuroimaging, especially with respect to spatial resolution, was achieved by positron emission tomography. Early studies measured the cerebral blood flow changes during exercise. Recently, PET was made more applicable to exercise physiology and psychology by the use of the tracer [(18)F]FDG. This technique allowed subjects to be scanned after an exercise task is completed but still obtain data from the exercise itself, which is similar to autoradiography studies. In this report, methodological information is provided with respect to the recommended protocol design, the selection of the scanning mode, how to evaluate the cerebral glucose metabolism and how to interpret the regional brain activity using voxel-by-voxel analysis and regions of interest techniques (ROI). Considering the important role of exercise in health promotion, further efforts in this line of research should be encouraged in order to better understand health behavior. Although the number of research papers is still limited, recent work has indicated that the [(18)F]FDG-PET technique is a useful tool to understand brain activity during exercise.
Na+/K+ ATPase is a plasma membrane-localized sodium pump that maintains the ion gradients between the extracellular and intracellular environments, which in turn controls the cellular resting membrane potential.Recent evidence suggests that the pump is also localized at synapses and regulates synaptic efficacy.However, its precise function at the synapse is unknown. Here we show that two mutations in the alpha subunit of the eat-6 Na+/K+ ATPase in Caenorhabditis elegans dramatically increase the sensitivity to acetylcholine(Ach) agonists and alter the localization of nicotinic Ach receptors at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ).These defects can be rescued by mutated EAT-6 proteins which lack its pump activity, suggesting the presence of a novel function for Ach signaling. The Na+/K+ ATPase accumulates at postsynaptic sites and appears to surround Ach receptors to maintain rigid clusters at the NMJ. Our findings suggest a pump activity-independent, allele-specific role for Na+/K+ ATPase on postsynaptic organization and synaptic efficacy.
Erythropoietin (EPO) enhances neurogenesis, neuroprotection and regeneration. Here, we examined the effects of EPO on axonal and dendritic growth in a model of neuronal polarization. EPO did not effect survival or the polarized morphology of hippocampal neurons but its effect on neurite outgrowth depended upon the stage of polarization. When added to neurons in the process of establishing polarity (0-2 days in vitro (DIV)), it enhanced axonal and dendritic growth, while EPO added to early polarized cultures at 3-4 DIV promoted the growth of axons but not dendrites. EPO stimulated the phosphorylation of Akt at serine-473 and co-incubation of the Akt/PI-3 kinase pathway inhibitor LY294002 with EPO abolished its effects on Akt phosphorylation and axonal growth. However, while Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF) similarly stimulated phosphorylation of Akt, it had no effect on axonal or dendritic growth, indicating that AKT phosphorylation is necessary but not sufficient for neurite outgrowth in hippocampal neurons.
Ascl1 (previously Mash1) is a bHLH transcription factor essential for neuronal differentiation and specification in the nervous system. Although it has been studied for its role in several neural lineages, the full complement of lineages arising from Ascl1 progenitor cells remains unknown. Using an inducible Cre-flox genetic fate-mapping strategy, Ascl1 lineages were determined throughout the brain. Ascl1 is present in proliferating progenitor cells but these cells are actively differentiating as evidenced by rapid migration out of germinal zones. Ascl1 lineage cells contribute to distinct cell types in each major brain division: the forebrain including the cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb, hippocampus, striatum, hypothalamus, and thalamic nuclei, the midbrain including superior and inferior colliculi, and the hindbrain including Purkinje and deep cerebellar nuclei cells and cells in the trigeminal sensory system. Ascl1 progenitor cells at early stages in each CNS region preferentially become neurons, and at late stages they become oligodendrocytes. In conclusion, Ascl1-expressing progenitor cells in the brain give rise to multiple, but not all, neuronal subtypes and oligodendrocytes depending on the temporal and spatial context, consistent with a broad role in neural differentiation with some subtype specification.
A fundamental belief in the field of olfaction is that each olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) expresses only one odorant receptor (OR) type. Here we report that coexpression of multiple receptors in single neurons does occur at a low frequency. This was tested by double in situ hybridization in the septal organ in which greater than 90% of the sensory neurons express one of nine identified ORs. Notably, the coexpression frequency is nearly ten times higher in newborn than in young adult mice, suggesting a reduction of the sensory neurons with multiple ORs during postnatal development. In addition, such reduction is prevented by four-week sensory deprivation or impaired apoptosis. Furthermore, the high coexpression frequency is restored following four-week naris closure performed in young adult mice. The results indicate that activity induced by sensory inputs plays a role in ensuring the one cell-one receptor rule in a subset of olfactory sensory neurons.
The N-methyl-D -aspartate (NMDA) receptors are the most complex members in the family of ionotropic glutamate receptors. They are involved in long-term potentiation and underlie higher cognitive functions like memory formation and learning. On the other hand, overstimulation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs), leading to a massive influx of Ca(2+) ions into the cell, is linked to neurodegenerative disorders such as for example Huntington's disease and epilepsy. NMDARs are generally considered to be heteromeric tetramers and are conventionally thought to assemble from NR1 splice variants and NR2 subunits, which determine crucial channel properties. With the recent discovery of the functionally different NR3 subunits, many of the known features of NMDARs are being reassessed: The presence of NR3 in NMDARs decreases Mg(2+) sensitivity and Ca(2+) permeability and reduces agonist-induced current responses. Between altering those essential key characteristics of conventional NMDARs and forming a new class of excitatory glycine receptors when coassembling with NR1, the NR3 subunits give rise to a functionally entirely new array of &quot;NMDA&quot; receptors. Understanding the multifaceted influence of NR3 is imperative to further the understanding of the complex role of NMDARs in neurotransmission and higher brain functions.
Certain mutations in specific parts of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes CHRNA4, CHRNB2, and probably CHRNA2, can cause autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE). All but one of the known causative mutations are located in the second transmembrane region (TM2), which serves as the major ion poreforming domain of the receptor. Functional characterization of these ADNFLE mutations has shown that although each mutant exhibits specific properties, they all confer a gain of function with increased sensitivity to acetylcholine. In this work, we characterize the second and third ADNFLE-associated mutations that are external to TM2 but affect different amino acid residues within the third transmembrane region (TM3). The two new CHRNB2 mutations were identified in three families of Turkish Cypriot, Scottish, and English origin. These TM3 mutations elicit the same gain of function pathomechanism as observed for the TM2 mutations with enhanced acetylcholine sensitivity, despite their unusual localization within the gene. Electrophysiological experiments, including single channel measurements, revealed that incorporation of these new mutant subunits does not affect the conductance of the ionic pore but increases the probability of opening. Determination of the sensitivity to nicotine for nAChRs carrying mutations in TM2 and TM3 showed clear differences in the direction and the extent to which the window current for nicotine sensitivity was shifted for individual mutations, indicating differences in pharmacogenomic properties that are not readily correlated with increased ACh affinity.
S100B is a calcium-binding protein with both extracellular and intracellular regulatory activities in the mammalian brain. We have identified a novel interaction between S100B and the dopamine D(2) receptor. Our results also suggest that the binding of S100B to the dopamine D(2) receptor enhances receptor signaling. This conclusion is based on the following observations: 1) S100B and the third cytoplasmic loop of the dopamine D(2) receptor interact in a bacterial two-hybrid system and in a poly-histidine pull-down assay; 2) immunoprecipitation of the D(2) receptor also precipitates FLAG-S100B from human embryonic kidney 293 cell homogenates and endogenous S100B from rat neostriatal homogenates; 3) S100B immunoreactivity was detected in cultured neostriatal neurons expressing the D(2) receptor; 4) a putative S100B binding motif is located at residues 233 to 240 of the D(2) receptor, toward the amino terminus of the third cytoplasmic loop. D(3)-IC3, which does not bind S100B, does not contain this motif; and 5) coexpression of S100B in D(2) receptor-expressing 293 cells selectively increased D(2) receptor stimulation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases and inhibition of adenylate cyclase.
Hyperactivity of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is a prominent feature in depression and may be important in the etiology of this disease. The activity of the CRF neurons in the stress response is modulated by a number of factors that stimulate or inhibit CRF expression, including (1) corticosteroid receptors and their chaperones, heat shock proteins 70 and 90, (2) sex hormone receptors, (3) CRF receptors 1 (CRFR1) and 2, (4) cytokines interleukin 1-beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, (5) neuropeptides and receptors, vasopressin (AVP), AVP receptor 1a (AVPR1A) and oxytocin and (6) transcription factor cAMP-response element-binding protein. We hypothesized that, in depression, the transcript levels of those genes that are involved in the activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are upregulated, whereas the transcript levels of the genes involved in the inhibition of the HPA axis are downregulated. We performed laser microdissection and real-time PCR in the PVN and as a control in the supraoptic nucleus. Snap-frozen post-mortem hypothalami of seven depressed and seven matched controls were used. We found significantly increased CRF mRNA levels in the PVN of the depressed patients. This was accompanied by a significantly increased expression of four genes that are involved in the activation of CRF neurons, that is, CRFR1, estrogen receptor-alpha, AVPR1A and mineralocorticoid receptor, while the expression of the androgen receptor mRNA involved in the inhibition of CRF neurons was decreased significantly. These findings raise the possibility that a disturbed balance in the production of receptors may contribute to the activation of the HPA axis in depression.
Oncolytic viral therapy is under evaluation for toxicity and efficacy in clinical trials relating to several different tumors. We report a significant increase in the angiogenic index of oncolytic virus (OV)-treated glioma-matrigel implants (2.83-fold, P &lt; 0.02). In a rat intracranial glioma model, large tumors from OV-treated animals were significantly more angiogenic than the phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)-treated control tumors (OV: 101 +/- 21.6; PBS: 19.8 +/- 10; P = 0.0037). Transcript profiling of OV-treated tumors revealed dysregulation of several transcripts involved in glioma angiogenesis. OV-mediated induction of CYR61 gene expression (8.94-fold, P = 0.001) correlated significantly with the presence of OV in tumor tissue in vivo (R = 0.7, P &lt; 0.001). Further, induction of CYR61 mRNA and protein were confirmed in multiple human cancer cell lines and primary human tumor-derived cells in vitro, and in tumor lysate and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in vivo. Finally, we show that treatment of glioma cells with Cilengitide, known to counter CYR61-induced integrin activation, significantly suppressed the proangiogenic effect of OV treatment of gliomas (P &lt; 0.05).


To test the efficacy of ibuprofen in reducing needle electromyography (EMG) pain we studied 30 healthy volunteers randomized to receive placebo or ibuprofen (400 mg) 2 h before EMG using concentric needle electrodes in four muscles. The electromyographer and volunteer were both blinded. Immediately after EMG, subjects reported their experience of pain on a visual analog scale (VAS). A day later, they filled a VAS for their memory of pain during EMG and a VAS for the residual pain at needle sites. A week later, subjects were crossed over and the same procedure was repeated on the same muscles of the contralateral limbs. Immediate recall of pain was significantly decreased by ibuprofen, but memory of pain and residual needle site pain a day after EMG were not decreased. We conclude that ibuprofen is effective in reducing EMG pain as perceived immediately after the procedure. Premedication with ibuprofen before EMG is useful.
Neuromuscular electrical stimulation can generate contractions through both peripheral and central mechanisms. The peripheral mechanism involves the direct activation of motor axons, while the central mechanism involves the activation of sensory axons that recruit spinal neurons through a reflex pathway. For use in functional electrical stimulation. One must have control over turning the central mechanism on and off. We investigated whether inhibition developed through antagonist muscle (tibialis anterior, TA) contractions elicited by electrical stimulation or by volition can turn off the central mechanism in triceps surae. Both electrical stimulation and voluntary contractions of TA reduced or eliminated plantar flexion torque produced by the central mechanism, indicating that inhibition induced via these contractions can effectively turn off the central contribution to force. These findings suggest that patterns of electrical stimulation may be able to generate periodic muscle contractions by turning the central contribution to muscular contractions on and off.

A central challenge in neuroscience is to understand the formation and function of three-dimensional (3D) neuronal networks. In vitro studies have been mainly limited to measurements of small numbers of neurons connected in two dimensions. Here we demonstrate the use of colloids as moveable supports for neuronal growth, maturation, transfection and manipulation, where the colloids serve as guides for the assembly of controlled 3D, millimeter-sized neuronal networks. Process growth can be guided into layered connectivity with a density similar to what is found in vivo. The colloidal superstructures are optically transparent, enabling remote stimulation and recording of neuronal activity using layer-specific expression of light-activated channels and indicator dyes. The modular approach toward in vitro circuit construction provides a stepping stone for applications ranging from basic neuroscience to neuron-based screening of targeted drugs.

Humans and other animals can sense temperature changes as small as 0.1 degree C. How animals achieve such exquisite sensitivity is poorly understood. By recording from the C. elegans thermosensory neurons AFD in vivo, we found that cooling closes and warming opens ion channels. We found that AFD thermosensitivity, which exceeds that of most biological processes by many orders of magnitude, is achieved by nonlinear signal amplification. Mutations in genes encoding subunits of a cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-gated ion channel (tax-4 and tax-2) and transmembrane guanylate cyclases (gcy-8, gcy-18 and gcy-23) eliminated both cooling- and warming-activated thermoreceptor currents, indicating that a cGMP-mediated pathway links variations in temperature to changes in ionic currents. The resemblance of C. elegans thermosensation to vertebrate photosensation and the sequence similarity between TAX-4 and TAX-2 and subunits of the rod phototransduction channel raise the possibility that nematode thermosensation and vertebrate vision are linked by conserved evolution.
In animals such as the fruitfly, even minor deviations in environmental temperature can have major impacts on development and lifespan. Here we demonstrated that the ability of Drosophila melanogaster larvae to discriminate between the optimal temperature of 18 degrees C and slightly higher temperatures (19-24 degrees C) depended on the TRPA1 channel, which functioned downstream of a phospholipase C-dependent signaling cascade similar to that used in fly phototransduction. We propose that activation of TRPA1 through a signaling cascade promotes amplification of small differences in temperature and facilitates adaptation to temperatures within the comfortable range.
DARPP-32 is a dual-function protein kinase/phosphatase inhibitor that is involved in striatal signaling. The phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at threonine 34 is essential for mediating the effects of both psychostimulant and antipsychotic drugs; however, these drugs are known to have opposing behavioral and clinical effects. We hypothesized that these drugs exert differential effects on striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons, which comprise distinct output pathways of the basal ganglia. To directly test this idea, we developed bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice that allowed the analysis of DARPP-32 phosphorylation selectively in striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons. Using this new methodology, we found that cocaine, a psychostimulant, and haloperidol, a sedation-producing antipsychotic, exert differential effects on DARPP-32 phosphorylation in the two neuronal populations that can explain their opposing behavioral effects. Furthermore, we found that a variety of drugs that target the striatum have cell type-specific effects that previous methods were not able to discern.
During early brain development and through 'adult' experience-dependent plasticity, neural circuits are shaped to represent the external world with high fidelity. When raised in a quiet environment, the rat primary auditory cortex (A1) has a well-defined 'critical period', lasting several days, for its representation of sound frequency. The addition of environmental noise extends the critical period duration as a variable function of noise level. It remains unclear whether critical period closure should be regarded as a unified, externally gated event that applies for all of A1 or if it is controlled by progressive, local, activity-driven changes in this cortical area. We found that rearing rats in the presence of a spectrally limited noise band resulted in the closure of the critical period for A1 sectors representing the noise-free spectral bands, whereas the critical period appeared to remain open in noise-exposed sectors, where the cortex was still functionally and physically immature.
Three families of ligand-activated ion channels mediate synaptic communication between excitable cells in mammals. For pentameric channels related to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and tetrameric channels such as glutamate receptors, the pore-forming and gate regions have been studied extensively. In contrast, little is known about the structure of trimeric P2X receptor channels, a family of channels that are activated by ATP and are important in neuronal signaling, pain transmission and inflammation. To identify the pore-forming and gate regions in P2X receptor channels, we introduced cysteine residues throughout the two transmembrane (TM) segments and studied their accessibility to thiol-reactive compounds and ions. Our results show that TM2 lines the central ion-conduction pore, TM1 is positioned peripheral to TM2 and the flow of ions is minimized in the closed state by a gate formed by the external region of TM2.
Our brains and minds are shaped by our experiences, which mainly occur in the context of the culture in which we develop and live. Although psychologists have provided abundant evidence for diversity of human cognition and behaviour across cultures, the question of whether the neural correlates of human cognition are also culture-dependent is often not considered by neuroscientists. However, recent transcultural neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that one's cultural background can influence the neural activity that underlies both high- and low-level cognitive functions. The findings provide a novel approach by which to distinguish culture-sensitive from culture-invariant neural mechanisms of human cognition.
The contribution of the parietal cortex to episodic memory is a fascinating scientific puzzle. On the one hand, parietal lesions do not normally yield severe episodic-memory deficits; on the other hand, parietal activations are seen frequently in functional-neuroimaging studies of episodic memory. A review of these two categories of evidence suggests that the answer to the puzzle requires us to distinguish between the contributions of dorsal and ventral parietal regions and between the influence of top-down and bottom-up attention on memory.
In the visual system of primates, different neuronal pathways are specialized for processing information about the spatial coordinates of objects and their identity - that is, 'where' and 'what'. By contrast, rats and other nocturnal animals build up a neuronal representation of 'where' and 'what' by seeking out and palpating objects with their whiskers. We present recent evidence about how the brain constructs a representation of the surrounding world through whisker-mediated sense of touch. While considerable knowledge exists about the representation of the physical properties of stimuli - like texture, shape and position - we know little about how the brain represents their meaning. Future research may elucidate this and show how the transformation of one representation to another is achieved.
Our movements can hinder our ability to sense the world. Movements can induce sensory input (for example, when you hit something) that is indistinguishable from the input that is caused by external agents (for example, when something hits you). It is critical for nervous systems to be able to differentiate between these two scenarios. A ubiquitous strategy is to route copies of movement commands to sensory structures. These signals, which are referred to as corollary discharge (CD), influence sensory processing in myriad ways. Here we review the CD circuits that have been uncovered by neurophysiological studies and suggest a functional taxonomic classification of CD across the animal kingdom. This broad understanding of CD circuits lays the groundwork for more challenging studies that combine neurophysiology and psychophysics to probe the role of CD in perception.
Personalized medication that is based on pharmacogenetic data has long been expected to improve the efficacy of treatments for neurological and psychiatric disorders, including depression. However, the complexity of the regulation of gene transcription and its interactions with environmental factors means that straightforward translation of individual genetic information into tailored treatment is unlikely. Nevertheless, when data from genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, neuroimaging and neuroendocrinology are used in combination, they could lead to the development of effective personalized antidepressant treatment that is based on both genotypes and biomarkers. This process will require many further steps and collaboration between basic and clinical neuroscience.
The molecular pathogenesis of pediatric pilocytic astrocytoma (PA) is not well defined. Previous cytogenetic and molecular studies have not identified nonrandom genetic aberrations. To correlate differential gene expression and genomic copy number aberrations (CNAs) in PA, we have used Affymetrix GeneChip HG_U133A to generate gene expression profiles of 19 pediatric patients and the SpectralChip 2600 to investigate CNAs in 11 of these tumors. Hierarchical clustering according to expression profile similarity grouped tumors and controls separately. We identified 1844 genes that showed significant differential expression between tumor and normal controls, with a large number clearly influencing phosphatidylinositol and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling in PA. Most CNAs identified in this study were single-clone alterations. However, a small region of loss involving up to seven adjacent clones at 7q11.23 was observed in seven tumors and correlated with the underexpression of BCL7B. Loss of four individual clones was also associated with reduced gene expression including SH3GL2 at 9p21.2-p23, BCL7A (which shares 90% sequence homology with BCL7B) at 12q24.33, DRD1IP at 10q26.3, and TUBG2 and CNTNAP1 at 17q21.31. Moreover, the down-regulation of FOXG1B at 14q12 correlated with loss within the gene promoter region in most tumors. This is the first study to correlate differential gene expression with CNAs in PA.

There has been a long and lively debate on whether rate covariance and temporal coordination of spikes, regarded as potential origins for correlations in cortical spike signals, fulfill different roles in the cortical code. In this context, studies that report spike coordination have often been criticized for ignoring fast nonstationarities, which would result in wrongly assigned spike coordination. The underlying hypothesis of this critique is that spike coordination is essentially identical to rate covariation, only on a shorter timescale. This study investigates the validity of this critique. We provide a decomposition for the cross-correlation function of doubly stochastic point processes, where each of the components corresponds precisely to the concepts of dependence under investigation. This allows us to correct the correlation function for rate effects, which implies that spike coordination and rate covariation are statistically separable concepts of dependence. Furthermore, we present direct and intuitive model implementations of the discussed concepts and illustrate that their difference is not a matter of timescale. Analysis of data generated by our models and analytical description of the relevant estimators reveals, however, that spike coordination dramatically influences the accuracy of rate covariance estimation. As a consequence, extreme parameter combinations can lead to situations where the concept of dependence cannot be identified empirically. However, for a wide range of parameters, the concept of dependence underlying a given data set can be identified regardless of its timescale.
This paper presents new experimental results on the variadic neural network (VNN) [McGregor, S. (2007). Neural network processing for multiset data. In Proceedings: Vol. 4668. Artificial neural networks - ICANN 2007, 17th international conference (pp. 460-470). Springer]. The inputs to a variadic network are an arbitrary-length list of n-tuples of real numbers, where n is fixed, and the function computed by the network is unaffected by permutation of the inputs. This paper describes improvements in the training algorithm for the variadic perceptron, based on a constructive cascade topology, and performance of the improved networks on geometric problems inspired by vector graphics. Further development may allow practical application of these or similar networks to vector graphics processing and statistical analysis.

Dendritic spines are major sites of excitatory synaptic transmission and changes in their densities have been linked to alterations in learning and memory. The neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 and their receptors, trkB and trkC, are thought to be involved in learning, memory and long-term potentiation (LTP). LTP is known to induce trkB and trkC gene expression as well as spinogenesis in the hippocampus. In the aging hippocampus, declines in trkB and trkC mRNA levels may underlie, at least in part, impairments in spatial memory and reductions in spine densities. To determine the significance of trkB and trkC for the maintenance of dendritic spines, we have analyzed Golgi-impregnated hippocampi of adult and aged mice heterozygous for trkB, trkC, or both along with respective wildtype littermates. Deletion of one allele of trkB, but not trkC, significantly reduces spine densities of CA1 pyramidal neurons in both adult and aged mice, as compared to age-matched controls. This indicates that trkB, but not trkC, receptors are necessary for the maintenance of hippocampal spines during postnatal life.
Genetic studies have demonstrated very high heritability for Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk in humans; however, these genetic contributions have proven extremely challenging to map in large studies of AD patients. Processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide is increasingly believed to be of central importance in AD pathogenesis. Intriguingly, mice from the C57BL/6J and DBA2/J inbred strains carrying the R1.40 APP transgene produce identical levels of unprocessed APP, but demonstrate significant, heritable differences in Abeta levels. To identify specific loci responsible for the observed genetic control of Abeta metabolism in this model system, we have performed a whole-genome quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping experiment on a total of 516 animals from a C57BL/6JxDBA/2J intercross using a dense set of SNP genetic markers. Our studies have identified three loci on mouse chromosomes 1, 2, and 7 showing significant or suggestive associations with brain Abeta levels, several of which contain regions syntenic to previous reports of linkage in human AD.
There is increasing evidence of a clinical, neuropathological and genetic overlap between frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We conducted a case-control study using a UK dataset to test the hypothesis that polymorphisms in two FTD-related genes (GRN and FT74) are associated with increased susceptibility to ALS. We evaluated the majority of known genetic variability in IFT74 and GRN. The results revealed that the common variations in IFT74 and GRN neither constitute strong ALS risk factors nor modify the age-at-onset. However, the possibility of a modest risk effect remains to be assessed in large datasets.
A role of estrogens in brain aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a hot topic of research. We show in material of 71 patients that the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) splice variant MB1 is expressed at the protein and mRNA level in the human brain. MB1 is mainly confined to astrocytes, membranes and cytoplasm of projecting neurons and endothelial cells. It was consistently observed in the thalamus, colliculus inferior, pontine nuclei, dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, some motor neurons in the anterior and lateral horns of the spinal cord and rarely in pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex. The highest level of MB1 immunoreactivity (MB1-ir) was noted in the caudal hypothalamus, in particular in the tuberomamillary nucleus (TMN). MB1-ir in the TMN increased during aging in women. MB1-ir was higher in young (&lt;50 years of age) men than in premenopausal women. No significant changes of this variant were observed in the TMN of AD cases. In conclusion, MB1 may function as a dominant negative isoform in the human brain.
Age-related impairments in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory tasks are not associated with a loss of hippocampal neurons, but may be related to alterations in synaptic integrity. Here we used stereological techniques to estimate spine number in hippocampal subfields using immunostaining for the spine-associated protein, spinophilin, as a marker. Quantification of the immunoreactive profiles was performed using the optical disector/fractionator technique. Aging was associated with a modest increase in spine number in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare. By comparison, spinophilin protein levels in the hippocampus, measured by Western blot analysis, failed to differ as a function of age. Neither the morphological nor the protein level data were correlated with spatial learning ability across individual aged rats. The results extend current evidence on synaptic integrity in the aged brain, indicating that a substantial loss of dendritic spines and spinophilin protein in the hippocampus are unlikely to contribute to age-related impairment in spatial learning.
Environmental stimulation throughout development adjusts the neurobehavioral systems involved in learning, memory and defensive responses. Environment-mediated phenotypic plasticity can be considered from two different, yet complementary, viewpoints. On one hand, the possibility that environmental interventions protect against the effects of genetic and/or acquired vulnerabilities, offers unprecedented avenues towards the elaboration and refinement of therapeutic strategies. On the other hand, an accurate understanding of the adaptive mechanisms regulating the interaction between an experimental subject and its environment may substantially benefit the quality of experimental data. Here we review experimental evidence showing that enriched environment can be beneficial in several psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders implicating the monoamine systems where it can (i) compensate for impairments in animal models of schizophrenia, Huntington's, and Parkinson's diseases; (ii) increase resistance to the addictive properties of psychostimulant drugs; (iii) level-out the consequences of prenatal stress in animal models of depression. Additionally we discuss why some of the effects of environmental enrichment question the validity of current animal models of mental disorders.
G1-phase cyclin D1 (cD1) expression has been documented in post-mitotic neurons undergoing apoptosis, leading others to propose that attempted cell cycle re-entry may induce cell death. Here, cD1 immunoreactivity was found in a subpopulation of healthy excitatory neurons throughout the brain. Most striking was the selective cD1 expression in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, an especially vulnerable cell group. Seizure threshold, cD1 induction and CA1 neuron death were examined following application of kainate (KA) or pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) in cD1 heterozygous (+/-) and wildtype mice to determine whether baseline cD1 correlates with pathology. cD1+/- mice displayed resistance to KA, but not PTZ-induced seizures and had reduced or equivalent cytotoxicity respectively, compared with wildtype. KA administration, but not PTZ, induced cD1 expression. These findings suggest that basal cD1 expression may render hippocampal circuits more susceptible to particular epileptogenic agents and excitotoxic cell death, though cD1 is not a direct precipitant in apoptosis.
We investigated the contribution of L-, N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels to the [Ca(2+)](i) changes, evoked by kainate, in the cell bodies of hippocampal neurons, using a pharmacological approach and Ca(2+) imaging. Selective Ca(2+) channel blockers, namely nitrendipine, omega-Conotoxin GVIA (omega-GVIA) and omega-Agatoxin IVA (omega-AgaIVA) were used. The [Ca(2+)](i) changes evoked by kainate presented a high variability, and were abolished by NBQX, a AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, but the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, D-AP5, was without effect. Each Ca(2+) channel blocker caused differential inhibitory effects on [Ca(2+)](i) responses evoked by kainate. We grouped the neurons for each blocker in three subpopulations: (1) neurons with responses below 60% of the control; (2) neurons with responses between 60% and 90% of the control, and (3) neurons with responses above 90% of the control. The inhibition caused by nitrendipine was higher than the inhibition caused by omega-GVIA or omega-AgaIVA. Thus, in the presence of nitrendipine, the percentage of cells with responses below 60% of the control was 41%, whereas in the case of omega-GVIA or omega-AgaIVA the values were 9 or 17%, respectively. The results indicate that hippocampal neurons differ in what concerns their L-, N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels activated by stimulation of the AMPA/kainate receptors.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a neuropsychiatric complication of both acute and chronic liver failure characterized by progressive neuronal inhibition. Some neurosteroids are potent positive allosteric modulators of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor complex, and 'increased GABAergic tone' has been proposed to explain the neuroinhibition characteristics of HE. Brain levels of the neurosteroids pregnenolone, allopregnanolone and tetrahydrodesoxycorticosterone (THDOC) and the functional status of the GABA-A receptor complex were assessed in rats following portacaval anastomosis (PCA). Effects of indomethacin, an inhibitor of the 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme involved in neurosteroid synthesis, on PCA rat locomotor activity and brain neurosteroid levels were also assessed. Significant increases of the neurosteroid pregnenolone (2.6-fold), allopregnanolone (1.7-fold) and THDOC (4.7-fold) were observed in brains of PCA rats. Brain levels of these neurosteroids were in the nanomolar range, sufficient to exert positive allosteric modulatory effects at the GABA-A receptor. Indomethacin (0.1-5 mg kg(-1)) ameliorated dose-dependently the locomotor deficit of PCA rats and concomitantly normalized brain levels of allopregnanolone and THDOC. Increased brain levels of neurosteroids with positive allosteric modulatory actions at the neuronal GABA-A receptor offer a cogent explanation for the notion of 'increased GABAergic tone' in HE. Pharmacological approaches using agents that either reduce neurosteroid synthesis or modulate the neurosteroid site on GABA-A receptor could offer new therapeutic tools for the management and treatment of HE.
Alpha-2 adrenergic receptors tonically inhibit colonic motility and the alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist yohimbine, given intravenously, increased colonic tone in humans. However, the effect of yohimbine on colonic transit in humans is unknown. In this study, 30 healthy volunteers were randomized to yohimbine 16.2 mg p.o. t.i.d. or identical placebo for 7 days. We evaluated gastric emptying, small intestinal, and colonic transit by scinitigraphy, bowel habits, haemodynamics and plasma catecholamines. As cytochrome P450 enzymes metabolize yohimbine, P450 genotypes (CYP2D6 and CYP3A4) were determined in 25 of 30 subjects who consented to genetic studies. The relationship between drug metabolizer status predicted by CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 and effects of yohmibine were assessed. Compared to placebo, yohimbine increased (P &lt; or = 0.02) diastolic blood pressure, plasma noradrenaline concentrations and maximum tolerated volume during the satiation test [yohimbine (1241 +/- 88, mean +/- SEM) vs placebo (1015 +/- 87), P = 0.054]. However, yohimbine did not affect gastrointestinal transit. Based on CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 alleles, seven and 18 subjects were, respectively, extensive (EM) and poor (PM) metabolizers of yohimbine. Compared to EM, PM of yohimbine had a greater increase in plasma noradrenaline (P = 0.1 for PM vs EM), lower maximum tolerated volumes (1120 +/- 95 vs 1484 + 131 mL, P = 0.02), and faster colonic transit (i.e. GC(24) was 3.0 +/- 0.4 vs 2.1 +/- 0.5, P = 0.1). These data suggest that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 genotypes which determine the metabolism of yohimbine may influence its sympathetic and gastrointestinal effects.
Hearing already functions before birth, but little is known about the neural basis of fetal life experiences. Recent imaging studies have validated the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in pregnant women at 38-weeks of gestation. The aim of the present study was to examine fetal brain activation to sound, using fMRI at the beginning of the third trimester of pregnancy. 6 pregnant women between 28- and 34-weeks of gestation were scanned using a magnetic strength of 1.5 T, with an auditory stimulus applied to their abdomen. 3 fetuses with a gestational age of 33 weeks, showed significant activation to sound in the left temporal lobe, measured using a new data-driven approach (Independent Component Analysis for fMRI time series). Only 2 of these fetuses showed left temporal activation, when the standard voxel-wise analysis method was used (p=0.007; p=0.001). Moreover, motion parameters added as predictors of the General Linear Model confirmed that motion cannot account for the signal variance in the fetal temporal cortex (p=0.01). Comparison between the statistical maps obtained from MRI scans of the fetuses with those obtained from adults, made it possible to confirm our hypothesis, that there is brain activation in the primary auditory cortex in response to sound. Measurement of the fetal hemodynamic response revealed an average fMRI signal change of +3.5%. This study shows that it is possible to use fMRI to detect early fetal brain function, but also confirms that sound processing occurs beyond the reflexive sub-cortical level, at the beginning of the third trimester of pregnancy.
We propose a new type of functional imaging in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a functional MR angiography (fMRA). As it is known, arterial responses during neural activities have been studied in animals, but little is known about the human brain in-vivo. Proposed fMRA at ultra-high field strength, 7.0 Tesla (T), has a potential for a direct visualization of vascular responses of those blood vessels related to the neural activity during the tasks, such as the hand movement or checker board stimulation, that is, fMRA. The results of this paper clearly indicate that there is the possibility that one can directly observe the vascular changes in individual blood vessels related to the tasks in human brain in-vivo, similar to fMRI.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be used to detect experimental effects on brain activity across measurements. The success of such studies depends on the size of the experimental effect, the reliability of the measurements, and the number of subjects. Here, we report on the stability of fMRI measurements and provide sample size estimations needed for repeated measurement studies. Stability was quantified in terms of the within-subject standard deviation (sigma(w)) of BOLD signal changes across measurements. In contrast to correlation measures of stability, this statistic does not depend on the between-subjects variance in the sampled group. Sample sizes required for repeated measurements of the same subjects were calculated using this sigma(w). Ten healthy subjects performed a motor task on three occasions, separated by one week, while being scanned. In order to exclude training effects on fMRI stability, all subjects were trained extensively on the task. Task performance, spatial activation pattern, and group-wise BOLD signal changes were highly stable over sessions. In contrast, we found substantial fluctuations (up to half the size of the group mean activation level) in individual activation levels, both in ROIs and in voxels. Given this large degree of instability over sessions, and the fact that the amount of within-subject variation plays a crucial role in determining the success of an fMRI study with repeated measurements, improving stability is essential. In order to guide future studies, sample sizes are provided for a range of experimental effects and levels of stability. Obtaining estimates of these latter two variables is essential for selecting an appropriate number of subjects.
Provenance, the description of the history of a set of data, has grown more important with the proliferation of research consortia-related efforts in neuroimaging. Knowledge about the origin and history of an image is crucial for establishing data and results quality; detailed information about how it was processed, including the specific software routines and operating systems that were used, is necessary for proper interpretation, high fidelity replication and re-use. We have drafted a mechanism for describing provenance in a simple and easy to use environment, alleviating the burden of documentation from the user while still providing a rich description of an image's provenance. This combination of ease of use and highly descriptive metadata should greatly facilitate the collection of provenance and subsequent sharing of data.
Females frequently score higher on standard tests of empathy, social sensitivity, and emotion recognition than do males. It remains to be clarified, however, whether these gender differences are associated with gender specific neural mechanisms of emotional social cognition. We investigated gender differences in an emotion attribution task using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects either focused on their own emotional response to emotion expressing faces (SELF-task) or evaluated the emotional state expressed by the faces (OTHER-task). Behaviorally, females rated SELF-related emotions significantly stronger than males. Across the sexes, SELF- and OTHER-related processing of facial expressions activated a network of medial and lateral prefrontal, temporal, and parietal brain regions involved in emotional perspective taking. During SELF-related processing, females recruited the right inferior frontal cortex and superior temporal sulcus stronger than males. In contrast, there was increased neural activity in the left temporoparietal junction in males (relative to females). When performing the OTHER-task, females showed increased activation of the right inferior frontal cortex while there were no differential activations in males. The data suggest that females recruit areas containing mirror neurons to a higher degree than males during both SELF- and OTHER-related processing in empathic face-to-face interactions. This may underlie facilitated emotional &quot;contagion&quot; in females. Together with the observation that males differentially rely on the left temporoparietal junction (an area mediating the distinction between the SELF and OTHERS) the data suggest that females and males rely on different strategies when assessing their own emotions in response to other people.
There has been increasing interest in the functional role of high-frequency (&gt;30 Hz) cortical oscillations accompanying various sensorimotor and cognitive tasks in humans. Similar &quot;high gamma&quot; activity has been observed in the motor cortex, although the role of this activity in motor control is unknown. Using whole-head MEG recordings combined with advanced source localization methods, we identified high-frequency (65 to 80 Hz) gamma oscillations in the primary motor cortex during self-paced movements of the upper and lower limbs. Brief bursts of gamma activity were localized to the contralateral precentral gyrus (MI) during self-paced index finger abductions, elbow flexions and foot dorsiflexions. In comparison to lower frequency (10-30 Hz) sensorimotor rhythms that are bilaterally suppressed prior to and during movement (Jurkiewicz et al., 2006), high gamma activity increased only during movement, reaching maximal increase 100 to 250 ms following EMG onset, and was lateralized to contralateral MI, similar to findings from intracranial EEG studies. Peak frequency of gamma activity was significantly lower during foot dorsiflexion (67.4+/-5.2 Hz) than during finger abduction (75.3+/-4.4 Hz) and elbow flexion (73.9+/-3.7 Hz) although markedly similar for left and right movements of the same body part within subjects, suggesting activation of a common underlying network for gamma oscillations in the left and right motor cortex. These findings demonstrate that voluntary movements elicit high-frequency gamma oscillations in the primary motor cortex that are effector specific, and possibly reflect the activation of cortico-subcortical networks involved in the feedback control of discrete movements.
Low-frequency &quot;off-line&quot; repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the course of several minutes has attained considerable attention as a research tool in cognitive neuroscience due to its ability to induce functional disruptions of brain areas. This disruptive rTMS effect is highly valuable for revealing a causal relationship between brain and behavior. However, its influence on remote interconnected areas and, more importantly, the duration of the induced neurophysiological effects, remain unknown. These aspects are critical for a study design in the context of cognitive neuroscience. In order to investigate these issues, 12 healthy male subjects underwent 8 H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography (PET) scans after application of long-train low-frequency rTMS to the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Immediately after the stimulation train, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) increases were present under the stimulation site as well as in other prefrontal cortical areas, including the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) ipsilateral to the stimulation site. The mean increases in rCBF returned to baseline within 9 min. The duration of this unilateral prefrontal rTMS effect on rCBF is of particular interest to those who aim to influence behavior in cognitive paradigms that use an &quot;off-line&quot; approach.
Understanding the link between neurobiology and cognition requires that neuroscience moves beyond mere structure-function correlations. An explicit systems perspective is needed in which putative mechanisms of how brain function is constrained by brain structure are mathematically formalized and made accessible for experimental investigation. Such a systems approach critically rests on a better understanding of brain connectivity in its various forms. Since 2002, frontier topics of connectivity and neural system analysis have been discussed in a multidisciplinary annual meeting, the Brain Connectivity Workshop (BCW), bringing together experimentalists and theorists from various fields. This article summarizes some of the main discussions at the two most recent workshops, 2006 at Sendai, Japan, and 2007 at Barcelona, Spain: (i) investigation of cortical micro- and macrocircuits, (ii) models of neural dynamics at multiple scales, (iii) analysis of &quot;resting state&quot; networks, and (iv) linking anatomical to functional connectivity. Finally, we outline some central challenges and research trajectories in computational systems neuroscience for the next years.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is thought to be an immune-mediated disease with a possible environmental trigger. Genetic and environmental factors, including infection by pathogens, may act synergistically to trigger the disease. There is growing epidemiologic, serologic, and pathologic evidence that Epstein-Barr virus may cause MS or contribute to its pathogenesis. The evidence that canine distemper virus is involved in MS is less robust. More definitive data are required to prove that Epstein-Barr virus or canine distemper virus causes some or most cases of MS.
Distal myopathy is a group of heterogeneous disorders affecting predominantly distal muscles usually appearing from young to late adulthood with very rare cardiac complications. We report a 27-year-old man characterized clinically by distal myopathy and dilated cardiomyopathy, pathologically by lipid storage, and genetically by a PNPLA2 mutation. The patient developed weakness in his lower legs and fingers at age 20 years. Physical examination at age 27 years revealed muscle weakness and atrophy predominantly in lower legs and hands, and severe dilated cardiomyopathy. The patient had a homozygous four-base duplication (c.475_478dupCTCC) in exon 4 of PNPLA2.
Synapse development and remodeling are regulated by a plethora of molecules such as receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), a family of cell surface receptors that play critical roles in neural development. Two families of RTKs implicated in synaptic functions, ErbBs and Ephs, share similar characteristics in terms of exhibiting forward and reverse signaling. In this review, we will discuss the latest advances in the functions of ErbBs and Ephs at the synapse, including dendritic spine morphogenesis, synapse formation and maturation, and synaptic transmission and plasticity. In addition to signaling at interneuronal synapses, communication between neuron and glia is increasingly implicated in the control of synaptic functions. Studies on RTKs and their cognate ligands in glial cells enhance our understanding on the nature of 'tripartite synapse'. Implications of these signaling events in human diseases will be discussed.
Adhesive and repellent molecular cues guide migrating cells and growing neurites during development. They also contribute to synaptic function, learning and memory in adulthood. Here, we review the roles of cell adhesion molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily (Ig-CAMs) and semaphorins (some of which also contain Ig-like domains) in regulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity. Interestingly, among the seven studied Ig-CAMs, the neuronal cell adhesion molecule proved to be important for all tested forms of hippocampal plasticity, while its associated unusual glycan polysialic acid is necessary and sufficient part for synaptic plasticity only at CA3-CA1 synapses. In contrast, Thy-1 and L1 specifically regulate long-term potentiation (LTP) at synapses formed by entorhinal axons in the dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis, respectively. Contactin-1 is important for long-term depression but not for LTP at CA3-CA1 synapses. Analysis of CHL1-deficient mice illustrates that at intermediate stages of development a deficit in a cell adhesion molecule is compensated but appears as impaired LTP during early and late postnatal development. The emerging mechanisms by which adhesive Ig-CAMs contribute to synaptic plasticity involve regulation of activities of NMDA receptors and L-type Ca2+ channels, signaling via mitogen-activated protein kinase p38, changes in GABAergic inhibition and motility of synaptic elements. Regarding repellent molecules, available data for semaphorins demonstrate their activity-dependent regulation in normal and pathological conditions, synaptic localization of their receptors and their potential to elevate or inhibit synaptic transmission either directly or indirectly.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) in the brain is composed of molecules synthesized and secreted by neurons and glial cells in a cell-type-specific and activity-dependent manner. During development, ECM plays crucial roles in proliferation, migration and differentiation of neural cells. In the mature brain, ECM undergoes a slow turnover and supports multiple physiological processes, while restraining structural plasticity. In the first part of this review, we discuss the contribution of ECM molecules to different forms of plasticity, including developmental plasticity in the cortex, long-term potentiation and depression in the hippocampus, homeostatic scaling of synaptic transmission and metaplasticity. In the second part, we focus on pathological changes associated with epileptogenic mutations in ECM-related molecules or caused by seizure-induced remodeling of ECM. The available data suggest that ECM components regulating physiological plasticity are also engaged in different aspects of epileptogenesis, such as dysregulation of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission, sprouting of mossy fibers, granule cell dispersion and gliosis. At the end, we discuss combinatorial approaches that might be used to counteract seizure-induced dysregulation of both ECM molecules and extracellular proteases. By restraining ECM modification and preserving the status quo in the brain, these treatments might prove to be valid therapeutic interventions to antagonize the progression of epileptogenesis.
Neuropeptide galanin modulates a variety of central nervous system functions by signaling through three G-protein-coupled receptor subtypes, GalR1 through GalR3. Galanin and its receptors are expressed at high levels in the limbic structures of the rodent brain. Intracerebroventricular injection of galanin has been shown to modulate depression and anxiety-like behaviors in the rat. We have previously shown that chronic antidepressant treatments increase the binding of a GalR2-preferring ligand, galanin (2-11), to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of the rat, which, along with the finding that intra-DRN infusion of galanin (2-11) increases the release of serotonin in the hippocampus, suggests that GalR2 signaling might exert antidepressant-like actions by modulating ascending serotonergic outflow. Recently, two research groups reported their phenotypic analysis of a GalR2 knockout (GalR2KO) mouse line, produced by gene-trapping method and maintained on a 129S1/SvImJ genetic background. The only positive finding in that GalR2KO mouse line was an anxiogenic-like phenotype specific to the elevated plus-maze. Because it is known that genetic background can affect the outcome of behavioral tests, in the present study, we analyzed a separate GalR2KO line, which was produced by targeted deletion and maintained on a C57BL/6 background, using a different set of depression- and anxiety-related tests. GalR2KO mice exhibited a more persistent depressive-like phenotype in the learned helplessness paradigm as well as increased immobility in the tail suspension test when results from the present studies were combined by fixed effect meta-analysis with that reported by Gottsch and colleagues. GalR2KO mutants showed anxiety-like behavior comparable to wild-type littermates in the elevated plus-maze, open-field, and light-dark transfer tests. The present findings are consistent with a predicted antidepressant-like effect of GalR2 signaling, suggesting that GalR2 might be a valid drug target for depressive disorders.
Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) is synthesized and released centrally in several brain structures. AVP is thought to mediate anxiety-related behavior through two central receptor subtypes, Avpr1a and Avpr1b. Although these AVP receptor subtypes are expressed in several brain regions, including the hippocampus, little is known about their explicit role in unconditioned fear or anxiety. This experiment assessed the anxiety-related effects of a selective Avpr1a antagonist ([beta-Mercapto-beta,beta-cyclopentamethylenepropionyl1, O-me-Tyr2, Arg8]-AVP) and a selective Avpr1b antagonist ((2S,4R)-1-[5-chloro-1-[(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)sulfonyl]-3-(2-methoxy-phenyl)-2-oxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-indol-3-yl]-4-hydroxy-N,N-dimethyl-2-pyrrolidine carboxamide; SSR 149415) microinfused into either the dorsal or ventral sub-regions of the rat hippocampus. Avpr1a antagonism in the ventral, but not the dorsal hippocampus reduced rats' anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus-maze test. Conversely, Avpr1b antagonism in the dorsal, but not the ventral, hippocampus reduced anxiety in the plus-maze test. Neither antagonist reduced anxiety-like behavior in the shock-probe burying test. Overall, the results show that both receptor subtypes of AVP are involved in anxiety-related responses, but their specific contributions depend on three variables: (1) the anxiety-related response (shock-probe avoidance versus open-arm avoidance), (2) the receptor subtype antagonized (Avpr1a versus Avpr1b), and (3) the area of hippocampus (dorsal versus ventral) into which these antagonists are infused. These dissociations suggest that different fear responses are under the control of specific AVP receptor systems within discrete parts of the hippocampus.
Exposure to cues previously associated with intake of substances of abuse can promote drug related responses. In this study, we have examined the effect of exposure to a drug-associated context on the expression of morphine psychomotor sensitization. We show that sensitization is markedly increased in mice examined 4 weeks after the last morphine injection. In addition, this incubation period confers to the environment paired with morphine the ability to increase ERK phosphorylation in the shell (but not the core) of the nucleus accumbens. Using transgenic mice with enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression under the control of the dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) (Drd1a-EGFP) or D2 receptor promoter (Drd2-EGFP) we show that context-dependent ERK phosphorylation is restricted to D1R-expressing medium spiny neurons. Furthermore, this effect depends on D1R activation. These data show that, following repeated morphine injections, a drug-free period induces context-dependent phosphorylation of ERK in a specific population of neurons within the nucleus accumbens shell. This activation is associated to enhanced psychomotor sensitization and may be implicated in context-elicited drug seeking induced by repeated exposure to drugs of abuse.
Panic disorder (PD) is a common, persistent and disabling mental disorder. It is often associated with agoraphobia. The present article reviews the current status of pharmacotherapy for PD with or without agoraphobia as well as the current status of treatments combing pharmacotherapy with cognitive behavior therapy (CBT). The review has been written with a focus on randomized controlled trials, meta-analyses, and reviews that have been published over the past few years. Effective pharmacological treatments include tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, and various benzodiazepines. Treatment results obtained with CBT compare well with pharmacotherapy, with evidence that CBT is at least as effective as pharmacotherapy. Combining pharmacotherapy with CBT has been found to be superior to antidepressant pharmacotherapy or CBT alone, but only in the acute-phase treatment. Long term studies on treatments combining pharmacotherapy and CBT for PD with or without agoraphobia have found little benefit, however, for combination therapies versus monotherapies. New investigations explore the potential additional value of sequential versus concomitant treatments, of cognitive enhancers and virtual reality exposure therapy, and of education, self management and Internet-based interventions.
Recent findings in animal models of paraplegia suggest that specific nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytics may temporarily restore locomotor functions after spinal cord injury (SCI). Experiments using in vitro models have revealed, indeed, that selective serotonin receptor (5-HTR) ligands such as 5-HTR(1A) agonists, known as relatively safe anxiolytics, can acutely elicit episodes of rhythmic neuronal activity refered to as fictive locomotion in isolated spinal cord preparations. Along the same line, in vivo studies have recently shown that this subclass of anxiolytics can induce, shortly after systemic administration (eg, orally or subcutaneously), some locomotor-like hindlimb movements during 45-60 minutes in completely spinal cord-transected (Tx) rodents. Using 'knock-out' mice (eg, 5-HTR(7)-/-) and selective antagonists, it has been clearly established that both 5-HTR(1A) and 5-HTR(7) were critically involved in mediating the pro-locomotor effects induced by 8-OH-DPAT (typically referred to as a 5-HTR(1A) agonist) in Tx animals. Taken together, these in vitro and in vivo data strongly support the idea that 5-HTR(1A) agonists may eventually become constitutive elements of a novel first-in-class combinatorial treatment aimed at periodically inducing short episodes of treadmill stepping in SCI patients.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in the progression of a number of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We carried out an in-depth study of cognitive impairment and its relationships with oxidative stress markers such as ferric-reducing ability of plasma (FRAP), plasma malondialdehyde and total antioxidative capacity (TAC), as well as cholesterol parameters, in two subsets of subjects, AD patients (n = 59) and a control group of neurologically normal subjects (n = 29), attending the University Hospital Salvador in Santiago, Chile. Cognitive impairment was assessed by a set of neuropsychological tests (Mini-Mental State Examination, Boston Naming Test, Ideomotor Praxia by imitation, Semantic Verbal Fluency of animals or words with initial A, Test of Memory Alteration, Frontal Assessment Battery), while the levels of those oxidative stress markers and cholesterol metabolism parameters were determined according with standard bioassays in fresh plasma samples of the two subgroups of patients. No significant differences were observed when the cholesterol parameters (low-, high-density lipoprotein, total cholesterol) of the AD group were compared with normal controls. Interestingly, a correlation was evidenced when the levels of cognitive impairment were analyzed with respect to the plasma antioxidant capacity (AOC) of patients. In this context, the subset of subjects exhibiting cognitive impairment were divided into two subgroups according with their Global Dementia Scale performance: a subgroup with mild AD and a subgroup with moderate to severe AD. Significant differences in AOC were found between subgroups. The different correlations between cognitive impairment of subgroups of subjects with the oxidative stress profile are discussed in the context of AD pathogenesis.
A group of 19 children with dyslexia aged 7 years 2 months to 10 years 9 months were selected from a clinical sample and tested using a large neuropsychological battery in order to specify the severity and subtype of dyslexia as well as the presence of comorbid conditions. Thereafter, they received a standardised training of 6 weeks of daily auditory exercises aimed at reinforcing explicit and implicit phonological awareness. Ten participants also received specific training of the sensory-motor aspects of articulatory production of individual phonemes during the first 3 weeks of auditory training, whereas the remaining received the same specific training during the last 3 weeks of auditory training. Repetition, phonological awareness, reading and spelling were assessed before the first session, between the two sessions and after the second session. Results confirm the overall efficiency of intensive phonological training, even with exclusively auditory material. The main outcome of this study is a significant improvement of phonology and non-word reading specifically during the periods where the two methods were associated, suggesting a significant contribution of articulatory training to the observed improvement. Finally performance to a motor tapping task proved to be one of the best predictors of training efficiency while comorbid co-ordination or attention deficit did not interfere. Results are interpreted with reference to current theories about mechanisms underlying dyslexia.
The detection of errors is known to be associated with two successive neurophysiological components in EEG, with an early time-course following motor execution: the error-related negativity (ERN/Ne) and late positivity (Pe). The exact cognitive and physiological processes contributing to these two EEG components, as well as their functional independence, are still partly unclear. Furthermore, these components are typically obtained in conditions where errors are rare events relative to correct trials, and thus presumably implicate other cognitive and motivational processes besides error monitoring. Here, we investigated error processing using high-density scalp ERPs and advanced topographical analyses in healthy participants, during a new Go/noGo task that led to many errors within a relatively short period of time, yet without generating frustration or insufficient motivation. ERP results showed the presence of two distinct electrophysiological markers of error monitoring (ERN/Ne and Pe) during this task, even though errors were practically as frequent as correct responses. Topographic mapping analyses showed for the first time that both the ERN/Ne and Pe elicited a specific distribution of electrical activity relative to correct responses (not just a change in the amplitude of electric signals), suggesting the activation of a distinct configuration of intracranial generators during error detection. This was confirmed by additional analyses using dipole source localization, showing generators in anterior cingulate cortex contributing to the ERN/Ne, but in more posterior cingulate regions for Pe. Moreover, we found that, across all participants, the magnitude of the ERN/Ne correlated with the level of state anxiety, even in the subclinical range, whereas the Pe was correlated negatively with the total number of errors and positively with the improvement of response speed on correct trials. By contrast, no significant relation was found between error monitoring ERPs and individual measures of impulsivity. Taken together, these data suggest that these two successive EEG components associated with errors reflect different monitoring processes, with distinct neural substrates in cingulate cortex. While ERN/Ne processes in anterior cingulate might primarily mediate error detection, Pe processes in posterior cingulate might be more directly related to behavioral adjustment based on the outcome of current actions.
In schizophrenia patients, glutathione dysregulation at the gene, protein and functional levels, leads to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor hypofunction. These patients also exhibit deficits in auditory sensory processing that manifests as impaired mismatch negativity (MMN), which is an auditory evoked potential (AEP) component related to NMDA receptor function. N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC), a glutathione precursor, was administered to patients to determine whether increased levels of brain glutathione would improve MMN and by extension NMDA function. A randomized, double-blind, cross-over protocol was conducted, entailing the administration of NAC (2 g/day) for 60 days and then placebo for another 60 days (or vice versa). 128-channel AEPs were recorded during a frequency oddball discrimination task at protocol onset, at the point of cross-over, and at the end of the study. At the onset of the protocol, the MMN of patients was significantly impaired compared to sex- and age- matched healthy controls (p=0.003), without any evidence of concomitant P300 component deficits. Treatment with NAC significantly improved MMN generation compared with placebo (p=0.025) without any measurable effects on the P300 component. MMN improvement was observed in the absence of robust changes in assessments of clinical severity, though the latter was observed in a larger and more prolonged clinical study. This pattern suggests that MMN enhancement may precede changes to indices of clinical severity, highlighting the possible utility AEPs as a biomarker of treatment efficacy. The improvement of this functional marker may indicate an important pathway towards new therapeutic strategies that target glutathione dysregulation in schizophrenia.
Although the impaired extinction of traumatic memory is one of the hallmark symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), the underlying mechanisms of impaired extinction are unclear and effective pharmacological interventions have not yet been developed. Single prolonged stress (SPS) has been proposed as an animal model of PTSD, since rats subjected to SPS (SPS rats) show enhanced negative feedback of the HPA axis and increased contextual fear, which are characteristics similar to those observed in patients with PTSD. In this study, using SPS rats, we examined (a) the ability of SPS to impair fear extinction, (b) whether D-cycloserine (DCS) can alleviate impaired fear extinction in SPS rats, and (c) the effect of SPS and/or DCS on the levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit mRNAs in the rat hippocampus during extinction training. SPS rats exhibited impaired fear extinction in the contextual fear test, which was alleviated by the repeated administration of DCS. The effect of enhanced extinction, induced by the administration of DCS to SPS rats, was maintained for one week following extinction training. SPS induced significant upregulation of the levels of NMDA receptor subunit mRNAs before and during the period of extinction training, while repeated administration of DCS eliminated the enhanced mRNA levels of NMDARs. Behavioral analyses indicated that SPS is an appropriate animal model of PTSD and that DCS may be effective in the treatment of PTSD. These findings suggest that DCS, irrespective of its mechanistic involvement in the enhancement of fear extinction, may help to reverse hippocampal plasticity, and thus reverse the NMDA compensatory alterations.
Central serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in emotional and behavioral control processes for many decades, but its precise contribution is not well understood. We used the acute tryptophan depletion procedure in young healthy volunteers to test the hypothesis that central 5-HT is critical for predicting punishment. An observational reversal-learning task was employed that provided separate measures of punishment and reward prediction. Under baseline, subjects made more prediction errors for punishment-associated stimuli than for reward-associated stimuli. This bias was abolished after central 5-HT depletion, which enhanced the ability to predict punishment while not affecting reward prediction. The selective potentiation of punishment prediction concurs with recent theorizing, suggesting that central 5-HT carries a prediction error for future punishment, but not for future reward (Daw et al, 2002). Furthermore, the finding highlights the importance of central 5-HT in resilience to adversity and may have implications for a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders including depression and anxiety.

The aim of this paper is to review evidences that stressful events throughout life can have a long-term impact on ageing and the progression of Alzheimer's disease. As early as the prenatal or neonatal period, stress can alter the rate of cognitive decline and neurodegenerative changes in the brain in a stressor-dependent manner, with prenatal restraint and maternal separation usually causing damage to the brain, whereas neonatal handling was found protective. The occurrence of negative outcomes of early stress can, however, be reversed by subsequent events known to be beneficial to the ageing process. After the early developmental period, it is currently unknown how stress will impact on the ageing process, due to a lack of studies. On the other hand, there is evidence of a lack of plasticity of the brain monoaminergic systems in response to stress with age, and of age-dependent changes in the immediate impact of stress, which is greater in subjects vulnerable to age-related cognitive decline. In addition, vulnerability to stress enhances the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in humans and chronic substantial stress in animal models of the disease accelerates both the onset and progression of pathological markers in the brain. In an attempt to integrate these findings, a hypothesis is presented here whereby stress, in susceptible individuals, would precipitate age-related cognitive decline and hippocampal integrity during normal and pathological ageing, but will only affect the progression of pathological markers of Alzheimer's disease in the presence of other risk factors to this neuropathological disorder.
Exposing mammals to early-life adverse events, including maternal separation or social isolation, profoundly affects brain development and adult behaviour and may contribute to the occurrence of psychiatric disorders, such as depression and schizophrenia in genetically predisposed humans. The molecular mechanisms underlying these environmentally induced developmental adaptations are unclear and best evaluated in animal paradigms with translational salience. Rearing rat pups from weaning in isolation, to prevent social contact with conspecifics, produces reproducible, long-term changes including; neophobia, impaired sensorimotor gating, aggression, cognitive rigidity, reduced prefrontal cortical volume and decreased cortical and hippocampal synaptic plasticity. These alterations are associated with hyperfunction of mesolimbic dopaminergic systems, enhanced presynaptic dopamine (DA) and serotonergic (5-HT) function in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), hypofunction of mesocortical DA and attenuated 5-HT function in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. These behavioural, morphological and neurochemical abnormalities, as reviewed herein, strongly resemble core features of schizophrenia. Therefore unravelling the mechanisms that trigger these sequelae will improve our knowledge of the aetiology of neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders, enable identification of longitudinal biomarkers of dysfunction and permit predictive screening for novel compounds with potential antipsychotic efficacy.
Stressful events have been implicated in the precipitation of depression and anxiety. These disorders may evolve owing to one or more of an array of neuronal changes that occur in several brain regions. It seems likely that these stressor-provoked neurochemical alterations are moderated by genetic determinants, as well as by a constellation of experiential and environmental factors. Indeed, animal studies have shown that vulnerability to depressive-like behaviors involve mechanisms similar to those associated with human depression (e.g., altered serotonin, corticotropin releasing hormone and their receptors, growth factors), and that the effects of stressors are influenced by previous stressor experiences, particularly those encountered early in life. These stressor effects might reflect sensitization of neuronal functioning, phenotypic changes of processes that lead to neurochemical release or receptor sensitivity, or epigenetic processes that modify expression of specific genes associated with stressor reactivity. It is suggested that depression is a life-long disorder, which even after effective treatment, has a high rate of re-occurrence owing to sensitized processes or epigenetic factors that promote persistent alterations of gene expression.
Mirror neuron system (MNS) represents one of the most important discoveries of cognitive neuroscience in the past decade, and it has been found to involve in multiple aspects of brain functions including action understanding, imitation, language understanding, empathy, action prediction and speech evolution. This manuscript reviewed the function of MNS in action understanding as well as language evolution, and specifically assessed its roles as the bridge from body language to fluent speeches. Then we discussed the speech defects of autism patients due to the disruption of MNS. Finally, given that MNS is plastic in adult brain, we proposed MNS targeted therapy provides an efficient rehabilitation approach for brain damages conditions as well as autism patients.
Tendon reflexes have been often used in studies of the human nervous system in health and disease. They have been investigated either in response to single tendon taps or to long duration vibrations. Tendon reflexes are described here in response to a high frequency vibration burst (3 cycles of a 100 Hz sine wave) applied to the Achilles tendon of standing subjects, either in quiet stance or during a forward leaning posture. The electromyogram from the soleus muscle usually showed three components separated by 10 ms which were interpreted as being three reflexes, each reflex induced by each of the three cycles in a burst. This result indicates that soleus tendon reflexes can respond in fast succession in a phasic manner when a brief high frequency vibration is applied to the Achilles tendon. This occurs in spite of possible depression of the Ia to motoneuron synapses and the long after hyperpolarization of the motoneurons. An interpretation of the results is that motoneurons from different subsets of the motoneuron pool respond to different cycles of the sinusoidal vibratory burst.
The problem of morphine tolerance and dependence is a universal phenomenon threatening social health everywhere the world. The major objective of this paper was to investigate the effects of fruit essential oil (FEO) of Cuminum cyminum on acquisition and expression of morphine tolerance and dependence in mice. Animals were rendered dependent on morphine using the well-established method in which was morphine (50, 50, 75 mg/kg; s.c.) injected three times daily for 3 days. In experimental groups, administration of FEO (0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 0.5, 1 and 2%; 5 ml/kg; i.p.) or Tween-80 (5 ml/kg; i.p.) was performed 60 min prior to each morphine injection (for acquisition) or the last injection of morphine on test day (for expression). Morphine tolerance was measured by tail-flick before and after administration of a single dose of morphine (50 mg/kg; s.c.) in test day (4th day). Morphine dependence was also evaluated by counting the number of jumps after injection of naloxone (5 mg/kg; i.p.) on the test day. The results showed that Cumin FEO, only at the dose of 2%, significantly attenuated the development of morphine tolerance (P&lt;0.01) and dependence (P&lt;0.05) while it could be significantly effective on expression of morphine tolerance (1 and 2%) and dependence (0.5, 1 and 2%) in a dose-dependent manner. Solely Cumin FEO injection (0.001-2%) did not show any analgesic effect. In conclusion, the essential oil of Cuminum cyminum seems to ameliorate the morphine tolerance and dependence in mice.
The objective of the present study was to characterize the trkB receptor immunoreactive (-ir) cells in the intermediolateral cell column (IML) of the upper thoracic spinal cord. Small trkB-ir cells (area=56.1+/-4.4 microm(2)) observed in the IML showed characteristics of oligodendrocytes and were frequently observed in close apposition to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-ir cell bodies. Large trkB-ir cells (area=209.3+/-25.2 microm(2)) showed immunoreactivity for the neuronal marker NeuN, indicating their neuronal phenotype, as well as for ChAT, a marker for preganglionic neurons. TrkB and ChAT were co-localized in IML neurons primarily in cases that had received in vivo administration of nerve growth factor (NGF). These findings reveal two different cell types, oligodendrocytes and neurons, in the IML of the spinal cord that show trkB immunoreactivity, suggesting their regulation by brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and/or neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). In addition, there is evidence that NGF may play a role in the regulation of trkB-ir preganglionic neurons in the IML.
Long-lasting synaptic changes in transmission and morphology at the basis of memory storage, require delivery of newly synthesized proteins to affected synapses. Although many of these proteins are generated in the cell body, several key molecules for plasticity can be delivered in the form of silent mRNAs at synapses in extra somatic compartments where they are locally translated. One of such mRNAs encodes brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a key molecule in neuronal development, learning and memory. A single BDNF protein is produced from several splice variants having a different 5' untranslated region. These mRNA variants have a different subcellular localization (soma, proximal or distal dendritic compartment) and may represent a spatial code for a local control of BDNF availability. This review will highlight current knowledge on the mechanisms of spatial and temporal regulation of activity-dependent BDNF mRNA localization in dendrites in relation with synaptic plasticity.
Cannabinoids have been shown to function as protective agents via receptor-independent and/or receptor-dependent mechanisms against stressful conditions. However, the neuroprotective mechanism of cannabinoids is far from conclusive. Therefore, the genuine antioxidant impact of cannabinoids in vivo is still uncertain. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that CP55,940, a nonselective CB(1)/CB(2) cannabinoid receptor agonist, significantly protects and rescues Drosophila melanogaster against paraquat (PQ) toxicity via a receptor-independent mechanism. Interestingly, CP55,940 restores the negative geotaxis activity (i.e., climbing capability) of the fly exposed to PQ. Moreover, Drosophila fed with (1-200 microM) SP600125, a specific inhibitor of the stress responsive Jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling, and 20 mM PQ increased survival percentage and movement function (i.e., climbing capability) when compared to flies only treated with PQ. Taken together our results suggest that exogenous antioxidant cannabinoids can protect against and rescue from locomotor dysfunction in wild type (Canton-S) Drosophila exposed to stress stimuli. Therefore, cannabinoids may offer promising avenues for the design of molecules to prevent, delay, or ameliorate the treatment of population at high risk of suffering Parkinson disease.
Acute stressful events enhance plasma corticosterone release and profoundly affect synaptic functions, which are involved in the development of stress-related cognitive and mental disorders. However, how exposure to stressful context immediately after stress further modulates the physiological responses is not fully understood. Here, we found that acute stress inhibited paired-pulse facilitation in hippocampal slices of Wistar rats which were subjected to contextual fear conditioning. But such inhibition was reversed by subsequent prolonged exposure to foot-shock context or returning to home cage for 1 h. Interestingly, foot-shock stress-facilitated LTD induced by low frequency stimulation (LFS, 900 pulses at 1 Hz) was maintained by subsequent exposure to foot-shock context but was reversed by returning to home cage environment. Moreover, plasma corticosterone level was still kept higher in rats exposed to foot-shock context but not to home cage. Findings suggest that remaining in stressful environment immediately after stress maintains acute stress-facilitated LTD and higher level of neuroendocrine response. Our results also contribute to further understanding the critical role of timely intervention in mediating stress-related aversive changes in human.
Brain dopamine has often been implicated in impulsive and/or inflexible behaviors, which may reflect failures of motivational and/or cognitive control. However, the precise role of dopamine in such failures of behavioral control is not well understood, not least because they implicate paradoxical changes in distinct dopamine systems that innervate dissociable neural circuits. In addition, there are large individual differences in the response to dopaminergic drugs with some individuals benefiting from and others being impaired by the same drug. This complicates progress in the understanding of dopamine's role in behavioral control processes, but also provides a major problem for neuropsychiatry, where some individuals are disproportionately vulnerable to the adverse effects of dopamine-enhancing drugs on motivation and cognition. Recent progress is reviewed from cognitive and behavioral neuroscience research on motivation and cognitive control, which begins to elucidate the factors that mediate the complex roles of mesolimbic, mesocortical, and nigrostriatal dopamine in behavioral control.
The thalamocortical (TC) projection in the mammalian brain involves fundamental aspects in branch formation during development. TC axons are known to form branches not only in a genetically defined but also in an activity-dependent fashion. Recent evidence indicates that TC axon branching is generated by positive and negative regulators that are expressed with laminar specificity in the developing cortex. Moreover, in vitro studies using organotypic cocultures demonstrate that neural activity, including firing and synaptic activity, controls lamina-specific TC axon branching by altering its remodeling process with addition and elimination. Taken together, activity-dependent mechanisms can contribute to branch formation, affecting expression of branch-promoting and inhibiting factors and/or their receptor molecules.
The question of how we can intentionally control our behavior has an enduring fascination for philosophers, psychologists, and neurologists. Brain imaging techniques such as functional MRI have recently provided new insights into the functional and brain mechanisms involved in intentional action. However, the literature is rather contradictory and does not reveal a consistent picture of the functional neuroanatomy of intentional action. Here the authors argue that this confusion arises partly because intentional action has been treated as a unitary concept within neuroscience, even though experimental studies may focus on any of a number of different aspects of intentional action. To provide a heuristic framework for the investigation of intentional action, the authors propose a model that distinguishes three major components: a component related to the decision about which action to execute (what component), a component that is related to the decision about when to execute an action (when component), and finally the decision about whether to execute an action or not (whether component). Based on this distinction, the authors review some key findings on intentional action and provide neuroscientific evidence for the What, When, Whether (WWW) model of intentional action.
Diabetes mellitus targets the peripheral nervous system in unique but disabling ways. Although several mechanisms may target peripheral neurons, they render a degenerative pattern of damage that begins in distal terminals. Moreover, sensory neurons are involved early, motor neurons later. By studying a variety of diabetic neuropathy models in rats, mice, and other species, an overall appreciation of its neurodegeneration emerges. Understanding how mechanisms of diabetes complications target peripheral neurons selectively may offer opportunities to intervene before irretrievable neuron loss develops.
Domenico Cotugno was a famous physician who lived in Naples in the 18th century. At the age of only 25 years, he published an important book on the anatomy of the inner ear that contained some theories concerning the physiology of hearing, the later developments of which were associated with the name of Hermann von Helmholtz. Three years later, he wrote a book on the physiopathological causes of sciatic pain, in which, for the first time in medical history, he differentiated true sciatic pain from the pain attributable to secondary causes. Using a series of meticulous dissections and elegant experiments, he showed that not only brain ventricles but also the subarachnoid spaces of the cranium and spine were filled with circulating fluid, which is why cerebrospinal fluid is also known as &quot;liquor cotunnii.&quot;
Dopamine D(3) receptors (Drd3) have been implicated in the control of responding by drug-related conditioned incentive stimuli. We review recent studies of the effects of Drd3 antagonists or partial agonists on the control of self-administration of intravenous (IV) cocaine, IV morphine and oral ethanol on reward-rich and lean schedules, in reinstatement tests, on second-order schedules and on the acquisition and expression of conditioned place preference (CPP) and conditioned motor activity. For comparison, related studies where conditioned stimuli are based on nutritional reward also are considered. When self-administration depends more heavily on conditioned cues for its maintenance, for example on second-order schedules or lean ratio schedules, Drd3 antagonists or partial agonists reduce responding. Although data are limited, similar effects may be seen for responding for cues based on drugs or nutritional rewards. Drd3 agents also block the ability of conditioned cues to reinstate responding for cocaine or food. Published results suggest that Drd3 plays a more important role in the expression than in the acquisition of a CPP or conditioned motor activity. The mechanism mediating the role of Drd3 in the control of responding by conditioned incentive stimuli remains unknown but it has been found that Drd3 receptors increase in number in the nucleus accumbens during conditioning. Perhaps Drd3 participates in the molecular mechanisms underlying the role of dopamine and of dopamine receptor subtypes in reward-related incentive learning.
A major impetus in functional MRI development is to enhance sensitivity to changes in neural activity. One way to improve sensitivity is to enhance contrast to noise ratio, for instance by increasing field strength or the number of receiving coils. If these parameters are fixed, there is still the possibility to optimize scans by altering speed or signal strength [signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)]. We here demonstrate a very fast whole-brain scan, by combining a three-dimensional (3D)-PRESTO (principle of echo shifting with a train of observations) pulse sequence with a commercial eight-channel head coil and sensitivity encoding (SENSE). 3D-PRESTO uses time optimally by means of echo shifting. Moreover, 3D scans can accommodate SENSE in two directions, reducing scan time proportionally. The present PRESTO-SENSE sequence achieves full brain coverage within 500 ms. We compared this with a two-dimensional (2D) echo planar imaging (EPI) scan with identical brain coverage on 10 volunteers. Resting-state temporal SNR in the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) frequency range and T-statistics for thumb movement and visual checkerboard activations were compared. Results show improved temporal SNR across the brain for PRESTO-SENSE compared with EPI. The percentage signal change and relative standard deviation of the noise were smaller for PRESTO-SENSE. Sensitivity for brain activation, as reflected by T-values, was consistently higher for PRESTO, and this seemed to be mainly due to the increased number of observations within a fixed time period. We conclude that PRESTO accelerated with SENSE in two directions can be more sensitive to BOLD signal changes than the widely used 2D-EPI, when a fixed amount of time is available for functional MRI scanning.
Herein we first describe a novel homozygous single nucleotide deletion in PINK1 exon 4 (889delG) which results in a loss of kinase domain on the PINK1 protein (D297fsX318). This mutation was identified in two brothers with early-onset Parkinson disease (EOPD) from a Sicilian consanguineous family. Of note, while one of the two patients developed mental deterioration and psychiatric problems, the other showed no cognitive decline. The present study supports the view that PINK1 is a pathogenic gene in some Italian families with EOPD and contributes to define the PINK1-associated phenotype.

This study focused on interrelations between graphometric variables of the signature and measures of perception, cognitive function, and personality. Signatures from a sample of psychiatric and somatic outpatients (N = 205) were analyzed into 23 graphometric variables and correlated with tests of IQ, cognitive and perceptual function, and personality. The results of a factor analysis of the graphometric, perceptual, and cognitive variables were very much like results from previous studies. Relationships with the graphometric variables can be described in five categories of intelligence, psychomotility, flexibility and speed of closure, and personality. Graphometric signs of Extraversion and Neuroticism were identified, and the two capitals in the signature indicated different psychological meanings. Measurements of the signature offered important personality information.

Central nervous system (CNS) insults elevate endogenous toxins and alter levels of indicators of metabolic disorder. These contribute to neurotrauma, neurodegenerative diseases and chronic pain and are possible targets for pharmaceutical treatment. Microdialysis samples substances in the extracellular space for chemical analysis. It has demonstrated that toxic levels of glutamate are released and that toxic levels of the reactive species O(2)(-), H(2)O(2), HO. NO and HOONO are generated upon CNS injury. Agent administration by microdialysis can also help elucidate mechanisms of damage and protection, and to identify targets for clinical application. Microdialysis sampling indicates that circuits descending from the brain to the spinal cord transmit and modulate pain signals by releasing neurotransmitter amines and amino acids. Efforts are under way to develop microdialysis into a technique for intensive care monitoring and predicting outcomes of brain insults. Finally, microdialysis sampling has demonstrated in vivo elevation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor following grafting of primed fetal human neural stem cells into brain-injured rats, the first in vivo demonstration of the release of a neurotrophic factor by grafted stem cells. This increased release correlated with significantly improved spatial learning and memory.
Since its discovery less than a decade ago, interest in the hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin system has blossomed due to the diversity and importance of the roles played by these neuropeptides. Orexin neurons have widespread projections throughout the central nervous system and intense research has focused on elucidating the pathways and mechanisms by which orexins exert their diverse array of functions. Our group has recently focused on orexin inputs to the basal forebrain cholinergic system, which plays a crucial role in cognitive--particularly attentional--function. Orexin cells provide a robust input to cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and act here to modulate cortical acetylcholine release. Orexin A also increases local glutamate release within the basal forebrain, suggesting an additional, indirect effect of orexins on basal forebrain cholinergic activity. Orexin activation of the basal forebrain cholinergic system appears to be especially relevant in the context of homeostatic challenges, such as food deprivation. Thus, orexins can stimulate cortical cholinergic transmission which, in turn, may promote the detection and selection of stimuli related to physiological needs. In this manner, orexin interactions with the basal forebrain cholinergic system are likely to form a link between arousal and attention in support of the cognitive components of motivated behavior.
Impulsive acts and decisions are a part of everyday normal behavior. However, in its pathological forms, impulsivity can be a debilitating disorder often associated with a number of neuropsychiatric disorders, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This article reviews recent progress in our understanding of the neurobiology of impulsivity using examples from recent investigations in experimental animals. Evidence is reviewed from several well-established paradigms with putative utility in assessing distinct forms of impulsive behavior in rodents, including the 5-choice serial reaction time (5CSRT) task and the delay discounting paradigm. We discuss, in particular, recent psychopharmacological and in-vivo neurochemical data in task-performing rats showing functional heterogeneity of the forebrain dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA), serotonin (5-HT) and acetylcholine (ACh) systems and identify how these systems normally function to facilitate flexible goal-directed behavior in situations that tax basic attentional functions and inhibitory response control mechanisms. We also discuss future research needs in terms of understanding the functional diversity of different sub-regions of prefrontal cortex (PFC) and how these systems normally interact with the striatum and main nuclei of origin of DA and NA neurons. Finally, we argue in line with others that animal paradigms are unlikely to model all aspects of complex psychiatric conditions such as ADHD but components of such syndromes may be amenable to investigation using sophisticated animal models based on highly-defined psychiatric endophenotypes.
Aberrant functioning of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis seems to be involved in depression and anxiety. However, the mechanisms underlying the relationship between stress and mental illness are not completely resolved yet. The therapeutical efficacy of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors and benzodiazepines points to a key role of serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in depression and anxiety. Thus, it can be hypothesised that stress-induced changes in serotonin and GABA contribute to a dysregulation of the HPA axis and to the development of psychiatric disorders in susceptible subjects. It will, therefore, be crucial to increase our understanding of the effects of stress on serotonin and GABA. Various refinements have made in vivo microdialysis an extremely powerful method to study the highly dynamic neurotransmitter responses in stress physiology and behaviour. Furthermore, microdialysis can also be used to measure free corticosterone levels in the brain and, thus, HPA axis activity and neurotransmission can be monitored concomitantly. Here we review the effects of acute and chronic stress on serotonin and GABA, as assessed by microdialysis, in the hippocampus; a brain structure critically involved in the behavioural and neuroendocrine responses to stress. From the microdialysis data discussed, it can be concluded that both serotonin and GABA in the hippocampus are highly responsive to stress, but also that these responses are shaped by the exact nature of the stressor, i.e. the balance between the psychological and physical aspects of the stressful challenge.
Although quality of life is difficult to define clearly, a number of instruments and questionnaires have been developed and applied to patients who have amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This article reviews the spectrum of quality-of-life questionnaires and instruments used for ALS and the data generated from them. It discusses positive and negative factors that can affect quality of life for the patient and caregiver and concludes with suggestions for ongoing management to enhance quality of life.
Motor unit number estimation (MUNE) is a unique electrophysiologic test used to estimate the number of surviving motor units in a muscle or group of muscles. It is used most frequently to monitor lower motor neuron loss in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscle atrophy. Of particular interest is its use as an endpoint measure in clinical trials for these diseases. This article describes the principles of MUNE and the factors that need to be considered, and reviews several techniques that have been used in clinical trials and in monitoring progression. It then reviews experience with MUNE in clinical trials for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscle atrophy and discusses how MUNE correlates with measures of function.

Patients complaining of symptoms of acute vertigo present a diagnostic challenge for the clinician; the main differential diagnoses are acute unilateral peripheral vestibulopathy (&quot;vestibular neuritis&quot;), cerebellar stroke or migraine. The head impulse test is useful in the acute situation because, of these three diagnostic alternatives, it will only be positive in patients with vestibular neuritis. A history of acute vertigo and hearing loss suggests Mnire's disease but the clinician must be wary of anterior inferior cerebellar artery strokes which may cause audiovestibular loss due to peripheral vestibulocochleal ischaemia, although the accompanying brainstem signs should remove diagnostic ambiguity. We also discuss other less common vertigo diagnoses that may be referred to the neurologist from the acute general hospital take. As ever in neurology, a careful history and focussed examination is necessary in the evaluation and management of acute vertigo.
Several exciting approaches for restorative therapy in Parkinson's disease have emerged over the past two decades. This review initially describes experimental and clinical data regarding growth factor administration. We focus on glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), particularly its role in neuroprotection and in regeneration in Parkinson's disease. Thereafter, we discuss the challenges currently facing cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease and briefly consider the possibility to continue testing intrastriatal transplantation of fetal dopaminergic progenitors clinically. We also give a more detailed overview of the developmental biology of dopaminergic neurons and the potential of certain stem cells, i.e. neural and embryonic stem cells, to differentiate into dopaminergic neurons. Finally, we discuss adult neurogenesis as a potential tool for restoring lost dopamine neurons in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease was first described in 1817 by James Parkinson. It is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, affecting the nigrostriatal pathways involved in the control of movement. Since the introduction of L-DOPA as a therapy in the mid-1960s, clinical management of the symptoms has progressed, but, at present, it remains impossible to stop the disease progression or to restore lost functions. A better understanding of neurodegeneration and of midbrain neuronal development has allowed the development of new pharmaceutical compounds with neuroprotective properties and has shown the potential of neurone replacement therapies in Parkinson's disease. Even though major obstacles remain before these can be transferred to the clinic, the progress made in the last 10 years brings hope of improved therapies for Parkinson's disease. In this paper we review the current knowledge of Parkinson's disease including its etiology, some of the current symptomatic therapeutic modalities, and recent progress in neuroprotective and cell replacement therapies.
Previous studies support the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), in overweight patients with Binge Eating Disorder (BED), but results are far from conclusive. Sertraline has been studied less extensively, and there have been a few studies concerning SSRIs that report follow-up data at more than 12 weeks of follow-up. The present study assesses the effectiveness of sertraline and fluoxetine over a period of 24 weeks in obese patients with BED (DSM-IV-TR). Forty-two obese outpatients were randomized and assigned to one of two different drug treatments: 22 were treated with sertraline (dose range: 100-200 mg/day) and 20 with fluoxetine (dose range: 40-80 mg/day). Subjects were assessed at baseline and at 8, 12, and 24 weeks of treatment for binge frequency, weight loss, and severity of psychopathology. No significant differences were found between the two treatments. After 8 weeks of treatment a significant improvement in the Binge Eating Scale score and a significant weight loss emerged. These results were maintained by responders (weigh loss of at least 5% of baseline weight) over 24 weeks. The results suggest that a 6-month treatment with SSRI may be an effective option to treat patients with BED.
Antidepressant drugs and electroconvulsive seizure (ECS)-treatment, an animal model of electroconvulsive therapy, induce neurogenesis in adult rats. Stress and high levels of corticosterone (CORT) on the contrary inhibit neurogenesis. Hippocampal neurogenesis has been described to occur in an angiogenic niche where proliferation of neural progenitors takes place in an environment with active vascular growth. Here we investigate the effect of ECS-treatment on the proliferation of endothelial cells and neuronal precursors in hippocampus of CORT-treated rats. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to identify dividing cells. The number of newborn neuronal precursors and endothelial cells was quantified in the subgranular zone (SGZ) and the molecular layer (ML) of the dentate gyrus. The increase in neuronal precursor proliferation in the SGZ following ECS-treatment was not inhibited by elevated levels of CORT despite CORT strongly inhibiting ECS-induced endothelial cell proliferation. Also in the ML CORT-treatment inhibited the ECS-induced angiogenic response. We conclude that despite common factors regulating neurogenesis and angiogenesis, ECS-induced proliferation of neuronal precursors can take place even if the angiogenic response is blunted. Whether inhibition of angiogenesis affects other steps in the chain of events leading to the formation of fully integrated granule neurons remains to be elucidated.

The mechanism by which chronic administration of olanzapine induces a marked weight gain in patients with schizophrenia remains unknown. We examined the influence of long-term treatment with olanzapine on plasma levels of hormones regulating food intake and energy homeostasis in schizophrenia. In this study, olanzapine was administered to 28 Japanese inpatients for 16 weeks after switching from typical antipsychotic drugs or risperidone. At endpoint, no significant changes in body weight or body mass index were found. There was a significant decrease in the plasma levels of ghrelin without any accompanying change in active, n-octanoylated ghrelin. Serum levels of leptin tended to be increased and a significant reduction in plasma cortisol levels was found. In addition, the levels of fasting blood sugar as well as free fatty acid were significantly decreased. Furthermore, we did not confirm any marked weight gain induced by chronic administration of olanzapine as previously reported. The reason for this discrepancy may be due to differences in subjects and treatment settings. Based on these findings, it is unlikely that the decrease in plasma ghrelin levels by chronic administration of olanzapine affects weight gain. Further studies examining the effect of chronic olanzapine administration on weight and energy homeostasis in inpatients are required.
This study investigated GABA signaling following induction of behavioural sensitization to nicotine. Rats were repeatedly injected with saline, nicotine or hexamethonium for 18 days and gene expression was measured with qPCR. Nicotine upregulated GABAA alpha1 subunit expression in the nucleus accumbens (p&lt;0.05) while no changes were observed for GABAA alpha3, alpha4 or alpha5. In the medial prefrontal cortex, no change in expression of the GABAA subunits was observed. We found that nicotine significantly decreased expression of the transporter GAT-1/SLC6A1 (p&lt;0.05) in the medial prefrontal cortex while the expression of the GAT-3/SLC6A11 (p&lt;0.05) transporter was increased in the nucleus accumbens. This provides the first evidence of neuroadaptive changes in the GABA system after nicotine sensitization and the first demonstration of an effect on GAT-1 or GAT-3 transporters in the addiction field. The GAT-1 findings also provide evidence for an alternative theory of why most schizophrenic individuals also use tobacco products.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a short-lived signaling molecule that mediates a variety of biological functions, including vascular homeostasis, neurotransmission, antimicrobial defense and antitumor activities. Three known NOS isoforms (eNOS, nNOS and iNOS) have been cloned and sequenced. Here, we show that upon expression in Escherichia coli using a novel expression vector, an iNOS sequence containing three mutations (A805D, F831S and L832P) within the iNOS reductase domain produced very little functionally active iNOS protein compared to the wild type (wt) iNOS. Each of these point mutations also was individually constructed into the wt iNOS sequence. The activity of the iNOS protein containing the A805D mutation was comparable to wt, while a drastic reduction in iNOS activity was observed for the F831S and L832P mutants. A comparison of the molecular models of the reductase domain of the wt and mutant iNOS revealed a reduced core packing density for the F831S and L832P mutations compared to wt. In addition, the modeling also suggests altered hydrogen bonding, van der Waals and hydrophobic interactions of these mutants.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the trace amine associated receptor trace amine associated receptor 6 gene and 3' flanking region have been shown to be associated with schizophrenia. To replicate these findings, we conducted a family-based association study with the five most significant SNPs in our sample of 79 sib-pair families (56/79 sib-pair families showed linkage to 6q23) and 125 triads. No evidence for association was obtained between these SNPs and schizophrenia in our sample, even when limited to the 56 linked families (P&gt;0.2). We conclude that trace amine associated receptor 6 is not important for the development of schizophrenia in our family samples.


To investigate prevalence estimates of restless legs syndrome (RLS) in relation to insomnia complaints and daytime distress a questionnaire was sent to a randomly selected sample of 1962 inhabitants of Uppsala, Sweden. The questionnaire included questions about sleep and daytime distress and the standardized four-question set for epidemiological settings recommended by the International RLS Study Group. A positive diagnosis of RLS was established in 18.8% of all responders. When the optional question about frequency was applied 5.8% reported frequent symptoms. Insomnia symptoms and daytime distress were significantly associated with the frequency of RLS symptoms.

Type 1 diabetes may be associated with a mild decline in cognitive function and mostly in mental speed. In order to study the pathophysiology of this, we have investigated auditory event-related potentials (AERP) and their relation to cognitive function in diabetes patients. AERP was recorded in patients with type 1 diabetes (n=119) and in a healthy control group (n=61). AERP was obtained with an odd-ball and a two-stimulus paradigm. Cognitive function was evaluated in 10 domains in the patients. Patients had normal N100 latency, but a highly significant decrease in auditory N100 amplitude (p&lt;10(-6)), which correlated with a decrease in psychomotor speed but not with function in other domains. Psychomotor speed also correlated with P300 amplitude, although P300 amplitude was only slightly decreased in the patients. Even stronger correlations were found with the parietal N100-P300 peak-to-peak amplitude, which correlated both to psychomotor speed (rho=0.61, p&lt;10(-7)) and processing speed (p&lt;0.005). P300 latency was increased in patients, and this correlated to low global cognitive score and older age. We conclude that the decline in psychomotor speed in type 1 diabetes is associated with a highly significant decrease in the auditory N100 peak amplitude. This association and the relatively small abnormality in P300 latency is quite different from those generally found in dementia, and suggest that the underlying defect is located in the brain stem or the white matter. Presumably small conduction defects in ascending fibers can distort the firing synchrony necessary for signal generation in the cortex.
Puberty is a period in which cerebral white matter grows considerably, whereas gray matter decreases. The first endocrinological marker of puberty in both boys and girls is an increased secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH). Here we investigated the phenotypic association between LH, global and focal gray and white matter in 104 healthy nine-year-old monozygotic and dizygotic twins. Volumetric MRI and voxel-based morphometry were applied to measure global gray and white matter and to estimate relative concentrations of regional cerebral gray and white matter, respectively. A possible common genetic origin of this association (genetic correlation) was examined. Results showed that higher LH levels are associated with a larger global white matter proportion and with higher regional white matter density. Areas of increased white matter density included the cingulum, middle temporal gyrus and splenium of the corpus callosum. No association between LH and global gray matter proportion or regional gray matter density was found. Our data indicate that a common genetic factor underlies the association between LH level and regional white matter density. We suggest that the increase of white matter growth during puberty reported earlier might be directly or indirectly mediated by LH production. In addition, genes involved in LH production may be promising candidate genes in neuropsychiatric illnesses with an onset in early adolescence.



Until now it has been a commonly held view that numbers are represented abstractly in the human brain. However, a recent imaging study challenged the existence of an abstract representation at least of digits and number words, at the brain level, and argued that previous studies and paradigms were not sensitive enough to detect deviations from abstract representation at the behavioural level. The current study addressed this issue with an analysis of distance and sequential effects in magnitude classification. Previous studies that used this paradigm did not find deviation from abstract representation for digits and number words (e.g., Dehaene, 1996; Schwarz &amp; Ischebeck, 2000). However, in the current study a short stimulus-response interval was used, which reduced subjective expectancy and increased automatic processing. The current results showed deviation from abstract representation in both reaction time and accuracy and therefore support the idea that nonabstract representations of numbers do exist.

Actinomycosis is an unusual and unrecognized cause of spinal cord compression of infectious origin. We report the case of a 57-year-old immunocompetent woman admitted for sub-acute lower limb ataxia. The diagnosis of spinal cord compression secondary to actinomyces infectious arthritis was established. Surgical decompression and long-term antibiotic treatment enabled complete recovery. Data from the literature indicate that actinomycosis is a potential cause of several neurological manifestations. Unusual but treatable, actinomycosis is a potential alternative when the main etiologies have been ruled out.
REM sleep behavior disorders (RBD) are vigorous, complex movements corresponding to enacted dreams. They may disturb sleep, and injure the patients or their bed partner. RBD are frequently associated with neurodegenerative diseases, especially synucleopathies. They can precede parkinsonism or dementia by five to 10 years. These presymptomatic RBDs are frequently associated with EEG slowing, reduced olfaction, mild visuospatial cognitive impairment, and decreased dopamine transport in functional brain imaging. In Parkinson's disease, 15 to 60% patients speak, laugh, shout, kick, punch or fight invisible enemies during REM sleep. In contrast to sleepwalkers, patients with RBD rarely stand up or walk, but can fall out of bed. Sleep monitoring indicates an imperfect abolition of muscle tone during REM sleep in these patients. RBD are probably caused by nondopaminergic pontine lesions in the REM sleep atonia system. This condition may also expose patients with Parkinson's disease to a higher risk of daytime and nighttime hallucinations, and to more frequent cognitive impairment. Interestingly, several spouses reported that they observed a sharp contrast between the slow, limited movements, and poorly intelligible, low voice of their affected spouse when awake, and the fast, vigorous movements with loud voice that the very same patient exhibited during enacted dreams. We recently demonstrated that parkinsonism indeed disappears during RBD, in a large study combining the interview of 100 couples and the sleep and video monitoring of 50 patients. The mechanism of this improvement is now being explored.
Clearly the patient's history is paramount in determining whether a headache belongs in the migraine, chronic tension-type or other category. The multiple conditions in the other category can sometimes make definitive diagnosis a daunting challenge. Laboratory testing looking for hematologic or metabolic abnormalities may be advised, and brain imaging may be required. If an acute hemorrhage is anticipated, an unenhanced CAT scan may be sufficient. Relative to other pathologic possibilities, a MRI generally provides more specific and useful information. This is especially true when seeking to rule out a tumor or vascular abnormality (in which case a MRA, as well as a MRI, may be helpful). Most lay people recognize that headaches may, at least potentially, have a serious cause. Indeed, many patients with severe migraine and chronic tension-type headaches are greatly relieved to learn that some ominous pathology is not present. Of course, clinicians also worry about the causes of headache and are fearful of missing some potentially serious underlying pathology. Utilization of the conceptual framework of migraine, chronic tension-type or other headache does not guarantee an accurate diagnosis. But this approach can help, especially when the clinician appreciates the importance of an accurate patient history. Such focus can guide the determination of whether to initiate empiric treatment or to embark on a definitive diagnostic evaluation. Headaches are common, sometimes disabling and potential harbingers of dreaded pathology. Thoughtful assessment of every patient with headache is warranted.

The study of corpus callosal morphometry is important to unravel the underlying connectivity disturbance in schizophrenia. We studied the corpus callosal area in schizophrenia subjects compared to healthy subjects, while controlling for several confounders that could affect morphometric measures of the corpus callosum (CC). Areas of the whole CC and its sub-regions obtained by two geometric partitioning schemes were studied in 23 right-handed neuroleptic-nave, recent-onset, schizophrenia patients and compared with 23 right-handed age-, sex- and education-matched healthy subjects. The patients did not differ from controls in whole CC area. On tripartite division of the CC, the area of the anterior sub-region was significantly higher in patients compared to controls. On radial division into 5 sub-regions, the anterior truncus area was significantly higher in patients compared to controls. There was a significant effect of gender (F&gt;M) on the area measures; however there was no significant diagnosis()gender effect. Age, age of onset, duration of illness and psychopathology ratings did not show any significant correlations with whole CC area and area of CC sub-regions. The finding of increased area of the anterior truncus that possibly comprises white fibres connecting the temporal association cortices could be indicative of an &quot;abnormal functional hyperconnection&quot; involving these regions in positive symptom schizophrenia. Additionally, the finding of females having larger areas of the whole CC and of the anterior and middle sub-regions could reflect a &quot;normal hyperconnection&quot; underlying increased ambilaterality in females.
Altered expression of structural and functional molecules expressed by astrocytes may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. We investigated the hypothesis that the astrocytic enzyme glutamine synthetase, involved in maintaining the glutamate-glutamine cycle, and the cytoskeletal molecule glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) are abnormally expressed in schizophrenia. We used Western blot analysis to measure levels of glutamine synthetase and GFAP in several brain regions of subjects with schizophrenia and a comparison group. We found that glutamine synthetase protein expression was significantly decreased in the superior temporal gyrus, and both glutamine synthetase and GFAP were significantly reduced in the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia. Neither molecule demonstrated altered expression in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, primary visual cortex, or hippocampus. Chronic treatment with haloperidol did not alter the expression of these molecules in the rat brain, suggesting that our findings are not due to a medication effect. These data support an astrocytic component to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and suggest that astrocytic molecules involved in enzymatic activity and cytoskeletal integrity may have a role in disease-related abnormalities in this illness.

Visual masking deficit in schizophrenia has been suggested to be a potential vulnerability marker for schizophrenia. An important characteristic of a vulnerability marker is stability over time, but relatively little is known about the longitudinal course of masking performance of schizophrenia patients. In this study, we examined the stability of visual masking performance in recent-onset schizophrenia patients over an 18-month period. We administered both forward and backward masking trials with multiple stimulus onset asynchronies for four masking conditions at three time points (baseline, 6-month, and 18-month). Recent-onset schizophrenia patients showed stable masking performance for both forward and backward conditions over a period of 18 months. Furthermore, the stable performance was observed across all four masking conditions. The findings of this study provide further support for the view that visual masking deficits reflect a possible vulnerability marker for schizophrenia.
A number of studies show deficits in early-stage visual processing in schizophrenia. Deficits are also seen at more complex levels, such as ability to discriminate faces. This study investigated the &quot;face inversion&quot; effect, which reflects intrinsic cortical processing within the ventral visual stream, as well as contrast sensitivity, which reflects low-level visual processing, in order to evaluate integrity of specific stages of face processing in schizophrenia. Patients with schizophrenia and controls discriminated between pairs of upright or inverted faces or houses that had been manipulated to differ in the shape of the parts or the spatial distance among parts. The duration threshold for above chance performance on upright stimuli was obtained for patients using a house discrimination task. Contrast sensitivity was assessed for gratings of three spatial frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 21 cycles/degree. Patients needed significantly longer time to obtain 70% correct for upright stimuli and showed decreased contrast sensitivity. Increased duration threshold correlated with reduced contrast sensitivity to low (magnocellular-biased) but not medium or high spatial frequency stimuli. Using increased durations, patients showed significant inversion effects that were equivalent to those of controls on the face part and spacing tasks. Like controls, patients did not show inversion effects on the house tasks. These findings show that patients have difficulty integrating visual information as shown by increased duration thresholds. However, when faces were presented at these longer duration thresholds, patients showed the same relative processing ability for upright vs. inverted faces as controls, suggesting preserved intrinsic processing within cortical face processing regions. Similar inversion effects for face part and spacing for both groups suggest that they are using the same holistic face processing mechanism.

While a number of studies have shown that individuals with schizophrenia are impaired on various types of prospective memory, few studies have examined the relationship between subjective and objective measures of this construct in this clinical group. The purpose of the current study was to explore the relationship between computer-based prospective memory tasks and the corresponding subjective complaints in patients with schizophrenia, individuals with schizotypal personality features, and healthy volunteers. The findings showed that patients with schizophrenia demonstrated significantly poorer performance in all domains of memory function except visual memory than individuals with schizotypal personality disorder and healthy controls. More importantly, there was a significant interaction effect of prospective memory type and group. Although patients with schizophrenia were found to show significantly poorer performance on computer-based measures of prospective memory than controls, their level of subjective complaint was not found to be significantly higher. While subjective complaints of prospective memory were found to associate significantly with self-reported executive dysfunctions, significant relationships were not found between these complaints and performance on a computer-based task of prospective memory and other objective measures of memory. Taken together, these findings suggest that subjective and objective measures of prospective memory are two distinct domains that might need to be assessed and addressed separately.
The reported prevalence of cavum septum pellucidum (CSP), is extremely variable (from 0.1% to 85%) depending upon the measurement method or imaging resolution. Higher prevalence of CSP has been found in schizophrenia. In this study, we examined the prevalence of CSP in a large number of first-episode schizophrenia patients, young relatives of schizophrenia patients and healthy controls. We manually measured CSP using 1.5 mm T1 MRI scans from ongoing studies at University of Pittsburgh in 89 first-episode patients with schizophrenia (age=23.8+/-7.4, M/F=61/28), 64 genetically at-risk individuals (offspring and siblings of schizophrenia patients, age 15.2+/-3.7, M/F=29/32) and 120 comparison subjects (n=120, age=22.1+/-7.9, M/F62/50). CSP was present in 64% of the first-episode patients (mean length 1.87+/-2.3 mm), 64.6% of the at-risk individuals (1.64+/-1.96 mm) and 64.2% of the normal controls (1.88+/-2.0 mm). There was no difference in the prevalence of CSP exceeding 4 mm. We also did not find any influence of the sex or age in the presence or size of CSP. Our data cast doubt on the significance of CSP as markers of neurodevelopmental pathology in schizophrenia.

Learning and memory traditionally have been associated with cellular processes occurring in a specialized region of the brain called the hippocampus. However, recent data have provided strong evidence to suggest that comparable processes are also expressed in the spinal cord. Experiments performed mainly in spinal cord-transected animals have reported that, indeed, spinal-mediated functions, such as the stretch or flexion reflex, pain signaling, micturition, or locomotion, may undergo plasticity changes associated with partial functional recovery that occur spontaneously or conditionally. Many of the underlying cellular mechanisms strikingly resemble those found in the hippocampus. This mini-review reports, mainly, animal data that support the idea that other areas of the central nervous system, such as the spinal cord, can also learn and remember.
The cognitive neuroscience of semantics has focused largely on object knowledge. By contrast, spatial semantics, especially as related to language, has received little attention. Spatial thought and language gives our semantic system a rich texture by introducing relational thinking and greater levels of abstraction than is evoked by object semantics. This article describes the neural instantiation of spatial thought and language based on imaging and lesion studies. We underscore two functional-anatomical organizational principles. First, perceptual and conceptual representations have a parallel organizational structure within the nervous system. Lateral temporal cortices are important for manners of motion, action representations, and action verbs. More dorsal regions are important for paths of motion, locative representations, and prepositions. Second, posterior perceptual representations serve as points of entry for more anterior and centripetally located peri-Sylvian conceptual and linguistic representations.
Serial neonatal and infant electroencephalographic (EEG)-polysomnographic studies document the ontogeny of cerebral and noncerebral physiologic behaviors based on visual inspection or computer analyses. EEG patterns and their relationship to other physiologic signals serve as templates for normal brain organization and maturation, subserving multiple interconnected neuronal networks. Interpretation of serial EEG-sleep patterns also helps track the continuity of brain functions from intrauterine to extrauterine time periods. Recognition of the ontogeny of behavioral and electrographic patterns provides insight into the developmental neurophysiological expression of neural plasticity. Sleep ontogenesis from neonatal and infancy periods documents expected patterns of postnatal brain maturation, which allows for alterations from genetically programmed neuronal processes under stressful and/or pathological conditions. Automated analyses of cerebral and noncerebral signals provide time- and frequency-dependent computational phenotypes of brain organization and maturation in healthy or diseased states. Research pertaining to the developmental origins of health and disease can use these computational phenotypes to design longitudinal studies for the assessment of gene-environment interactions. Computational strategies may ultimately improve our diagnostic skills to identify special-needs children and to track the neurorehabilitative care of the high-risk fetus, neonate, and infant.
A significant part of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) practice in neuroscience is spent in front of computer screens. To investigate the brain neuroscientists work with digital images. This paper recovers practical dealings with brain scans in fMRI laboratories to focus on the achievement of seeing in the digital realm. While looking at brain images, neuroscientists gesture and manipulate digital displays to manage and make sense of their experimental data. Their gestural engagements are seen as dynamical phenomenal objects enacted at the junction between the digital world of technology and the world of embodied action.
