Various psychiatric disorders are characterized by elevated levels of impulsivity. Although extensive evidence supports a specific role of striatal, but not frontal dopamine (DA) in human impulsivity, recent studies on genetic variability have raised some doubts on such a role. Importantly, impulsivity consists of two dissociable components that previous studies have failed to separate: functional and dysfunctional impulsivity. We compared participants with a genetic predisposition to have relatively high striatal DA levels (DAT1 9-repeat carriers, DRD2 C957T T/T homozygotes, and DRD4 7-repeat carriers) with participants with other genetic predispositions. We predicted that the first group would show high scores of dysfunctional, but not functional, self-reported impulsivity and greater difficulty in inhibiting a behavioral response to a stop-signal, a behavioral measure of impulsivity. In a sample of 130 healthy adults, we studied the relation between DAT1, DRD4, and C957T polymorphism at the DRD2 gene (polymorphisms related to striatal DA) and catechol-Omethyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met (a polymorphism related to frontal DA) on self-reported dysfunctional and functional impulsivity, assessed by the Dickman impulsivity inventory (DII), and the efficiency of inhibitory control, assessed by the stop-signal paradigm. DRD2 C957T T/T homozygotes and DRD4 7-repeat carriers indeed had significantly higher scores on self-reported dysfunctional, but not functional, impulsivity. T/T homozygotes were also less efficient in inhibiting prepotent responses. Our findings support the claim that dopaminergic variation affects dysfunctional impulsivity. This is in line with the notion that the over-supply of striatal DA might weaken inhibitory pathways, thereby enhancing the activation of, and the competition between responses.
Stress is one of the important factors to activate the sympathetic nervous system. We recently reported that central administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), known as a stress-related neuropeptide, increases the expression of both cyclooxygenase (COX) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in presympathetic neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN). In the present study, therefore, we investigated whether brain COX and NOS can also mediate restraint stress (RS)-induced sympathetic activation by assessing the plasma catecholamine levels and neuronal activation of presympathetic neurons in the PVN. In addition, we examined effects of RS on the expression of both COX and NOS isozymes in the presympathetic PVN neurons. Intraperitoneal administration of an inhibitor for COX-1, COX-2 or inducible NOS (iNOS), but not for neuronal NOS (nNOS), reduced RS-induced elevation of plasma catecholamine levels and Fos expression in the presympathetic PVN neurons. Moreover, RS increased the expression of COX-1, COX-2 and iNOS in the presympathetic PVN neurons, whereas nNOS expression did not change. These results suggest that COX-1, COX-2 and iNOS in the presympathetic PVN neurons mediate acute RS-induced sympathetic activation.
Neuregulin 1 (NRG1), which has been implicated in the development of schizophrenia, is expressed widely throughout the brain and influences key neurodevelopmental processes such as myelination and neuronal migration. The heterozygous transmembrane domain Nrg1 mutant mouse (Nrg1 TM HET) exhibits a neurobehavioural phenotype relevant for schizophrenia research, characterized by the development of locomotor hyperactivity, social withdrawal, increased sensitivity to environmental manipulation, and changes to the serotonergic system. As only limited data are available on the learning and memory performance of Nrg1 TM HET mice, we conducted a comprehensive examination of these mice and their wild type-like littermates in a variety of paradigms, including fear conditioning (FC), radial arm maze (RAM), Y maze, object exploration and passive avoidance (PA). Male neuregulin 1 hypomorphic mice displayed impairments in the novel object recognition and FC tasks, including reduced interest in the novel object and reduced FC to a context, but not a discrete cue. These cognitive deficits were task-specific, as no differences were seen between mutant and control mice in spatial learning (i.e. RAM and Y maze) for both working and reference memory measures, or in the PA paradigm. These findings indicate that neuregulin 1 plays a moderate role in cognition and present further behavioural validation of this genetic mouse model for the schizophrenia candidate gene neuregulin 1.
Regeneration of sensory neurons is limited in response to lesion of their central axons when compared to lesion of their peripheral axons. To identify transcriptional changes underlying this differential regenerative response between dorsal root and spinal nerve axons, the L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of adult rats was investigated three days after crushing the respective nerve branches by performing high density genome oligonucleotide microarrays. RT-PCR, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry confirmed the up-regulation of the vasodilator peptide apelin in non-neuronal cells of the DRG after dorsal root but not after spinal nerve lesion. Induction of apelin mRNA and peptide is accompanied by increased vascular permeability around neuronal cell bodies as demonstrated by Evans-blue albumin (EBA) leakage. Enhanced vasodilation and increased vascular permeability cause intraganglionic edema, which may play a key role in the reduced axonal regeneration rate after dorsal root injury.
Replacement therapy with buprenorphine is clinically effective in reducing withdrawal and craving for heroin during detoxification but not in decreasing the probability of relapse after detoxification. This study examined the acute effects of buprenorphine on brain responses to heroin-related cues to reveal the neurobiological and therapeutic mechanisms of addiction and relapse. Fifteen heroin addicts at a very early period of abstinence, were studied in two separate periods 10-15 min apart: an early period (5-45 min) and a later period (60-105 min) after sublingual buprenorphine, roughly covering the onset and peak of buprenorphine plasma level. During both periods, fMRI scanning with heroin-related visual stimuli were performed followed by questionnaires. Under effect of buprenorphine, brain responses to heroin-related cues showed decrease in amygdala, hippocampus, ventral tegmental area (VTA) and thalamus but no changes in ventral striatum and orbital-prefrontal-parietal cortices. As an uncontrolled trial, these preliminary results suggest that buprenorphine has specific brain targets in reducing withdrawal and craving during early abstinence, and that ventral striatum and orbital-prefrontal-parietal cortices may be the key targets in developing therapy for drug addiction and relapse.
Here we studied the role of peripheral adenosine A(2A) receptors in mechanical hyperalgesia during inflammation using mice lacking the A(2A) receptors. Unilateral s.c. administration of the local inflammatory agent -carrageenan induced profound mechanical hyperalgesia 24 h after administration in the ipsilateral hind paw in wild-type mice. In homozygous mice lacking the A(2A) receptors, carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia was significantly reduced compared to wild type controls. The reduction in inflammatory hyperalgesia seen in A(2A) receptor knock-out mice was not associated with changes in paw edema. CGS 21680, a selective A(2A) receptor agonist, produced significantly more mechanical hyperalgesia in wild type females than in wild type males upon direct s.c. injection into the hindpaw whereas it had no effect upon systemic administration. The hyperalgesic effect of CGS 21680 was markedly reduced in the A(2A) knock-out mice of both sexes. Subcutaneous ZM-241,385, a selective A(2A) receptor antagonist, injected into the hindpaw reduced the mechanical hyperalgesia following carrageenan in female mice, but not in males. The results indicate that activation of peripheral adenosine A(2A) receptors during inflammation is associated with mechanical hyperalgesia, and that this effect is more prominent in females than in males.
In this work we have analyzed the targets of the GABAergic afferents to the main olfactory bulb originating in the basal forebrain of the rat. We combined anterograde tracing of 10 kD biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) injected in the region of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca that projects to the main olfactory bulb, with immunocytochemical detection of GABA under electron microscopy or vesicular GABA transporter (vGABAt) under confocal fluorescent microscopy. GABAergic afferents were identified as double labeled BDA-GABA boutons. Their targets were identified by their ultrastructure and GABA content. We found that GABAergic afferents from the basal forebrain were distributed all over the bulbar lamination, but were more abundant in the glomerular and inframitral layers (i.e. internal plexiform layer and granule cell layer). The fibers had thick varicosities with abundant mitochondria and large perforated synaptic specializations. They contacted exclusively GABAergic cells, corresponding to type 1 periglomerular cells in the glomerular layer, and to granule cells in inframitral layers. This innervation will synchronize the bulbar inhibition and consequently the response of the principal cells to the olfactory input. The effect of the activation of this pathway will produce a disinhibition of the bulbar principal cells. This facilitation might occur at two separate levels: first in the terminal tufts of mitral and tufted cells via inhibition of type 1 periglomerular cells; second at the level of the firing of the principal cells via inhibition of granule cells. The GABAergic projection from the basal forebrain ends selectively on interneurons, specifically on type 1 periglomerular cells and granule cells, and is likely to control the activity of the olfactory bulb via disinhibition of principal cells. Possible similarities of this pathway with the septo-hippocampal loop are discussed.
Galanin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are among the most abundant neuropeptides in the hypothalamus. The role of NPY and galanin in the regulation of the secretory activity of the anterior pituitary has been well established. In addition, the two peptides interact with a number of neurons synthesizing the releasing and inhibiting hormones and a large number of other neuropeptides. The aim of the present studies was to explore if, as in rodents, NPY innervates galanin-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the human diencephalon. Due to the long post mortem period and subsequent lack of optimal preservation of the cell membranes in the brain, electron microscopy could not be employed to show the presence of NPY-IR synapses on galanin-IR neurons. Therefore, we used light microscopic double label immunocytochemistry and high magnification microscopy with oil immersion to identify putative juxtapositions between NPY and galanin. Our studies show that similarly to rats, numerous NPY-IR nerve terminals surrounded galanin-IR neurons in the human hypothalamus. Among the hypothalamic regions, the infundibulum (infundibular or arcuate nucleus) contained the largest number of galanin-IR neurons heavily surrounded with NPY-IR nerve terminals. These en passant-type intimate associations between NPY-IR and galanin-IR neuronal elements may be functional synapses and may provide the morphological basis for the NPY-mediated galanin release. Consequently, NPY-galanin communication may mediate effects of NPY on neuronal systems innervated by galanin, and therefore may play a pivotal role in the regulation of reproduction, growth, energy and metabolism.
Chemical coding of sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) suggests that the chemical content of subpopulations of SPN can define their function. Since neuropeptides, once synthesized are transported to the axon terminal, most demonstrated chemical coding has been identified using immunoreactive terminals at the target organ. Here, we use a different approach to identify and quantify the subpopulations of SPN that contain the mRNA for pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) or enkephalin. Using double-labeled immunohistochemistry combined with in situ hybridization (ISH) we firstly identified the distribution of these mRNAs in the spinal cord and determined quantitatively, in Sprague-Dawley rats, that many SPN at the T4-T10 spinal level contain preproPACAP (PPP+, 80  3%, n=3), whereas a very small percentage contain preproenkephalin (PPE+, 4  2%, n=4). A similar neurochemical distribution was found at C8-T3 spinal level. These data suggest that PACAP potentially regulates a large number of functions dictated by SPN whereas enkephalins are involved in few functions. We extended the study to explore those SPN that control adrenal chromaffin cells. We found 97  5% of adrenally projecting SPN (AP-SPN) to be PPP+ (n=4) with only 47  3% that were PPE+ (n=5). These data indicate that adrenally projecting PACAPergic SPN regulate both adrenal adrenaline (Ad) and noradrenaline (NAd) release whereas the enkephalinergic SPN subpopulation must control a (sub) population of chromaffin cells - most likely those that release Ad. The sensory innervation of the adrenal gland was also determined. Of the few adrenally projecting dorsal root ganglia (AP-DRG) observed, 74  12% were PPP+ (n=3), whereas 1  1% were PPE+ (n=3). Therefore, if sensory neurons release peptides to the adrenal medulla, PACAP is most likely involved. Together, these data provide a neurochemical basis for differential control of sympathetic outflow particularly that to the adrenal medulla.
To elucidate whether interleukin-18 (IL-18) or interferon- (IFN-) participates in neurodegeneartion, we investigated the changes in IL-18 and IFN- systems within the rat hippocampus following status epilepticus (SE). In non-SE induced animals, IL-18, IL-18 receptor  (IL-18R), IFN- and IFN- receptor  (IFN-R) immunoreactivity was not detected in the hippocampus. Following SE, IL-18 immunoreactivity was increased in CA1-3 pyramidal cells as well as dentate granule cells. IL-18 immunoreactivity was also up-regulated in astrocytes and microglia/macrophages. IL-18R immunoreactivity was detected in astrocytes and microglia/macrophages. IFN- immunoreactivity was detected only in astrocytes within all regions of the hippocampus. IFN-R immunoreactivity was increased in neurons as well as astrocytes. Intracerebroventricular infusions of recombinant rat IL-18 or IFN- alleviated SE-induced neuronal damages, while neutralization of IL-18, IFN- or their receptors aggravated them, as compared to saline-infused animals. These findings suggest that astroglial-mediated IFN- pathway in response to IL-18 induction may play an important role in alleviation of SE-induced neuronal damages.
Dopamine and its receptors appear in the brain during early embryonic period suggesting a role for dopamine in brain development. In fact, dopamine receptor imbalance resulting from impaired physiological balance between D1- and D2-receptor activities can perturb brain development and lead to persisting changes in brain structure and function. Dopamine receptor imbalance can be produced experimentally using pharmacological or genetic methods. Pharmacological methods tend to activate or antagonize the receptors in all cell types. In the traditional gene knockout models the receptor imbalance occurs during development and also at maturity. Therefore, assaying the effects of dopamine imbalance on specific cell types (e.g. precursor versus postmitotic cells) or at specific periods of brain development (e.g. pre- or postnatal periods) is not feasible in these models. We describe a novel transgenic mouse model based on the tetracycline dependent inducible gene expression system in which dopamine D1-receptor transgene expression is induced selectively in neuroepithelial cells of the embryonic brain at experimenter-chosen intervals of brain development. In this model, doxycycline-induced expression of the transgene causes significant overexpression of the D1-receptor and significant reductions in the incorporation of the S-phase marker bromodeoxyuridine into neuroepithelial cells of the basal and dorsal telencephalon indicating marked effects on telencephalic neurogenesis. The D1-receptor overexpression occurs at higher levels in the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) than the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) or cerebral wall (CW). Moreover, although the transgene is induced selectively in the neuroepithelium, D1-receptor protein overexpression appears to persist in postmitotic cells. The mouse model can be modified for neuroepithelial cell-specific inducible expression of other transgenes or induction of the D1-receptor transgene in other cells in specific brain regions by crossbreeding the mice with transgenic mouse lines available already.
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated a relationship between advancing age and susceptibility to risk factors for median neuropathies and musculoskeletal disorders. In this study, we determined if performance of a voluntary reaching task by aged rats induced sensorimotor declines, median nerve dysfunction and increased inflammatory cytokines in peripheral nerves, muscle and spinal cord neurons. Aged (14 mon) rats were trained for 15 min/day for 4 weeks to learn a high repetition, low force (HRLF) task (19 reaches/min; 15% maximum pulling force). Aged task rats performed the task for 2 h/day, 3 days/wk, for 12 weeks (until they were 18 mon of age). No behavioral changes were detected in normal controls (NC) or food-restricted controls (FR C) as they aged. However, grip strength declined in HRLF rats in weeks 6-12 (P&lt;0.01 each) and 12-week trained-only rats (TR; P&lt;0.05), compared to NC. Mechanical hypersensitivity was present in weeks 9 and 12 HRLF reach limb forepaws (P&lt;0.01 and P&lt;0.05, respectively), and 12-week HRLF support limb forepaws (P&lt;0.01) and hindpaws (P=0.03), compared to NC. By week 12, median nerve conduction velocity declined 23%, bilaterally, in HRLF (P&lt;0.001 each), and 13% in TR (P&lt;0.05), compared to NC. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) increased in 12-week HRLF muscle (P=0.005), median nerve (P&lt;0.01), and neurons in superficial lamina of HRLF cervical spinal cords (P&lt;0.01), compared to NC. interleukin 1 beta (IL1) also increased in superficial lamina neurons (P&lt;0.01). Loss of grip strength was correlated with median nerve conduction slowing (r=0.70) as well as increased nerve and muscle TNF (r=-0.38 and r=-0.41, respectively); decrease in forepaw withdrawal thresholds was correlated with median nerve conduction slowing (r=0.81), increased nerve TNF (r=-0.59), and increased TNF and IL1 in neurons in spinal cord dorsal horns (r=-0.52 and r=-0.47, respectively). Thus, aged rats performing a repetitive task exhibited sensorimotor declines that were associated with decreased median nerve conduction, and increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the median nerve and cervical spinal cord neurons.
Many studies have shown that activation and increase in the number of astrocytes and microglia in the spinal cord participate in the initiation and maintenance of neuropathic pain, but little attention has been paid to the responses of neural progenitor cells to peripheral nerve injury. Nestin, a class VI intermediate filament protein, is expressed both in neuronal and glial progenitors as well as in their common precursors; and nestin-positive cells appear in the brain and spinal cord following various forms of damage to these regions. To clarify the responses of neural progenitor cells to nerve injury, we applied L5 spinal nerve transection (L5-SNT) to nestin-promoter GFP (pNestin-GFP) transgenic mice to narrow the target to them. While pNestin-GFP expression was strongly retained in the ependyma lining the central canal of the transgenic spinal cord even in adulthood, it was markedly reduced in the dorsal horn during postnatal development by day 7. Increases in pNestin-GFP expression and labeling by the proliferation marker 5-bromodeoxyuridine were broadly found in the dorsal horn of adult mice on day 3 after L5-SNT. On the other hand, the activation and increase in number of microglia and astrocytes are restricted to the superficial layer of the dorsal horn, the central terminal of injured primary afferent fibers. Purinergic P2X agonist , -MeATP increased [Ca(2+)]i in nestin-positive cells in the superficial layer ipsilateral to nerve injury and P2 receptor antagonists suramin and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2,4-disulphonic acid (PPADS) blocked the expression and elongation of pNestin-GFP fibers in the slice culture of the spinal cord. These results with pNestin-GFP transgenic mice demonstrate that nestin-positive cells proliferate in the dorsal horn in response to peripheral nerve injury and suggest that ATP may contribute to the expression of nestin and activation of neural progenitor cells after nerve injury.
Cholesterol is an essential component of cellular membranes that is required for normal lipid organization and cell signaling. While the mechanisms associated with maintaining cholesterol homeostasis in the plasma and peripheral tissues have been well studied, the role and regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis in normal brain function and development have proven much more challenging to investigate. Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a disorder of cholesterol synthesis characterized by mutations of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7) that impair the reduction of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) to cholesterol and lead to neurocognitive deficits, including cerebellar hypoplasia and austism behaviors. Here we have used a novel mass spectrometry-based imaging technique called cation-enhanced nanostructure-initiator mass spectrometry (NIMS) for the in situ detection of intact cholesterol molecules from biological tissues. We provide the first images of brain sterol localization in a mouse model for SLOS (Dhcr7(-/-)). In SLOS mice, there is a striking localization of both 7DHC and residual cholesterol in the abnormally developing cerebellum and brainstem. In contrast, the distribution of cholesterol in 1-day old healthy pups was diffuse throughout the cerebrum and comparable to that of adult mice. This study represents the first application of NIMS to localize perturbations in metabolism within pathological tissues and demonstrates that abnormal cholesterol biosynthesis may be particularly important for the development of these brain regions.
Neurosteroids regulate GABA-A receptor plasticity. Neurosteroid withdrawal occurs during menstruation and is associated with a marked increase in expression of GABA-A receptor 4-subunit, a key subunit linked to enhanced neuronal excitability, seizure susceptibility and benzodiazepine resistance. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the upregulation of 4-subunit expression remain unclear. Here we utilized the progesterone receptor (PR) knockout mouse to investigate molecular pathways of PR and the transcription factor early growth response factor-3 (Egr3) in regulation of the GABA-A receptor 4-subunit expression in the hippocampus in a mouse neurosteroid withdrawal paradigm. Neurosteroid withdrawal induced a threefold increase in 4-subunit expression in wild-type mice, but this upregulation was unchanged in PR knockout mice. The expression of Egr3, which controls 4-subunit transcription, was increased significantly following neurosteroid withdrawal in wild-type and PR knockout mice. Neurosteroid withdrawal-induced 4-subunit upregulation was completely suppressed by antisense Egr3 inhibition. In the hippocampus kindling model of epilepsy, there was heightened seizure activity, significant reduction in the antiseizure sensitivity of diazepam (a benzodiazepine insensitive at 4-receptors) and conferral of increased seizure protection of flumazenil (a low-affinity agonist at 4-receptors) in neurosteroid-withdrawn wild-type and PR knockout mice. These observations are consistent with enhanced 4-containing receptor abundance in vivo. Neurosteroid withdrawal-induced seizure exacerbation, diazepam insensitivity, and flumazenil efficacy in the kindling model were reversed by inhibition of Egr3. These results indicate that neurosteroid withdrawal-induced upregulation of GABA-A receptor 4-subunit expression is mediated by the Egr3 via a PR-independent signaling pathway. These findings help advance our understanding of the molecular basis of catamenial epilepsy, a neuroendocrine condition that occurs around the perimenstrual period and is characterized by neurosteroid withdrawal-linked seizure exacerbations in women with epilepsy.
Several findings suggest a functional and anatomical differentiation along the dorso-ventral axis of the hippocampus. Lesion studies in rats have indicated that the dorsal hippocampus preferentially plays a role in spatial learning and memory, while the ventral hippocampus is involved in anxiety-related behaviors. Based on such findings our aim was to investigate the molecular differentiation along the dorso-ventral axis of the hippocampal granular cell layer of the rat dentate gyrus. Homogeneous isolation of this specific area was performed by laser-capture microdissection and Illumina microarray chips were used to identify genes differentially expressed in dorsal and ventral granular cell layer, respectively. Selected genes were confirmed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction analyses. From the total amount of 22518 probes 229 genes were found to be differentially expressed between dorsal and ventral granular cell layer with a false discovery rate below 5% and with a relative change in gene expression level of 20% or more. From this pool of genes 45 genes were more than two-fold regulated, 13 genes being dorsally enriched and 32 genes being ventrally enriched. Moreover, cluster analysis based on all genes represented on the microarray chip showed a clear differentiation between dorsal and ventral subgroups. Our findings demonstrate a dorso-ventral differentiation in gene expression even at the subregional level of the rat hippocampus, more specifically in the granular cell layer, substantiating the existence of functional heterogeneity along the dorso-ventral axis of the hippocampus.
We studied the number, location and size of long descending propriospinal tract neurons (LDPT), located in the cervical enlargement (C3-C6 spinal levels), and short thoracic propriospinal neurons (TPS), located in mid-thoracic spinal cord (T5-T7 spinal levels), 2, 6 and 16 weeks following a moderate low thoracic (T9) spinal cord contusion injury (SCI; 25 mm weight drop) and subsequent injections of fluorogold into the upper lumbosacral enlargement (L2-L4 spinal levels). Retrograde labeling showed that approximately 23% of LDPT and 10% of TPS neurons were labeled 2 weeks after SCI, relative to uninjured animals. No additional significant decrease in number of labeled LDPT and TPS cells was found at the later time points examined, indicating that the maximal loss of propriospinal neurons in these two subpopulations occurs within the first 2 weeks post-SCI. The distribution of labeled cells post-moderate SCI was similar to normal in terms of their location within the gray matter. However, there was a significant change in the size (cross sectional area) of labeled neurons following injury, relative to uninjured controls, indicating a loss in the number of the largest class of propriospinal neurons. Interestingly, the number of labeled LDPT and TPS neurons was not significantly different following different injury severities. Although the rostro-caudal extent of the lesion site expanded between 2 and 16 weeks following injury, there was no significant difference in the number of propriospinal neurons that could be retrogradely labeled at these time points. Possible reasons for these findings are discussed.
Accumulated evidence suggests that the single transmembrane domain insulin-like growth factor-II/mannose 6-phosphate receptor (IGF-II/M6P or IGF-II receptor) plays an important role in the intracellular trafficking of lysosomal enzymes and endocytosis-mediated degradation of insulin like growth factor (IGF-II). However, the role of this receptor in signal transduction following IGF-II binding remains controversial. In the present study, we revealed that Leu(27)IGF-II, an analog which binds preferentially to the IGF-II receptor, can attenuate K(+)-as well as veratridine-evoked GABA release from the adult rat hippocampal formation. Tetrodotoxin failed to alter the effects of Leu(27)IGF-II on GABA release, thus suggesting the lack of involvement of voltage-dependent Na(+) channels. Interestingly, the effect is found to be sensitive to pertussis toxin (PTX), indicating the possible involvement of a Gi/o protein-dependent pathway in mediating the release of GABA from the hippocampal slices. Additionally, Leu(27)IGF-II was found to attenuate GABA release from frontal cortex but not from striatum. These results, together with the evidence that IGF-II receptors are localized on GABAergic neurons, raised the possibility that this receptor, apart from mediating intracellular trafficking, may also be involved in the regulation of endogenous GABA release by acting directly on GABAergic terminals.
Neuronal networks generating rhythmic activity as an emergent property are common throughout the nervous system. Some are responsible for rhythmic behaviours, as is the case for the spinal cord locomotor networks; however, for others the function is more subtle and usually involves information processing and/or transfer. An example of the latter is sympathetic nerve activity, which is synchronized into rhythmic bursts in vivo. This arrangement is postulated to offer improved control of target organ responses compared to tonic nerve activity. Traditionally, oscillogenic circuits in the brainstem are credited with generating these rhythms, despite evidence for the persistence of some frequencies in spinalized preparations. Here, we show that rhythmic population activity can be recorded from the intermediolateral cell column (IML) of thoracic spinal cord slices. Recorded in slices from 10- to 12-day-old rats, this activity was manifest as 8-22 Hz oscillations in the field potential and was spatially restricted to the IML. Oscillations often occurred spontaneously, but could also be induced by application of 5-HT, -methyl 5-HT or MK212. These agents also significantly increased the strength of spontaneous oscillations. Rhythmic activity was abolished by TTX and attenuated by application of gap junction blockers or by antagonists of GABA(A) receptors. Together these data indicate that this rhythm is an emergent feature of a population of spinal neurons coupled by gap junctions. This work questions the assumption that sympathetic rhythms are dependent on supraspinal pacemaker circuits, by highlighting a surprisingly strong rhythmogenic capability of the reduced sympathetic networks of the spinal cord slice.
Sensory gating impairment in schizophrenia has been documented in the form of aberrant middle latency P50 event-related brain potential responses to S(1) and/or S(2) stimuli in a paired (S(1)-S(2)) auditory stimulus paradigm. Evidenced by a failure to suppress S(2) P50 or by attenuated S(1) P50s, these sensory deficits have been associated with increased smoking behaviour in this disorder, and may be related to the putative ameliorating effects of smoke-inhaled nicotine on neural mechanisms regulating gating. Comparison of healthy controls with low versus high gating efficiency has been forwarded as a model for investigating the actions of antipsychotic agents on aberrant gating functions. In the current study, the effect of a single dose (6 mg) of nicotine gum on P50, gating indices, and their cortical sources indexed with sLORETA (standardized low resolution electromagnetic tomography), was examined in healthy non-smokers (n=24) stratified for low and high gating levels. Scalp surface recordings revealed nicotine modulation of P50 and its gating to be differentially exhibited in high (decreasing gating) and low (increasing gating) suppressors while the underlying cortical sources influenced by nicotine (middle frontal gyrus, inferior/superior parietal lobules, pre- and post-central gyri) were seen only in low suppressors. These findings suggest that nicotine impacts sensory gating in healthy volunteers and as the gating enhancing effects were dependent on low baseline gating efficiency, nicotinic receptor agonists may be associated with unique P50 modulating actions in schizophrenia.

The recently introduced term 'optogenetics' describes a variety of techniques for expressing genes in nerve cells that render them responsive to light. This approach makes use of light-sensitive channel proteins that can be used to manipulate neuronal function. Using genetic strategies, these channel proteins can be expressed in neurons defined by a common genetic identity, which can then be selectively activated or silenced through illumination. Inthis minireview, we shall describe the basic principles of such manipulative optogenetic approaches in neuroscience and summarize how these tools are being exploited to investigate neuronal circuits and behavior.
A new study suggests that individuals differentially recruit neural regions associated with decision making, depending on whether the information about the options are learned through experience or merely described.
How motor skills are stored in the nervous system represents a fundamental question in neuroscience. Although musical motor skills are associated with a variety of adaptations [1-3], it remains unclear how these changes are linked to the known superior motor performance of expert musicians. Here we establish a direct and specific relationship between the functional organization of the corticomuscular system and skilled musical performance. Principal component analysis was used to identify joint correlation patterns in finger movements evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation over the primary motor cortex while subjects were at rest. Linear combinations of a selected subset of these patterns were used to reconstruct active instrumental playing or grasping movements. Reconstruction quality of instrumental playing was superior in skilled musicians compared to musically untrained subjects, displayed taxonomic specificity for the trained movement repertoire, and correlated with the cumulated long-term training exposure, but not with the recent past training history. In violinists, the reconstruction quality of grasping movements correlated negatively with the long-term training history of violin playing. Our results indicate that experience-dependent motor skills are specifically encoded in the functional organization of the primary motor cortex and its efferent system and are consistent with a model of skill coding by a modular neuronal architecture [4].
Acute peripheral pain is reduced by multisensory interactions at the spinal level [1]. Central pain is reduced by reorganization of cortical body representations [2, 3]. We show here that acute pain can also be reduced by multisensory integration through self-touch, which provides proprioceptive, thermal, and tactile input forming a coherent body representation [4, 5]. We combined self-touch with the thermal grill illusion (TGI) [6]. In the traditional TGI, participants press their fingers on two warm objects surrounding one cool object. The warm surround unmasks pain pathways, which paradoxically causes the cool object to feel painfully hot. Here, we warmed the index and ring fingers of each hand while cooling the middle fingers. Immediately after, these three fingers of the right hand were touched against the same three fingers on the left hand. This self-touch caused a dramatic 64% reduction in perceived heat. We show that this paradoxical release from paradoxical heat cannot be explained by low-level touch-temperature interactions alone. To reduce pain, we often clutch a painful hand with the other hand. We show here that self-touch not only gates pain signals reaching the brain [7-9] but also, via multisensory integration, increases coherence of cognitive body representations to which pain afferents project [10].
fMRI retinotopic mapping usually relies upon Fourier analysis of functional responses to periodic visual stimuli that encode eccentricity or polar angle in the visual field. Generally, phase estimations are assigned to a surface model of the cerebral cortex and borders between retinotopic areas are eventually determined following ad hoc phase analysis on the surface model. Assigning functional responses to a surface model of the cortex is particularly sensitive to geometric distortions of the 3D functional data due to static field inhomogeneity. Here, we assess and document the benefits gained from correcting the fMRI data for these effects, under standard experimental conditions (echo-planar imaging, 3.0-T field strength) and with well-chosen acquisition parameters (regarding slice orientation and phase-encoding direction). While it appears that, in the absence of correction, errors in the estimates of the borders between low-order visual areas do not then significantly exceed the variance of statistical origin, about half of the functional responses in a retinotopic experiment are misassigned to neighboring functional areas. Therefore, correction of the effects due to geometric distortions is important in any retinotopic mapping experiment and by extension in any fMRI experiment on the visual system.





We conducted an association study across the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex to identify loci associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). Comparing 1927 SNPs in 1618 MS cases and 3413 controls of European ancestry, we identified seven SNPs that were independently associated with MS conditional on the others (each P  4 x 10(-6)). All associations were significant in an independent replication cohort of 2212 cases and 2251 controls (P  0.001) and were highly significant in the combined dataset (P  6 x 10(-8)). The associated SNPs included proxies for HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DRB1*03:01, and SNPs in moderate linkage disequilibrium (LD) with HLA-A*02:01, HLA-DRB1*04:01 and HLA-DRB1*13:03. We also found a strong association with rs9277535 in the class II gene HLA-DPB1 (discovery set P = 9 x 10(-9), replication set P = 7 x 10(-4), combined P = 2 x 10(-10)). HLA-DPB1 is located centromeric of the more commonly typed class II genes HLA-DRB1, -DQA1 and -DQB1. It is separated from these genes by a recombination hotspot, and the association is not affected by conditioning on genotypes at DRB1, DQA1 and DQB1. Hence rs9277535 represents an independent MS-susceptibility locus of genome-wide significance. It is correlated with the HLA-DPB1*03:01 allele, which has been implicated previously in MS in smaller studies. Further genotyping in large datasets is required to confirm and resolve this association.

Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a genetic disease causing progressive apoptotic death of photoreceptors and, ultimately, incurable blindness. Using the retinal degeneration 10 (rd10) mouse model of RP, we investigated the role of ceramide, a proapoptotic sphingolipid, in retinal degeneration. We also tested the possibility that photoreceptor loss can be slowed or blocked by interfering with the ceramide signaling pathway of apoptosis in vivo. Retinal ceramide levels increased in rd10 mice during the period of maximum photoreceptor death. Single intraocular injections of myriocin, a powerful inhibitor of serine palmitoyl-CoA transferase, the rate-limiting enzyme of ceramide biosynthesis, lowered retinal ceramide levels to normal values and rescued photoreceptors from apoptotic death. Noninvasive treatment was achieved using eye drops consisting of a suspension of solid lipid nanoparticles loaded with myriocin. Short-term noninvasive treatment lowered retinal ceramide in a manner similar to intraocular injections, indicating that nanoparticles functioned as a vector permitting transcorneal drug administration. Prolonged treatment (10-20 d) with solid lipid nanoparticles increased photoreceptor survival, preserved photoreceptor morphology, and extended the ability of the retina to respond to light as assessed by electroretinography. In conclusion, pharmacological targeting of ceramide biosynthesis slowed the progression of RP in a mouse model, and therefore may represent a therapeutic approach to treating this disease in humans. Transcorneal administration of drugs carried in solid lipid nanoparticles, as experimented in this study, may facilitate continuous, noninvasive treatment of patients with RP and other retinal pathologies.
The global increase in the prevalence of obesity and metabolic disorders coincides with the increase of exposure to light at night (LAN) and shift work. Circadian regulation of energy homeostasis is controlled by an endogenous biological clock that is synchronized by light information. To promote optimal adaptive functioning, the circadian clock prepares individuals for predictable events such as food availability and sleep, and disruption of clock function causes circadian and metabolic disturbances. To determine whether a causal relationship exists between nighttime light exposure and obesity, we examined the effects of LAN on body mass in male mice. Mice housed in either bright (LL) or dim (DM) LAN have significantly increased body mass and reduced glucose tolerance compared with mice in a standard (LD) light/dark cycle, despite equivalent levels of caloric intake and total daily activity output. Furthermore, the timing of food consumption by DM and LL mice differs from that in LD mice. Nocturnal rodents typically eat substantially more food at night; however, DM mice consume 55.5% of their food during the light phase, as compared with 36.5% in LD mice. Restricting food consumption to the active phase in DM mice prevents body mass gain. These results suggest that low levels of light at night disrupt the timing of food intake and other metabolic signals, leading to excess weight gain. These data are relevant to the coincidence between increasing use of light at night and obesity in humans.
An important contributing factor for the high sensitivity of sensory systems is the exquisite sensitivity of the sensory receptor cells. We report here the signaling threshold of the olfactory receptor neuron (ORN). We first obtained a best estimate of the size of the physiological electrical response successfully triggered by a single odorant-binding event on a frog ORN, which was 0.034 pA and had an associated transduction domain spanning only a tiny fraction of the length of an ORN cilium. We also estimated the receptor-current threshold for an ORN to fire action potentials in response to an odorant pulse, which was 1.2 pA. Thus, it takes about 35 odorant-binding events successfully triggering transduction during a brief odorant pulse in order for an ORN to signal to the brain.
Damaging interactions between antibodies and brain antigenic targets may be responsible for an expanding range of neurological disorders. In the case of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), patients generate autoantibodies (AAbs) that frequently bind dsDNA. Although some symptoms of SLE may arise from direct reactivity to dsDNA, much of the AAb-mediated damage originates from cross-reactivity with other antigens. We have studied lupus AAbs that bind dsDNA and cross-react with the NR2A and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR). In adult mouse models, when the blood-brain barrier is compromised, these NMDAR-reactive AAbs access the brain and elicit neuronal death with ensuing cognitive dysfunction and emotional disturbance. The cellular mechanisms that underlie these deleterious effects remain incompletely understood. Here, we show that, at low concentration, the NMDAR-reactive AAbs are positive modulators of receptor function that increase the size of NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials, whereas at high concentration, the AAbs promote excitotoxicity through enhanced mitochondrial permeability transition. Other synaptic receptors are completely unaffected by the AAbs. NMDAR activation is required for producing both the synaptic and the mitochondrial effects. Our study thus reveals the mechanisms by which NMDAR-reactive AAbs trigger graded cellular alterations, which are likely to be responsible for the transient and permanent neuropsychiatric symptoms observed in patients with SLE. Our study also provides a model in which local AAb concentration determines the exact nature of the cellular response.
Background. Spinal Cord Infarction (SCI) is a rare and disabling disease. This hospital-based study was conducted for clinical evaluation of SCI patients in east of Iran. Methods. Consecutive SCI patients admitted in Ghaem hospital,Mashhad during 2006-2010 were enrolled in a prospective clinical study. Diagnosis of SCI was made by neurologists and radiologists. Demographic features, clinical syndrome, and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings were recorded. All of the patients underwent a standard battery of diagnostic investigations. All of the patients suspected to SCI had MRI of spinal cord at the symptomatic level of cord with a 0.5 Tesla generation, Philips NT Intra, Netherland equipment. An equal number of patients with Brain Infarction (BI) were randomly selected from our stroke registry data bank. Etiology and degree of disability were compared between these groups of patients. Results. Fourteen SCI patients (9 females, 5 males) with mean age 38.8  SD: 19.9 years were evaluated. Miscellaneous causes consisted 50% of etiologies in patients with SCI. Uncertain etiology, atherosclerosis, and cardioembolisms consisted 35.7%, 7.1%, and 7.1% of SCI causes, respectively. Distribution of etiologies was significantly different between SCI and BI patients, X(2) = 12.94, df = 3, P = .003. Difference in mean disability score at acute phase of stroke was not significant between two studied groups, z = 1.54, P = .057. Difference in mean changes of disability score at 90 days postevent was significant in two groups of patients, z = 2.65, P = .019. Conclusion. SCI is a rare disease with poor recovery. Distribution of etiologies of SCI patients is quite different than of BI patients.
Recent advances in pyridine synthesis are described. Modification of traditional condensation strategies continues to be a recurrent theme in contemporary literature. Advancements in transition-metal-catalyzed cyclization and cross-coupling procedures offer new routes to functionalized pyridine derivatives. These recently developed methodologies are a valuable addition to azaheterocycle synthesis.
The pathophysiology of migraine remains largely unknown. However, evidence regarding the molecules participating in the pathophysiology of migraine has been accumulating. Water channel proteins, known as aquaporins (AQPs), notably AQP-1 and AQP-4, appears to be involved in the pathophysiology of several neurological diseases. This review outlines newly emerging evidence indicating that AQP-1 plays an important role in pain signal transduction and migraine and could therefore serve as a potential therapeutic target for these diseases.

Explaining unconditional cooperation, such as donations to charities or contributions to public goods, continues to present a problem. One possibility is that cooperation can pay through developing a reputation that makes one more likely to be chosen for a profitable cooperative partnership, a process termed competitive altruism (CA) or reputation-based partner choice. Here, we show, to our knowledge, for the first time, that investing in a cooperative reputation can bring net benefits through access to more cooperative partners. Participants played a public goods game (PGG) followed by an opportunity to select a partner for a second cooperative game. We found that those who gave more in the PGG were more often selected as desired partners and received more in the paired cooperative game. Reputational competition was even stronger when it was possible for participants to receive a higher payoff from partner choice. The benefits of being selected by a more cooperative partner outweighed the costs of cooperation in the reputation building phase. CA therefore provides an alternative to indirect reciprocity as an explanation for reputation-building behaviour. Furthermore, while indirect reciprocity depends upon individuals giving preference to those of good standing, CA can explain unconditional cooperation.

Stress plays a major role in the process of drug addiction and various stressors are known to increase measures of craving in drug dependent human laboratory subjects. Animal models of stress-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking have also been developed in order to determine the neuropharmacological and neurobiological features of stress-induced relapse. Here, we review experimental approaches that use various pharmacological agents to induce a stress response and subsequent craving or drug-seeking for drugs of abuse. The advantages of such an approach are that the exact same stressor can be used in different species, pharmacological stress activation works on identifiable pathways, and stress levels can be varied via dose dependent manipulations. To date, successful use of such probes in both humans and experimental animals have been achieved with noradrenergic compounds and corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH). Other possible approaches, such as neuroactive peptides related to central stress responses (e.g., vasopressin and substance P) and inverse benzodiazepine agonists show some promise, and we discuss recent experiments using these compounds. Future development and application of pharmacological stressors across species will be useful in assessing stress-induced craving and relapse in both human drug addiction and animal models of relapse. Through this translational approach, novel treatment interventions for addiction may be designed and tested.
Several missense mutations in the protein kinase C (PKC) gene have been found to cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously demonstrated that the mutant PKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to aggregation, which induces apoptotic cell death. The disaccharide trehalose has been reported to inhibit aggregate formation and to alleviate symptoms in cellular and animal models of Huntington disease, Alzheimer disease, and prion disease. Here, we show that trehalose can be incorporated into SH-SY5Y cells and reduces the aggregation of mutant PKC-GFP, thereby inhibiting apoptotic cell death in SH-SY5Y cells and primary cultured Purkinje cells (PCs). Trehalose acts by directly stabilizing the conformation of mutant PKC without affecting protein turnover. Trehalose was also found to alleviate the improper development of dendrites in PCs expressing mutant PKC-GFP without aggregates but not in PCs with aggregates. In PCs without aggregates, trehalose improves the mobility and translocation of mutant PKC-GFP, probably by inhibiting oligomerization and thereby alleviating the improper development of dendrites. These results suggest that trehalose counteracts various cellular dysfunctions that are triggered by mutant PKC in both neuronal cell lines and primary cultured PCs by inhibiting oligomerization and aggregation of mutant PKC.
Long-range coupling between distant functional elements of proteins may rely on allosteric communication trajectories lying along the protein structure, as described in the case of the Shaker voltage-activated potassium (Kv) channel model allosteric system. Communication between the distant Kv channel activation and slow inactivation pore gates was suggested to be mediated by a network of local pairwise and higher-order interactions among the functionally unique residues that constitute the allosteric trajectory. The mechanism by which conformational changes propagate along the Kv channel allosteric trajectory to achieve pore opening, however, remains unclear. Such conformational changes may propagate in either a concerted or a sequential manner during the reaction coordinate of channel opening. Residue-level structural information on the transition state of channel gating is required to discriminate between these possibilities. Here, we combine patch-clamp electrophysiology recordings of Kv channel gating and analysis using linear free-energy relations, focusing on a select set of residues spanning the allosteric trajectory of the Kv channel pore. We show that all allosteric trajectory residues tested exhibit an open-like conformation in the transition state of channel opening, implying that coupling interactions occur along the trajectory break in a concerted manner upon moving from the closed to the open state. Energetic coupling between the Kv channel gates thus occurs in a concerted fashion in both the spatial and the temporal dimensions, strengthening the notion that such trajectories correspond to pathways of mechanical deformation along which conformational changes propagate.


Physical exercise dampens an individual's stress response and decreases symptoms of anxiety and depression disorders. While the extrinsic relationship of exercise and psychological state is established, their intrinsic relationship is unresolved. We investigated the potential intrinsic relationship of exercise with stress responsiveness using NIH rats bidirectionally selected for intrinsic endurance capacity. Selection resulted in two populations, one with high intrinsic endurance (high capacity runners; HCR) and one with low intrinsic endurance (low capacity runners; LCR). Animals from these populations were subjected to the elevated plus maze (EPM) and novel environment to assess levels of anxiety-like behavior, and to restraint stress to determine stress responsiveness. Pre-test plasma corticosterone levels and the response of plasma corticosterone to exposure to the EPM and restraint were analyzed using ELISA. A dexamethasone suppression test was performed to assess negative feedback tone of corticosterone release. Pre-test plasma corticosterone levels were similar between LCR and HCR, and these populations had similar behavioral and corticosterone responses to the EPM. Following restraint, HCR animals exhibited more anxiotypic behavior than LCR animals on the EPM, and exhibited an increase in plasma corticosterone following EPM and restraint that was not observed in LCR animals. HCR animals also exhibited more anxiotypic behavior in the novel environment compared to LCR animals. Plasma corticosterone levels were equally reduced in both populations following dexamethasone administration. Overall, our data suggest a positive genetic relationship between exercise endurance and stress responsiveness, which is at odds with the established extrinsic relationship of these traits.
Cranial radiotherapy in children often leads to progressive cognitive decline. We have established a rodent model of irradiation-induced injury to the young brain. A single dose of 8Gy was administered to the left hemisphere of postnatal day 10 (P10) mice. Harlequin (Hq) mice, carrying the hypomorphic apoptosis-inducing factor AIF(Hq) mutation, express 60% less AIF at P10 and displayed significantly fewer dying cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ) 6h after IR, compared with wild type (Wt) littermates. Irradiated cyclophilin A-deficient (CypA(-/-)) mice confirmed that CypA has an essential role in AIF-induced apoptosis after IR. Hq mice displayed no reduction in SVZ size 7 days after IR, whereas 48% of the SVZ was lost in Wt mice. The proliferation rate was lower in the SVZ of Hq mice. Cultured neural precursor cells from the SVZ of Hq mice displayed a slower proliferation rate and were more resistant to IR. IR preferentially kills proliferating cells, and the slower proliferation rate in the SVZ of Hq mice may, at least partly, explain the protective effect of the Hq mutation. Together, these results indicate that targeting AIF may provide a fruitful strategy for protection of normal brain tissue against the detrimental side effects of IR.
Inherited episodic neurological disorders are often due to mutations in ion channels or their interacting proteins, termed channelopathies. There are a wide variety of such disorders, from those causing paralysis, to extreme pain, to ataxia. A common theme in these is alteration of action potential properties or synaptic transmission and a resulting increased propensity of the resulting tissue to enter into or stay in an altered excitability state. Manifestations of these disorders are triggered by an array of precipitants, all of which stress the particular affected tissue in some way and aid in propelling its activity into an aberrant state. Study of these disorders has aided in the understanding of disease risk factors and elucidated the cause of clinically related sporadic disorders. The findings from study of these disorders will aid in the diagnosis and efficient targeted treatment of affected patients.
Investigations into the genetics of child psychiatric disorders have finally begun to shed light on molecular and cellular mechanisms of psychopathology. The first strains of success in this notoriously difficult area of inquiry are the result of an increasingly sophisticated appreciation of the allelic architecture of common neuropsychiatric and neurodevelopmental disorders, the consolidation of large patient cohorts now beginning to reach sufficient size to power reliable studies, the emergence of genomic tools enabling comprehensive investigations of rare as well as common genetic variation, and advances in developmental neuroscience that are fueling the rapid translation of genetic findings.
One of the biggest challenges in neuroscience is illuminating the architecture of developmental brain disorders, which include structural malformations of the brain and nerves, intellectual disability, epilepsy, and some psychiatric conditions like autism and potentially schizophrenia. Ongoing gene identification reveals a great diversity of genetic causes underlying abnormal brain development, illuminating new biochemical pathways often not suspected based on genetic studies in other organisms. Our greater understanding of genetic disease also shows the complexity of allelic diversity, in which distinct mutations in a given gene can cause a wide range of distinct diseases or other phenotypes. These diverse alleles not only provide a platform for discovery of critical protein-protein interactions in a genetic fashion, but also illuminate the likely genetic architecture of as yet poorly characterized neurological disorders.
Elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying quantitative neurocognitive phenotypes will further our understanding of the brain's structural and functional architecture and advance the diagnosis and treatment of the psychiatric disorders that these traits underlie. Although many neurocognitive traits are highly heritable, little progress has been made in identifying genetic variants unequivocally associated with these phenotypes. A major obstacle to such progress is the difficulty in identifying heritable neurocognitive measures that are precisely defined and systematically assessed and represent unambiguous mental constructs, yet are also amenable to the high-throughput phenotyping necessary to obtain adequate power for genetic association studies. In this perspective we compare the current status of genetic investigations of neurocognitive phenotypes to that of other categories of biomedically relevant traits and suggest strategies for genetically dissecting traits that may underlie disorders of brain and behavior.
Neuronal development, function, and the subsequent degeneration of the brain are still an enigma in both the normal and pathologic states, and there is an urgent need to find better targets for developing therapeutic intervention. Current techniques to deconstruct the architecture of brain and disease-related pathways are best suited for following up on single genes but would take an impractical amount of time for the leads from the current wave of genetic and genomic data. New technical developments have made combined high-throughput-high-content (HT-HC) cellular screens possible, which have the potential to contextualize the information, gathered from a combination of genetic and genomic approaches, into networks and functional biology and can be utilized for the identification of therapeutic targets. Herein we discuss the potential impact of HT-HC cellular screens on medical neuroscience.
In this review I outline the arguments as to whether we should consider Parkinson disease one or more than one entity and discuss genetic findings from Mendelian and whole-genome association analysis in that context. I discuss what the demonstration of disease spread implies for our analysis of the genetic and epidemiologic risk factors for disease and outline the surprising fact that we now have genetically identified on the order of half our risk for developing the disease.
The Psychiatric GWAS Consortium was founded with the aim of conducting statistically rigorous and comprehensive GWAS meta-analyses for five major psychiatric disorders: ADHD, autism, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and schizophrenia. In the era of GWAS and high-throughput genomics, a major trend has been the emergence of collaborative, consortia approaches. Taking advantage of the scale that collaborative consortia approaches can bring to a problem, the PGC has been a major driver in psychiatric genetics and provides a model for how similar approaches may be applied to other disease communities.
Neurogenetics promises rich insights into how the mind works. Researchers investigating the range of topics from normal brain functioning to pathological states are increasingly looking to genetics for clues on human variability and disease etiology. Is it fair to assume this interest in neurogenetics is universal? How should researchers and clinicians approach ideas of consent to research or prediction of disease when a subject or patient understands the mind with concepts or language incompatible with neurogenetics? In this paper we consider how non-Western philosophies bring complexity to ideas of individual and community consent and confidentiality in the context of neurogenetics.
There can be little doubt that genetics has transformed our understanding of mechanisms mediating brain disorders. The last two decades have brought tremendous progress in terms of accurate molecular diagnoses and knowledge of the genes and pathways that are involved in a large number of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Likewise, new methods and analytical approaches, including genome array studies and &quot;next-generation&quot; sequencing technologies, are bringing us deeper insights into the subtle complexities of the genetic architecture that determines our risks for these disorders. As we now seek to translate these discoveries back to clinical applications, a major challenge for the field will be in bridging the gap between genes and biology. In this Overview of Neuron's special review issue on neurogenetics, we reflect on progress made over the last two decades and highlight the challenges as well as the exciting opportunities for the future.
The functional separation of ON and OFF pathways, one of the fundamental features of the visual system, starts in the retina. During postnatal development, some retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) whose dendrites arborize in both ON and OFF sublaminae of the inner plexiform layer transform into RGCs with dendrites that monostratify in either the ON or OFF sublamina, acquiring final dendritic morphology in a subtype-dependent manner. Little is known about how the receptive field (RF) properties of ON, OFF, and ON-OFF RGCs mature during this time because of the lack of a reliable and efficient method to classify RGCs into these subtypes. To address this deficiency, we developed an innovative variant of Spike Triggered Covariance (STC) analysis, which we term Spike Triggered Covariance - Non-Centered (STC-NC) analysis. Using a multi-electrode array (MEA), we recorded the responses of a large population of mouse RGCs to a Gaussian white noise stimulus. As expected, the Spike-Triggered Average (STA) fails to identify responses driven by symmetric static nonlinearities such as those that underlie ON-OFF center RGC behavior. The STC-NC technique, in contrast, provides an efficient means to identify ON-OFF responses and quantify their RF center sizes accurately. Using this new tool, we find that RGCs gradually develop sensitivity to focal stimulation after eye opening, that the percentage of ON-OFF center cells decreases with age, and that RF centers of ON and ON-OFF cells become smaller. Importantly, we demonstrate for the first time that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) regulates the development of physiological properties of ON-OFF center RGCs. Overexpression of NT-3 leads to the precocious maturation of RGC responsiveness and accelerates the developmental decrease of RF center size in ON-OFF cells. In summary, our study introduces STC-NC analysis which successfully identifies subtype RGCs and demonstrates how RF development relates to a neurotrophic driver in the retina.
Studies investigating joint actions have suggested a central role for the putative mirror neuron system (pMNS) because of the close link between perception and action provided by these brain regions [1], [2], [3]. In contrast, our previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment demonstrated that the BOLD response of the pMNS does not suggest that it directly integrates observed and executed actions during joint actions [4]. To test whether the pMNS might contribute indirectly to the integration process by sending information to brain areas responsible for this integration (integration network), here we used Granger causality mapping (GCM) [5]. We explored the directional information flow between the anterior sites of the pMNS and previously identified integrative brain regions. We found that the left BA44 sent more information than it received to both the integration network (left thalamus, right middle occipital gyrus and cerebellum) and more posterior nodes of the pMNS (BA2). Thus, during joint actions, two anatomically separate networks therefore seem effectively connected and the information flow is predominantly from anterior to posterior areas of the brain. These findings suggest that the pMNS is involved indirectly in joint actions by transforming observed and executed actions into a common code and is part of a generative model that could predict the future somatosensory and visual consequences of observed and executed actions in order to overcome otherwise inevitable neural delays.
Saredutant (SR48968), a potentially novel treatment option for major depressive disorders (MDD) and generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), is a drug from Sanofi-Aventis currently in phase III clinical trials. MDD is a common mental disorder that affects 121 million people worldwide, nearly 4% of the adult population (www.who.int/mental_health/management/depression/definition/en/). MDD continues to be one of the leading causes of disability with more than three quarters of the diagnosed cases having effective treatments available (www.who.int/mental_health/management/depression/definition/en/). However, even though MDD affects a large portion of the population, effective treatment options with low incidence of adverse events remain a major concern for the pharmaceutical industry. Adverse events (GI side effects1, weight gain, somnolence/insomnia, etc. (Demyttenaere K. (2003) Risk factors and predictors of compliance in depressionEur. Neuropshychopharm.13S69-S75)) from the typical treatments remain the major reason for premature stopping or poor compliance of treatment. New treatments to the market must bear in mind these adverse events, and the pharmaceutical industry is currently looking for drugs with new mechanisms of action and those that are better tolerated.


Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in the developed world. It is a multifactorial disease, and current therapy predominantly limits damage only when it has already occurred. The macula is a source of high metabolic activity, and is therefore exposed to correspondingly high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). With age, the balance between production of ROS and local antioxidant levels is shifted, and damage ensues. Systemic ROS and antioxidant levels in AMD reflect these local processes. Genetic studies investigating mutations in antioxidant genes in AMD are inconclusive and further studies are indicated, especially to determine the role of mitochondria. Oral antioxidant supplements could be beneficial, and diet modification may help. Future treatments might either increase antioxidant capacity or reduce the production of ROS, using methods such as genetic manipulation. This article reviews the role of oxidative stress in AMD and the potential therapies that might have a role in preventing the blindness resulting from this disease.
We recently reported the presence of a novel 32 kDa protein immunoreactive to a copper, zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) antibody within the spinal cord of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This unique protein species was generated by biotinylation of spinal cord tissue extracts to detect conformational changes of SOD1 specific to ALS patients. To further characterize this protein, we enriched the protein by column chromatography and determined its protein identity by mass spectrometry. The protein that gave rise to the 32 kDa species upon biotinylation was identified as carbonic anhydrase I (CA I). Biotinylation of CA I from ALS spinal cord resulted in the generation of a novel epitope recognized by the SOD1 antibody. This epitope could also be generated by biotinylation of extracts from cultured cells expressing human CA I. Peptide competition assays identified the amino acid sequence in carbonic anhydrase I responsible for binding the SOD1 antibody. We conclude that chemical modifications used to identify pathogenic protein conformations can lead to the identification of unanticipated proteins that may participate in disease pathogenesis.
Tonic and phasic dopamine release is implicated in learning, motivation, and motor functions. However, the relationship between spike patterns in dopaminergic neurons, the extracellular concentration of dopamine, and activation of dopamine receptors remains unresolved. In the present study, we develop a computational model of dopamine signaling that give insight into the relationship between the dynamics of release and occupancy of D(1) and D(2) receptors. The model is derived from first principles using experimental data. It has no free parameters and offers unbiased estimation of the boundaries of dopaminergic volume transmission. Bursts primarily increase occupancy of D(1) receptors, whereas pauses translate into low occupancy of D(1) and D(2) receptors. Phasic firing patterns, composed of bursts and pauses, reduce the average D(2) receptor occupancy and increase average D(1) receptor occupancy compared with equivalent tonic firing. Receptor occupancy is crucially dependent on synchrony and the balance between tonic and phasic firing modes. Our results provide quantitative insight in the dynamics of volume transmission and complement experimental data obtained with electrophysiology, positron emission tomography, microdialysis, amperometry, and voltammetry.
The developmental period when neuronal responses are modified by visual experience is reported to start and end earlier in layer 4 than in layer 2/3 of the visual cortex, and the maturation of GABAergic inhibitory circuits is suggested to determine the timing of this period. Here, we examine whether the laminar difference in such timing corresponds to a difference in the time course of the functional maturation of GABAergic synaptic transmission to star pyramidal and pyramidal cells in layers 4 and 2/3, respectively, of the mouse visual cortex and whether the development of the strength of GABAergic transmission is affected by visual deprivation in a laminar-specific manner. Our analysis of developmental changes in inhibitory postsynaptic currents of star pyramidal and pyramidal cells evoked by electrical stimulation of afferents or action potentials of fast-spiking GABAergic neurons revealed that there was a sequential maturation of GABAergic function from layers 4 to 2/3. The maturation of inhibition in layer 4 occurred at postnatal week 3, which preceded by 1 week that of layer 2/3. Visual deprivation by dark rearing arrested the functional development of GABAergic transmission in layer 2/3, whereas dark rearing was not so effective in layer 4. GABAergic synapses in layer 2/3 were sensitive to an agonist for cannabinoid type 1 receptors and not normally matured in receptor knock-out mice, whereas those in layer 4 were not so. These results suggest laminar-specific maturation of inhibition and susceptibility to visual deprivation, which may be related to the laminar difference in sensitivity to endocannabinoids.
Pyramidal cells in piriform cortex integrate sensory information from multiple olfactory bulb mitral and tufted (M/T) cells. However, whether M/T cells belonging to different olfactory bulb glomeruli converge onto individual cortical cells is unclear. Here we use calcium imaging in an olfactory bulb-cortex slice preparation to provide direct evidence that neurons in piriform cortex receive convergent synaptic input from different glomeruli. We show that the combined activity of distinct glomerular pathways recruits ensembles of pyramidal cells that are not activated by the individual pathways alone. This cooperative recruitment of cortical neurons only occurs over a narrow time window and is a feature intrinsic to the olfactory cortex that can be explained by the integration of converging, subthreshold synaptic input. Cooperative recruitment enhances the differences between cortical representations of partially overlapping input patterns and may contribute to the initial steps of olfactory discrimination.
The ability to rapidly reconfigure our minds to perform novel tasks is important for adapting to an ever-changing world, yet little is understood about its basis in the brain. Furthermore, it is unclear how this kind of task preparation changes with practice. Previous research suggests that prefrontal cortex (PFC) is essential when preparing to perform either novel or practiced tasks. Building upon recent evidence that PFC is organized in an anterior-to-posterior hierarchy, we postulated that novel and practiced task preparation would differentiate hierarchically distinct regions within PFC across time. Specifically, we hypothesized and confirmed using functional magnetic resonance imaging and magnetoencephalography with humans that novel task preparation is a bottom-up process that involves lower-level rule representations in dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) before a higher-level rule-integrating task representation in anterior PFC (aPFC). In contrast, we identified a complete reversal of this activity pattern during practiced task preparation. Specifically, we found that practiced task preparation is a top-down process that involves a higher-level rule-integrating task representation (recalled from long-term memory) in aPFC before lower-level rule representations in DLPFC. These findings reveal two distinct yet highly inter-related mechanisms for task preparation, one involving task set formation from instructions during rapid instructed task learning and the other involving task set retrieval from long-term memory to facilitate familiar task performance. These two mechanisms demonstrate the exceptional flexibility of human PFC as it rapidly reconfigures cognitive brain networks to implement a wide variety of possible tasks.
The P2X7 receptor is a trimeric channel with three binding sites for ATP, but how the occupancy of these sites affects gating is still not understood. Here we show that naive receptors activated and deactivated monophasically at low and biphasically at higher agonist concentrations. Both phases of response were abolished by application of Az10606120, a P2X7R-specific antagonist. The slow secondary growth of current in the biphasic response coincided temporally with pore dilation. Repetitive stimulation with the same agonist concentration caused sensitization of receptors, which manifested as a progressive increase in the current amplitude, accompanied by a slower deactivation rate. Once a steady level of the secondary current was reached, responses at high agonist concentrations were no longer biphasic but monophasic. Sensitization of receptors was independent of Na(+) and Ca(2+) influx and 30 min washout was needed to reestablish the initial gating properties. T15E- and T15K-P2X7 mutants showed increased sensitivity for agonists, responded with monophasic currents at all agonist concentrations, activated immediately with dilated pores, and deactivated slowly. The complex pattern of gating exhibited by wild-type channels can be accounted for by a Markov state model that includes negative cooperativity of agonist binding to unsensitized receptors caused by the occupancy of one or two binding sites, opening of the channel pore to a low conductance state when two sites are bound, and sensitization with pore dilation to a high conductance state when three sites are occupied.
In this paper, we examine decision making in a spiking neuronal network and show that longer time constants for the inhibitory neurons can decrease the reaction times and produce theta rhythm. We analyze the mechanism and find that the spontaneous firing rate before the decision cues are applied can drift, and thereby influence the speed of the reaction time when the decision cues are applied. The drift of the firing rate in the population that will win the competition is larger if the time constant of the inhibitory interneurons is increased from 10 to 33 ms, and even larger if there are two populations of inhibitory neurons with time constants of 10 and 100 ms. Of considerable interest is that the decision that will be made can be influenced by the noise-influenced drift of the spontaneous firing rate over many seconds before the decision cues are applied. The theta rhythm associated with the longer time constant networks mirrors the greater integration in the firing rate drift produced by the recurrent connections over long time periods in the networks with slow inhibition. The mechanism for the effect of slow waves in the theta and delta range on decision times is suggested to be increased neuronal spiking produced by depolarization of the membrane potential on the positive part of the slow waves when the neuron's membrane potential is close to the firing threshold.
Inflammatory mediators through the activation of the protein kinase A (PKA) pathway sensitize primary afferent nociceptors to mechanical, thermal, and osmotic stimuli. However, it is unclear which ion conductances are responsible for PKA-induced nociceptor hyperexcitability. We have previously shown the abundant expression of Slack sodium-activated potassium (K(Na)) channels in nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Here we show using cultured DRG neurons, that of the total potassium current, I(K), the K(Na) current is predominantly inhibited by PKA. We demonstrate that PKA modulation of K(Na) channels does not happen at the level of channel gating but arises from the internal trafficking of Slack channels from DRG membranes. Furthermore, we found that knocking down the Slack subunit by RNA interference causes a loss of firing accommodation analogous to that observed during PKA activation. Our data suggest that the change in nociceptive firing occurring during inflammation is the result of PKA-induced Slack channel trafficking.
Decision making consists of choosing among available options on the basis of a valuation of their potential costs and benefits. Most theoretical models of decision making in behavioral economics, psychology, and computer science propose that the desirability of outcomes expected from alternative options can be quantified by utility functions. These utility functions allow a decision maker to assign subjective values to each option under consideration by weighting the likely benefits and costs resulting from an action and to select the one with the highest subjective value. Here, we used model-based neuroimaging to test whether the human brain uses separate valuation systems for rewards (erotic stimuli) associated with different types of costs, namely, delay and effort. We show that humans devalue rewards associated with physical effort in a strikingly similar fashion to those they devalue that are associated with delays, and that a single computational model derived from economics theory can account for the behavior observed in both delay discounting and effort discounting. However, our neuroimaging data reveal that the human brain uses distinct valuation subsystems for different types of costs, reflecting in opposite fashion delayed reward and future energetic expenses. The ventral striatum and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex represent the increasing subjective value of delayed rewards, whereas a distinct network, composed of the anterior cingulate cortex and the anterior insula, represent the decreasing value of the effortful option, coding the expected expense of energy. Together, these data demonstrate that the valuation processes underlying different types of costs can be fractionated at the cerebral level.
Endocannabinoids, particularly 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG), impact the directional turning and motility of a developing axon by activating CB(1) cannabinoid receptors (CB(1)Rs) in its growth cone. Recent findings posit that sn-1-diacylglycerol lipases (DAGL/) synthesize 2-AG in the motile axon segment of developing pyramidal cells. Coincident axonal targeting of CB(1)Rs and DAGLs prompts the hypothesis that autocrine 2-AG signaling facilitates axonal outgrowth. However, DAGLs alone are insufficient to account for the spatial specificity and dynamics of 2-AG signaling. Therefore, we hypothesized that local 2-AG degradation by monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL) must play a role. We determined how subcellular recruitment of MGL is temporally and spatially restricted to establish the signaling competence of 2-AG during axonal growth. MGL is expressed in central and peripheral axons of the fetal nervous system by embryonic day 12.5. MGL coexists with DAGL and CB(1)Rs in corticofugal axons of pyramidal cells. Here, MGL and DAGL undergo differential axonal targeting with MGL being excluded from the motile neurite tip. Thus, spatially confined MGL activity generates a 2-AG-sensing microdomain and configures 2-AG signaling to promote axonal growth. Once synaptogenesis commences, MGL disperses in stationary growth cones. The axonal polarity of MGL is maintained by differential proteasomal degradation because inhibiting the ubiquitin proteasome system also induces axonal MGL redistribution. Because MGL inactivation drives a CB(1)R-dependent axonal growth response, we conclude that 2-AG may act as a focal protrusive signal for developing neurons and whose regulated metabolism is critical for attaining correct axonal complexity.
Alzheimer's disease is a major cause of dementia for which treatments remain unsatisfactory. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) is a relevant kinase that has been hypothesized to contribute to the tau pathology. Several classes of chemical inhibitors for CDK5 have been developed, but they generally lack the specificity to distinguish among various ATP-dependent kinases. Therefore, the efficacy of these compounds when tested in animal models cannot definitively be attributed to an effect on CDK5. However, RNA interference (RNAi) targeting of CDK5 is specific and can be used to validate CDK5 as a possible treatment target. We delivered a CDK5 RNAi by lentiviral or adenoassociated viral vectors and analyzed the results in vitro and in vivo. Silencing of CDK5 reduces the phosphorylation of tau in primary neuronal cultures and in the brain of wild-type C57BL/6 mice. Furthermore, the knockdown of CDK5 strongly decreased the number of neurofibrillary tangles in the hippocampi of triple-transgenic mice (3Tg-AD mice). Our data suggest that this downregulation may be attributable to the reduction of the CDK5 availability in the tissue, without affecting the CDK5 kinase activity. In summary, our findings validate CDK5 as a reasonable therapeutic target for ameliorating tau pathology.
The efficient cortical encoding of natural scenes is essential for guiding adaptive behavior. Because natural scenes and network activity in cortical circuits share similar temporal scales, it is necessary to understand how the temporal structure of natural scenes influences network dynamics in cortical circuits and spiking output. We examined the relationship between the structure of natural acoustic scenes and its impact on network activity [as indexed by local field potentials (LFPs)] and spiking responses in macaque primary auditory cortex. Natural auditory scenes led to a change in the power of the LFP in the 2-9 and 16-30 Hz frequency ranges relative to the ongoing activity. In contrast, ongoing rhythmic activity in the 9-16 Hz range was essentially unaffected by the natural scene. Phase coherence analysis showed that scene-related changes in LFP power were at least partially attributable to the locking of the LFP and spiking activity to the temporal structure in the scene, with locking extending up to 25 Hz for some scenes and cortical sites. Consistent with distributed place and temporal coding schemes, a key predictor of phase locking and power changes was the overlap between the spectral selectivity of a cortical site and the spectral structure of the scene. Finally, during the processing of natural acoustic scenes, spikes were locked to LFP phase at frequencies up to 30 Hz. These results are consistent with an idea that the cortical representation of natural scenes emerges from an interaction between network activity and stimulus dynamics.

In this issue of Science Translational Medicine, Alexander and colleagues describe coherent evidence drawn from humans and from modeled animals that supports a brain region-specific gene therapy for depression: adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated transfer of the gene encoding p11 to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). The investigators found that focal NAcc knockdown of p11 expression in mice resulted in behavioral deficits related to depression and that AAV-mediated p11 gene transfer to the NAcc rescued the depression-related behavioral deficits of mice in which endogenous p11 had been genetically knocked out. They also found that p11 levels were lower in the NAcc of patients with depression than in the NAcc of matched controls. Taken together, the data suggest that gene therapies aimed at enhancing p11 in the NAcc may represent promising new approaches for treating depression; however, a large number of clinical and regulatory issues must be overcome before such therapies can be implemented.




The mechanisms underlying memory formation in the hippocampal network remain a major unanswered aspect of neuroscience. Although high-frequency activity appears essential for plasticity, salience for memory formation is also provided by activity in ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine projections. Here, we report that activation of dopamine D1 receptors in dentate granule cells (DGCs) can preferentially increase dendritic excitability to both high-frequency afferent activity and high-frequency trains of backpropagating action potentials. Using whole-cell patch clamp recordings, calcium imaging, and neuropeptide Y to inhibit postsynaptic calcium influx, we found that activation of dendritic voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) is essential for dopamine-induced long-term potentiation (LTP), both in rat and human dentate gyrus (DG). Moreover, we demonstrate previously unreported spike-timing-dependent plasticity in the human hippocampus. These results suggest that when dopamine is released in the dentate gyrus with concurrent high-frequency activity there is an increased probability that synapses will be strengthened and reward-associated spatial memories will be formed.
Visual working memory (VWM) is a remarkable skill dependent on the brain's ability to construct and hold an internal representation of the world for later comparison with an external stimulus. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) and basal ganglia (BG) interact within a cortical and subcortical network supporting VWM. We used scalp electroencephalography in groups of patients with unilateral PFC or BG lesions to provide evidence that these regions play complementary but dissociable roles in VWM. PFC patients show behavioral and electrophysiological deficits manifested by attenuation of extrastriate attention and VWM-related neural activity only for stimuli presented to the contralesional visual field. In contrast, patients with BG lesions show behavioral and electrophysiological VWM deficits independent of the hemifield of stimulus presentation but have intact extrastriate attention activity. The results support a model wherein the PFC is critical for top-down intrahemispheric modulation of attention and VWM with the BG involved in global support of VWM processes.

Dopamine (3-hydroxytyramine) is a well-known catecholamine neurotransmitter involved in multiple physiological functions including movement control. Here we report that the major extracellular metabolite of dopamine, 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT), can induce behavioral effects in a dopamine-independent manner and these effects are partially mediated by the trace amine associated receptor 1 (TAAR1). Unbiased in vivo screening of putative trace amine receptor ligands for potential effects on the movement control revealed that 3-MT infused in the brain is able to induce a complex set of abnormal involuntary movements in mice acutely depleted of dopamine. In normal mice, the central administration of 3-MT caused a temporary mild hyperactivity with a concomitant set of abnormal movements. Furthermore, 3-MT induced significant ERK and CREB phosphorylation in the mouse striatum, signaling events generally related to PKA-mediated cAMP accumulation. In mice lacking TAAR1, both behavioral and signaling effects of 3-MT were partially attenuated, consistent with the ability of 3-MT to activate TAAR1 receptors and cause cAMP accumulation as well as ERK and CREB phosphorylation in cellular assays. Thus, 3-MT is not just an inactive metabolite of DA, but a novel neuromodulator that in certain situations may be involved in movement control. Further characterization of the physiological functions mediated by 3-MT may advance understanding of the pathophysiology and pharmacology of brain disorders involving abnormal dopaminergic transmission, such as Parkinson's disease, dyskinesia and schizophrenia.
The tumor suppressor p53 is known to be able to trigger apoptosis in response to DNA damage, oncogene activation, and certain chemotherapeutic drugs. In addition to its transcriptional activation, a fraction of p53 translocates to mitochondria at the very early stage of apoptosis, which eventually contributes to the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), cytochrome c release, and caspase activation. However, the mitochondrial events that affect p53 translocation are still unclear. Since mitochondrial uncoupling has been suggested to contribute to cancer development, herein, we studied whether p53 mitochondrial translocation and subsequent apoptosis were affected by mitochondrial uncoupling using chemical protonophores, and further verified the results using a siRNA approach in murine skin epidermal JB6 cells. Our results showed that mitochondrial uncoupling blocked p53 mitochondrial translocation induced by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA), a known tumor promoter to induce p53-mediated apoptosis in skin carcinogenesis. This blocking effect, in turn, led to preservation of mitochondrial functions, and eventually suppression of caspase activity and apoptosis. Moreover, uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2), a potential suppressor of ROS in mitochondria, is important for TPA-induced cell transformation in JB6 cells. UCP2 knock down cells showed enhanced p53 mitochondrial translocation, and were less prone to form colonies in soft agar after TPA treatment. Altogether, our data suggest that mitochondrial uncoupling may serve as an important regulator of p53 mitochondrial translocation and p53-mediated apoptosis during early tumor promotion. Therefore, targeting mitochondrial uncoupling may be considered as a novel treatment strategy for cancer.



Episodic memory and episodic future thinking activate a network of overlapping brain regions, but little is known about the mechanism with which the brain separates the two processes. It was recently suggested that differential activity for memory and future thinking may be linked to differences in the phenomenal properties (e.g., richness of detail). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy subjects and a novel experimental design, we investigated the networks involved in the imagery of future and the recall of past events for the same target occasion, i.e. the Christmas and New Year's holidays, thereby keeping temporal distance and content similar across conditions. Although ratings of phenomenal characteristics were comparable for future thoughts and memories, differential activation patterns emerged. The right posterior hippocampus exhibited stronger memory-related activity during early event recall, and stronger future thought-related activity during late event imagination. Other regions, e.g., the precuneus and lateral prefrontal cortex, showed the reverse activation pattern with early future-associated and late past-associated activation. Memories compared to future thoughts were further related to stronger activation in several visual processing regions, which accords with a reactivation of the original perceptual experience. In conclusion, the results showed for the first time unique neural signatures for both memory and future thinking even in the absence of differences in phenomenal properties and suggested different time courses of brain activation for episodic memory and future thinking.


A novel series of trans-8-aminomethyl-1-oxa-3-azaspiro[4.5]decan-2-one derivatives was identified with potent NPY Y5 antagonist activity. Optimization of the original lead furnished compounds 23p and 23u, which combine sub-nanomolar Y5 activity with metabolic stability, oral bioavailability, brain penetration and strong preclinical profile for development. Both compounds significantly inhibited the food intake induced by a Y5 selective agonist with minimal effective doses of 3mg/kg po.
Pur is a nucleic acid-binding protein with DNA-unwinding activity, which has recently been shown to have a role in the cellular response to DNA damage. We have investigated the function of Pur in Ultraviolet-C (UVC) radiation-induced DNA damage and nucleotide excision repair (NER). Mouse embryo fibroblasts from PURA(-/-) knockout mice, which lack Pur, showed enhanced sensitivity to UVC irradiation as assessed by assays for cell viability and clonogenicity compared to Pur positive control cultures. In reporter plasmid reactivation assays to measure the removal of DNA adducts induced in vitro by UVC, the Pur-negative cells were less efficient in DNA damage repair. Pur-negative cells were also more sensitive to UVC-induced DNA damage measured by Comet assay and showed a decreased ability to remove UVC-induced cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers. In wild-type mouse fibroblasts, expression of Pur is induced following S-phase checkpoint activation by UVC in a similar manner to the NER factor TFIIH. Moreover, co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that Pur physically associates with TFIIH. Thus, Pur has a role in NER and the repair of UVC-induced DNA damage.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease selectively affecting motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified several common variants which increase disease susceptibility. In contrast, rare copy-number variants (CNVs), which have been associated with several neuropsychiatric traits, have not been studied for ALS in well-powered study populations. To examine the role of rare CNVs in ALS susceptibility, we conducted a CNV association study including over 19,000 individuals. In a genome-wide screen of 1875 cases and 8731 controls, we did not find evidence for a difference in global CNV burden between cases and controls. In our association analyses, we identified two loci that met our criteria for follow-up: the DPP6 locus (OR = 3.59, P = 6.6  10(-3)), which has already been implicated in ALS pathogenesis, and the 15q11.2 locus, containing NIPA1 (OR = 12.46, P = 9.3  10(-5)), the gene causing hereditary spastic paraparesis type 6 (HSP 6). We tested these loci in a replication cohort of 2559 cases and 5887 controls. Again, results were suggestive of association, but did not meet our criteria for independent replication: DPP6 locus: OR = 1.92, P = 0.097, pooled results: OR = 2.64, P = 1.4  10(-3); NIPA1: OR = 3.23, P = 0.041, pooled results: OR = 6.20, P = 2.2  10(-5)). Our results highlight DPP6 and NIPA1 as candidates for more in-depth studies. Unlike other complex neurological and psychiatric traits, rare CNVs with high effect size do not play a major role in ALS pathogenesis.
Type III RNase Dicer is responsible for the maturation and function of microRNA (miRNA) molecules in the cell. It is now well-documented that Dicer and the fine-tuning of the miRNA gene network are important for neuronal integrity. However, the underlying mechanisms involved in neuronal death, particularly in the adult brain, remain poorly defined. Here we show that the absence of Dicer in the adult forebrain is accompanied by a mixed neurodegenerative phenotype. Although neuronal loss is observed in the hippocampus, cellular shrinkage is predominant in the cortex. Interestingly, neuronal degeneration coincides with the hyperphosphorylation of endogenous tau at several epitopes previously associated with neurofibrillary pathology. Transcriptome analysis of enzymes involved in tau phosphorylation identified ERK1 as one of the candidate kinases responsible for this event in vivo. We further demonstrate that miRNAs belonging to the miR-15 family are potent regulators of ERK1 expression in mouse neuronal cells and co-expressed with ERK1/2 in vivo. Finally, we show that miR-15a is specifically downregulated in Alzheimer's disease brain. In summary, these results support the hypothesis that changes in the miRNA network may contribute to a neurodegenerative phenotype by affecting tau phosphorylation.
Agrin released by motoneurons induces and/or maintains acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering and other aspects of postsynaptic differentiation at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction. Agrin acts by binding and activating a receptor complex containing LDL receptor protein 4 (Lrp4) and muscle-specific kinase (MuSK). Two critical downstream components of this signaling cascade, Dox-7 and rapsyn, have been identified. However, additional intracellular essential elements remain unknown. Prior observations by others and us suggested antagonistic interactions between agrin and neuregulin-1 (Nrg-1) signaling in cultured myotubes and developing muscle fibers in vivo. A hallmark of Nrg-1 signaling in skeletal muscle cells is the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). ERK1/2 are also activated in most cells by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, a classical inhibitor of agrin-induced AChR clustering in myotubes. Here, it was investigated whether agrin activates ERK1/2 directly and whether such activation modulates agrin-induced AChR clustering. Agrin induced a rapid but transient activation of ERK1/2 in myotubes that was Lrp4/MuSK-dependent. However, blocking this ERK1/2 activation did not prevent but potentiated AChR clustering induced by agrin. ERK1/2 activation was dispensable for Nrg-1-mediated inhibition of the AChR clustering activity of agrin, but was indispensable for such activity by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. Together, these results suggest agrin-induced activation of ERK1/2 is a negative modulator of agrin signaling in skeletal muscle cells.
The transcription factor CLOCK-BMAL1 is a core component of the molecular clock machinery that drives circadian gene expression and physiology in mammals. Recently, we reported that this heterodimeric transcription factor functions as a signaling molecule in response to the resetting stimuli via the Ca+-dependent protein kinase C pathway. Here, we demonstrate that the CREB-binding protein (CBP) plays a key role in rapid activation of the CLOCK-BMAL1 heterodimer that leads to phase resetting of the circadian clock. Under physiological conditions, a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay revealed that CLOCK and BMAL1 dimerize in the cytoplasm and subsequently translocate into the nucleus in response to serum stimuli (mean time duration was 29.2 minutes and mean velocity 0.7 m/minute). Concomitantly, BMAL1 rapidly recruited CBP on Per1 promoter E-box, but not p300 (a functional analog of CBP), in the discrete nuclear foci. However, recruitment of CBP by cAMP/Ca+ response element-binding (CREB) protein on CRE was not markedly increased upon delivery of the resetting stimuli. Furthermore, overexpression of CBP greatly potentiated the CLOCK-BMAL1-mediated Per1 transcription, and this effect was completely abolished by site-directed mutation of E-box elements, but not by the mutation of CRE in the Per1 promoter. Furthermore, molecular knockdown of CBP severely dampened circadian oscillation of clock gene expression triggered by the resetting stimuli. These findings suggest that CBP recruitment by BMAL1 mediates acute transactivation of CLOCK-BMAL1, thereby inducing immediate-early Per1 transcription and phase resetting of the circadian clock.
The tuba1a gene encodes a neural-specific -tubulin isoform whose expression is restricted to the developing and regenerating nervous system. By using zebrafish as a model system for studying CNS regeneration, we recently showed that retinal injury induces tuba1a gene expression in Mller glia that reentered the cell cycle. However, because of the transient nature of tuba1a gene expression during development and regeneration, it was not possible to trace the lineage of the tuba1a-expressing cells with a reporter directly under the control of the tuba1a promoter. To overcome this limitation, we generated tuba1a:CreER(T2) and -actin2:loxP-mCherrry-loxP-GFP double transgenic fish that allowed us to label tuba1a-expressing cells conditionally and permanently via ligand-induced recombination. During development, recombination revealed transient tuba1a expression in not only neural progenitors but also cells that contribute to skeletal muscle, heart, and intestine. In the adult, recombination revealed tuba1a expression in brain, olfactory neurons, and sensory cells of the lateral line, but not in the retina. After retinal injury, recombination showed tuba1a expression in Mller glia that had reentered the cell cycle, and lineage tracing indicated that these cells are responsible for regenerating retinal neurons and glia. These results suggest that tuba1a-expressing progenitors contribute to multiple cell lineages during development and that tuba1a-expressing Mller glia are retinal progenitors in the adult.

In goldfish and other otophysans, the Weberian ossicles mechanically link the saccule of the inner ear to the anterior swimbladder chamber (ASB). These structures are correlated with enhanced sound-pressure sensitivity and greater sensitivity at high frequencies (600-2000 Hz). However, surprisingly little is known about the potential impact of the ASB on other otolithic organs and about how auditory responses are modulated by discrete sources that change their location or orientation with respect to the ASB. In this study, saccular and lagenar nerve fiber responses and conditioned behaviors of goldfish were measured to a small, low-frequency (50 Hz) vibrating sphere (dipole) source as a function of its location along the body and its orientation with respect to the ASB. Conditioned behaviors and saccular nerve fiber activity exhibited response characteristics nearly identical to those measured from a hydrophone in the same relative position as the ASB. By contrast, response patterns from lagena fibers could not be predicted by pressure inputs to the ASB. Deflation of the ASB abolished the characteristic spatial response pattern of saccular but not lagena fibers. These results show that: (1) the lagena is not driven by ASB-mediated pressure inputs to the ear; (2) the ASB-saccule pathway dominates behavioral responsiveness, operating effectively at frequencies as low as 50 Hz; and (3) behavioral and neural (saccular) responses are strongly modulated by the position and orientation of the dipole with respect to the ASB.
Barn owls can capture prey in pitch darkness or by diving into snow, while homing in on the sounds made by their prey. First, the neural mechanisms by which the barn owl localizes a single sound source in an otherwise quiet environment will be explained. The ideas developed for the single source case will then be expanded to environments in which there are multiple sound sources and echoes--environments that are challenging for humans with impaired hearing. Recent controversies regarding the mechanisms of sound localization will be discussed. Finally, the case in which both visual and auditory information are available to the owl will be considered.
Abnormally decreased deep gray matter (GM) signal intensity on T2-weighted MRI (T2 hypointensity) is associated with brain atrophy and disability progression in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and is believed to represent excessive iron deposition. We investigated the time course of deep GM T2 hypointensity and its relationship with disability at 3T in 8 stable relapsing-remitting (RR) MS patients treated with minocycline over 3years. MRI and disability measurements were compared at baseline, 6, 12, 24, and 36months. Grand mean deep GM T2 hypointensity was negatively correlated with EDSS over time (r=-0.94, P=0.02). This correlation was strongest in the head of caudate (r=-0.95, P=0.01) and putamen (r=-0.89, P=0.04). Additionally, baseline grand mean deep GM T2 hypointensity appears to predict third year EDSS (r=-0.72, P=0.04). These results suggest that iron associated deep GM injury correlates with patient disability in stable RRMS. Measurements of deep GM T2 hypointensity at high field MRI may prove to be useful in monitoring individuals with MS. Further studies are required to confirm these results in a large sample and to determine if T2 hypointensity changes in clinically active MS patients.

Reduction in the antiparkinsonian benefit of levodopa is a major complication of long-term levodopa treatment in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Such loss of benefit arises because of reduced duration of action and appearance of disabling dyskinesia. We assess the potential of the (2) adrenergic antagonist fipamezole to reduce motor complications in parkinsonian macaques. MPTP-lesioned macaques were treated acutely with fipamezole (10 mg/kg) alone and in combination with two doses of levodopa. Fipamezole extended both duration and quality of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa. Duration of antiparkinsonian action, on time, was increased by up to 75% while &quot;good-quality&quot; on time, i.e., that not associated with disabling dyskinesia, was increased by up to 98%. Combination of fipamezole with the lower dose of levodopa provided antiparkinsonian benefit at least equivalent to that provided by the higher dose levodopa alone. However, with the combination, antiparkinsonian benefit was of much better quality. The proportion of on time without disabling dyskinesia (79%) was significantly greater than that with high dose levodopa alone (45%). Increased duration and quality of levodopa action may represent therapeutically valuable actions of (2) adrenergic antagonists.
Few clinical studies have evaluated physiotherapeutic interventions for patients with degenerative cerebellar disease. In particular, evidence for long-term effects and transfer to activities of daily life is rare. We have recently shown that coordinative training leads to short-term improvements in motor performance. To evaluate long-term benefits and translation to real world function, we here assessed motor performance and achievements in activities of daily life 1 year after a 4 week intensive coordinative training, which was followed by a home training program. Effects were assessed by clinical rating scales, a goal attainment score and quantitative movement analysis. Despite gradual decline of motor performance and gradual increase of ataxia symptoms due to progression of disease after 1 year, improvements in motor performance and achievements in activities of daily life persisted. Thus, also in patients with degenerative cerebellar disease, continuous coordinative training leads to long-term improvements, which translate to real world function.
Myoclonus dystonia and idiopathic dystonia are associated with a greater frequency of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and major depression. We investigated the frequency of OCD in 39 patients with primary focal hand dystonia (FHD) using a semistructured interview. OCD and subsyndromal OCD was diagnosed in 5 of 39 (12.82%) patients with FHD, whereas OCD occurs in 2.3% of the general population. Recurrent depression occurred in (7 of 39) 17.95% of patients with FHD along with a family history of depression in (16 of 39) 41.02%. Overlapping mechanisms manifesting as FHD may also predispose to OC symptoms and likely implicates a common striatal dysfunction.
Relatively little is known about the interaction between behavioral changes, medication, and cognitive function in Parkinson's disease (PD). We examined working memory, learning and risk aversion in PD patients with and without impulsive or compulsive behavior (ICB) and compared the results with those in a group of age-matched control subjects. Parkinson patients with PD+ICB had poorer working memory performance than either controls or PD patients without ICB. PD+ICB patients also showed decreased learning from negative feedback and increased learning from positive feedback in off compared with on dopaminergic medication. This interaction between medication status and learning was the opposite of that found in the PD patients without a diagnosis of ICB. Finally, the PD group showed increased risk preference on medication relative to controls, and the subgroup of PD+ICB patients with pathological gambling were overall more risk prone than the PD group. Thus, medication status and an impulsive behavioral diagnosis differentially affect several behaviors in PD.
The LRRK2 gene is a key player in Parkinson's disease (PD), however prevalence and pathogenicity of LRRK2 variants remain to be investigated in ethnically diverse populations. Herein, we performed comprehensive sequencing of the LRRK2 gene in 92 Tunisian probands with familial PD. We then performed an association study using all identified variants in a series of 167 Lrrk2 p.G2019S-negative patients with sporadic PD and 365 Lrrk2 p.G2019S-negative healthy control subjects, all from the same Arab-Berber ethnicity. We identified one novel coding substitution (p.M2408I) and 24 known coding changes. Only the Lrrk2 p.G2019S mutation segregated with disease within families and was found in 39% of familial probands. None of the variants displayed significant association with risk for sporadic PD, however a trend was observed for Lrrk2 p.Y2189C. The present study underscores the importance of the LRRK2 gene in the Tunisian PD population.
The American Academy of Neurology suggests advising the redistribution of daily protein meal content to every Parkinson's disease (PD) patient with motor fluctuations during levodopa treatment. However, no comprehensive evaluation of this complementary therapy has been performed. A systematic review of intervention studies investigating the neurologic outcome of low-protein (&lt;0.8 g/kg of ideal weight/day) and protein-redistribution diets in patients with PD experiencing motor fluctuations during levodopa treatment. All studies (uncontrolled or randomized) investigating a low-protein and/or a protein-redistribution diet (LPD and PRD) and involving patients with PD with motor fluctuations were included, provided that sufficient information on dietary protein content and neurologic outcome measures was available. We identified 16 eligible studies, but they were markedly heterogeneous. There was not enough evidence to support the use of LPD. Response to PRD seemed very good. Acceptability appeared high upon introduction, but it seemed to progressively decrease over time. On average, PRD resulted in improved motor function, but also complications occurred. At the beginning, drop-outs were due to levodopa side effects rather than unsatisfactory benefits. Long-term adherence was more affected by changes in dietary habits than by diet-related side effects. Efficacy and benefits appeared to be higher when the intervention was proposed to subjects in the early stages of PD. PRD can be safely advised to fluctuating patients with PD, but those in whom benefits override the possible inconveniences still need to be identified. The long-term effects of PRD on nutritional status should be evaluated and true effectiveness in clinical practice should be reassessed, given the changes in levodopa formulations and the introduction of several adjuvants (levodopa degradation inhibitors and/or dopamine agonists).
Understanding the neurophysiology of human cognitive development relies on methods that enable accurate comparison of structural and functional neuroimaging data across brains from people of different ages. A fundamental question is whether the substantial brain growth and related changes in brain morphology that occur in early childhood permit valid comparisons of brain structure and function across ages. Here we investigated whether valid comparisons can be made in children from ages 4 to 11, and whether there are differences in the use of volume-based versus surface-based registration approaches for aligning structural landmarks across these ages. Regions corresponding to the calcarine sulcus, central sulcus, and Sylvian fissure in both the hemispheres were manually labeled on T1-weighted structural magnetic resonance images from 31 children ranging in age from 4.2 to 11.2years old. Quantitative measures of shape similarity and volumetric-overlap of these manually labeled regions were calculated when brains were aligned using a 12-parameter affine transform, SPM's nonlinear normalization, a diffeomorphic registration (ANTS), and FreeSurfer's surface-based registration. Registration error for normalization into a common reference framework across participants in this age range was lower than commonly used functional imaging resolutions. Surface-based registration provided significantly better alignment of cortical landmarks than volume-based registration. In addition, registering children's brains to a common space does not result in an age-associated bias between older and younger children, making it feasible to accurately compare structural properties and patterns of brain activation in children from ages 4 to 11.
Humans show substantial deviation from rationality during economic decision making under uncertainty. A computational perspective suggests these deviations arise out of an interaction between distinct valuation systems in the brain. Here, we provide behavioural data showing that the incidental presentation of aversive and appetitive conditioned stimuli can alter subjects' preferences in an economic task, involving a choice between a safe or gamble option. These behavioural effects informed a model-based analysis of a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment, involving an identical paradigm, where we demonstrate that this conditioned behavioral bias engages the amygdala, a brain structure associated with acquisition and expression of conditioned associations. Our findings suggest that a well known bias in human economic choice can arise from an influence of conditioned associations on goal-directed decision making, consistent with an architecture of choice that invokes distinct decision-making systems.
Motion artifacts pose significant problems for the acquisition and analysis of high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging data. These artifacts can be particularly severe when studying pediatric populations, where greater patient movement reduces the ability to clearly view and reliably measure anatomy. In this study, we tested the effectiveness of a new prospective motion correction technique, called PROMO, as applied to making neuroanatomical measures in typically developing school-age children. This method attempts to address the problem of motion at its source by keeping the measurement coordinate system fixed with respect to the subject throughout image acquisition. The technique also performs automatic rescanning of images that were acquired during intervals of particularly severe motion. Unlike many previous techniques, this approach adjusts for both in-plane and through-plane movement, greatly reducing image artifacts without the need for additional equipment. Results show that the use of PROMO notably enhances subjective image quality, reduces errors in Freesurfer cortical surface reconstructions, and significantly improves the subcortical volumetric segmentation of brain structures. Further applications of PROMO for clinical and cognitive neuroscience are discussed.
People with the apolipoprotein-Eepsilon4 (APOE-4) genetic risk for Alzheimer's disease show morphologic differences in medial temporal lobe regions when compared to non-carriers of the allele. Using a high-resolution MRI and cortical unfolding approach, our aim was to determine the rate of cortical thinning among medial temporal lobe subregions over the course of 2 years. We hypothesized that APOE-4 genetic risk would contribute to longitudinal cortical thickness change in the subiculum and entorhinal cortex, regions preferentially susceptible to Alzheimer's disease related pathology. Thirty-two cognitively intact subjects, mean age 61 years, 16 APOE-4 carriers, 16 non-carriers, underwent baseline and follow-up MRI scans. Over this relatively brief interval, we found significantly greater cortical thinning in the subiculum and entorhinal cortex of APOE-4 carriers when compared to non-carriers of the allele. Average cortical thinning across all medial temporal lobe subregions combined was also significantly greater for APOE-4 carriers. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that carrying the APOE-4 allele renders subjects at a higher risk for developing Alzheimer's disease.
It is becoming widely accepted that psychoactive drugs, often abused by HIV-I infected individuals, can significantly alter the progression of neuropathological changes observed in HIV-associated neurodegenerative diseases (HAND). The underlying mechanisms mediating these effects however, remain poorly understood. In the current study, we explored whether the psychostimulant drug cocaine could exacerbate toxicity mediated by gp120 in rat primary astrocytes. Exposure to both cocaine and gp120 resulted in increased cell toxicity compared to cells treated with either factor alone. The combinatorial toxicity of cocaine and gp120 was accompanied by an increase in caspase-3 activation. In addition, increased apoptosis of astrocytes in the presence of both the agents was associated with a concomitant increase in the production of intracellular reactive oxygen species and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Signaling pathways including c-jun N-teminal kinase (JNK), p38, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), and nuclear factor (NF-B) were identified to be major players in cocaine and gp120-mediated apoptosis of astrocytes. Our results demonstrated that cocaine-mediated potentiation of gp120 toxicity involved regulation of oxidative stress, mitochondrial membrane potential and MAPK signaling pathways.
The nucleus accumbens is a key mediator of cocaine reward, but the distinct roles of the two subpopulations of nucleus accumbens projection neurons, those expressing dopamine D1 versus D2 receptors, are poorly understood. We show that deletion of TrkB, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) receptor, selectively from D1+ or D2+ neurons oppositely affects cocaine reward. Because loss of TrkB in D2+ neurons increases their neuronal excitability, we next used optogenetic tools to control selectively the firing rate of D1+ and D2+ nucleus accumbens neurons and studied consequent effects on cocaine reward. Activation of D2+ neurons, mimicking the loss of TrkB, suppresses cocaine reward, with opposite effects induced by activation of D1+ neurons. These results provide insight into the molecular control of D1+ and D2+ neuronal activity as well as the circuit-level contribution of these cell types to cocaine reward.
A novel series of 1,2,4-triazol-3-yl-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes with high affinity and selectivity for the DA D(3) receptor and excellent pharmacokinetic profiles was recently reported. We also recently discussed the role of the linker associated with the triazole moiety. In this manuscript, we are reporting a detailed exploration of the region of the receptor interacting with the amine terminus of the scaffold wherein SAR and developability data associated with these novel templates was undertaken.


The inflammatory response contributes importantly to secondary tissue damage and functional deficits after spinal cord injury (SCI). In this work, we identified mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-activated protein kinase 2 (MAPKAPK2 or MK2), a downstream substrate of p38 MAPK, as a potential target using microarray analysis of contused spinal cord tissue taken at the peak of the inflammatory response. There was increased expression and phosphorylation of MK2 after SCI, with phospho-MK2 expressed in microglia/macrophages, neurons and astrocytes. We examined the role of MK2 in spinal cord contusion injury using MK2(-/-) mice. These results show that locomotor recovery was significantly improved in MK2(-/-) mice, compared with wild-type controls. MK2(-/-) mice showed reduced neuron and myelin loss, and increased sparing of serotonergic fibers in the ventral horn caudal to the injury site. We also found differential expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and 9 in MK2(-/-) and wild-type mice after SCI. Significant reduction was also seen in the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and protein nitrosylation in the injured spinal cord of MK2(-/-) mice. Our previous work has shown that macrophages lacking MK2 have an anti-inflammatory phenotype. We now show that there is no difference in the number of macrophages in the injured spinal cord between the two mouse strains and little if any difference in their phagocytic capacity, suggesting that macrophages lacking MK2 have a beneficial phenotype. These findings suggest that a lack of MK2 can reduce tissue damage after SCI and improve locomotor recovery. MK2 may therefore be a useful target to treat acute SCI.
Analgesic efficacy varies depending on the pain syndrome being treated. One reason for this may be a differential effect of individual pain syndromes on the function of the endogenous pain control circuits at which these drugs act to produce analgesia. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of diverse (i.e., ongoing inflammatory, neuropathic, or chronic widespread) pain syndromes on analgesia induced by activation of an opioid-mediated, noxious stimulus-induced endogenous pain control circuit. This circuit was activated by subdermal capsaicin injection at a site remote from the site of nociceptive testing. Analgesia was not affected by carrageenan-induced inflammatory pain or the early phase of oxaliplatin neuropathy (a complication of cancer chemotherapy). However, the duration of analgesia was markedly shorter in the late phase of oxaliplatin neuropathy and in alcoholic neuropathy. A model of fibromyalgia syndrome produced by chronic unpredictable stress and proinflammatory cytokines also shortened analgesia duration, but so did the same stress alone. Therefore, since chronic pain can activate neuroendocrine stress axes, we tested whether they are involved in the attenuation of analgesic duration induced by these pain syndromes. Rats in which the sympathoadrenal axis was ablated by adrenal medullectomy showed normal duration pain-induced analgesia in groups with either late-phase oxaliplatin neuropathy, alcoholic neuropathy, or exposure to sound stress. These results support the suggestion that pain syndromes can modulate activity in endogenous pain control circuits and that this effect is sympathoadrenal dependent.
A variety of epileptic seizure models have shown that activation of glutamatergic pyramidal cells is usually required for rhythm generation and/or synchronization in hippocampal seizure-like oscillations in vitro. However, it still remains unclear whether GABAergic interneurons may be able to drive the seizure-like oscillations without glutamatergic transmission. Here, we found that electrical stimulation in rat hippocampal CA1 slices induced a putative prototype of seizure-like oscillations (&quot;prototypic afterdischarge,&quot; 1.8-3.8 Hz) in mature pyramidal cells and interneurons in the presence of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. The prototypic afterdischarge was abolished by GABA(A) receptor antagonists or gap junction blockers, but not by a metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist or a GABA(B) receptor antagonist. Gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp and voltage-clamp recordings revealed that pyramidal cells were depolarized and frequently excited directly through excitatory GABAergic transmissions in each cycle of the prototypic afterdischarge. Interneurons that were actively spiking during the prototypic afterdischarge were mostly fast-spiking (FS) interneurons located in the strata oriens and pyramidale. Morphologically, these interneurons that might be &quot;potential seizure drivers&quot; included basket, chandelier, and bistratified cells. Furthermore, they received direct excitatory GABAergic input during the prototypic afterdischarge. The O-LM cells and most of the interneurons in the strata radiatum and lacunosum moleculare were not essential for the generation of prototypic afterdischarge. The GABA-mediated prototypic afterdischarge was observed later than the third postnatal week in the rat hippocampus. Our results suggest that an FS interneuron network alone can drive the prototypic form of electrically induced seizure-like oscillations through their excitatory GABAergic transmissions and presumably through gap junction-mediated communications.
The mammalian amygdala expresses various neuropeptides whose signaling has been implicated in emotionality. Many neuropeptides require amidation for full activation by peptidylglycine -amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a transmembrane vesicular cuproenzyme and regulator of the secretory pathway. Mice heterozygous for the Pam gene (PAM(+/-)) exhibit physiological and behavioral abnormalities related to specific peptidergic pathways. In the present study, we evaluated emotionality and examined molecular and cellular responses that characterize neurophysiological differences in the PAM(+/-) amygdala. PAM(+/-) mice presented with anxiety-like behaviors in the zero maze that were alleviated by diazepam. PAM(+/-) animals were deficient in short- and long-term contextual and cued fear conditioning and required higher shock intensities to establish fear-potentiated startle than their wild-type littermates. Immunohistochemical analysis of the amygdala revealed PAM expression in pyramidal neurons and local interneurons that synthesize GABA. We performed whole-cell recordings of pyramidal neurons in the PAM(+/-) amygdala to elucidate neurophysiological correlates of the fear behavioral phenotypes. Consistent with these observations, thalamic afferent synapses in the PAM(+/-) lateral nucleus were deficient in long-term potentiation. This deficit was apparent in the absence and presence of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin and was abolished when both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors were blocked. Both evoked and spontaneous excitatory signals were enhanced in the PAM(+/-) lateral nucleus. Phasic GABAergic signaling was also augmented in the PAM(+/-) amygdala, and this difference comprised activity-independent and -dependent components. These physiological findings represent perturbations in the PAM(+/-) amygdala that may underlie the aberrant emotional responses in the intact animal.
Synaptic gain control and information storage in neural networks are mediated by alterations in synaptic transmission, such as in long-term potentiation (LTP). Here, we show using both in vitro and in vivo recordings from the rat cerebellum that tetanization protocols for the induction of LTP at parallel fiber (PF)-to-Purkinje cell synapses can also evoke increases in intrinsic excitability. This form of intrinsic plasticity shares with LTP a requirement for the activation of protein phosphatases 1, 2A, and 2B for induction. Purkinje cell intrinsic plasticity resembles CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cell intrinsic plasticity in that it requires activity of protein kinase A (PKA) and casein kinase 2 (CK2) and is mediated by a downregulation of SK-type calcium-sensitive K conductances. In addition, Purkinje cell intrinsic plasticity similarly results in enhanced spine calcium signaling. However, there are fundamental differences: first, while in the hippocampus increases in excitability result in a higher probability for LTP induction, intrinsic plasticity in Purkinje cells lowers the probability for subsequent LTP induction. Second, intrinsic plasticity raises the spontaneous spike frequency of Purkinje cells. The latter effect does not impair tonic spike firing in the target neurons of inhibitory Purkinje cell projections in the deep cerebellar nuclei, but lowers the Purkinje cell signal-to-noise ratio, thus reducing the PF readout. These observations suggest that intrinsic plasticity accompanies LTP of active PF synapses, while it reduces at weaker, nonpotentiated synapses the probability for subsequent potentiation and lowers the impact on the Purkinje cell output.
This study examines the rules governing the transfer of spikes between the retina and the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) with the goal of determining whether the most informative retinal spikes preferentially drive LGN responses and what role spike timing plays in the process. By recording from monosynaptically connected pairs of retinal ganglion cells and LGN neurons in vivo in the cat, we show that relayed spikes are more likely than nonrelayed spikes to be evoked by stimuli that match the receptive fields of the recorded cells and that an interspike interval-based mechanism contributes to the process. Relayed spikes are also more reliable in their timing and number where they often achieve the theoretical limit of minimum variance. As a result, relayed spikes carry more visual information per spike. Based on these results, we conclude that retinogeniculate processing increases sparseness in the neural code by selectively relaying the highest fidelity spikes to the visual cortex.
Our ability to recognize the emotions of others is a crucial feature of human social cognition. Functional neuroimaging studies indicate that activity in sensorimotor cortices is evoked during the perception of emotion. In the visual domain, right somatosensory cortex activity has been shown to be critical for facial emotion recognition. However, the importance of sensorimotor representations in modalities outside of vision remains unknown. Here we use continuous theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (cTBS) to investigate whether neural activity in the right postcentral gyrus (rPoG) and right lateral premotor cortex (rPM) is involved in nonverbal auditory emotion recognition. Three groups of participants completed same-different tasks on auditory stimuli, discriminating between the emotion expressed and the speakers' identities, before and following cTBS targeted at rPoG, rPM, or the vertex (control site). A task-selective deficit in auditory emotion discrimination was observed. Stimulation to rPoG and rPM resulted in a disruption of participants' abilities to discriminate emotion, but not identity, from vocal signals. These findings suggest that sensorimotor activity may be a modality-independent mechanism which aids emotion discrimination.
Headstage preamplifiers and source followers are commonly used to study neural activity in behavioral neurophysiology experiments. Available commercial products are often expensive, not easily customized, and not submersible. Here we describe a method to design and build a customized, integrated circuit headstage for simultaneous 4-channel neural recording and 2-channel simulation in awake, behaving animals. The headstage is designed using a free, commercially available CAD-type design package, and can be modified easily to accommodate different scales (e.g. to add channels). A customized printed circuit board is built using surface mount resistors, capacitors and operational amplifiers to construct the unity gain source follower circuit. The headstage is made water-proof with a combination of epoxy, parafilm and a synthetic rubber putty. We have successfully used this device to record local field potentials and stimulate different brain regions simultaneously via independent channels in rats swimming in a water maze. The total cost is &lt; $30/unit and can be manufactured readily.

The amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta), which is thought to be the major cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is known to be capable of aggregating in different states: soluble monomers and oligomers, and insoluble aggregates. The Abeta aggregation state as well as its toxicity has been related to the interaction between the peptide and transition metals such as iron and copper. However, this relationship, as well as the effects of Abeta on the synaptic endings, is not fully understood. The aggregation states of Abeta in the presence of iron and copper, as well as their effects on synaptic viability and signaling were investigated in this work. During acute incubation treatments (5 min-4 h), Abeta/metal impaired mitochondrial function to the same extent as has been observed with the metal alone. However, in the presence of Abeta/iron (10 and 50 muM), plasma membrane integrity was disrupted to a greater extent than when generated by either iron or Abeta alone, indicating that the membrane constitutes the first target of synaptic injury. Akt activation by Abeta/iron was evident after 5 min of incubation and was higher than that observed in the presence of the metal alone. This activation was barely detected after 4 h of incubation, demonstrating that there is no correlation between the extent of synaptic damage and the activation of this kinase. Extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) activation profile was different from that observed for Akt. Accordingly, the presence of Abeta/metal could differentially modulate the activity of these kinases. This work shows evidence of the initial events locally triggered at the synapse by Abeta and transition metals. As synapses have been proposed as the starting point of Abeta/metal-triggered events, the characterization of early mechanisms occurring in models that mimic AD could be important for the search of unexplored therapeutics tools.
Circling behaviour of the ci2 rat mutant has been associated with an abnormal laterality concerning nigrostriatal and vestibular dopamine content and densities of several neurotransmitter receptors. Since not only subcortical, but also cortical activity subserve behavioural asymmetry, we applied quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography to determine the densities of twenty neurotransmitter receptors in three areas of the motor cortex (Fr1, Fr2, Fr3) of the left and right hemispheres in adult male circling mutant rats (ci2/ci2), non-circling littermates (ci2/+) and aged-matched rats from the background strain (LEW/Ztm, wild type). Rats had previously been monitored for motor behaviour and swimming abilities. Wild type and ci2/+ rats did not differ from the behavioural point of view, whereas ci2/ci2 animals were characterized by pronounced lateralized circling behaviour and were not able to perform the swimming test correctly. Left Fr2 of wild type rats contained significantly lower NMDA receptor densities than its right counterpart. No interhemispheric differences were found in the motor cortex of ci2/+ or ci2/ci2 animals. All three areas of wild type rats contain higher GABA(A) and adenosine A(1) receptor densities than those of ci2/+ and ci2/ci2 animals, respectively. Serotonin 5-HT(2) receptor densities were significantly lower in the motor cortex of ci2/ci2 animals than in that of their heterozygous littermates. Thus, since the ci2 rat mutant presents a wide range of behavioural and neurochemical lateralization anomalies, in addition to representing a model of Usher syndrome type 1, it may prove useful to understand the mechanisms underlying abnormal rotational behaviour and its relevance as a model of disturbances in cerebral asymmetry and their consequences.
Schlager inbred hypertensive mice (BPH/2J) have been suggested to have high blood pressure (BP) due to an overactive sympathetic nervous system (SNS). The brain nuclei associated with the hypertension are also those involved in the integration of the cardiovascular responses to stress. Therefore, in the present study, we hypothesize that BPH/2J mice likely have a greater response to stress that is associated with greater neuronal activation in the limbic system, hypothalamus and medulla in regions known to regulate sympathetic activity. Male hypertensive BPH/2J and normotensive BPN/3J mice were implanted with telemetry devices and exposed to dirty cage-switch, an acute model of aversive stress. Stress exposure caused a 60% greater pressor response in BPH/2J compared with BPN/3J mice and an increase in activity, by contrast the level of tachycardia was less in BPH/2J mice. Stress-induced cardiovascular responses were also associated with greater neuronal activation, as detected by c-Fos expression, in BPH/2J compared with BPN/3J mice in the medial nucleus of the amygdala (MeAm), dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) (P&lt;0.001) and marginally in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM; P=0.7). These findings suggest that hypertension in the BPH/2J mice is associated with greater sympathetic vasomotor responses to central pathways mediating the arousal responses to acute aversive stress in particular the amygdala, hypothalamus and rostral ventrolateral medulla.
L-DOPA therapy for Parkinson's disease has a double-edge effect on nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons: L-DOPA increases the intracellular level of dopamine, but it induces neuron cytotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. To investigate the molecular signaling mechanisms that underlie the concentration-dependent effects of L-DOPA on cell viability, the activities of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and apoptotic enzymes were measured in rat adrenal pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells in the presence of a low concentration (20 muM) and high concentrations (100-200 muM) of L-DOPA. At the low concentration, L-DOPA was not cytotoxic and its presence increased the activities of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, p38 MAPK, BadSer112, Bcl-2, and caspase-12. At the high concentrations, L-DOPA was cytotoxic and stimulated the activities of ERK1/2, p38 MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)1/2, BadSer155, caspase-12 and caspase-3. The increased levels of ERK1/2 and BadSer155 in the presence of high concentrations of L-DOPA did not protect against L-DOPA-mediated cytotoxicity. In addition, the levels of L-type Ca(2+) channel-sensitive intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) and Ca(2+) were elevated in the presence of L-DOPA, and the increase in the levels of intracellular cAMP may also play a role in cellular viability, since cAMP levels and cytotoxicity increased in parallel with L-DOPA concentrations and the addition of forskolin in the medium increased cytotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that, at a low and non-toxic concentration, L-DOPA may promote cell survival by increasing the activities of ERK1/2, BadSer112 and Bcl-2, while, at high concentrations, L-DOPA activates the caspase-3 cell death enzyme through the JNK1/2 and p38 MAPK signaling pathways as well as endoplasmic reticulum stress that activates caspase-12. Intracellular cAMP levels may also play a role here. The results may lead to an effective therapy for Parkinson's disease.
The cholinergic input from the lateral dorsal tegmental area (LDTg) modulates the dopamine cells of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and plays an important role in cocaine taking. Specific pharmacological agents that block or stimulate muscarinic receptors in the LDTg change acetylcholine (ACh) levels in the VTA. Furthermore, manipulations of cholinergic input in the VTA can change cocaine taking. In the current study, the ACh output from the LDTg was attenuated by treatment with the selective muscarinic type 2 (M2) autoreceptor agonist oxotremorine.sesquifumarate (OxoSQ). We hypothesized that OxoSQ would reduce the motivation of rats to self-administer both natural and drug rewards. Animals were tested on progressive ratio (PR) schedules of reinforcement for food pellets and cocaine. On test days, animals on food and on cocaine schedules were bilaterally microinjected prior to the test. Rats received either LDTg OxoSQ infusions or LDTg artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) infusions in a within-subjects design. In addition, infusions were delivered into a dorsal brain area above the LDTg as an anatomical control region. OxoSQ microinjection in the LDTg, compared to aCSF, significantly reduced both the number of self-administered pellets and cocaine infusions during the initial half of the session; this reduction was dose-dependent. OxoSQ microinjections into the area just dorsal to the LDTg had no significant effect on self-administration of food pellets or cocaine. Animals were also tested in locomotor activity chambers for motor effects following the above microinjections. Locomotor activity was mildly increased by OxoSQ microinjection into the LDTg during the initial half of the session. Overall, these data suggest that LDTg cholinergic neurons play an important role in modifying the reinforcing value of natural and drug rewards. These effects cannot be attributed to significant alterations of locomotor behavior and are likely accomplished through LDTg muscarinic autoreceptors.
Low current cortex stimulation produces a sparse and distributed set of activated cells often with distances of several hundred micrometers between cell bodies and the microelectrode. A modeling study based on recently measured densities of high threshold sodium channels Nav1.2 in dendrites and soma and low threshold sodium channels Nav1.6 in the axon shall identify spike initiation sites including a discussion on dendritic spikes. Varying excitability along the neural axis has been observed while studying different electrode positions and configurations. Although the axon initial segment (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier are most excitable, many thin axons and dendrites which are likely to be close to the electrode in the densely packed cortical regions are also proper candidates for spike initiation sites. Cathodic threshold ratio for thin axons and dendrites is about 1:3, whereas 0.2 mum diameter axons passing the electrode tip in 10 mum distance can be activated by 100 mus pulses with 2.6 muA. Direct cathodic excitation of dendrites requires a minimum electrode-fiber distance, which increases with dendrite diameter. Therefore thin dendrites can profit from the stronger electrical field close to the electrode but low current stimulation cannot activate large diameter dendrites, contrary to the inverse recruitment order known from peripheral nerve stimulation. When local depolarization fails to generate a dendritic spike, stimulation is possible via intracellular current flow that initiates an action potential, for example 200 mum distant in the low threshold AIS or in certain cases at the distal dendrite ending. Beside these exceptions, spike initiation site for cathodic low current stimulation appears rather close to the electrode.
Overindulgence in easily available energy-dense palatable foods is thought to be an important factor in the current obesity epidemic but the underlying neural mechanisms are not well understood. Here we demonstrate that mu-opioid receptor signaling in the nucleus accumbens may be important. Protracted suppression of endogenous mu-opioid receptor signaling focused on the nucleus accumbens shell for several days by means of microinjected beta-funaltrexamine (BFNA) diminished both &quot;liking&quot; of sucrose, as indicated by fewer positive hedonic orofacial responses, and the incentive reinforcement value (&quot;wanting&quot;) of a food reward, as indicated by lower completion speed and increased time being distracted in the incentive runway. BFNA-treatment also decreased responding to sucrose and corn oil in the brief access lick paradigm, a test measuring a combination of mainly taste-guided &quot;liking&quot; and low-effort &quot;wanting&quot;, as well as 4 h intake of sucrose solution. These effects were not due to nonspecific permanent neuronal changes, as they were fully reversible. We conclude that endogenous mu-opioid signaling in the nucleus accumbens is necessary for the full display of palatable food-induced hyperphagia through mechanisms including hedonic, motivational, and reinforcement processes. Development of obesity could be the result of predisposing innate differences in these mechanisms or overstimulation of these mechanisms by external factors.
Though acupuncture has long been used to treat various kinds of pain, its mechanisms remain partly understood. Our recent study has shown that it may inhibit cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in the spinal dorsal horn where COX-2 is upregulated after the development of neuropathic pain following spinal nerve ligation (SNL). The current study directly compared the effect of acupuncture with COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib in the spinal cord after SNL in rats. After L5 SNL, the rats were treated either with acupuncture applied to Zusanli (ST36) and Sanyinjiao (SP6) bilaterally with or without electrical stimulation (2 Hz, 0.5-1-2 mA) four times over 22 days, and/or celecoxib fed daily. Paw-withdrawal-threshold to mechanical stimulation and paw-withdrawal-latency to thermal test were tested for neuropathic pain at four intervals following the treatments in comparison with the pre-treatment and non-treatment controls. The results demonstrate that electroacupuncture (EA) had a long lasting and better analgesic effect than celecoxib in reducing neuropathic hypersensitivity. Though COX-2 expression in the spinal L4-L6 dorsal horn by immunostaining was significantly reduced by acupuncture just as well as by celecoxib, the superior analgesic mechanism of acupuncture appears well beyond COX-2 inhibition alone.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is normally found in the brain in low concentrations and may function as a neurotransmitter, although the mechanism of action has not been completely elucidated. GHB has been used as a general anesthetic and is currently used to treat narcolepsy and alcoholism. Recreational use of GHB is primarily as a &quot;club drug&quot; and a &quot;date rape drug,&quot; due to its amnesic effects. For this study, the hypothesis was that behavioral and neurochemical alterations may parallel gene expression changes in the brain after GHB administration. Adult male C57/B6N mice (n=5/group) were administered a single dose of 500 mg/kg GHB (i.p.) and were sacrificed 1, 2 and 4 h after treatment. Control mice were administered saline. Brains were removed and regionally dissected on ice. Total RNA from the hippocampus, cortex and striatum was extracted, amplified and labeled. Gene expression was evaluated using Agilent whole mouse genome 4x44K oligonucleotide microarrays. Microarray data were analyzed by ArrayTrack and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using P &lt; or = 0.01 and a fold change &gt; or = 1.7 as the criteria for significance. Principal component analysis (PCA) and Hierarchical Cluster Analysis (HCA) showed that samples from each time point clustered into distinct treatment groups with respect to sacrifice time. Ingenuity pathways analysis (IPA) was used to identify involved pathways. The results show that GHB induces gene expression alterations in hundreds of genes in the hippocampus, cortex and striatum, and the number of affected genes increases throughout a 4-h time course. Many of these DEGs are involved in neurological disease, apoptosis, and oxidative stress.
In this study, the expression patterns of zif268 and activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated gene (arc) were investigated in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and dorsal hippocampal (dHPC) subregions during context-induced drug-seeking following 22 h or 15 d abstinence from cocaine self-administration. Arc and zif/268 mRNA in BLA and dHPC increased after re-exposure to the cocaine-paired chamber at both timepoints; however, only the BLA increases (with one exception-see below) were differentially affected by the presence or absence of the cocaine-paired lever in the chamber. Following 22 h of abstinence, arc mRNA was significantly increased in the BLA of cocaine-treated rats re-exposed to the chamber only with levers extended, whereas following 15 d of abstinence, arc mRNA in the BLA was increased in cocaine-treated rats returned to the chamber with or without levers extended. In contrast, zif268 mRNA in the BLA was greater in cocaine-treated rats returned to the chamber with levers extended vs. levers retracted only after 15 d of abstinence. In the dentate gyrus (DG) following 22 h of abstinence, zif268 mRNA was greater in rats returned to the chamber where levers were absent regardless of drug treatment whereas arc mRNA was increased in CA1 (cell bodies and dendrites) and CA3 only in cocaine-treated groups. Following 15 d of abstinence, arc mRNA was significantly greater in CA1 and CA3 of both cocaine-treated groups returned to the chamber than in those placed into a familiar, non-salient alternate environment; however, only in CA1 cell bodies the cocaine context-induced increases significantly greater than in yoked-saline controls. In contrast, zif/268 mRNA in all dHPC regions was significantly greater in both cocaine-treated groups returned to the cocaine context than in the cocaine-treated group returned to an alternative environment or saline-treated groups. These data suggest that the temporal dynamics of arc and zif268 gene expression in the BLA and dHPC encode different key elements of drug context-induced cocaine-seeking.
Environmental enrichment of laboratory animals leads to multi-faceted changes to physiology, health and disease prognosis. An important and under-appreciated factor in enhancing cognition through environmental manipulation may be improved basic sensory function. Previous studies have highlighted changes in cortical sensory map plasticity but have used techniques such as electrophysiology, which suffer from poor spatial resolution, or optical imaging of intrinsic signals, which suffers from low temporal resolution. The current study attempts to overcome these limitations by combining voltage-sensitive dye imaging with somatosensory-evoked potential (SEP) recordings: the specific aim was to investigate sensory function in barrel cortex using multi-frequency whisker stimulation under urethane anaesthesia. Three groups of rats were used that each experienced a different level of behavioural or environmental enrichment. We found that enrichment increased all SEP response components subsequent to the initial thalamocortical input, but only when evoked by single stimuli; the thalamocortical component remained unchanged across all animal groups. The optical signal exhibited no changes in amplitude or latency between groups, resembling the thalamocortical component of the SEP response. Permanent and extensive changes to housing conditions conferred no further enhancement to sensory function above that produced by the milder enrichment of regular handling and behavioural testing, a finding with implications for improvements in animal welfare through practical changes to animal husbandry.
Neural stem cells (NSCs), either isolated from fetal or adult human brain or derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, are now considered major candidates for in vitro generation of transplantable dopaminergic (DA) neurons and modeling of Parkinson's disease. It is generally thought that in vitro differentiation of neural stem cells into meso-diencephalic dopaminergic neurons, requires recapitulation of dopaminergic differentiation pathway normally occurring in the ventral mesencephalon during embryogenesis. This dopaminergic pathway is partially activated by a combination of the extracellular induction factors Sonic Hedgehog (Shh), Fibroblast Growth Factor 8 (FGF8) and Wnt1 that trigger specific intracellular transcription cascades. In vitro mimicking of these embryonic ventral mesencephalic conditions has been successful for dopaminergic differentiation of embryonic stem cells and ventral mesencephalic NSCs. Dopaminergic differentiation of non-mesencephalic NSCs (nmNSCs), however, is considered arduous. Here we examine whether Shh, FGF8 and Wnt1 can activate typical dopaminergic transcription factors, such as Lmx1a, Msx1 and Otx2 in nmNSCs. We found that Shh, FGF8 and Wnt1 induced the expression of Lmx1a and Otx2 in nmNSCs resulting in the differentiation of up to 39% of the nmNSCs into neurons expressing Pitx3. However, only a low number ( approximately 13%) of these cells became more DA-like neurons also expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The histone deacetylase (HDAC)-inhibitor trichostatin A combined with Shh, FGF8 and Wnt1 caused orchestrated induction of Lmx1a, Otx2, Msx1 plus the early DA transcription factor En1. Now significantly increased numbers of TH ( approximately 22%) and Pitx3 ( approximately 33%) neurons were observed. Most of these cells coexpressed the DA markers DAT and Vmat2. Taken together, we demonstrate that nmNSCs indeed can be differentiated towards DA-like neurons, but this differentiation is far from complete in comparison to ventral mesencephalic NSCs and embryonic stem cells; most likely, the nmNSCs lack the proper &quot;primed&quot; epigenetic state of these cells for DA differentiation facilitating the induction of DA specific transcription factors.
The interior structures of the eye are well supplied by the trigeminal nerve; however, the function of these afferent fibers is not well defined. The aim of this study was to use c-fos like immunohistochemistry (Fos-LI) to map the trigeminal brainstem complex after intravitreal microinjection or ocular surface application of capsaicin, a selective transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) agonist in male rats under barbiturate anesthesia. The effect of ocular inflammation on Fos-LI was tested 2 or 7 days after UV irradiation of the eye. In non-inflamed controls, intravitreal capsaicin produced peaks of Fos-LI at the trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vcvl) transition and in superficial laminae at the caudalis/upper cervical cord (Vc/C1) junction regions. At the Vc/C1 junction intravitreal capsaicin induced Fos-LI in a dose-dependent manner, while at the Vi/Vcvl transition responses were similar after vehicle or capsaicin injections. Two days, but not 7 days, after UV irradiation intravitreal and ocular surface capsaicin-evoked Fos-LI at the Vc/C1 junction and nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) were markedly enhanced, whereas the responses at the Vi/Vcvl transition were not different from non-inflamed controls. More than 80% of trigeminal ganglion neurons labeled after intravitreal microinjection of Fluorogold also expressed immunoreactivity for the TRPV1 receptor. These findings suggested that most intraocular trigeminal sensory nerves serve as nociceptors. The similar pattern and magnitude of Fos-LI after capsaicin suggested that TRPV1-responsive trigeminal nerves that supply intraocular and ocular surface tissues form a unified integrative circuit in the caudal brainstem. Intensity coding of capsaicin concentration and facilitation of Fos-LI expression after UV irradiation strongly supported the hypothesis that the Vc/C1 junction was critical for nociceptive processing related to ocular pain, whereas the Vi/Vcvl transition region likely served other functions in ocular homeostasis under nave and inflamed conditions.
Noxious stimuli activate a complex cerebral network. During central sensitization to pain, activity in most of these areas is changed. One of these areas is the posterior parietal cortex (PPC). The role of the PPC during processing of acute pain as well as hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia remains elusive. Therefore, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) based, neuro-navigated, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) study in 10 healthy volunteers. Firstly, pin-prick hyperalgesia was provoked on the right volar forearm, using the model of electrically-induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. fMRI was performed during pin-prick stimulation inside and outside the hyperalgesic areas. Secondly, on four different experimental sessions, the left and right individual intraparietal BOLD peak-activations were used as targets for a sham-controlled 1 Hz rTMS paradigm of 10 min duration. We measured psychophysically the (i) electrical pain stimulus intensity on an 11-point numeric pain rating scale (NRS, 0-10), the (ii) area of hyperalgesia, and the (iii) area of dynamic mechanical allodynia. Sham stimulation or rTMS was performed 16 min after induction of pin-prick hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia. Compared to sham stimulation, no significant effect of rTMS was observed on pain stimulus intensity and the area of allodynia. However, a reduction of the hyperalgesic area was observed for rTMS of the left PPC (P&lt;0.05). We discuss the role of the PPC in central sensitization to pain, in spatial discrimination of pain stimuli and in spatial-attention to pain stimuli.
We have used the single pulse electrical stimulation (SPES) technique to investigate whether more localized stimulation of the hippocampus can affect human episodic memory. A recognition memory test including words, object drawings, abstract drawings and unfamiliar faces was performed without stimulation (baseline) or synchronized with single 1 ms electrical pulses applied to the left, right or both hippocampi in 12 epileptic patients investigated with bilateral depth electrodes. No differences were found in memory performance between baseline and unilateral stimulation, either in the total score or in material-specific scores. In contrast, bilateral stimulation was associated with a pronounced decrease in the median of total memory scores (57%), and of material-specific sub-scores for words (38%), geometrical drawings (81%) and faces (100%). Additional study of stimulation at presentation of stimuli (encoding) versus the recognition memory (retrieval) test phase, showed reduction in memory only at encoding. The results provide causal evidence that the hippocampi are necessary for supporting episodic memory. The induction of memory deficits by bilateral stimulation with parameters that do not induce effects when applied unilaterally suggests that recognition memory can be processed independently by the hippocampus on either hemisphere.
We investigated the functional relationship between the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment receptor (SNARE) protein syntaxin 1A (syn 1A) and the dopamine transporter (DAT) by treating rat striatal tissue with Botulinum Neurotoxin C (BoNT/C) and co-transfecting syn 1A with DAT in non-neuronal cells, followed by analysis of DAT activity, phosphorylation, and regulation. Treatment of striatal slices with BoNT/C resulted in elevated dopamine (DA) transport Vmax and reduced DAT phosphorylation, while heterologous co-expression of syn 1A led to reduction in DAT surface expression and transport Vmax. Syn 1A was present in DAT immunoprecipitation complexes, supporting a direct or indirect interaction between the proteins. Phorbol ester regulation of DA transport activity was retained in BoNT/C-treated synaptosomes and syn 1A transfected cells, demonstrating that protein kinase C (PKC) and syn 1A effects occur through independent processes. These findings reveal a novel mechanism for regulation of DAT activity and phosphorylation, and suggest the potential for syn 1A to impact DA neurotransmission through effects on reuptake.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and nesfatin-1/nucleobindin 2 (NUCB2) are assumed to play a role in feeding and adaptation to stress. Both peptides are highly expressed in the midbrain non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW), a center implicated in the regulation of stress adaptation and in the pathogenesis of stress-induced brain disorders, in a sex-specific manner. The present study was undertaken to test whether CART and nesfatin are involved in these actions of the npEW in the rat. Acute restraint and chronic variable mild stress were used. Following stress, physiological parameters (serum corticosterone levels, body, adrenal and thymus weights) were determined, CART and nesfatin-like immunoreactivity (LI) as well as mRNA expression were analyzed in the npEW nucleus. Our results depict the following changes: (1) Acute stress resulted in an increase in serum corticosterone levels that was higher in females; (2) In males, data on corticosterone and body weight gain and in females, data on body weight gain revealed an effect of chronic stress; (3) Both acute and chronic stress activated npEW neurons expressing CART and nesfatin-LI, as shown by increased cFos immunoreactivity; (4) Chronic, but not acute stress increased the amount of CART and nesfatin-LI in both males and females; (5) Neither acute nor chronic stress had an effect on CART and NUCB2 mRNA contents of npEW neurons in either sex. Taken together, our data suggest that CART and nesfatin are involved in the response of npEW neurons to chronic stress.
The Ca(2+)/calmodulin stimulated adenylyl cylcase 8 (AC8) is a pure Ca(2+) sensor, catalyzing the conversion of ATP to cAMP, with a critical role in neuronal plasticity. A role for AC8 in modulating complex behavioral outcomes has been demonstrated in AC8 knock out (KO) mouse models in which anxiety-like responses were differentially modulated following repeated stress experiences, suggesting an involvement of AC8 in stress adaptation and mood disorders. To further investigate the role of this enzyme in phenotypes relevant for psychiatric conditions, AC8 KO mice were assessed for baseline behavioral and hormonal parameters, responses to repeated restraint stress experience, and long-term effects of chronic social defeat stress. The lack of AC8 conferred a hyperactive-phenotype both in home-cage behaviors and the forced swim test response as well as lower leptin plasma levels and adrenal hypertrophy. AC8 KO mice showed baseline &quot;anxiety&quot; levels similar to wild type littermates in a variety of procedures, but displayed decreased anxiety-like responses following repeated restraint stress. This increased stress resilience was not seen during the chronic social defeat procedure. AC8 KO did not differ from wild type mice in response to social stress; similar alterations in body weight, food intake and increased social avoidance were found in all defeated subjects. Altogether these results support a complex role of cAMP signaling pathways confirming the involvement of AC8 in the modulation of stress responses. Furthermore, the hyperactivity and the increased risk taking behavior observed in AC8 KO mice could be related to a manic-like behavioral phenotype that warrants further investigation.
Goal-directed behavior is governed by internal physiological states and external incentives present in the environment (e.g. hunger and food). While the role of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system in behavior guided by environmental incentives has been well studied, the effect of relevant physiological states on the function of this system is less understood. The current study examined the role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in the kind of food-reinforced behaviors known to be sensitive to the internal state produced by food deprivation conditions. Operant lever-press reinforced on fixed ratio 1 (FR1) and progressive ratio (PR) schedules was tested after temporary inactivation of, or DA receptor blockade in, the prelimbic mPFC or NAcc core of rats with differing levels of food deprivation (0, 12 and 36-h). Food deprivation increased PR breakpoints, as well as the number of lever-presses emitted on the FR1 schedule. Both temporary inactivation and DA blockade of NAcc reduced breakpoints across deprivation conditions, while temporary inactivation and DA blockade of mPFC reduced breakpoints only in food-deprived rats. Neither manipulation of mPFC and NAcc had any effect on behavior reinforced on the FR1 schedule. Thus, mPFC and NAcc were differentially relevant to the behaviors tested-NAcc was recruited when the behavioral cost per reinforcer was rising or high regardless of food deprivation conditions, while mPFC was recruited when food-deprived animals behaved through periods of sparse reinforcement density in order to maximize available gain.
Synapsin is a phosphoprotein reversibly associated with synaptic vesicles. We investigated synapsin function in mediating synaptic activity during intense stimulation at Drosophila motor boutons. Electron microscopy analysis of synapsin(-) boutons demonstrated that synapsin maintains vesicle clustering over the periphery of the bouton. Cyclosporin A pretreatment disrupted peripheral vesicle clustering, presumably due to increasing synapsin phosphorylated state. Labeling recycling vesicles with a fluorescent dye FM1-43 followed by photoconversion of the dye into electron dense product demonstrated that synapsin deficiency does not affect mixing of the reserve and recycling vesicle pools but selectively reduces the size of the reserve pool. Intense stimulation produced a significant increase in vesicle abundance and vesicle redistribution toward the central core of synapsin (+) boutons, while in synapsin (-) boutons the area occupied by vesicles did not change and the increase in vesicle numbers was not as prominent. However, intense stimulation produced an increase in basal release at synapsin(-) but not in synapsin(+) boutons, suggesting that synapsin may direct vesicles to the reserve pool. Finally, synapsin deficiency inhibited an increase in quantal size and formation of endosome-like cisternae, which was activated either by intense electrical stimulation or by high K(+) application. Taken together, these results elucidate a novel synapsin function, specifically, promoting vesicle reuptake and reserve pool formation upon intense stimulation.
It is generally assumed that long lasting synaptic potentiation (long-term potentiation, LTP) and depression (long-term depression, LTD) result from distinct patterns of afferent activity, with high and low frequency activity favouring LTP and LTD, respectively. However, a novel form of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent synaptic potentiation in the hippocampal CA1 area in vivo induced by low frequency afferent stimulation has recently been demonstrated. Here, we further characterize the mechanisms mediating this low frequency stimulation (LFS)-induced LTP in area CA1 of intact, urethane-anesthetized preparations. Consistent with previous reports, alternating, low frequency (1 Hz) stimulation of CA1 afferents originating in the contralateral CA3 area and the medial septum resulted in gradually developing, long lasting (&gt;2 h) LTP of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) recorded in CA1. Local application of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin in CA1 blocked LFS-induced LTP, as did application of H89, an inhibitor of protein kinase A. Given the apparent overlap in molecular mechanisms mediating LFS-LTP and &quot;classic&quot; high-frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced LTP in CA1, we examined the relation between these forms of LTP by means of occlusion experiments. LFS, delivered to synapses saturated by initial HFS, resulted in a gradually developing LTD, rather than the normally seen LTP. Conversely, initial induction of LFS-LTP reduced the amount of subsequent HFS-LTP. Together, these experiments reveal a surprising similarity in the molecular mechanisms (dependence on NMDA receptors, protein kinase A, protein synthesis) mediating LTP induced by highly distinct (1 vs. 100 Hz) induction protocols. Importantly, these findings further challenge the &quot;high-frequency-LTP, low-frequency LTD&quot; dogma by demonstrating that this dichotomy does not account for all types of plasticity phenomena at central synapses.
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the methyl-CpG binding protein 2 gene (MECP2). Several neural systems are affected in Rett, resulting in an autonomic dysfunction, a movement disorder with characteristic loss of locomotor abilities and profound cognitive impairments. A deregulation of monoamines has been detected in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid of both Rett patients and a Rett syndrome murine model, the Mecp2 knock-out mouse. Our goal was to characterize the onset and progression of motor dysfunction in Mecp2(tm1.1Bird) knock-out mice and the possible neurochemical alterations in different brain regions potentially playing a role in Rett-like pathophysiology, at two different time-points, at weaning (3 weeks old) and in young adults when overt symptoms are observed (8 weeks old). Our results revealed significant age- and region-dependent impairments in these modulatory neurotransmitter systems that correspond well with the motor phenotype observed in these mice. At 3 weeks of age, male Mecp2 knock-out mice exhibited ataxia and delayed motor initiation. At this stage, noradrenergic and serotonergic transmission was mainly altered in the prefrontal and motor cortices, whereas during disease progression the neurochemical changes were also observed in hippocampus and cerebellum. Our data suggest that the deregulation of norepinephrine and serotonin systems in brain regions that participate in motor control are involved in the pathophysiology of Rett syndrome motor phenotypes. Moreover, we highlight the contribution of cortical regions along with the brainstem to be in the origin of the pathology and the role of hippocampus and cerebellum in the progression of the disease rather than in its establishment.
Action observation is increasingly considered as a rehabilitation tool as it can increase the cortical excitability of muscles involved in the observed movements and therefore produce effector-specific motor facilitation. In order to investigate the action observation mechanisms, simple single joint intransitive movements have commonly been used. Still, how the observation of everyday movements which often are the prime target of rehabilitation affects the observer cortical excitability remains unclear. Using transcranial magnetic stimulations, we aimed at verifying if the observation of everyday movements made by the proximal or distal upper-limb produces effector-specific motor facilitation in proximal (arm) and distal (hand) muscles of healthy subjects. Results suggest that, similar to simple intransitive movements, observation of more complex everyday movements involving mainly the proximal or distal part of upper limb induces different patterns of motor facilitation across upper limb muscles (P=0.02). However, we observed large inter-individual variability in the strength of the effector-specific motor facilitation induced by action observation. Yet, subjects had similar types of response (strong or weak effector-specific effects) when watching proximal or distal movements indicating that the facilitation pattern was highly consistent within subjects (r=0.83-0.88, P&lt;0.001). This suggests that some individuals are better than other at precisely mapping the observed movements on their motor repertoire and that this type of response holds for various types of everyday actions.
Neuroinflammation is associated with glial activation following a variety of brain injuries, including stroke. While activation of perilesional astrocytes and microglia following ischemic brain injury is well documented, the influence of age on these cellular responses after stroke is unclear. This study investigated the influence of advanced age on neuronal degeneration, neuroinflammation, and glial activation in female Sprague-Dawley rats after reversible embolic occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO). Results indicate that in comparison to young adult rats (3 months), aged rats (18 months) showed enhanced neuronal degeneration, altered microglial response, and a markedly increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines following MCAO. In addition, the time-course for activation of signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 (STAT3), the signaling mechanism that regulates astrocyte reactivity, was truncated in the aged rats after MCAO. Moreover, the expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3), which is associated with termination of astrogliosis, was enhanced as a function of age after MCAO. These findings are suggestive of an enhanced proinflammatory response and a truncated astroglial response as a function of advanced age following MCAO. These data provide further evidence of the prominent role played by age in the molecular and cellular responses to ischemic stroke and suggest that astrocytes may represent targets for future therapies aimed at improving stroke outcome.
Because adolescent brains are undergoing extensive developmental changes, they may be uniquely sensitive to effects of addictive drugs like nicotine. We exposed adolescent and adult rats to nicotine infusion for two weeks, and then used whole genome microarray analysis to determine effects on gene expression in the ventral tegmental area. We examined brains immediately after two weeks of nicotine or saline, and also four weeks after termination of nicotine exposure. After identifying genes with a significant agextreatment interaction, we employed template matching to find specific patterns of expression across age and treatment. Of those genes that were transiently regulated (up- or down-regulated immediately following the end of nicotine treatment, but back to saline baseline 30 days later), two-thirds were specific to adult animals, while only 30% were specific to adolescents and 4% were shared across the two ages. In contrast, significant genes that were persistently regulated (altered following nicotine treatment and still altered 30 days later) were more likely (59%) to be adolescent, with only 32% in adults and 8% shared. The greatest number of significant genes was late-regulated (no change immediately after nicotine, but regulated 30 days later). Again, most were in adolescents (54%), compared to adults (10%) or shared (36%). Pathway analysis revealed that adolescent-specific genes were over-represented in several biological functions and canonical pathways, including nervous system development and function and long-term potentiation. Furthermore, adolescent-specific genes formed extensive interaction networks, unlike those specific for adults or shared. This age-specific expression pattern may relate to the heightened vulnerability of adolescents to the effects of addictive drugs. In particular, the propensity of adolescents to show persistent alterations in gene expression corresponds to the persistence of drug dependence among smokers who began their habit as adolescents. These findings support a model whereby adolescent brains are uniquely vulnerable to long-term changes in gene expression in the brain's reward pathway caused by early exposure to nicotine.
The cerebral cortex may play a role in the control of compensatory balance reactions by optimizing these responses to suit the task conditions and/or to stimulus (i.e. perturbation) characteristics. These possible contributions appear to be reflected by pre-perturbation and post-perturbation cortical activity. While studies have explored the characteristics and possible meaning of these different events (pre- vs. post-) there is little insight into the possible association between them. The purpose of this study was to explore whether pre- and post-perturbation cortical events are associated or whether they reflect different control processes linked to the control of balance. Twelve participants were presented temporally-predictable postural perturbations under four test conditions. The Block/Random tasks were designed to assess modifiability in CNS gain prior to instability, while the Unconstrained/Constrained tasks assessed responsiveness to the magnitude of instability. Perturbations were evoked by releasing a cable which held the participant in a forward lean position. The magnitude of pre-perturbation cortical activity scaled to perturbation amplitude when the magnitude of the perturbation was predictable [F(3,11)=2.906, P&lt;0.05]. The amplitude of pre-perturbation cortical activity was large when the size of the forthcoming perturbation was unknown (13.8 + or - 7.9, 11.4 + or - 9.9, 16.9 + or - 9.3, and 16.1 + or - 10.6 muV for the Block Unconstrained and Constrained and Random Unconstrained and Constrained, respectively). In addition, N1 amplitude scaled to perturbation amplitude regardless of whether the size of the forthcoming perturbation was known (30.1 + or - 17.7, 11.4 + or - 7.1, 30.9 + or - 18.4, 12.4 + or - 6.1 muV). This is the first work to examine modifiability in the pre-perturbation cortical activity related to postural set alterations. The cerebral cortex differentially processes independent components prior to and following postural instability to generate compensatory responses linked to the conditions under which instability is experienced.
In many rodent species, such as Syrian hamsters, reproductive behavior requires neural integration of chemosensory information and steroid hormone cues. The medial amygdala processes both of these signals through anatomically distinct sub-regions; the anterior region (MeA) receives substantial chemosensory input, but contains few steroid receptor-labeled neurons, whereas the posterodorsal region (MePD) receives less chemosensory input, but contains dense populations of androgen and estrogen receptors. Importantly, these sub-regions have considerable reciprocal connections, and previous studies in our laboratory have shown that functional interactions between MeA and MePD are required for the preference to investigate opposite-sex odors in male hamsters. We therefore hypothesized that chemosensory and hormone signals are conveyed directly between MeA and MePD. To test this hypothesis, we injected the retrograde tracer, cholera toxin B (CTB), into either MeA or MePD of male subjects and identified whether retrogradely labeled cells within MePD or MeA, respectively, expressed (1) Fos protein following exposure to female or male odors or (2) androgen receptors (AR). Approximately 36% of CTB-labeled cells within MeA (that project to MePD) also expressed Fos following exposure to either social odor, compared to the only 13% of CTB-labeled cells within MePD (that project to MeA) that also expressed odor-induced Fos. In contrast, 57% of CTB-labeled cells within MePD also contained AR, compared to the 28% of CTB-labeled cells within MeA that were double-labeled for AR/CTB. These results provide the first anatomical evidence that chemosensory and hormone cues are conveyed directly between MeA and MePD. Furthermore, these data suggest that chemosensory information is conveyed primarily from MeA to MePD, whereas hormone information is conveyed primarily from MePD to MeA. More broadly, the interactions between MeA and MePD may represent a basic mechanism by which the brain integrates information about social cues in the environment with hormonal indices of reproductive state.
Substantial evidence suggests that glutamatergic neurotransmission is a critical mediator of the experience-dependent synaptic plasticity that may underlie alcohol dependence. Substance abuse typically begins in adolescence; therefore, the impact of alcohol on glutamatergic systems during this critical time in brain development is of particular importance. The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is involved in developmental mechanisms underlying neuronal differentiation and synaptogenesis and as such may be a target system for alcohol effects during adolescence. In the present study quantitative biochemical determinations were made of the relative abundance of different protein expressions of NMDAR subunits in adolescents and adults after 2 weeks of ethanol vapor exposure, and 24 h and 2 weeks following withdrawal. After 2 weeks of ethanol vapor exposure N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor NR1 subunit (NR1), N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor NR2A subunit (NR2A), and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor NR2B subunit (NR2B) subunit expression was found to be increased in hippocampus of the adults. In contrast, 2 weeks of ethanol exposure resulted in no significant changes in NR1 and NR2B subunits and a reduction NR2A subunit expression in hippocampus in adolescents. Twenty-four h and 2 weeks following withdrawal from ethanol vapor NR1 and NR2A subunit expression in hippocampus was decreased in adolescents, whereas in adults it had returned to control levels. In frontal cortex, 2 weeks of chronic ethanol exposure produced decreases in NR1 subunit expression in both adults and adolescents but also produced decreases in NR2A and NR2B subunit expression in adults that returned or exceeded control levels by 2 weeks following withdrawal from ethanol vapor. These results demonstrate that NMDAR subunit composition can be modulated differentially between adolescents and adults by chronic ethanol exposure and withdrawal. These developmental differences in NMDAR subunits composition may also be associated with the enhanced vulnerability of the adolescent brain to ethanol dependence.
Experiments in rodents have indicated that maternal valproic acid (VPA) exposure has permanent adverse effects upon neurological and behavioral development. In humans, prenatal exposure to VPA can induce fetal valproate syndrome, which has been associated with autism. The present study examined mouse pups exposed in utero to VPA, measuring physical development, olfactory discrimination, and social behavior as well as expression of plasticity-related genes, brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B. VPA-exposed mice showed delayed physical development, impaired olfactory discrimination, and dysfunctional pre-weaning social behavior. In situ hybridization experiments revealed lower cortical expression of BDNF mRNA in VPA animals. These results support the validity of the VPA mouse model for human autism and suggest that alterations in plasticity-related genes may contribute to the behavioral phenotype.
There is a growing body of evidence that striosome-matrix dopamine systems are tightly linked with motor and behavioral brain functions and disorders. In this study, we used an immunohistochemical method to show differential expression of the olfactory type G-protein alpha subunit (Galphaolf) that involves in the coupling of dopamine D1 receptor with adenylyl cyclase in the striatal compartments of adult mice, and observed heightened density of Galphaolf labeling in the striosomes relative to the matrix compartment. Our findings suggest that Galphaolf could be one of the key molecules for controlling differential responses of the striosome and matrix compartments to dopamine D1 receptor signaling in the striatum of adult mice.

Functional imaging studies in humans have localized the motor-hand region to a neuroanatomical landmark call the KNOB within the precentral gyrus. It has also been reported that the KNOB is larger in the hemisphere contralateral to an individual's preferred hand, and therefore may represent the neural substrate for handedness. The KNOB has also been neuronatomically described in chimpanzees and other great apes and is similarly associated with handedness. However, whether the chimpanzee KNOB represents the hand region is unclear from the extant literature. Here, we used PET to quantify neural metabolic activity in chimpanzees when engaged in unilateral reach-and-grasping responses and found significantly lateralized activation of the KNOB region in the hemisphere contralateral to the hand used by the chimpanzees. We subsequently constructed a probabilistic map of the KNOB region in chimpanzees in order to assess the overlap in consistency in the anatomical landmarks of the KNOB with the functional maps generated from the PET analysis. We found significant overlap in the anatomical and functional voxels comprising the KNOB region, suggesting that the KNOB does correspond to the hand region in chimpanzees. Lastly, from the probabilistic maps, we compared right- and left-handed chimpanzees on lateralization in grey and white matter within the KNOB region and found that asymmetries in white matter of the KNOB region were larger in the hemisphere contralateral to the preferred hand. These results suggest that neuroanatomical asymmetries in the KNOB likely reflect changes in connectivity in primary motor cortex that are experience dependent in chimpanzees and possibly humans.


A new study links individual differences in unconsciously triggered motor control to variability in GABA neurotransmitter concentration in the supplementary motor area of the human brain.
Learning through experience underlies the ability to adapt to novel tasks and unfamiliar environments. However, learning must be regulated so that relevant aspects of the environment are selectively encoded. Acetylcholine (ACh) has been suggested to regulate learning by enhancing the responses of sensory cortical neurons to behaviorally relevant stimuli. In this study, we increased synaptic levels of ACh in the brains of healthy human subjects with the cholinesterase inhibitor donepezil (trade name: Aricept) and measured the effects of this cholinergic enhancement on visual perceptual learning. Each subject completed two 5 day courses of training on a motion direction discrimination task, once while ingesting 5 mg of donepezil before every training session and once while placebo was administered. We found that cholinergic enhancement augmented perceptual learning for stimuli having the same direction of motion and visual field location used during training. In addition, perceptual learning with donepezil was more selective to the trained direction of motion and visual field location. These results, combined with previous studies demonstrating an increase in neuronal selectivity following cholinergic enhancement, suggest a possible mechanism by which ACh augments neural plasticity by directing activity to populations of neurons that encode behaviorally relevant stimulus features.
The 3xTg-AD mouse develops a progressive Alzheimer's disease- (AD-) like brain pathology that causes cognitive- and neuropsychiatric-like symptoms of dementia. Since its neuroimmunoendocrine axis is likewise impaired, this mouse is also useful for modelling complex age-related neurodegeneration. This study analyzed behavioral, physiological, neurochemical, pathological and immunoendocrine alterations in male and female 3xTg-AD mice and assayed the effects of a short therapy of forced physical exercise at the moderate pathology stage of 6 months of age. Gender effects were observed in most AD-related pathology and dysfunctions. Five weeks of treadmill training produced beneficial effects, such as the reduction of brain oxidative stress and GABA-A receptor dysfunction in males and improvement of sensorimotor function in females. In both sexes, exercise decreased the brain amyloid  42/40 ratio levels. The results highlight the importance of analyzing experimental therapies in both mouse model genders in order to improve our understanding of the disease and develop more appropriate therapies.

Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a debilitating disease characterized by unexplained disabling fatigue and a combination of accompanying symptoms the pathology of which is incompletely understood. Many CFS patients complain of gut dysfunction. In fact, patients with CFS are more likely to report a previous diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a common functional disorder of the gut, and experience IBS-related symptoms. Recently, evidence for interactions between the intestinal microbiota, mucosal barrier function, and the immune system have been shown to play a role in the disorder's pathogenesis.Studies examining the microecology of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract have identified specific microorganisms whose presence appears related to disease; in CFS, a role for altered intestinal microbiota in the pathogenesis of the disease has recently been suggested. Mucosal barrier dysfunction promoting bacterial translocation has also been observed. Finally, an altered mucosal immune system has been associated with the disease. In this article, we discuss the interplay between these factors in CFS and how they could play a significant role in GI dysfunction by modulating the activity of the enteric nervous system, the intrinsic innervation of the gut.If an altered intestinal microbiota, mucosal barrier dysfunction, and aberrant intestinal immunity contribute to the pathogenesis of CFS, therapeutic efforts to modify gut microbiota could be a means to modulate the development and/or progression of this disorder. For example, the administration of probiotics could alter the gut microbiota, improve mucosal barrier function, decrease pro-inflammatory cytokines, and have the potential to positively influence mood in patients where both emotional symptoms and inflammatory immune signals are elevated. Probiotics also have the potential to improve gut motility, which is dysfunctional in many CFS patients.
Bmal1 is an essential transcriptional activator within the mammalian circadian clock. We report here that the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of Bmal1-null mutant mice, unexpectedly, generates stochastic oscillations with periods that overlap the circadian range. Dissociated SCN neurons expressed fluctuating levels of PER2 detected by bioluminescence imaging but could not generate circadian oscillations intrinsically. Inhibition of intercellular communication or cyclic-AMP signaling in SCN slices, which provide a positive feed-forward signal to drive the intracellular negative feedback loop, abolished the stochastic oscillations. Propagation of this feed-forward signal between SCN neurons then promotes quasi-circadian oscillations that arise as an emergent property of the SCN network. Experimental analysis and mathematical modeling argue that both intercellular coupling and molecular noise are required for the stochastic rhythms, providing a novel biological example of noise-induced oscillations. The emergence of stochastic circadian oscillations from the SCN network in the absence of cell-autonomous circadian oscillatory function highlights a previously unrecognized level of circadian organization.

Angelman syndrome (AS) and Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) are neurodevelopmental disorders of genomic imprinting. AS results from loss of function of the ubiquitin protein ligase E3A (UBE3A) gene, whereas the genetic defect in PWS is unknown. Although induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) provide invaluable models of human disease, nuclear reprogramming could limit the usefulness of iPSCs from patients who have AS and PWS should the genomic imprint marks be disturbed by the epigenetic reprogramming process. Our iPSCs derived from patients with AS and PWS show no evidence of DNA methylation imprint erasure at the cis-acting PSW imprinting center. Importantly, we find that, as in normal brain, imprinting of UBE3A is established during neuronal differentiation of AS iPSCs, with the paternal UBE3A allele repressed concomitant with up-regulation of the UBE3A antisense transcript. These iPSC models of genomic imprinting disorders will facilitate investigation of the AS and PWS disease processes and allow study of the developmental timing and mechanism of UBE3A repression in human neurons.
Deciding which hand to use for an action is one of the most frequent decisions people make in everyday behavior. Using a speeded reaching task, we provide evidence that hand choice entails a competitive decision process between simultaneously activated action plans for each hand. We then show that single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation to the left posterior parietal cortex biases this competitive process, leading to an increase in ipsilateral, left hand reaches. Stimulation of the right posterior parietal cortex did not alter hand choice, suggesting a hemispheric asymmetry in the representations of reach plans. These results are unique in providing causal evidence that the posterior parietal cortex is involved in decisions of hand choice.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common inherited form of mental retardation and is caused by transcriptional inactivation of the X-linked fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. FXS is associated with increased density and abnormal morphology of dendritic spines, the postsynaptic sites of the majority of excitatory synapses. To better understand how lack of the FMR1 gene function affects spine development and plasticity, we examined spine formation and elimination of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in the whisker barrel cortex of Fmr1 KO mice with a transcranial two-photon imaging technique. We found that the rates of spine formation and elimination over days to weeks were significantly higher in both young and adult KO mice compared with littermate controls. The heightened spine turnover in KO mice was due to the existence of a larger pool of &quot;short-lived&quot; new spines in KO mice than in controls. Furthermore, we found that the formation of new spines and the elimination of existing ones were less sensitive to modulation by sensory experience in KO mice. These results indicate that the loss of Fmr1 gene function leads to ongoing overproduction of transient spines in the primary somatosensory cortex. The insensitivity of spine formation and elimination to sensory alterations in Fmr1 KO mice suggest that the developing synaptic circuits may not be properly tuned by sensory stimuli in FXS.
Nosocomial fungal infections, an increasing healthcare concern worldwide, are often associated with medical devices. We have developed antifungal nanoparticle conjugates that can act in suspension or attach to a surface, efficiently killing fungi. For that purpose, we immobilized covalently amphotericin B (AmB), a potent antifungal agent approved by the FDA, widely used in clinical practice and effective against a large spectrum of fungi, into silica nanoparticles. These antifungal nanoparticle conjugates are fungicidal against several strains of Candida sp., mainly by contact. In addition, they can be reused up to 5 cycles without losing their activity. Our results show that the antifungal nanoparticle conjugates are more fungistatic and fungicidal than 10 nm colloidal silver. The antifungal activity of the antifungal nanoparticle conjugates is maintained when they are immobilized on a surface using a chemical adhesive formed by polydopamine. The antifungal nanocoatings have no hemolytic or cytotoxic effect against red blood cells and blood mononuclear cells, respectively. Surfaces coated with these antifungal nanoparticle conjugates can be very useful to render medical devices with antifungal properties.
Microglial activation plays an integral role in the development and course of neurodegeneration. Although neuropeptides such as bradykinin (BK), somatostatin (SST), and endothelin (ET) are known to be important mediators of inflammation in the periphery, evidence of a similar function in brain is scarce. Using immunocytochemistry, we demonstrate the expression of receptors for BK (B1, B2 subtypes), ET (ETA, ETB subtypes) and SST (SST 2, 3, 4 subtypes) in primary microglia and microglial cell lines. Exposure of BV2 and N9, as well as primary microglial cells to BK or SST increased A uptake in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas endothelin decreased A uptake. This was caused by increased phagocytosis of A since the rate of intracellular A degradation remained unaffected. All neuropeptides increased chemotactic activity of microglia. In addition, BK reduced A-induced expression of proinflammatory genes including iNOS and COX-2. ET decreased the A-induced expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 and interleukin-6. These results suggest that neuropeptides play an important role in chemotaxis and A clearance and modulate the brain's response to neuroinflammatory processes.
Recent studies have begun to unravel the molecular basis of tiling and self-avoidance, two important cellular mechanisms that shape neuronal circuitry during development in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Dscams and Turtle (Tutl), two Ig superfamily proteins, have been shown to mediate contact-dependent homotypic interactions in tiling and self-avoidance. By contrast, the Activin pathway regulates axonal tiling in a contact-independent manner. These cell surface signals may directly or indirectly regulate the activity of the Tricornered kinase pathway and/or other intracellular signaling pathways to prevent the overlap between same-type neuronal arbors in the sensory or synaptic input field.

Amphetamine use is associated with dysphoric states, including heightened anxiety, that emerge within 24h of withdrawal from the drug. Corticotropin-releasing factor increases serotonin release in the central nucleus of the amygdala, and this neurochemical circuitry may play a role in mediating fear and anxiety states. We have previously shown that chronic amphetamine treatment increases corticotropin-releasing factor receptor type-2 levels in the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus of the rat. Therefore, we hypothesized that chronic amphetamine treatment would enhance the amygdalar serotonergic response to corticotropin-releasing factor infused into the dorsal raphe nucleus. Male rats were injected once-daily with d-amphetamine (2.5mg/kg i.p., or saline) for two weeks. Serotonin release within the central nucleus of the amygdala in response to intra-raphe infusion of corticotropin-releasing factor (100 ng) was measured 24h after the last treatment in urethane-anesthetized (1.8 mg/kg, i.p.) rats using in vivo microdialysis. Rats pretreated with amphetamine showed significantly enhanced serotonin release in the central nucleus of the amygdala in response to corticotropin-releasing factor infusion when compared to saline pretreated rats. Furthermore, this enhanced response was blocked by the corticotropin-releasing factor type-2 receptor antagonist antisauvagine-30 (2 microg) infused into the dorsal raphe nucleus. These results suggest increased sensitivity to corticotropin-releasing factor as mediated by type-2 receptors following chronic amphetamine treatment, which may underlie dysphoric states observed during amphetamine withdrawal.

The degree of behavioral control that an organism has over an aversive event is well known to modulate the behavioral and neurochemical consequences of exposure to the event. Here we review recent research that suggests that the experience of control over a potent stressor alters how the organism responds to future aversive events as well as to the stressor being controlled. More specifically, subjects that have experienced control show blunted behavioral and neurochemical responses to subsequent stressors occurring days to months later. Indeed, these subjects respond as if a later uncontrollable stressor is actually controllable. Further, we review research indicating that the stress resistance induced by control depends on control-induced activation of ventral medial prefrontal cortical (vmPFC) inhibitory control over brainstem and limbic structures. Furthermore, there appears to be plasticity in these circuits such that the experience of control alters the vmPFC in such a way that later uncontrollable stressors now activate the vmPFC circuitry, leading to inhibition of stress-responsive limbic and brainstem structures, i.e., stressor resistance. This controllability-induced proactive stressor resistance generalizes across very different stressors and may be involved in determining individual difference in reactions to traumatic events.
In Alzheimer's disease, abnormal accumulation of A leads to neuronal death and impaired A degradation may play an important role in this accumulation. Plasmin is the key active protease in the plasminogen system and is capable of cleaving A. Here we investigate plasminogen mRNA levels, plasminogen and plasmin protein levels and plasmin activity levels in post-mortem AD and control brain tissue. Plasminogen and plasmin distribution in the human brain was demonstrated by immunoperoxidase staining. Plasminogen mRNA levels were measured in 20 AD, 20 control and 15 Vascular dementia (VaD) brains by real-time PCR (RT-PCR). In an expanded cohort of 38 AD and 38 control brains plasminogen and plasmin protein levels were measured by dot blot and Western blot, respectively, while plasmin activity levels were measured by fluorogenic assay. Plasminogen and plasmin were present mainly in the neurons. Plasminogen mRNA levels were unaltered in the AD or VaD groups compared to the controls. Plasminogen and plasmin protein levels were not significantly altered in AD compared to controls. Plasmin activity was reduced in AD but this did not reach statistical significance. In contrast to some studies these data do not support the involvement of plasmin in the abnormal accumulation of A in AD.
We have reported a highly cooperative interaction between leptin and thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) in the hindbrain to generate thermogenic responses (Hermann et al., 2006) (Rogers et al., 2009). Identifying the locus in the hindbrain where leptin and TRH act synergistically to increase thermogenesis will be necessary before we can determine the mechanism(s) by which this interaction occurs. Here, we performed heat-induced epitope recovery techniques and in situ hybridization to determine if neurons or afferent fibers in the hindbrain possess both TRH type 1 receptor and long-form leptin receptor [TRHR1; LepRb, respectively]. LepRb receptors were highly expressed in the solitary nucleus [NST], dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus [DMN] and catecholaminergic neurons of the ventrolateral medulla [VLM]. All neurons that contained LepRb also contained TRHR1. Fibers in the NST and the raphe pallidus [RP] and obscurrus [RO] that possess LepRb receptors were phenotypically identified as glutamatergic type 2 fibers (vglut2). Fibers in the NST and RP that possess TRHR1 receptors were phenotypically identified as serotonergic [i.e., immunopositive for the serotonin transporter; SERT]. Co-localization of LepRb and TRHR1 was not observed on individual fibers in the hindbrain but these two fiber types co-mingle in these nuclei. These anatomical arrangements may provide a basis for the synergy between leptin and TRH to increase thermogenesis.
Since several different pathways are involved in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury, combination therapy rather than monotherapy may be required for efficient neuroprotection. In this study, we examined the protective effects of an apoptosis inhibitor Gly(14)-humanin (HNG) and a necroptosis inhibitor necrostatin-1 (Nec-1) on hypoxia/ischemia/reperfusion injury. Cultured mouse primary cortical neurons were incubated with Nec-1, HNG or both in a hypoxia chamber for 60 min. Cell viability was determined by MTS assay at 24h after oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) treatment. Mice underwent middle cerebral artery occlusion for 75 min followed by 24h reperfusion. Mice were administered HNG and/or Nec-1 (i.c.v.) at 4h after reperfusion. Neurological deficits were evaluated and the cerebral infarct volume was determined by TTC staining. Nec-1 or HNG alone had protective effects on OGD-induced cell death. Combined treatment with Nec-1 and HNG resulted in more neuroprotection than Nec-1 or HNG alone. Treatment with HNG or Nec-1 reduced cerebral infarct volume from 59.3  2.6% to 47.0  2.3% and 47.1  1.5%, respectively. Combined treatment with HNG and Nec-1 improved neurological scores and decreased infarct volume to 38.6  1.5%. In summary, we demonstrated that the combination treatment of HNG and Nec-1 conferred synergistic neuroprotection on hypoxia/ischemia/reperfusion injury in vitro and in vivo. These findings provide a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of stroke by combining anti-apoptosis and anti-necroptosis therapy.
The signaling mechanisms by which neurotrophic receptors regulate neuronal survival and axonal growth are still incompletely understood. In the receptor tyrosine kinase RET, a receptor for GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor), the functions of the majority of tyrosine residues that become phosphorylated are still unknown. Here we have identified the protein-tyrosine phosphatase SHP2 as a novel direct interactor of RET and the first effector known to bind to phosphorylated Tyr(687) in the juxtamembrane region of the receptor. We show that SHP2 is recruited to RET upon ligand binding in a cooperative fashion, such that both interaction with Tyr(687) and association with components of the Tyr(1062) signaling complex are required for stable recruitment of SHP2 to the receptor. SHP2 recruitment contributes to the ability of RET to activate the PI3K/AKT pathway and promote survival and neurite outgrowth in primary neurons. Furthermore, we find that activation of protein kinase A (PKA) by forskolin reduces the recruitment of SHP2 to RET and negatively affects ligand-mediated neurite outgrowth. In agreement with this, mutation of Ser(696), a known PKA phosphorylation site in RET, enhances SHP2 binding to the receptor and eliminates the effect of forskolin on ligand-induced outgrowth. Together, these findings establish SHP2 as a novel positive regulator of the neurotrophic activities of RET and reveal Tyr(687) as a critical platform for integration of RET and PKA signals. We anticipate that several other phosphotyrosines of unknown function in neuronal receptor tyrosine kinases will also support similar regulatory functions.
Iron influx increases the translation of the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) via an iron-responsive element (IRE) RNA stem loop in its 5'-untranslated region. Equal modulated interaction of the iron regulatory proteins (IRP1 and IRP2) with canonical IREs controls iron-dependent translation of the ferritin subunits. However, our immunoprecipitation RT-PCR and RNA binding experiments demonstrated that IRP1, but not IRP2, selectively bound the APP IRE in human neural cells. This selective IRP1 interaction pattern was evident in human brain and blood tissue from normal and Alzheimer disease patients. We computer-predicted an optimal novel RNA stem loop structure for the human, rhesus monkey, and mouse APP IREs with reference to the canonical ferritin IREs but also the IREs encoded by erythroid heme biosynthetic aminolevulinate synthase and Hif-2 mRNAs, which preferentially bind IRP1. Selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension analysis was consistent with a 13-base single-stranded terminal loop and a conserved GC-rich stem. Biotinylated RNA probes deleted of the conserved CAGA motif in the terminal loop did not bind to IRP1 relative to wild type probes and could no longer base pair to form a predicted AGA triloop. An AGU pseudo-triloop is key for IRP1 binding to the canonical ferritin IREs. RNA probes encoding the APP IRE stem loop exhibited the same high affinity binding to rhIRP1 as occurs for the H-ferritin IRE (35 pm). Intracellular iron chelation increased binding of IRP1 to the APP IRE, decreasing intracellular APP expression in SH-SY5Y cells. Functionally, shRNA knockdown of IRP1 caused increased expression of neural APP consistent with IRP1-APP IRE-driven translation.
The human IgG repertoire contains endogenous antibodies against beta amyloid (A) that may be relevant to the pathogenesis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease. There have been widely disparate estimates of the levels of these antibodies in human plasma. We identify factors that have contributed to these disparities and describe improved methods for measuring anti-A antibodies in blood. These methods include isolating immunoglobulin by thiophilic chromatography and using chaotropic salts to dislodge weakly bound antibodies without significantly reducing the binding of specific anti-A antibodies. Using these methods, we show that human blood contains polyvalent IgG antibodies that bind to A with relatively low avidity and specificity, as well as IgG antibodies that bind to linear and conformational epitopes on amyloid monomers and aggregates with moderate to high avidity.

Accurate and efficient sensorimotor behavior depends on precise localization of the body in space, which may be estimated using multiple sensory modalities (i.e., vision and proprioception). Although age-related differences in multisensory-motor integration across childhood have been previously reported, the extent to which age-related changes in unimodal functioning affect multisensory-motor integration is unclear. The purpose of the current study was to address this knowledge gap. Thirty-seven 7- to 13-year-old children moved their dominant hand in a target localization task to visual, proprioceptive, and concurrent visual and proprioceptive stimuli. During a subsequent experimental phase, we introduced a perturbation that placed the concurrent visual and proprioceptive stimuli in conflicting locations (incongruent condition) to determine the relative contributions of vision and proprioception to the multisensory estimate of target position. Results revealed age-related differences in the localization of incongruent stimuli in which the visual estimate of target position contributed more to the multisensory estimate in the younger children whereas the proprioceptive estimate was up-weighted in the older children. Moreover, above and beyond the effects of age, differences in proprioceptive functioning systematically influenced the relative contributions of vision and proprioception to the multisensory estimate during the incongruent trials. Specifically, improvements in proprioceptive functioning resulted in an up-weighting of proprioception, suggesting that the central nervous system of school-aged children utilizes information about unimodal functioning to integrate redundant sensorimotor inputs.
Insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis is implicated through serotonergic function. Pyridoxine is involved in decarboxylation step in synthesis of serotonin. The present study was carried out to find the role of insulin in combination with pyridoxine on the concentrations of 5-HT and 5-HIAA, 5-HT receptor binding, 5-HTT gene expression and immunohistochemistry studies in the cerebral cortex and brainstem of streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. 5-HT content showed a significant decrease with a significant increase in 5-HIAA in cerebral cortex (p&lt;0.01) and brain stem (p&lt;0.001) in diabetic rats. 5-HT receptor binding parameters, B(max) and K(d), showed a significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in diabetic rats in cerebral cortex whereas in brainstem it showed a significant increase (p&lt;0.001) compared to control. Gene expression studies of 5-HTT in cerebral cortex showed a significant down regulation (p&lt;0.001) and in brainstem an upregulation (p&lt;0.001) in diabetic rats compared to control. Insulin and pyridoxine treatment to diabetic rats reversed the 5-HT content, B(max), K(d) and gene expression of 5-HTT confirmed by immunohistochemistry studies in cerebral cortex and brainstem to near control. Thus our results suggest that pyridoxine along with insulin has a role in the regulation of insulin synthesis and release through serotonergic function which has clinical significance in the management of diabetes.



A better understanding of animal emotion is an important goal in disciplines ranging from neuroscience to animal welfare science. The conscious experience of emotion cannot be assessed directly, but neural, behavioural and physiological indicators of emotion can be measured. Researchers have used these measures to characterize how animals respond to situations assumed to induce discrete emotional states (e.g. fear). While advancing our understanding of specific emotions, this discrete emotion approach lacks an overarching framework that can incorporate and integrate the wide range of possible emotional states. Dimensional approaches that conceptualize emotions in terms of universal core affective characteristics (e.g. valence (positivity versus negativity) and arousal) can provide such a framework. Here, we bring together discrete and dimensional approaches to: (i) offer a structure for integrating different discrete emotions that provides a functional perspective on the adaptive value of emotional states, (ii) suggest how long-term mood states arise from short-term discrete emotions, how they also influence these discrete emotions through a bi-directional relationship and how they may function to guide decision-making, and (iii) generate novel hypothesis-driven measures of animal emotion and mood.
Although purified cytoskeletal motor proteins have been studied extensively with the use of invitro approaches, a generic approach to selectively probe actin and microtubule-based motor protein activity inside living cells is lacking. To examine specific motor activity inside living cells, we utilized the FKBP-rapalog-FRB heterodimerization system to develop an invivo peroxisomal trafficking assay that allows inducible recruitment of exogenous and endogenous kinesin, dynein, and myosin motors to drive specific cargo transport. We demonstrate that cargo rapidly redistributes with distinct dynamics for each respective motor, and that combined (antagonistic) actions of more complex motor combinations can also be probed. Ofimportance, robust cargo redistribution is readily achieved by one type of motor protein and does not require the presence of opposite-polarity motors. Simultaneous live-cell imaging of microtubules and kinesin or dynein-propelled peroxisomes, combined with high-resolution particle tracking, revealed that peroxisomes frequently pause at microtubule intersections. Titration and washout experiments furthermore revealed that motor recruitment by rapalog-induced heterodimerization is dose-dependent but irreversible. Our assay directly demonstrates that robust cargo motility does not require the presence of opposite-polarity motors, and can therefore be used to characterize the motile properties of specific types of motor proteins.
Acyl-CoA synthases are important for lipid synthesis and breakdown, generation of signaling molecules, and lipid modification of proteins, highlighting thechallenge of understanding metabolic pathwayswithin intact organisms. From a C. elegans mutagenesis screen, we found that loss of ACS-3, a long-chain acyl-CoA synthase, causes enhanced intestinal lipid uptake, de novo fat synthesis, and accumulation of enlarged, neutral lipid-rich intestinal depots. Here, we show that ACS-3 functions in seam cells, epidermal cells anatomically distinct from sites of fat uptake and storage, and that acs-3 mutant phenotypes require the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-25, a key regulator of C. elegans molting. Our findings suggest that ACS-3-derived long-chain fattyacyl-CoAs, perhaps incorporated into complexligands such as phosphoinositides, modulate NHR-25 function, which in turn regulates an endocrine program of lipid uptake and synthesis. These results reveal a link between acyl-CoA synthase function and an NR5A family nuclear receptor in C.elegans.

Neuroimaging studies typically identify neural activity correlated with the predictions of highly parameterized models, like the many reward prediction error (RPE) models used to study reinforcement learning. Identified brain areas might encode RPEs or, alternatively, only have activity correlated with RPE model predictions. Here, we use an alternate axiomatic approach rooted in economic theory to formally test the entire class of RPE models on neural data. We show that measurements of human neural activity from the striatum, medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and posterior cingulate cortex satisfy necessary and sufficient conditions for the entire class of RPE models. However, activity measured from the anterior insula falsifies the axiomatic model, and therefore no RPE model can account for measured activity. Further analysis suggests the anterior insula might instead encode something related to the salience of an outcome. As cognitive neuroscience matures and models proliferate, formal approaches of this kind that assess entire model classes rather than specific model exemplars may take on increased significance.
Hallucinogens mediate many of their psychoactive effects by activating serotonin 2A receptors (5-HT(2A)R). Although serotonin is the cognate endogenous neurotransmitter and is not considered hallucinogenic, metabolites of serotonin also have high affinity at 5-HT(2A)R and can induce hallucinations in humans. Here we report that serotonin differs from the psychoactive N-methyltryptamines by its ability to engage a -arrestin2-mediated signaling cascade in the frontal cortex. Serotonin and 5-hydroxy-L-tryptophan (5-HTP) induce a head-twitch response in wild-type (WT) mice that is a behavioral proxy for 5-HT(2A)R activation. The response in -arrestin2 knock-out (arr2-KO) mice is greatly attenuated until the doses are elevated, at which point, arr2-KO mice display a head-twitch response that can exceed that of WT mice. Direct administration of N-methyltryptamines also produces a greater response in arr2-KO mice. Moreover, the inhibition of N-methyltransferase blocks 5-HTP-induced head twitches in arr2-KO mice, indicating that N-methyltryptamines, rather than serotonin, primarily mediate this response. Biochemical studies demonstrate that serotonin stimulates Akt phosphorylation in the frontal cortex and in primary cortical neurons through the activation of a -arrestin2/phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Src/Akt cascade, whereas N-methyltryptamines do not. Furthermore, disruption of any of the components of this cascade prevents 5-HTP-induced, but not N-methyltryptamine-induced, head twitches. We propose that there is a bifurcation of 5-HT(2A)R signaling that is neurotransmitter and -arrestin2 dependent. This demonstration of agonist-directed 5-HT(2A)R signaling in vivo may significantly impact drug discovery efforts for the treatment of disorders wherein hallucinations are part of the etiology, such as schizophrenia, or manifest as side effects of treatment, such as depression.
The postpartum period is associated with numerous hormonal changes, some of which have been linked to detrimental effects on the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), a brain region involved in cognition. Here, we investigated whether mPFC structure and function are negatively influenced during the postpartum period, an outcome that might be predicted by the maternal hormonal milieu. Mother rats were tested on an attentional set-shifting task, and dendritic architecture of layer 2/3 mPFC pyramidal neurons was analyzed. Mother rats exhibited increased dendritic spine number in the mPFC, an effect that coincided with improved attention and behavioral flexibility. These findings suggest that the postpartum period is associated with promotion of neuronal growth in the mPFC and enhanced cognitive function.
Distinct pathways carry monaural and binaural information from the lower auditory brainstem to the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC). Previous anatomical and physiological studies suggest that differential ascending inputs to regions of the ICC create functionally distinct zones. Here, we provide direct evidence of this relationship by combining recordings of single unit responses to sound in the ICC with focal, iontophoretic injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold at the physiologically characterized sites. Three main patterns of anatomical inputs were observed. One pattern was identified by inputs from the cochlear nucleus and ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus in isolation, and these injection sites were correlated with monaural responses. The second pattern had inputs only from the ipsilateral medial and lateral superior olive, and these sites were correlated with interaural time difference (ITD)-sensitive responses to low frequency (&lt;500 Hz). A third pattern had inputs from a variety of olivary and lemniscal sources, notably the contralateral lateral superior olive and dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. These were correlated with high-frequency ITD sensitivity to complex acoustic stimuli. These data support the notion of anatomical regions formed by specific patterns of anatomical inputs to the ICC. Such synaptic domains may represent functional zones in ICC.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are generated from multiple progenitor domains in the telencephalon in developmental succession from ventral to dorsal. Previous studies showed that Wnt signaling inhibits the differentiation of OPCs into mature oligodendrocytes. Here we explored the hypothesis that Wnt signaling limits the generation of OPCs from neural progenitors during forebrain development. We manipulated Wnt signaling in mouse neural progenitor cultures and found that Wnt signaling influences progenitors cell autonomously to alter the production of OPCs, and that endogenous Wnt signaling in these cultures limits the efficiency of generating OPCs from neural progenitors. To examine these events in vivo, we electroporated a soluble Wnt inhibitor or a dominant-negative transcriptional regulator into embryonic mouse neocortical ventricular zone before the usual onset of OPC production and showed that decreasing Wnt signaling in cortical progenitors results in early production of OPCs. Our studies indicate that Wnt signaling influences the timing and extent of OPC production in the developing telencephalon.
Sensory neurons are often thought to encode information about their preferred stimuli. It has also been proposed that neurons convey the most information about stimuli in the flanks of their tuning curves, where firing rate changes most steeply. Here we demonstrate that the responses of rat auditory cortical neurons convey maximal stimulus-specific information about sound frequency at their best frequency, rather than in the flanks of their tuning curves. Theoretical work has shown that stimulus-specific information shifts from tuning curve slope to peak as neuronal variability increases. These results therefore suggest that with respect to the most informative regions of the tuning curve, auditory cortical neurons operate in a regime of high variability.
In the adult mouse, signaling through c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) links exposure to acute stress to various physiological responses. Inflammatory cytokines, brain injury and ischemic insult, or exposure to psychological acute stressors induce activation of hippocampal JNKs. Here we report that exposure to acute stress caused activation of JNKs in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subfields, and impaired contextual fear conditioning. Conversely, intrahippocampal injection of JNKs inhibitors sp600125 (30 m) or D-JNKI1 (8 m) reduced activity of hippocampal JNKs and rescued stress-induced deficits in contextual fear. In addition, intrahippocampal administration of anisomycin (100 g/l), a potent JNKs activator, mimicked memory-impairing effects of stress on contextual fear. This anisomycin-induced amnesia was abolished after cotreatment with JNKs selective inhibitor sp600125 without affecting anisomycin's ability to effectively inhibit protein synthesis as measured by c-Fos immunoreactivity. We also demonstrated milder and transient activation of the JNKs pathway in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus during contextual fear conditioning and an enhancement of contextual fear after pharmacological inhibition of JNKs under baseline conditions. Finally, using combined biochemical and transgenic approaches with mutant mice lacking different members of the JNK family (Jnk1, Jnk2, and Jnk3), we provided evidence that JNK2 and JNK3 are critically involved in stress-induced deficit of contextual fear, while JNK1 mainly regulates baseline learning in this behavioral task. Together, these results support the possibility that hippocampal JNKs serve as a critical molecular regulator in the formation of contextual fear.
In pre-hearing mice, vesicle exocytosis at cochlear inner hair cell (IHC) ribbon synapses is triggered by spontaneous Ca(2+) spikes. At the onset of hearing, IHC exocytosis is then exclusively driven by graded potentials, and is characterized by higher Ca(2+) efficiency and improved synchronization of vesicular release. The molecular players involved in this transition are still unknown. Here we addressed the involvement of synaptotagmins and otoferlin as putative Ca(2+) sensors in IHC exocytosis during postnatal maturation of the cochlea. Using cell capacitance measurements, we showed that Ca(2+)-evoked exocytosis in mouse IHCs switches from an otoferlin-independent to an otoferlin-dependent mechanism at postnatal day 4. During this early exocytotic period, several synaptotagmins (Syts), including Syt1, Syt2 and Syt7, were detected in IHCs. The exocytotic response as well as the release of the readily releasable vesicle pool (RRP) was, however, unchanged in newborn mutant mice lacking Syt1, Syt2 or Syt7 (Syt1(-/-), Syt2(-/-) and Syt7(-/-) mice). We only found a defect in RRP recovery in Syt1(-/-) mice which was apparent as a strongly reduced response to repetitive stimulations. In post-hearing Syt2(-/-) and Syt7(-/-) mutant mice, IHC synaptic exocytosis was unaffected. The transient expression of Syt1 and Syt2, which were no longer detected in IHCs after the onset of hearing, indicates that these two most common Ca(2+)-sensors in CNS synapses are not involved in mature IHCs. We suggest that otoferlin underlies highly efficient Ca(2+)-dependent membrane-membrane fusion, a process likely essential to increase the probability and synchrony of vesicle fusion events at the mature IHC ribbon synapse.
Sleep loss negatively impacts performance, mood, memory, and immune function, but the homeostatic factors that impel sleep after sleep loss are imperfectly understood. Pharmacological studies had implicated the basal forebrain (BF) inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase (iNOS)-dependent NO as a key homeostatic factor, but its cellular source was obscure. To obtain direct evidence about the cellular source of iNOS-generated NO during sleep deprivation (SD), we used intracerebroventricular perfusion in rats of the cell membrane-permeable dye diaminofluorescein-2/diacetate (DAF-2/DA) that, once intracellular, bound NO and fluoresced. To circumvent the effects of neuronal NOS (nNOS), DAF-2/DA was perfused in the presence of an nNOS inhibitor. SD led to DAF-positive fluorescence only in the BF neurons, not glia. SD increased expression of iNOS, which colocalized with NO in neurons and, more specifically, in prolonged wakefulness-active neurons labeled by Fos. SD-induced iNOS expression in wakefulness-active neurons positively correlated with sleep pressure, as measured by the number of attempts to enter sleep. Importantly, SD did not induce Fos or iNOS in stress-responsive central amygdala and paraventricular hypothalamic neurons, nor did SD elevate corticosterone, suggesting that the SD protocol did not provoke iNOS expression through stress. We conclude that iNOS-produced neuronal NO is an important homeostatic factor promoting recovery sleep after SD.
CA1 cells receive direct input from space-responsive cells in medial entorhinal cortex (MEC), such as grid cells, as well as more nonspatial cells in lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC). Because MEC projects preferentially to the proximal part of the CA1, bordering CA2, whereas LEC innervates only the distal part, bordering subiculum, we asked if spatial tuning is graded along the transverse axis of CA1. Tetrodes were implanted along the entire proximodistal axis of dorsal CA1 in rats. Data were recorded in cylinders large enough to elicit firing at more than one location in many neurons. Distal CA1 cells showed more dispersed firing and had a larger number of firing fields than proximal cells. Phase-locking of spikes to MEC theta oscillations was weaker in distal CA1 than in proximal CA1. The findings suggest that spatial firing in CA1 is organized transversally, with the strongest spatial modulation occurring in the MEC-associated proximal part.
Neuron maintenance and survival require late endocytic transport from distal processes to the soma where lysosomes are predominantly localized. Here, we report a role for Snapin in attaching dynein to late endosomes through its intermediate chain (DIC). snapin(-/-) neurons exhibit aberrant accumulation of immature lysosomes, clustering and impaired retrograde transport of late endosomes along processes, reduced lysosomal proteolysis due to impaired delivery of internalized proteins and hydrolase precursors from late endosomes to lysosomes, and impaired clearance of autolysosomes, combined with reduced neuron viability and neurodegeneration. The phenotypes are rescued by expressing the snapin transgene, but not the DIC-binding-defective Snapin-L99K mutant. Snapin overexpression in wild-type neurons enhances late endocytic transport and lysosomal function, whereas expressing the mutant defective in Snapin-DIC coupling shows a dominant-negative effect. Altogether, our study highlights new mechanistic insights into how Snapin-DIC coordinates retrograde transport and late endosomal-lysosomal trafficking critical for autophagy-lysosomal function, and thus neuronal homeostasis.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) have long been considered as extracellular proton (H(+))-gated cation channels, and peripheral ASIC3 channels seem to be a natural sensor of acidic pain. Here, we report the identification of a nonproton sensor on ASIC3. We show first that 2-guanidine-4-methylquinazoline (GMQ) causes persistent ASIC3 channel activation at the normal pH. Using GMQ as a probe and combining mutagenesis and covalent modification analysis, we then uncovered a ligand sensor lined by residues around E423 and E79 of the extracellular &quot;palm&quot; domain of the ASIC3 channel that is crucial for activation by nonproton activators. Furthermore, we show that GMQ activates sensory neurons and causes pain-related behaviors in an ASIC3-dependent manner, indicating the functional significance of ASIC activation by nonproton ligands. Thus, natural ligands beyond protons may activate ASICs under physiological and pathological conditions through the nonproton ligand sensor, serving for channel activation independent of abrupt and marked acidosis.
Aggregates of the hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) are an invariant neuropathological feature of tauopathies. Here, we show that microglial neuroinflammation promotes MAPT phosphorylation and aggregation. First, lipopolysaccharide-induced microglial activation promotes hyperphosphorylation of endogenous mouse MAPT in nontransgenic mice that is further enhanced in mice lacking the microglial-specific fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1) and is dependent upon functional toll-like receptor 4 and interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptors. Second, humanized MAPT transgenic mice lacking CX3CR1 exhibited enhanced MAPT phosphorylation and aggregation as well as behavioral impairments that correlated with increased levels of active p38 MAPK. Third, invitro experiments demonstrate that microglial activation elevates the level of active p38 MAPK and enhances MAPT hyperphosphorylation within neurons that can be blocked by administration of an interleukin-1 receptor antagonist and a specific p38 MAPK inhibitor. Taken together, our results suggest that CX3CR1 and IL-1/p38 MAPK may serve as novel therapeutic targets for human tauopathies.
To learn a new language, it is necessary for the learner to succeed in segmenting the continuous stream of sounds into significant units. Previous behavioral studies have shown that it is possible to segment a language or musical stream based only on probabilities of occurrence between adjacent syllables/tones. Here we used a sung language and tested participants' learning of both linguistic and musical structures while recording electroencephalography. Although behavioral results showed learning of the linguistic structure only, event-related potential results for both dimensions showed a negative component sensitive to the degree of familiarity of items. We discuss this component as an index of lexical search, also pointing to the greater sensitivity of the event-related potentials compared to the behavioral responses.
Human brains harbor herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) DNA, which normally remains quiescent throughout many decades of life. HSV-1 is associated with viral encephalopathy and with the amyloid beta 42 (Abeta42) peptide-enriched lesions that characterize Alzheimer's disease neuropathology. Here we report that infection of human neuronal-glial cells in primary co-culture with HSV-1 induces an irregular hypertrophy of human neuronal-glial cell bodies, an induction of HSV-1 DNA polymerase, and an up-regulation of micro-RNA-146a associated with altered innate-immune responses. Presence of the antiviral acyclovir or soluble Abeta42 peptide significantly attenuated these neuropathological responses. The inhibitory effects of Abeta42 peptide were also observed in an HSV-1-infected CV-1 cell-based viral plaque assay. The results suggest that soluble Abeta42 peptide can invoke non-pathological and anti-viral effects through inactivation of an HSV-1 challenge to human brain cells by simple viral sequestration, viral destruction, or by complex neurogenetic mechanisms.


Although members of monozygotic (MZ) twin pairs are identical in genomic sequence, epigenetic mechanisms may occasion difference in gene expression and, consequently, twin discordance in complex traits. Recent work suggests that the epigenetic process of X-inactivation in female individuals may impact on intelligence and child behavioral problems. The timing of X-inactivation has been linked to chorionic splitting in MZ twins. Dichorionic monozygotic (DC-MZ) twinning, unlike monochorionic monozygotic (MC-MZ) twinning, occurs prior to the time of X-inactivation in female organisms. Therefore, the hypothesis of a causal role of X-inactivation in intelligence and behavioral problems can be analyzed by modeling the statistical interaction between sex and chorion type for within-pair differences in these traits in MZ twins. In this study, the effect of X-inactivation on childhood behavioral problems, measured with the CBCL, was studied in a sample of 324 MZ twin pairs from the EFPTS and the effect of X-inactivation on IQ was studied in a sample of 272 twin pairs from the same twin survey. Information on chorion type, gestational age, and birth weight was additionally collated. No significant statistical interaction was found between sex and chorion type, indicating that X-inactivation is not likely involved in variations in intelligence or behavioral problems in middle childhood. Further studies are required to replicate these findings and may explore the role of X-inactivation at different ages or at the extreme scores in the spectrum of intelligence and behavioral problems or may focus on other epigenetic mechanisms.
The last years, many studies reported associations between correlates of vitamin D exposure and several correlates of multiple sclerosis (MS) disease activity. This review discusses studies on vitamin D status, Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score, and relapse activity of MS. Furthermore, several considerations for intervention studies on vitamin D supplementation in MS are provided.
Alpha-synuclein aggregation is a neuropathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD), Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), collectively termed the -synucleinopathies. Substantial advances in clinical criteria and neuroimaging technology over the last 20 years have allowed great strides in the detection and differential diagnosis of these disorders. Nevertheless, it is clear that whilst the array of different imaging modalities in clinical use allow for a robust diagnosis of -synucleinopathy in comparison to healthy subjects, there is no clear diagnostic imaging marker that affords a reliable differential diagnosis between the different forms of Lewy body disease (LBD) or that could facilitate tracking of disease progression. This has led to a call for a biomarker based on the pathological hallmarks of these diseases, namely -synuclein-positive Lewy bodies (LBs). This potentially may be advantageous in terms of early disease detection, but may also be leveraged into a potential marker of disease progression. We here aim to firstly review the current status of neuroimaging biomarkers in PD and related synucleinopathies. Secondly, we outline the rationale behind -synuclein imaging as a potential novel biomarker as well as the potential benefits and limitations of this approach. Thirdly, we attempt to illustrate the likely technical hurdles to be overcome to permit successful in vivo imaging of -synuclein pathology in the diseased brain. Our overriding aim is to provide a framework for discussion of how to address this major unmet clinical need.
The etiology of the sporadic form of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains largely unknown. Recent evidence has suggested that gene-environment interactions (GxE) may play a crucial role in its development and progression. Whereas various susceptibility loci have been identified, like the apolipoprotein E4 allele, these cannot fully explain the increasing prevalence of AD observed with aging. In addition to such genetic risk factors, various environmental factors have been proposed to alter the risk of developing AD as well as to affect the rate of cognitive decline in AD patients. Nevertheless, aside from the independent effects of genetic and environmental risk factors, their synergistic participation in increasing the risk of developing AD has been sparsely investigated, even though evidence points towards such a direction. Advances in the genetic manipulation of mice, modeling various aspects of the AD pathology, have provided an excellent tool to dissect the effects of genes, environment, and their interactions. In this paper we present several environmental factors implicated in the etiology of AD that have been tested in transgenic animal models of the disease. The focus lies on the concept of GxE and its importance in a multifactorial disease like AD. Additionally, possible mediating mechanisms and future challenges are discussed.

Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by the presence of symptoms of both schizophrenia and a major mood disorder. The coexistence of these symptoms can be difficult to manage, and these patients are generally treated with antipsychotics as well as mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Additionally, no established treatment guidelines exist for this disorder. This review describes the combined results of two international, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies of paliperidone extended-release (ER), an atypical antipsychotic recently approved in the US for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder. Subjects in these six-week trials were aged 18-65 years, had a diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder based on the Structural Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition) Disorders, and were experiencing an acute exacerbation. The subjects from these studies had significant symptomatology as evidenced by a mean (standard deviation) baseline Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score of 92.8 (13.0). Based on Young Mania Rating Scale and/or a 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression score of 16 at baseline, 79.5% and 66.9% of subjects presented with prominent manic and depressive symptoms, respectively, and 46.4% presented with mixed symptoms. Approximately half (45%) of subjects were taking adjunctive mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Paliperidone ER was found to be effective in improving psychotic and mood symptoms in these subjects. Paliperidone ER was also effective as monotherapy or adjunctive to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants for subjects with prominent manic, depressive, or mixed symptoms at baseline. No new tolerability signals were observed in this population. To the best of our awareness, these pooled data provide the largest data set of patients with schizoaffective disorder, and extend our knowledge of disease characteristics and treatment response.
Obese humans and animals exhibit reduced functioning of the dopamine (DA) system in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The question addressed here is whether this change in NAc DA can be detected in Sprague-Dawley rats that are prone to obesity on a fat-rich diet but still at normal body weight. Rats were subgrouped as &quot;obesity-prone&quot; (OP) or &quot;obesity-resistant&quot; (OR), based on their weight gain during 5days of access to a high-fat diet, and were then shifted to a lower-fat chow diet before microdialysis testing was performed. The OP rats compared to OR rats exhibited markedly reduced basal levels of DA in the NAc. After a high-fat challenge meal, both OP and OR rats showed a significant increase in extracellular DA and its metabolites; however, the NAc DA of the OP rats still remained at reduced levels. Also, the increase in DA and metabolite levels observed in OR rats after systemic administration of a fat emulsion was not evident in the OP rats, which instead showed no change in DA and a decrease in its metabolites. These results demonstrate, first, that fat can stimulate accumbal DA release and, second, that outbred rats prone to overeating and becoming obese on a palatable, fat-rich diet exhibit reduced signaling in the mesolimbic DA system while still at normal weight, suggesting that it may be causally related to their excess consummatory behavior.
Aversive emotional reactions to real or imagined social harms infuse moral judgment and motivate prosocial behavior. Here, we show that the neurotransmitter serotonin directly alters both moral judgment and behavior through increasing subjects' aversion to personally harming others. We enhanced serotonin in healthy volunteers with citalopram (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) and contrasted its effects with both a pharmacological control treatment and a placebo on tests of moral judgment and behavior. We measured the drugs' effects on moral judgment in a set of moral 'dilemmas' pitting utilitarian outcomes (e.g., saving five lives) against highly aversive harmful actions (e.g., killing an innocent person). Enhancing serotonin made subjects more likely to judge harmful actions as forbidden, but only in cases where harms were emotionally salient. This harm-avoidant bias after citalopram was also evident in behavior during the ultimatum game, in which subjects decide to accept or reject fair or unfair monetary offers from another player. Rejecting unfair offers enforces a fairness norm but also harms the other player financially. Enhancing serotonin made subjects less likely to reject unfair offers. Furthermore, the prosocial effects of citalopram varied as a function of trait empathy. Individuals high in trait empathy showed stronger effects of citalopram on moral judgment and behavior than individuals low in trait empathy. Together, these findings provide unique evidence that serotonin could promote prosocial behavior by enhancing harm aversion, a prosocial sentiment that directly affects both moral judgment and moral behavior.
Neurons rely on their metabolic coupling with astrocytes to combat oxidative stress. The transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) appears important for astrocyte-dependent neuroprotection from oxidative insults. Indeed, Nrf2 activators are effective in stroke, Parkinson disease, and Huntington disease models. However, key endogenous signals that initiate adaptive neuroprotective cascades in astrocytes, including activation of Nrf2-mediated gene expression, remain unclear. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) plays an important role in cell signaling and is an attractive candidate mediator of adaptive responses in astrocytes. Here we determine (i) the significance of H(2)O(2) in promoting astrocyte-dependent neuroprotection from oxidative stress, and (ii) the relevance of H(2)O(2) in inducing astrocytic Nrf2 activation. To control the duration and level of cytoplasmic H(2)O(2) production in astrocytes cocultured with neurons, we heterologously expressed the H(2)O(2)-producing enzyme Rhodotorula gracilis D-amino acid oxidase (rgDAAO) selectively in astrocytes. Exposure of rgDAAO-astrocytes to D-alanine lead to the concentration-dependent generation of H(2)O(2). Seven hours of low-level H(2)O(2) production (3.7 nmolminmg protein) in astrocytes protected neurons from oxidative stress, but higher levels (130 nmolminmg protein) were neurotoxic. Neuroprotection occurred without direct neuronal exposure to astrocyte-derived H(2)O(2), suggesting a mechanism specific to astrocytic intracellular signaling. Nrf2 activation mimicked the effect of astrocytic H(2)O(2) yet H(2)O(2)-induced protection was independent of Nrf2. Astrocytic protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibition also protected neurons from oxidative death, representing a plausible mechanism for H(2)O(2)-induced neuroprotection. These findings demonstrate the utility of rgDAAO for spatially and temporally controlling intracellular H(2)O(2) concentrations to uncover unique astrocyte-dependent neuroprotective mechanisms.
The production of neurons from neural progenitor cells, the growth of axons and dendrites and the formation and reorganization of synapses are examples of neuroplasticity. These processes are regulated by cell-autonomous and intercellular (paracrine and endocrine) programs that mediate responses of neural cells to environmental input. Mitochondria are highly mobile and move within and between subcellular compartments involved in neuroplasticity (synaptic terminals, dendrites, cell body and the axon). By generating energy (ATP and NAD(+)), and regulating subcellular Ca(2+) and redox homoeostasis, mitochondria may play important roles in controlling fundamental processes in neuroplasticity, including neural differentiation, neurite outgrowth, neurotransmitter release and dendritic remodelling. Particularly intriguing is emerging data suggesting that mitochondria emit molecular signals (e.g. reactive oxygen species, proteins and lipid mediators) that can act locally or travel to distant targets including the nucleus. Disturbances in mitochondrial functions and signalling may play roles in impaired neuroplasticity and neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, psychiatric disorders and stroke.
The present study delineates the large-scale, organic responses of growth in the dorsal pallium to targeted genetic ablations of the principal PP (preplate) neurons of the neocortex. Ganciclovir treatment during prenatal development [from E11 (embryonic age 11) to E13] of mice selectively killed cells with shared S-phase vulnerability and targeted expression of a GPT [golli promoter transgene; GPT linked to HSV-TK (herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase), -eGFP and lacZ reporters] localized in PP neurons and their intermediate progenitor neuroblasts. The volume, area and thickness of the pallium were measured in an E12-P4 (postnatal age 4) longitudinal study with comparisons between ablated (HSV-TK(+/0)) and control (HSV-TK(0/0)) littermates. The extent of ablations was also systematically varied, and the effect on physical growth was assessed in an E18 cross-sectional study. The morphological evidence obtained in the present study supports the conclusion that genetically targeted ablations delay the settlement of the principal PP neurons of the dorsal pallium. This leads to progressive and substantial reductions of growth, despite compensatory responses that rapidly replace the ablated cells. These growth defects originate from inductive cellular interactions in the proliferative matrix of the ventricular zone of the pallium, but are amplified by subsequent morphogenic and trophic cellular interactions. The defects persist during the course of prenatal and postnatal development to demonstrate a constrained dose-response relationship with the extent of specific killing of GPT neurons. The defects propagate simultaneously in both the horizontal and vertical cytoarchitectural dimensions of the developing pallium, an outcome that produces a localized shortfall of volume in the telencephalic vesicles.
A series of fatty acid amides of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) catechol metabolites were synthesized in order to evaluate their biological activities. Upon administration, all synthesized compounds resulted in negative modulation of food intake in rats. The most active compounds have affinity for the CB(1) receptor and/or PPAR-; part of their biological activity may be caused by these double interactions.

Patients with schizophrenia perform worse than controls on various face perception tasks. Studies monitoring eye movements have shown reduced scan paths and a lower number of fixations to relevant facial features (eyes, nose, mouth) than to other parts. We examine whether attentional control, through instructions, modulates visual scanning in schizophrenia. Visual scan paths were monitored in 20 patients with schizophrenia and 20 controls. Participants started with a &quot;free viewing&quot; task followed by tasks in which they were asked to determine the gender, identify the facial expression, estimate the age, or decide whether the face was known or unknown. Temporal and spatial characteristics of scan paths were compared for each group and task. Consistent with the literature, patients with schizophrenia showed reduced attention to salient facial features in the passive viewing. However, their scan paths did not differ from that of controls when asked to determine the facial expression, the gender, the age or the familiarity of the face. The results are interpreted in terms of attentional control and cognitive flexibility.
Natural antisense transcripts represent a class of regulatory RNA molecules, which are characterized by their complementary sequence to another RNA transcript. Extensive sequencing efforts suggest that natural antisense transcripts are prevalent throughout the mammalian genome; however, their biological significance has not been well defined. We performed a loss-of-function RNA interference (RNAi) screen, which targeted 797 evolutionary conserved antisense transcripts, and found evidence for a regulatory role for a number of natural antisense transcripts. Specifically, we found that natural antisense transcripts for CCPG1 and RAPGEF3 may functionally disrupt signaling pathways and corresponding biological phenotypes, such as cell viability, either independently or in parallel with the corresponding sense transcript. Our results show that the large-scale siRNA screen can be applied to evaluate natural antisense transcript modulation of fundamental cellular events.
Fatty acid oxidation in mitochondrial matrix is a major source of energy in muscle, especially when physiological energy demand is increased and exceeds what can be provided through glycolysis. Not surprisingly, a group of muscle disorders due to defects in this system usually leads to the development of acute rhabdomyolysis in conditions such as infection, fasting and prolonged exercise. This group includes beta-oxidation cycle defects and deficiencies of carnitine palmitoyltransferase II (CPTH) and very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD). Muscle pathology is usually not very helpful for the diagnosis but immunohistochemistry may be useful for screening VLCAD deficiency. Another group of lipid dysmetablolism is lipid storage myopathy (LSM) that is pathologically characterized by increased lipid droplets both in number and size in muscle fibers. So far, causative genes have been identified in four different LSMs, comprising primary carnitine deficiency, multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency or glutaric aciduria type II, neutral lipid storage disease with ichthyosis, and neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy. Clinically, the LSM patients show slowly progressive muscle weakness unlike the former group. Final diagnosis is usually made by specific biochemical assays with mutation analyses. As some effective drugs have been widely used and some promising therapies are under certified, comprehensive understanding of these diseases from clinical, pathological and molecular aspects would be of much help for the patients.
The recognition of a series of metabolic/enzymatic dysfunctions in glycogenoses has allowed new therapeutic advances for their treatment due to the development of recombinant enzyme. A recent advance appears enzymatic replacement therapy (ERT) in glycogenosis type II in both infantile, juvenile and adult form. Targeted manipulation of diet has been tried both in glycogenosis type II (Pompe disease) and type V (Mc Ardle disease).

Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are associated with a CAG/polyQ expansion mutation in unrelated proteins. Upon elongation of the glutamine tract, disease proteins aggregate within cells, mainly in the central nervous system (CNS) and this aggregation process is associated with neurotoxicity. However, it remains unclear to what extent and how this aggregation causes neuronal dysfunction in the CNS. Aiming at preventing neuronal dysfunction, it will be crucial to determine the links between aggregation and cellular dysfunction, understand the folding pathway of polyQ proteins and discover the relative neurotoxicity of polyQ protein species formed along the aggregation pathway. Here, we review what is known about conformations of polyQ peptides and proteins in their monomeric state from experimental and modelling data, how conformational changes of polyQ proteins relate to their oligomerisation and morphology of aggregates and which cellular function are impaired by oligomers, in vitro and in vivo. We also summarise the key modulatory cellular mechanisms and co-factors, which could affect the folding pathway and kinetics of polyQ aggregation. Although many studies have investigated the relationship between polyQ aggregation and toxicity, these have mainly focussed on investigating changes in the formation of the classical hallmark of polyQ diseases, i.e. microscopically visible inclusion bodies. However, recent studies in which oligomeric species have been considered start to shed light on the identity of neurotoxic oligomeric species. Initial evidence suggests that conformational changes induced by polyQ expansions and their surrounding sequence lead to the formation of particular oligomeric intermediates that may differentially affect neurotoxicity.




Recent trend assessments of drug consumption reveal an increase in the simultaneous use of several drugs at raves, clubs and college settings among youngsters and young adults. We studied in adolescent rats the effects of repeated exposure to cocaine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethanphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy), given alone or in combination with alcohol, on memory performance, adult hippocampal neurogenesis and neurotoxicity. Rats were trained two weeks after the drug treatments in the radial arm maze. The results showed that only rats exposed to combinations of alcohol and MDMA exhibited significant memory deficits. Alcohol, MDMA and combinations thereof significantly decreased 5-bromodeoxyuridine labeling in the dentate gyrus (DG), indicating reduced survival of neuronal precursors. None of the treatments altered the length of the dendritic arbors of doublecortin (DCX)-positive neurons or the number and length of DCX-negative gaps in the DG. Thus, changes in adult neurogenesis were not causally related to the cognitive alterations induced by the treatments. Only the combination of alcohol and MDMA significantly decreased the population of mature granule neurons in the DG and increased the presence of cluster of differentiation 11b+ reactive microglia in the bordering areas of the subgranular zone. Critically, memory impairment was correlated with granule cell depletion. These observations demonstrate that exposure to alcohol and MDMA during adolescence, at doses that do not provoke apparent cognitive impairment when given separately, causes neurotoxic alterations affecting the DG region as well as persistent memory deficits. The findings highlight the elevated risk associated with the concurrent recreational use of alcohol and MDMA.
Nicotine is believed to enhance the motivational value of reinforcers. Although endogenous cannabinoids acting on CB1 receptors have been implicated in the motivational effects of nicotine, their role in the 'reinforcement-enhancing' properties of nicotine is unknown. This study compared the effect of acute and chronic non-contingent nicotine administration on responding for an unconditioned reinforcing stimulus (UCS) and a visual conditioned stimulus (CS) and the role of CB1 receptors was examined. Male hooded Lister rats were trained on a second-order schedule [FI 15' (FR5: S)] under which presentation of the CS (5s/5Hz light oscillation) was intermittently reinforced by the UCS (food). The rats were treated with daily saline or nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, subcutaneous [s.c.]) throughout the study. The effect of the acute nicotine challenge (0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg, s.c.) and the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, intraperitoneal [i.p.]) on responding for the CS and/or UCS was examined. The acute nicotine challenge increased responding for both the UCS and CS in the rats chronically treated with nicotine, an effect which was less robust in the nicotine-naive rats. AM251 significantly reduced responding for the UCS and CS, and an interaction with the nicotine challenge was found. These data support and extend the hypothesis that nicotine can enhance the motivational value of reinforcing stimuli and suggest the increases in responding produced by nicotine involve CB1 receptors. Furthermore, this study highlights the utility of second-order schedules of reinforcement for investigation of the neural circuits underlying the reinforcement-enhancing effects of nicotine.
The endocannabinoid system has been implicated in the motivational effects of nicotine and nicotine-associated stimuli but the neural circuitry underlying tobacco addiction is not fully characterised. The present study aimed to establish a second-order schedule of nicotine reinforcement to compare the role of the endocannabinoid system in nicotine- and cue-maintained responding. The male rats were successfully trained to respond on a second-order schedule [FR5 (FR5: S) or FI 10' (FR3: S)] under which presentation of the CS (brief light oscillation) was intermittently reinforced by nicotine (0.03 mg/kg/infusion). The relative contribution of nicotine and the CS towards responding was then compared. Nicotine and the CS were only able to independently maintain responding to similar level under the [FI 10' (FR3: S)] schedule, which was subsequently employed to examine the effects of the selective CB1 receptor antagonist AM251. AM251 (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, intraperitoneal [i.p.]) was used to examine the role of endocannabinoids in responding under the second-order schedule and responding maintained by independent presentation of nicotine and the CS. Responding under the second-order schedule was dose-dependently attenuated by AM251, whereas responding for independent presentation of nicotine and the CS was not affected. The establishment of second-order schedules of nicotine reinforcement in rodents highlighted the utility of such schedules for investigation of the neurobiology that underlies nicotine- and cue-maintained behaviour. Additionally, the role of CB1 receptors in nicotine-motivated behaviours was extended to those controlled under a second-order schedule.
This study aims to determine whether the regulation of extracellular glutamate is altered during aging and its possible consequences on synaptic transmission and plasticity. A decrease in the expression of the glial glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT-1 and reduced glutamate uptake occur in the aged (24-27 months) Sprague-Dawley rat hippocampus. Glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded extracellularly in ex vivo hippocampal slices from adult (3-5 months) and aged rats are depressed by DL-TBOA, an inhibitor of glutamate transporter activity, in an N-Methyl-d-Aspartate (NMDA)-receptor-dependent manner. In aged but not in young rats, part of the depressing effect of DL-TBOA also involves metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluRs) activation as it is significantly reduced by the specific mGluR antagonist d-methyl-4-carboxy-phenylglycine (MCPG). The paired-pulse facilitation ratio, a functional index of glutamate release, is reduced by MCPG in aged slices to a level comparable to that in young rats both under control conditions and after being enhanced by DL-TBOA. These results suggest that the age-associated glutamate uptake deficiency favors presynaptic mGluR activation that lowers glutamate release. In parallel, 2 Hz-induced long-term depression is significantly decreased in aged animals and is fully restored by MCPG. All these data indicate a facilitated activation of extrasynaptic NMDAR and mGluRs in aged rats, possibly because of an altered distribution of glutamate in the extrasynaptic space. This in turn affects synaptic transmission and plasticity within the aged hippocampal CA1 network.


This study examined in detail patterns of cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) and memantine use and explored the relationship between patient characteristics and such use. Patients with probable Alzheimer disease AD (n=201) were recruited from the Predictors Study in 3 academic AD centers and followed from early disease stages for up to 6 years. Random effects logistic regressions were used to examine effects of patient characteristics on ChEIs/memantine use over time. Independent variables included measures of function, cognition, comorbidities, the presence of extrapyramidal signs, psychotic symptoms, age, sex, and patient's living situation at each interval. Control variables included assessment interval, year of study entry, and site. During a 6-year study period, rate of ChEIs use decreased (80.6% to 73.0%) whereas memantine use increased (2.0% to 45.9%). Random effects logistic regression analyses showed that ChEI use was associated with better function, no psychotic symptoms, and younger age. Memantine use was associated with better function, poorer cognition, living at home, later assessment interval, and later year of study entry. Results suggest that high rate of ChEI use and increasing memantine use over time are consistent with current practice guidelines of initiation of ChEIs in mild-to-moderate AD patients and initiation of memantine in moderate-to-severe patients.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second major cause of dementia in persons below the age of 65 years after Alzheimer disease. FTD is clinically, pathologically, and genetically heterogeneous and has been associated with mutations in different genes located on chromosomes 17, 9, and 3. In our study we report a novel heterozygous g.26218G&gt;A variant in exon 6 of charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B), predicted to cause the amino acid change p.Ser187Asn, in one patient diagnosed with FTD. We were not able to determine the mode of inheritance of the mutation as we did not have access to the genetically informative family members of the proband; those who were screened did not carry the variant. We did not find this variant in 273 White controls although we did find it in 6 of 94 African-American controls. Most of the mutations in CHMP2B which are considered pathogenic lead to partial deletion of the C-terminus region of CHMP2B protein. Based on previous reports and on our current data, missense mutations in this gene seem unlikely to be pathogenic. The pathogenicity of CHMP2B mutations requires further investigation.

Detection of deception and confirmation of truth telling with conventional polygraphy raised a host of technical and ethical issues. Recently, newer methods of recording electromagnetic signals from the brain show promise in permitting the detection of deception or truth telling. Some are even being promoted as more accurate than conventional polygraphy. While the new technologies raise issues of personal privacy, acceptable forensic application, and other social issues, the focus of this paper is the technical limitations of the developing technology. Those limitations include the measurement validity of the new technologies, which remains largely unknown. Another set of questions pertains to the psychological paradigms used to model or constrain the target behavior. Finally, there is little standardization in the field, and the vulnerability of the techniques to countermeasures is unknown. Premature application of these technologies outside of research settings should be resisted, and the social conversation about the appropriate parameters of its civil, forensic, and security use should begin.
This article is part of an occasional series profiling editors of the American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis (AJCH). William E. Edmonston was the second editor, succeeding Milton H. Erickson. His research focused on the use of conditioning paradigms and psychophysiological measures to explore a wide variety of hypnotic phenomena, leading to a &quot;neo-Pavlovian&quot; theory of neutral hypnosis as physiological relaxation (anesis). A longtime professor of psychology at Colgate University, he created an interdisciplinary undergraduate major in neuroscience, and was named New York State College Professor of the Year in 1988. He gave the Journal a new look, and a greater balance of clinical and experimental papers. The article also provides background on George Barton Cutten, George H. Estabrooks, and Frank A. Pattie, pioneers of hypnosis who were linked to Edmonston.

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance, possibly reflecting defects in skeletal muscle and adipocyte insulin signaling. Low-frequency (2 Hz) electroacupuncture (EA) increases insulin sensitivity in female rats with dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced PCOS, but the mechanism is unclear. We hypothesized that low-frequency EA regulates mediators involved in skeletal muscle glucose uptake and metabolism and alters the lipid profile in rats with DHT-induced PCOS. To test this hypothesis, we implanted in prepubescent female rats 90-day continuous-release pellets containing DHT (PCOS). At 70 days of age, the rats were randomly subdivided into two groups: one received low-frequency EA (evoking muscle twitches) for 20-25 min five times/wk for 4-5 wk; the other did not. Controls were implanted with pellets containing vehicle only. All three groups were otherwise handled similarly. Lipid profile was measured in fasting blood samples. Insulin sensitivity was determined by euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp, soleus muscle protein expression of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4), and phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated Akt, and Akt substrate of 160 kDa was determined by Western blot analysis and GLUT4 location by immunofluorescence staining. PCOS EA rats had normalized insulin sensitivity, lower levels of total high-density lipoprotein and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and increased expression of GLUT4 in different compartments of skeletal muscle compared with PCOS rats. Total weight and body composition did not differ in the groups. Thus, in rats with DHT-induced PCOS, low-frequency EA has systemic and local effects involving intracellular signaling pathways in muscle that may, at least in part, account for the marked improved insulin sensitivity.
Our objective was to investigate whether the direct bilateral infusion of the monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) oleic acid (OA) within the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) is sufficient to reproduce the effect of administration of OA (30 nmol) in the third cerebral ventricle, which inhibits glucose production (GP) in rats. We used the pancreatic basal insulin clamp technique (plasma insulin 20 mU/ml) in combination with tracer dilution methodology to compare the effect of MBH OA on GP to that of a saturated fatty acid (SFA), palmitic acid (PA), and a polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA), linoleic acid (LA). The MBH infusion of 200 but not 40 pmol of OA was sufficient to markedly inhibit GP (by 61% from 12.6  0.6 to 5.1  1.6 mgkg(-1)min(-1)) such that exogenous glucose had to be infused at the rate of 6.0  1.2 mgkg(-1)min(-1) to prevent hypoglycemia. MBH infusion of PA also caused a significant decrease in GP, but only at a total dose of 4 nmol (GP 5.8  1.6 mgkg(-1)min(-1)). Finally, MBH LA at a total dose of 0.2 and 4 nmol failed to modify GP compared with rats receiving MBH vehicle. Increased availability of OA within the MBH is sufficient to markedly inhibit GP. LA does not share the effect of OA, whereas PA can reproduce the potent effect of OA on GP, but only at a higher dose. It remains to be determined whether SFAs need to be converted to MUFAs to exert this effect or whether they activate a separate signaling pathway to inhibit GP.
Our objective is to describe the results of a phase II/III, 12-months, double-blinded, single-centre, randomized, parallel (1:1), clinical trial performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of memantine in ALS. Patients with probable or definite ALS of less than 36 months disease duration and progression over a one-month lead-in period were randomly assigned to placebo or memantine at 20 mg/day. The primary endpoint was 12-months ALSFRS decline. Forced vital capacity, manual muscle testing, visual analogue scale, quality of life, motor unit number estimation and neurophysiological index were the secondary endpoints. The number of patients included was based on the assumption of a 50% change in the ALSFRS decline. Safety and adverse events were evaluated. Sixty-three patients were included in the trial. Memantine did not show more adverse events or laboratory changes than placebo. Primary and secondary outcomes were not different between groups by intention-to-treat and per-protocol analysis. The most sensitive measurements were neurophysiological, which declined linearly over time. In conclusion, the results of this study show that memantine is well tolerated and safe in ALS patients. We did not observe any evidence of efficacy for memantine but we cannot exclude a positive outcome on survival.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) gene have been found in 12-23% of patients with a diagnosis of ALS. Although the mechanism by which mutant SOD1 causes neural death remains elusive, several lines of evidence suggest that ALS is a protein-folding disease. Here we report a novel missense mutation in exon 1 of the SOD1 gene in a 68-year-old female with familial ALS characterized by spinal onset with upper and lower motor neuron signs and early neuroimaging evidence of corticospinal tract involvement. Molecular analysis identified a heterozygous mutation in codon 10, with substitution of a highly conserved glycine with arginine (G10R). Modelling of the mutant SOD1 showed a strong destabilization of the protein secondary structure that could influence the strength of the dimer interface. This property can result in a failure of the protein to fold and generation of toxic intracellular aggregates, suggesting a pathogenic role for the mutation.
A new amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) category named 'UMN-dominant ALS' and defined as 'due predominantly to UMN signs but with minor electromyogram (EMG) denervation or LMN signs on examination' has been proposed. The clinical and laboratory features of 20 patients with UMN-dominant ALS are described here, their disease course is analysed longitudinally according to their disability progression, and all these parameters are compared with those of typical ALS patients. Ten women and 10 men diagnosed with UMN-dominant ALS were evaluated. Their mean age at disease onset was 58.6 years. At the most recent evaluation, after a mean disease duration of 7.7 years, all patients progressed to a tetrapyramidal syndrome with pseudobulbar features of varying degree. No patient had respiratory problems. Cognitive impairment was observed in eight patients. The differences in disease progression between the UMN-dominant ALS and typical ALS patients proved significant (p &lt;0.02) both with regard to the total ALSFRS-R score at six months and to each single region subscore at 12 months. Our findings suggest that there is both a different pattern of disability and longer survival in UMN-dominant ALS compared to classic ALS patients.
Ciliary zonules are responsible for changing the curvature of a lens in the dioptric focus of an eye. Present established theory is based on the relaxation of zonular superficial fasciculi affixed to the capsular surface, thereby inducing the change of anterior- and posterior lens curvature causing spontaneous liquid movement of lens material. To achieve precise focusing at any distance, a more active functional organization should exist. The present studies were performed to determine not only the surface attachment but also the intracapsular affix of zonules on monkey eyes. In addition, the development of focusing in newborn and presbyopia is analyzed. Histology was prepared by conventional and molecular immunofluorescence stainings on the compositions of zonules with fibrillin-1 (FBN 1) and lens capsule with collagen IV (COL IV), and in situ hybridization (ISH) analyses on frozen sections. Superficial circumferential attachments of zonule were found radially oriented between ciliary processes and anterior/posterior lens capsules forming a triangular figure. Two functional intralayer integrations were found above them; anterior-posterior crossed fibers over the equator and radial fibers distributed toward the anterior or posterior polar areas. These fibers were bound tightly to the deep layer connective tissues close to the lens epithelium. Fine zonular fibers were aggregated, gradually forming bundles and bifurcated again on the way to the capsule. The lateral striped staining pattern in bundles suggested their elastic nature. Response of -helixes of collagen IV immunostaining was more positive on -1,2,4 than -3,5,6 on anterior- and posterior lens capsules. Newborn eyes revealed not fascicular but fine membranous zonules on the lens surface and small ciliary processes. ISH analysis revealed high synthetic expression of FBN 1 mRNA in cytoplasm of nonpigmented epithelial cells of ciliary processes. The synthetic expression of FBN 1 declined with aging. According to the mechanism of accommodation, active dynamic movement of anterior or posterior capsules play the main role of changing the lens configuration by two intralayer zonular integrations, including anterior-posterior crossed fibers over the equator and radial fibers toward anterior or posterior polar areas acting with coordinated contraction of circular or longitudinal ciliary muscles. The developmental change on focusing is brought about by synthesis of FBN 1 in the newborn eye.

As a social species, humans rely on a safe, secure social surround to survive and thrive. Perceptions of social isolation, or loneliness, increase vigilance for threat and heighten feelings of vulnerability while also raising the desire to reconnect. Implicit hypervigilance for social threat alters psychological processes that influence physiological functioning, diminish sleep quality, and increase morbidity and mortality. The purpose of this paper is to review the features and consequences of loneliness within a comprehensive theoretical framework that informs interventions to reduce loneliness. We review physical and mental health consequences of loneliness, mechanisms for its effects, and effectiveness of extant interventions. Features of a loneliness regulatory loop are employed to explain cognitive, behavioral, and physiological consequences of loneliness and to discuss interventions to reduce loneliness. Loneliness is not simply being alone. Interventions to reduce loneliness and its health consequences may need to take into account its attentional, confirmatory, and memorial biases as well as its social and behavioral effects.

These concluding remarks address some of the main disorders that were described during the 89th Annual Conference of the Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease entitled &quot;Psychiatric and Neurologic Aspects of War,&quot; held December 16, 2009 at The Rockefeller University, New York, New York. Brief remarks are also made on the roles of clinical scientists to consider some of the diagnostic, therapeutic, and societal elements that were discussed at the conference.



Sensory-specific satiety (SSS) refers to the reduction in pleasantness of a food with its consumption relative to other unconsumed foods. In a typical SSS paradigm, the participants receive a range of food items to taste and evaluate and then one of the foods is consumed ad libitum until satiation. After the consumption of the test food, all the foods (including the test food) are then again tasted and evaluated. If SSS is the result of habituation this evaluation of the test food after its consumption would be subject to dishabituation (i.e. recovery of SSS) if the other unconsumed foods are evaluated first. To examine whether this is the case a total of 57 participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups: Test Food First (TFF; n=28) or Test Food Last (TFL; n=29). We hypothesized that group TFF would show stronger SSS than TFL. We found clear indication of SSS, but the degree of SSS did not differ between the two groups (F[1,55]&lt;1). This finding suggests that SSS is unaffected by the sequence of tasting food items with its assessment. The potential implications for understanding SSS in terms of habituation are discussed.
Positive evolutionary pressure has preserved the ability to synthesize chemically authentic morphine, albeit in homeopathic concentrations, throughout animal phyla. The prototype catecholamine dopamine (DA) serves as an essential chemical intermediate in morphine biosynthesis both in plants and animals, thereby providing considerable insight into the roles reciprocal &quot;morphinergic&quot; and catecholamine regulation of diverse physiological processes. Primordial, multi-potential cell types, before the emergence of specialized plant and animal cells/organ systems, required selective mechanisms to limit their responsiveness to environmental noise. Accordingly, cellular systems that emerged with the potential for recruitment of the free radical gas nitric oxide (NO) as a multi-faceted autocrine/paracrine signaling molecule were provided with extremely positive evolutionary advantages. Endogenous &quot;morphinergic&quot; in concert with NO-coupled signaling systems have evolved as autocrine/paracrine regulators of metabolic homeostasis, energy metabolism, mitochondrial respiration and energy production. Basic physiological processes involving &quot;morphinergic&quot;/NO-coupled regulation of cardiovascular mitochondrial function, with special emphasis on the interactive effects of ethanol, are discussed within the context of our review.




FTY720 (fingolimod, Novartis) is a promising investigational drug for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune and neurodegenerative disorder of the central nervous system. It is currently under FDA review in the United States, and could represent the first approved oral treatment for MS. Extensive, ongoing clinical trials in Phase II/III have supported both the efficacy and safety of FTY720. FTY720 itself is not bioactive, but when phosphorylated (FTY720-P) by sphingosine kinase 2, it becomes active through modulation of 4 of the 5 known G protein-coupled sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptors. The mechanism of action (MOA) is thought to be immunological, where FTY720 alters lymphocyte trafficking via S1P1. However, MOA for FTY720 in MS may also involve a direct, neurological action within the central nervous system in view of documented S1P receptor-mediated signaling influences in the brain, and this review considers observations that support an emerging neurological MOA.

In this study, we investigated the reliability and validity of three self-report questionnaires measuring the early emotional bond between a mother and her newborn infant: the Maternal Postpartum Attachment Scale (MPAS), the Postpartum Bonding Questionnaire (PBQ) and the Mother-to-Infant Bonding Scale (MIBS). In a monocentric prospective observational cohort study, 263 mothers completed the MPAS, the PBQ and the MIBS at 8-12 and at 20-25 weeks postpartum. The participants also completed measures of mental health and, during their pregnancy, measures of recalled parental bonding, adult romantic attachment, antenatal attachment and social desirability. In our study, the internal reliabilities of the PBQ and the MPAS were high at 8-12 weeks postpartum but dropped significantly at 20-25 weeks postpartum. Moderately strong correlations between the scales of the PBQ, the MPAS and the MIBS supported their construct validity. Further, weak correlations were found with social desirability and adult attachment representations, whereas moderate correlations were found with antenatal feelings of attachment and antenatal attitudes to motherhood. Finally, maternal feelings of bonding were also moderately associated with maternal mood. Overall, our findings suggest that the MPAS, the PBQ and the MIBS provide a reliable and valid indication of the early emotional tie between a woman and her newborn infant.

The mainstay of assessing guanosine diphosphate release by the -subunit of a heterotrimeric G-protein is the [S]guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTPS) radionucleotide-binding assay. This assay requires separation of protein-bound GTPS from free GTPS at multiple time points followed by quantification via liquid scintillation. The arduous nature of this assay makes it difficult to quickly characterize multiple mutants, determine the effects of individual variables (e.g., temperature and Mg(2+) concentration) on nucleotide exchange, or screen for small molecule modulators of G nucleotide binding/cycling properties. Here, we describe a robust, homogeneous, fluorescence polarization assay using a red-shifted fluorescent GTPS probe that can rapidly determine the rate of GTPS binding by G subunits.
In contrast to the response selection bottleneck theory of dual-task performance, recent studies have demonstrated compatibility effects between secondary and primary responses on Task 1, suggesting that response information for two tasks may be generated in parallel. In two experiments, we examined the nature of Task 2 response activation in parallel with Task 1, using a psychological refractory period paradigm. Evidence of Task 2 to Task 1 response priming when each Task 2 stimulus was unique indicated that automatic parallel generation of response information occurred for Task 2 via abstract semantic category-to-response translation processes, independent of any direct stimulus-response influences. These findings are discussed in terms of their implications for the traditional response selection bottleneck theory of dual-task performance.
Successful integration of signals from the various sensory systems is crucial for normal sensory-perceptual functioning, allowing for the perception of coherent objects rather than a disconnected cluster of fragmented features. Several prominent theories of autism suggest that automatic integration is impaired in this population, but there have been few empirical tests of this thesis. A standard electrophysiological metric of multisensory integration (MSI) was used to test the integrity of auditory-somatosensory integration in children with autism (N=17, aged 6-16 years), compared to age- and IQ-matched typically developing (TD) children. High-density electrophysiology was recorded while participants were presented with either auditory or somatosensory stimuli alone (unisensory conditions), or as a combined auditory-somatosensory stimulus (multisensory condition), in randomized order. Participants watched a silent movie during testing, ignoring concurrent stimulation. Significant differences between neural responses to the multisensory auditory-somatosensory stimulus and the unisensory stimuli (the sum of the responses to the auditory and somatosensory stimuli when presented alone) served as the dependent measure. The data revealed group differences in the integration of auditory and somatosensory information that appeared at around 175ms, and were characterized by the presence of MSI for the TD but not the autism spectrum disorder (ASD) children. Overall, MSI was less extensive in the ASD group. These findings are discussed within the framework of current knowledge of MSI in typical development as well as in relation to theories of ASD.
An ongoing debate in developmental cognitive neuroscience is whether individuals with autism are able to learn prototypical category representations from multiple exemplars. Prototype learning and memory were examined in a group of high-functioning autistic boys and young men, using a classic paradigm in which participants learned to classify novel dot patterns into one of two categories. Participants were trained on distorted versions of category prototypes until they reached a criterion level of performance. During transfer testing, participants were shown the training items together with three novel stimulus sets manifesting variable levels of physical distortion (low, medium, or high distortion) relative to the unseen prototypes. Two experiments were conducted, differing only in the manner in which the physical distortions were defined. In the first experiment, a subset of autistic individuals learned categories more slowly than controls, accompanied by an overall diminution in transfer-testing performance. The autism group did, however, manifest a typical pattern of performance across the testing conditions, relative to controls. In the second experiment, group means did not differ statistically in either the training or testing phases. Taken together, these data indicate that high-functioning autistic individuals do not manifest gross deficits in prototypical category learning. A theoretical discussion is given in terms of how perceptual grouping may interact with category learning.
Fusion with lysosomes is the common last step of endocytic trafficking and autophagy. Accordingly, several proteins are required in both pathways for cargoes to reach their destinations. Among these proteins, Drosophila Acinus stands out, as it exerts opposite effects on these two pathways, and thus establishes a new paradigm. Loss of Acinus function destabilizes early endosomes, thereby promoting the delivery of their cargo to lysosomes. By contrast, the maturation of autophagosomes to autolysosomes is inhibited in acn mutant cells. The increase in autophagy upon Acinus overexpression and its location to the nucleus are consistent with Acinus being a novel regulator of autophagy.
Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability in the U.S. and is now recognized as a global epidemic. There are currently no FDA-approved drugs to block the cell death that results from oxygen and glucose deprivation. This void in clinical medicine has sparked an intense interest in understanding endogenous cellular protective pathways that might be exploited for therapeutic development. The work highlighted here describes the critical role between redox tone and energetic stress signaling in mediating mitophagy and determining neuronal cell fate following acute oxygen glucose deprivation.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is characterized by a chromosomal t(15;17) translocation that fuses the gene encoding the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) to that encoding retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA). The product of this genetic aberration, the PML/RARA fusion protein, is highly oncogenic and supports malignant transformation and growth of hematopoietic precursor cells at the promyelocytic stage of differentiation. Successful treatment of APL by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or arsenic trioxide (ATO) depends on the ability of these drugs to induce proteolytic degradation of this chimeric protein. In a recently published study we demonstrate that PML/RARA is amenable for degradation by autophagy and that ATRA- and ATO-induced PML/RARA degradation is autophagy-dependent. Consequently, autophagic degradation regulates basal turnover as well as therapy-induced elimination of this oncoprotein. In addition, our study reveals an important role of autophagy in promoting granulocytic differentiation of APL cells.
Animal models are useful in elucidating the neural basis of age-related impairments in cognition. Burke, Wallace, Nematollahi, Uprety, and Barnes (2010) tested young and aged rats in several different protocols to measure object recognition memory and found that object recognition deficits in aged rats were consistent with these rats behaving as if novel objects were familiar, rather than familiar objects being treated as novel (that is, forgotten). A similar pattern of behavior has been observed in young rats with perirhinal cortex lesions. Moreover, age-related impairments in object recognition were uncorrelated with deficits in spatial learning in the water maze, a task that requires the integrity of the hippocampus and is also reliably impaired in aged rats. Taken together, these findings support functional specialization of structures within the medial temporal lobe &quot;memory system,&quot; as well as the independence of age-related deficits in different cognitive domains. They also potentially form a foundation for neurobiological study of age-related impairments in perirhinal cortex function.
Treatment with anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) throughout adolescence facilitates offensive aggression in Syrian hamsters. In the anterior hypothalamus (AH), the dopaminergic neural system undergoes alterations after repeated exposure to AAS, producing elevated aggression. Previously, systemic administration of selective dopamine receptor antagonists has been shown to reduce aggression in various species and animal models. However, these reductions in aggression occur with concomitant alterations in general arousal and mobility. Therefore, to control for these systemic effects, the current studies utilized microinjection techniques to determine the effects of local antagonism of D2 and D5 receptors in the AH on adolescent AAS-induced aggression. Male Syrian hamsters were treated with AAS throughout adolescence and tested for aggression after local infusion of the D2 antagonist eticlopride, or the D5 antagonist SCH-23390, into the AH. Treatment with eticlopride showed dose-dependent suppression of aggressive behavior in the absence of changes in mobility. Conversely, while injection of SCH-23390 suppressed aggressive behavior, these reductions were met with alterations in social interest and locomotor behavior. To elucidate a plausible mechanism for the observed D5 receptor mediation of AAS-induced aggression, brains of AAS and sesame oil-treated animals were processed for double-label immunofluorescence of GAD (a marker for GABA production) and D5 receptors in the lateral subdivision of the AH (LAH). Results indicate a sparse distribution of GAD neurons colocalized with D5 receptors in the LAH. Together, these results indicate that D5 receptors in the LAH modulate non-GABAergic pathways that indirectly influence aggression control, while D2 receptors have a direct influence on AAS-induced aggression.
Although there are many studies investigating the effects of early cortical injury on brain and behavioral development in laboratory animals, there are virtually no studies examining the effects of cortical injury in adolescence. The purpose of present study was to investigate the effects of unilateral motor cortex lesion received in early and late adolescence periods (Postnatal days 35 and 55 [P35, P55]) on spontaneous neural reorganization and behavioral recovery in adulthood. Rats were given unilateral motor cortex lesions at P35 or P55 and their motor behaviors were compared to sham controls in adulthood. The results of behavioral tests (skilled reaching, postural asymmetry, sunflower seed manipulation, forepaw inhibition in swimming) revealed that rats with P35 lesions had significant functional deficits whereas the rats with P55 lesions showed nearly complete recovery. Golgi-Cox analysis of pyramidal neurons showed bilateral hypertrophy of dendritic fields in the remaining sensorimotor cortex in P55 but not P35 rat brains. Thus, there appears to be an age-related pattern of morphological and behavioral changes in response to cortical injury in the early and late adolescent periods leading to better functional recovery from later injuries, much as is seen in human children.
Depression and anxiety are the prevalent nonmotor symptoms that worsen quality of life for Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Although dopamine (DA) cell loss is a commonly proposed mechanism, the reported efficacy of DA replacement therapy with L-DOPA on affective symptoms is inconsistent. To delineate the effects of DA denervation and chronic L-DOPA treatment on affective behaviors, male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine or sham lesions and were treated daily with L-DOPA (12mg/kg+benserazide, 15mg/kg, subcutaneously) or vehicle (0.9% NaCl, 0.1% ascorbic acid) for 28 days before commencing investigations into anxiety (locomotor chambers, social interaction) and depression-like behaviors (forced swim test) during the OFF phase of L-DOPA. One hour after the final treatments, rats were killed and striatum, prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala were analyzed through high-performance liquid chromatography for monoamine levels. In locomotor chambers and social interaction, DA lesions exerted mild anxiogenic effects. Surprisingly, chronic L-DOPA treatment did not improve these effects. Although DA lesion reduced climbing behaviors on day 2 of exposure to the forced swim test, chronic L-DOPA treatment did not reverse these effects. Neurochemically, L-DOPA treatment in hemiparkinsonian rats reduced norepinephrine levels in the prefrontal cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. Collectively, these data suggest that chronic L-DOPA therapy in severely DA-lesioned rats does not improve nonmotor symptoms and may impair nondopaminergic processes, indicating that long-term L-DOPA therapy does not exert necessary neuroplastic changes for improving affect.
Exposure to methamphetamine during brain development impairs cognition in humans and rodents. In mice, these impairments are more severe in females than males. Genetic factors, such as apolipoprotein E genotype, may modulate the cognitive effects of methamphetamine. Methamphetamine-induced alterations in the brain acetylcholine system may contribute to the cognitive effects of methamphetamine and may also be modulated by apolipoprotein E isoform. We assessed the long-term effects of methamphetamine exposure during brain development on cognitive function and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in mice, and whether apolipoprotein E isoform modulates these effects. Mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3 or E4 were exposed to methamphetamine (5mg/kg) or saline once a day from postnatal days 11-20 and behaviorally tested in adulthood. Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding was measured in the hippocampus and cortex. Methamphetamine exposure impaired novel location recognition in female, but not male, mice. Methamphetamine-exposed male and female mice showed impaired novel object recognition and increased number of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the hippocampus. The cognitive and cholinergic effects of methamphetamine were similar in apolipoprotein E3 and E4 mice. Thus, the cholinergic system, but not apolipoprotein E isoform, might play an important role in the long-term methamphetamine-induced cognitive deficits in adulthood.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are emerging as a promising model species in neuroscience research. Many traditional rodent behavioral paradigms may be adapted for zebrafish testing. Exposing zebrafish to three different &quot;open field&quot; tanks for 30 min, we showed that fish display robust homebase behavior, in which one area of the tank is chosen as a preferred point of reference during the test, which the fish frequently return to and spend a longer duration in. This phenotype strikingly resembles rodent homebase behavior, confirming that both species use homebases as &quot;reference points&quot; for their exploration. Our study introduces a simple method for zebrafish homebase phenotyping, and further supports the utility of these fish in neurobehavioral and cognitive research.
The peak procedure is widely used in the study of interval timing with animals. Multiple timing measures can be derived from peak responding. These measures are typically presented as averages across many trials based on the implicit assumption that peak responding is stable throughout the session. We tested this assumption by examining whether peak responding changed over the course of the session in 45 mice that were trained on a fixed-interval 30-s schedule. All common measures of peak responding, except stop times, changed over the course of the session: start times increased, response rates and spreads decreased, and, although less reliably, peak times also shifted rightward. These results are congruent with a motivational interpretation, whereby increased satiety leads to the observed behavioral signature of within-session modulation of timed anticipatory responding.
Patients with social anxiety disorder (SAD) not only fear negative evaluation but are indeed less likeable than people without SAD. Previous research shows social performance to mediate this social anxiety-social rejection relationship. This study studied two pathways hypothesized to lead to poor social performance in social anxiety: increased self-focused attention and negative beliefs. State social anxiety was experimentally manipulated in high and low-blushing-fearful individuals by letting half of the participants believe that they blushed intensely during a 5 min getting-acquainted interaction with two confederates. Participants rated their state social anxiety, self-focused attention, and level of negative beliefs. Two confederates and two video-observers rated subsequently likeability (i.e., social rejection) and social performance of the participants. In both groups, the social anxiety-social rejection relationship was present. Although state social anxiety was related to heightened self-focused attention and negative beliefs, only negative beliefs were associated with relatively poor social performance. In contrast to current SAD models, self-focused attention did not play a key-role in poor social performance but seemed to function as a by-product of state social anxiety. Beliefs of being negatively evaluated seem to elicit changes in behavioral repertoire resulting in a poor social performance and subsequent rejection.

The majority of commentary on foetal pain has looked at the maturation of neural pathways to decide a lower age limit for foetal pain. This approach is sensible because there must be a minimal necessary neural development that makes pain possible. Very broadly, it is generally agreed that the minimal necessary neural pathways for pain are in place by 24 weeks gestation. Arguments remain, however, as to the possibility of foetal pain before or after 24 weeks. Some argue that the foetus can feel pain earlier than 24 weeks because pain can be supported by subcortical structures. Others argue that the foetus cannot feel pain at any stage because it is maintained in a state of sedation in the womb and lacks further neural and conceptual development necessary for pain. Much of this argument rests on the definition of terms such as 'wakefulness' and 'pain'. If a behavioural and neural reaction to a noxious stimulus is considered sufficient for pain, then pain is possible from 24 weeks and probably much earlier. If a conceptual subjectivity is considered necessary for pain, however, then pain is not possible at any gestational age. Regardless of how pain is defined, it is clear that pain for conceptual beings is qualitatively different than pain for non-conceptual beings. It is therefore a mistake to draw an equivalence between foetal pain and pain in the older infant or adult.
Manipulation of diet such as increasing the level of fat or inducing insulin resistance has been shown to exacerbate the pathology in several animal models of neurological disease. Caloric restriction, however, has been demonstrated to extend the life span of many organisms. Reduced calorie consumption appears to increase the resistance of neurons to intracellular and extracellular stress and consequently improves the behavioural phenotype in animal models of neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. We review the evidence from a variety of mouse models that diet is a risk factor that can significantly contribute to the development of neurological diseases.
A plethora of evidence supports a beneficial role of estrogen in the brain. However, while these effects are hypothesized to be driven via the two main forms of estrogen receptors (ER and ER), the mechanism through which these receptors mediate estrogen's effects on cognition and plasticity remain unclear. Estrogen receptors are heterogeneously expressed in many cognition sensitive regions of the brain, have the ability to dimerize and heterodimerize, and are localized to both neurons and glia. In addition, while many of the known actions of estrogen through their receptor are mediated via the classical genomic regulatory mechanism of gene transcription, rapid non-genomic action of estrogens are also gaining relevance. These complex events make the mechanistic understanding of estrogen effects challenging. The development of transgenic estrogen receptor knockout mouse models has provided some much needed insight on the role of these receptors in mediating estrogen effects on cognition and synaptic plasticity. This review provides an overview of estrogen receptors in the brain and an update of knowledge gained from transgenic knockout models on cognition and synaptic plasticity.
Studies of the mechanisms by which estrogens influence brain function and behavior have advanced from the explication of individual hormone receptors, neural circuitry and individual gene expression. Now, we can report patterns of estrogen receptor subtype contributions to patterns of behavior. Moreover, new work demonstrates important contributions of nuclear receptor coactivator expression in the central nervous system. In this paper, our current state of knowledge is reviewed.

Transgenic mouse models have vastly contributed to our knowledge of the genetic and molecular pathways underlying the pathogenesis of neurological disorders that affect millions of people worldwide. Not only have they allowed the generation of disease models mimicking the human pathological state but they have also permitted the exploration of the pathological role of specific genes through the generation of knock-out and knock-in models. Classical constitutive transgenic mice have several limitations however, due to behavioral adaptation process occurring and conditional mouse models are time-consuming and often lack extensive spatial or temporal control of gene manipulation. These limitations could be overcome by means of innovative methods that are now available such as RNAi, viral vectors and large cloning DNA vectors. These tools have been extensively used for the generation of mouse models and are characterized by the superior control of transgene expression that has been proven invaluable in the assessment of novel treatments for neurological diseases and to further investigate the molecular processes underlying the etiopathology of neurological disorders. Furthermore, in association with classical transgenic mouse models, they have allowed the validation of innovative therapeutic strategies for the treatment of human neurological disorders. This review describes how these tools have overcome the limitations of classical transgenic mouse models and how they have been of value for the study of human neurological diseases.
Mitochondria have become a primary focus in our search not only for the mechanism(s) of neuronal death but also for neuroprotective drugs and therapies that can delay or prevent Alzheimer's disease and other chronic neurodegenerative conditions. This is because mitochrondria play a central role in regulating viability and death of neurons, and mitochondrial dysfunction has been shown to contribute to neuronal death seen in neurodegenerative diseases. In this article, we review the evidence for the role of mitochondria in cell death and neurodegeneration and provide evidence that estrogens have multiple effects on mitochondria that enhance or preserve mitochondrial function during pathologic circumstances such as excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and others. As such, estrogens and novel non-hormonal analogs have come to figure prominently in our efforts to protect neurons against both acute brain injury and chronic neurodegeneration.
This study investigated the involvement of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) that may be nonenzymatically linked to -synuclein accumulation in the chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced C57BL/6 mouse model of parkinsonism. MPTP (20 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally administrated once daily for 30 days to the MPTP group while a saline only solution was administered to the control group. Results show that the immunoreactivities of the tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter significantly decreased in the striatum and the substantia nigra (SN) in the MPTP model compared to the subjects in the control group. -synuclein was co-localized with N()-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) and N()-(carboxyethyl)lysine (CEL), which are well-known AGEs, in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic neurons in the MPTP brains. -synuclein was also shown to be deposited in the CD11b-positive activated microglia. Some AGEs-modified proteins (CML-, CEL-, pentosidine-, or pyrraline-modified proteins) and an oligomeric form of -synuclein appear to have almost the same molecular weight, specifically between 50 and 75 kDa; in addition, these formations were more strongly deposited in the SN region of the MPTP brains than in the control brains. Moreover, the oligomeric form of -synuclein was modified with CML in the SNs of both the control and MPTP brains. This study, for the first time, shows that chronic dopaminergic neurodegeneration by MPTP can lead to the depositing of an oligomeric form of -synuclein, CML-linked -synuclein, and CEL-, pentosidine-, or pyrraline-linked proteins between 50 and 75 kDa. It is thus suggested that CML, especially a CML-linked -synuclein oligomer between 50 and 75 kDa, may be, at least in part, involved in the aggregation of the -synuclein induced by MPTP intoxication.
Uncertainty as to how we should articulate empirical data and normative reasoning seems to underlie most difficulties regarding the 'empirical turn' in bioethics. This article examines three different ways in which we could understand 'empirical turn'. Using real facts in normative reasoning is trivial and would not represent a 'turn'. Becoming an empirical discipline through a shift to the social and neurosciences would be a turn away from normative thinking, which we should not take. Conducting empirical research to inform normative reasoning is the usual meaning given to the term 'empirical turn'. In this sense, however, the turn is incomplete. Bioethics has imported methodological tools from empirical disciplines, but too often it has not imported the standards to which researchers in these disciplines are held. Integrating empirical and normative approaches also represents true added difficulties. Addressing these issues from the standpoint of debates on the fact-value distinction can cloud very real methodological concerns by displacing the debate to a level of abstraction where they need not be apparent. Ideally, empirical research in bioethics should meet standards for empirical and normative validity similar to those used in the source disciplines for these methods, and articulate these aspects clearly and appropriately. More modestly, criteria to ensure that none of these standards are completely left aside would improve the quality of empirical bioethics research and partly clear the air of critiques addressing its theoretical justification, when its rigour in the particularly difficult context of interdisciplinarity is what should be at stake.
Overproduction and pruning during development is a phenomenon that can be observed in the number of organisms in a population, the number of cells in many tissue types, and even the number of synapses on individual neurons. The sculpting of synaptic connections in the brain of a developing organism is guided by its personal experience, which on a neural level translates to specific patterns of activity. Activity-dependent plasticity at glutamatergic synapses is an integral part of neuronal network formation and maturation in developing vertebrate and invertebrate brains. As development of the rodent forebrain transitions away from an over-proliferative state, synaptic plasticity undergoes modification. Late developmental changes in synaptic plasticity signal the establishment of a more stable network and relate to pronounced perceptual and cognitive abilities. In large part, activation of glutamate-sensitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors regulates synaptic stabilization during development and is a necessary step in memory formation processes that occur in the forebrain. A developmental change in the subunits that compose NMDA receptors coincides with developmental modifications in synaptic plasticity and cognition, and thus much research in this area focuses on NMDA receptor composition. We propose that there are additional, equally important developmental processes that influence synaptic plasticity, including mechanisms that are upstream (factors that influence NMDA receptors) and downstream (intracellular processes regulated by NMDA receptors) from NMDA receptor activation. The goal of this review is to summarize what is known and what is not well understood about developmental changes in functional plasticity at glutamatergic synapses, and in the end, attempt to relate these changes to maturation of neural networks.
Understanding closed loop behavioral systems is a non-trivial problem, especially when they change during learning. Descriptions of closed loop systems in terms of information theory date back to the 1950s, however, there have been only a few attempts which take into account learning, mostly measuring information of inputs. In this study we analyze a specific type of closed loop system by looking at the input as well as the output space. For this, we investigate simulated agents that perform differential Hebbian learning (STDP). In the first part we show that analytical solutions can be found for the temporal development of such systems for relatively simple cases. In the second part of this study we try to answer the following question: How can we predict which system from a given class would be the best for a particular scenario? This question is addressed using energy, input/output ratio and entropy measures and investigating their development during learning. This way we can show that within well-specified scenarios there are indeed agents which are optimal with respect to their structure and adaptive properties.

Results of three experiments support hypothesized properties of the security motivation system, a special motivational system for handling potential threats, as proposed by Szechtman and Woody (2004). First, mild stimuli suggesting potential harm produced a marked state of activation (evident in both objective and subjective measures), consistent with the hypothesis that the security motivation system is finely tuned for the detection of potential threat. Second, in the absence of corrective behavior, this evoked activation is persistent, supporting the hypothesis that once stimulated, the security motivation system produces an enduring motivational state involving the urge to engage in threat-reducing behavior. Third, engagement in corrective behavior was effective in returning activation levels to baseline, whereas cognitive reappraisal was not. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that deactivation of the security motivation system depends on performance of security-related behaviors, rather than non-behavioral events such as cognitive re-evaluation of threat.
In interaction with stressful life events, the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) is associated with depression. In response to stress, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is activated. HPA activity is often increased in depression. Thus, one potential mechanism by which 5-HTTLPR might increase risk for depression is by its impact on HPA activity. We examined the effects of 5-HTTLPR on diurnal saliva cortisol secretion (0800 h, 1200 h, 1600 h, 2200 h) in 130 healthy adults (66 men, 64 women) equally distributed across four age groups (30-70 years) using the tri-allelic classification [high-expressing (LA/LA), intermediate-expressing (LG/LA, LA/S), low-expressing (S/S, S/LG)]. We found a significant sex by 5-HTTLPR interaction on cortisol secretion. In men, higher cortisol levels were associated with lower transcriptional activity of 5-HTTLPR, whereas no such trend was observed in women. Our results suggest that men and women differ in serotonergic mediation of HPA-axis activity. This might contribute to sex-specific risk for depression.
Previous research has indicated that anxious individuals are more prone to evaluate ambiguous information as negative compared to non-anxious individuals. The feedback-related negativity (FRN) component of event-related brain potential (ERP) has been shown to be sensitive to outcome evaluation. The current ERP study aimed to test the hypothesis that the FRNs associated with ambiguous outcomes and negative outcomes are different between high-trait anxiety (HTA) and low-trait anxiety (LTA) individuals. The FRN was measured as a difference wave created across conditions. We found significantly different FRN responses between high-anxious and low-anxious participants in ambiguous outcome condition, as well as in negative outcome condition. Moreover, the HTA group's FRN responses under the ambiguous outcome condition were larger than the negative outcome condition. Nevertheless, the FRN following neutral outcome did not show any difference between the two groups. The present results support the idea that there is link between individual differences in anxiety and ambiguous outcome evaluation, which possibly reflects the adaptive function of anxiety. Additionally, the results indicate that the mechanisms underlying the evaluation of neutral outcomes and ambiguous outcomes might be different from each other.
The pursuit of laboratory tests that allow for the reliable and inexpensive identification of subjects with parkinsonism represents a hot topic in translational neuroscience. This unmet need affects the counseling of presymptomatic, at-risk subjects and delays the accurate diagnosis of already symptomatic individuals. The absence of validated markers that are closely linked to the pathological disease process also compromises the objective monitoring of therapeutic interventions in clinical trials. Typical Parkinson's disease represents a heterogenous syndrome (but the majority of patients suffer from neurodegeneration) that is linked to the misprocessing of -synuclein (-Syn). The identification of -Syn as a bona fide constituent of human cerebrospinal fluid and its quantification in early cross-sectional studies represent the beginning of a new chapter in Parkinson's disease research. It will determine what role, if any, cerebrospinal fluid -Syn plays as a biomarker candidate in Lewy inclusion-positive forms of parkinsonism. This article focuses on the progress that has been made in seven recently published papers and highlights the challenges that lie ahead. We also provide specific information regarding standardized operating procedures for cerebrospinal fluid collection in PD biomarker research efforts.
This article focuses on biochemical markers that may be used in the diagnostics of Parkinson's disease and associated disorders, and to identify early cases and stratify patients into subgroups. We present an updated account of some currently available candidate fluid biomarkers, and discuss their diagnostic performance and limitations. We also discuss some of the general problems with Parkinson's disease biomarkers and possible ways of moving forward. It may be concluded that a diagnostically useful fluid biomarker for Parkinson's disease is yet to be identified. However, some interesting candidates exist and may prove useful in the future, alone or when analyzed together in patterns.

The success achieved with implantable neural interfaces has motivated the development of novel architectures of electrode arrays and the improvement of device performance. The Utah electrode array (UEA) is one example of such a device. The unique architecture of the UEA enables single-unit recording with high spatial and temporal resolution. Although the UEA has been commercialized and been used extensively in neuroscience and clinical research, the current processes used to fabricate UEA's impose limitations in the tolerances of the electrode array geometry. Further, existing fabrication costs have led to the need to develop less costly but higher precision batch fabrication processes. This paper presents a wafer-scale fabrication method for the UEA that enables both lower costs and faster production. More importantly, the wafer-scale fabrication significantly improves the quality and tolerances of the electrode array and allow better controllability in the electrode geometry. A comparison between the geometrical and electrical characteristics of the wafer-scale and conventional array-scale processed UEA's is presented.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP), which is critically involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is cleaved by gamma/epsilon-secretase activity and results in the generation of different lengths of the APP Intracellular C-terminal Domain (AICD). In spite of its small size and short half-life, AICD has become the focus of studies on AD pathogenesis. Recently, it was demonstrated that AICD binds to different intracellular binding partners ('adaptor protein'), which regulate its stability and cellular localization. In terms of choice of adaptor protein, phosphorylation seems to play an important role. AICD and its various adaptor proteins are thought to take part in various cellular events, including regulation of gene transcription, apoptosis, calcium signaling, growth factor, and NF-B pathway activation, as well as the production, trafficking, and processing of APP, and the modulation of cytoskeletal dynamics. This review discusses the possible roles of AICD in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases including AD.

In this Commentary, the roles of uridine adenosine tetraphosphate as an endothelium-derived contracting or relaxing factor described in the paper by Tlle etal. are considered and put into the wider context of the mechanisms of control of vascular tone by purinergic signalling via receptors located on both smooth muscle and endothelial cells.
The recently discovered dendritic cell nuclear protein-1 is the product of a novel candidate gene for major depression. The A allele encodes full-length dendritic cell nuclear protein-1, while the T allele encodes a premature termination of translation at codon number 117 on chromosome 5. In the present study we investigate whether the two forms of dendritic cell nuclear protein-1 might act on corticotropin-releasing hormone, which plays a crucial role in the stress response and in the pathogenesis of depression. The messenger RNA expression of dendritic cell nuclear protein-1 appeared to be increased in the laser micro-dissected paraventricular nucleus of patients with depression compared with control subjects. Dendritic cell nuclear protein-1 was also found to be co-localized with corticotropin-releasing hormone in paraventricular nucleus neurons. Moreover, full-length dendritic cell nucleus protein-1 bound to and transactivated the promoter of corticotropin-releasing hormone in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. We propose that full-length dendritic cell nucleus protein-1 may play a role in the pathogenesis of depressive disorders by enhancing corticotropin-releasing hormone expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.
Brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) are artificial systems that control external devices or body muscles with signals generated by the neural activities of working brains. The BMIs currently under development can be divided into 2 types,i.e.,conventional (noninvasive) BMIs and complete (invasive) BMIs. Only the latter type of BMI can ultimately be used in the future. This paper describes some recent studies on invasive BMI using monkeys as subjects and discusses the progress of and problems revealed in these studies. The focus then shifts to plastic changes in neuronal activities caused by the BMIs. When a BMI is in use,the brain inevitably changes its own functions and structures in order to operate external devices more efficiently. Therefore,basic research on BMIs inevitably involves study on neural plasticity; such research is essential for further development of neurorehabilitation and for high performance of BMIs. This paper describes 2 recent pioneering BMI studies-one involving the rat motor cortex and the other involving the monkey primary motor cortex. Both studies revealed rapid and plastic changes in neuronal function during the period the animals were learning to operate external devices with the BMIs. The fact that the neuronal changes were caused by the contingency of neuronal activity and rewards emphasizes the significance of the neural-operant paradigm for research on neuronal plasticity in BMIs. The present paper describes a neural-operant experiment involving a recently developed high-performance BMI system and reports rapid and plastic changes in firing frequency and synchrony of the hippocampal neurons in both adult and aged rats. Finally,the paper suggests that complete BMIs can be developed by neuroscience research and should be able to unmask the enigmas of the neural code,brain-body interaction,and ongoing activity in the working brain.
This study investigates the information of available postmortem brain resources in Japan. Data were obtained from personal references,home pages viewing and direct e-mail inquiries to relevant institutes. The most accessible online system was the Japanese Brain Bank Network for Neuroscience Research,which is supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Comprehensive Brain Science Network from Japan's Ministry of Education,Culture,Sports,Science and Technology (http://www.hokatsu-nou.nips.ac.jp/?page_id=71). Among the brain banks,the Brain Bank for Aging Research and Fukushimura Brain Bank were reported in detail in different chapters of this issue. The Brain Bank Committee of the Japanese Society of Neuropathology also allowed an e-mail inquiry with regard to possible resource supply. The National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry provided resource-related information in comformance with the living will of individuals and the Research Resource Network. Niigata University has the largest resource on neurodegenerative disorders. The Postmortem Brain Bank of Fukushima for Psychiatric Research is the only brain bank aimed for schizophrenia research in Japan,but requires direct contact with the bank director. At present the stanley Brain Bank (http://www.stanleyresearch.org/dnn/BrainResearchLaboratorybrBrainCollection/tabid/83/Default.aspx) maybe the most preferable choice for psychiatric research in Japan.
Fukushimura Brain Bank (FBB) was established in 1994, and to date, has accumulated 477 fresh frozen brain tissue samples. Our brain bank is based in Choju Medical Institute, Fukushimura Hospital, Toyohashi in Japan. At the time of its foundation, the institute could not establish working relationships with clinicopathological investigators and others engaged in basic neuroscience research. At this stage, we received the assistance of Yokohama City University in setting up standards for neuropathological diagnosis as well as the aid of Chiba University in establishing a method for Vancouver style snap-frozen sampling of brain tissue. However, both systems require considerable manpower and time. We now plan to introduce several improvements in these systems. At its inception, the Brain Bank operated without financial support from grants or foundation funding and was managed only as a hospital expense. However, since 1998, we have collaborated with researchers from several institutes, and the results of our labors have been presented at congresses, in journal publications and in foundation reports. In 2004, we obtained the status required to apply for a grant from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan. Fukushimura Hospital is a geriatric institution that specializes in dementia. There are no other hospitals or nursing homes in the Toyohashi area that specialize in this field. Half of our patients have Alzheimer's disease,and a number of them have enormous plaques and huge neurofibrillary tangles patient for over 10 years. In general,private geriatric hospitals that care for such patients with severe AD lack the systems required for performing autopsies. Research carried out with animal models are not comparable with neuropathological and biochemical investigations using human tissues,and in terms of the quality,the range and size of our collection at FBB is unique. In the future,we intend to expand our network in order to share samples of interest,and to optimize the network by establishing similar sampling protocols and diagnostic standards. It is with great pleasure that we at the FBB look forward to our collaboration with the Comprehensive Brain Science.
Brain Bank was established in 1960's in the United States and Europe as a basic infrastructure for human neuroscience research. In Japan,institutional collections are a substitute to brain banks and these function as the main repository of postmortem brains; Niigata University has one such center. The brain bank movement officially started in 2001 with the establishment of the Brain Bank for Aging Research (BBAR) in Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital and Institute of Gerontology. The Research Resource Network as well as the Brain Donation System of patients with Parkinson disease started in the National Center for Neurology and Psychiatry. A brain bank specially for psychiatric disorders was also established in Fukushima University. The Japanese Society of Neuropathology recognized the establishment of brain bank system as one of its major goals and the Brain Bank Committee worked as a task force. In 2010,the Japanese Brain Bank Network for Neuroscience Research (JBBNNR) was funded by Comprehensive Brain Science Network from the Ministry of Education,Culture,Sports,Science and Technology of Japan. BBAR was also appointed as the pathology core of Japanese Alzheimer Disease Neuroimage Initiative (JADNI) this year. The key features of JBBNNR are as follows. (1) The brain bank was approved by the institutional review board with the consensus of clinical and pathological branches of the neuroscience departments in the institute. (2) The brain bank accepts brain donation and maintains a clinical longitudinal follow-up record of the donor. (3) The brain bank resource is quality controlled and its information is shared by researchers. (4) The brain bank provides useful resources to researchers. Currently,JBBNNR includes Mihara Memorial Hospital Brain Bank and Fukushimura Brain Bank in addition to BBAR and it aims to expand the network for the creation of a future Japan Brain Net.
The histamine H(3) receptor is predominantly expressed in the central nervous system and plays a role in diverse physiological mechanisms. In the present study, the effects of GSK189254, a potent and selective H(3) antagonist, were characterized in preclinical pain models in rats. Systemic GSK189254 produced dose-dependent efficacy (ED(50)=0.77 mg/kg i.p.) in a rat model of monoiodoacetate (MIA) induced osteoarthritic (OA) pain as evaluated by hindlimb grip force. The role of H(3) receptors in regulating pain perception was further demonstrated using other structurally distinct H(3) antagonists. GSK189254 also displayed efficacy in a rat surrogate model indicative of central sensitization, namely phase 2 response of formalin-induced flinching, and attenuated tactile allodynia in the spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain (ED(50)=1.5mg/kg i.p.). In addition, GSK189254 reversed persistent (CFA) (ED(50)=2.1mg/kg i.p,), whereas was ineffective in acute (carrageenan) inflammatory pain. When administered intrathecally (i.t.) to the lumbar spinal cord, GSK189254 produced robust effects in relieving the OA pain (ED(50)=0.0027 mg/kg i.t.). The systemic GSK189254 effect was completely reversed by the alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist phentolamine (i.p. and i.t.) but not by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (i.p.). Furthermore, the i.t. GSK189254 effect was abolished when co-administered with phentolamine (i.t.). These results suggest that the spinal cord is an important site of action for H(3) antagonism and the effect can be associated with activation of the noradrenergic system. Our data also provide support that selective H(3) antagonists may represent a class of agents for the treatment of pain disorders.
The pathophysiology of early ischemic injury after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is not understood. This study examined the acute effect of endovascular puncture-induced SAH on parenchymal vessel function in rat, using intravascular fluorescent tracers to assess flow and vascular permeability and immunostaining to assess structural integrity and to visualize platelet aggregates. In sham-operated animals, vessels were well filled with tracer administered 10s before sacrifice, and parenchymal escape of tracer was rare. At ten minutes and three hours after hemorrhage, patches of poor vascular filling were distributed throughout the forebrain. Close examination of these regions revealed short segments of narrowed diameter along many profiles. Most vascular profiles with reduced perfusion contained platelet aggregates and in addition showed focal loss of collagen IV, a principal component of basal lamina. In contrast, vessels were well filled at 24h post-hemorrhage, indicating that vascular perfusion had recovered. Parenchymal escape of intravascular tracer was detected at 10 min post-hemorrhage and later as plumes of fluorescence emanating into parenchyma from restricted microvascular foci. These data demonstrate that parenchymal microvessels are compromised in function by 10 min after SAH and identify focal microvascular constriction and local accumulation of luminal platelet aggregates as potential initiators of that compromise.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of mortality and disability among the young population. It has been shown that hydrogen gas (H(2)) exerts a therapeutic antioxidant activity by selectively reducing hydroxyl radical (OH, the most cytotoxic ROS). Recently, we have found that H(2) inhalation significantly improved the survival rate and organ damage of septic mice. In the present study, we investigated the effectiveness of H(2) therapy on brain edema, blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown, neurological dysfunction and injury volume in TBI-challenged rats. In addition, we investigated the effects of H(2) treatment on the changes of oxidative products and antioxidant enzymes in brain tissue of TBI-challenged rats. Hydrogen treatment was given by exposure to 2% H(2) from 5 min to 5h after sham or TBI operation, respectively. Here, we found that TBI-challenged rats showed significant brain injuries characterized by the increase of BBB permeability, brain edema and lesion volume as well as neurological dysfunction, which was significantly attenuated by 2% H(2) treatment. In addition, we found that the decrease of oxidative products and the increase of endogenous antioxidant enzymatic activities in the brain tissue may be associated with the protective effects of H(2) treatment in TBI-challenged rats. The present study supports that H(2) inhalation may be a more effective therapeutic strategy for patients with TBI.
Considerable progress has been made in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease in the last 25 years. To better understand the nature and diversity of the symptoms of Parkinson's disease it is necessary to integrate clinical knowledge on 1) the role of dopamine, 2) the anatomical and functional organization of the basal ganglia, and 3) the dysfunctions observed in MPTP-treated monkeys. This article reviews the principal discoveries in these three research fields and their contribution to our understanding of the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.

Transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) is a model for progressive prostate cancer that mirrors the stages of the human form. In this study, the effects of a diet enriched with processed whole tomatoes on survival, tumorigenesis, and progression of prostate cancer, and the antioxidant and inflammatory status of TRAMP mice were investigated. Tomato diet significantly increased overall survival (P &lt; 0.01), delayed progression from prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia to adenocarcinoma, and decreased the incidence of poorly differentiated carcinoma. Biochemical data disclosed an increase in serum antioxidant activity and a reduction of serum inflammation/angiogenesis biomarkers of particular importance in prostate carcinogenesis.
We describe two sets of courses designed to enhance the mathematical, statistical, and computational training of life science undergraduates at Emory College. The first course is an introductory sequence in differential and integral calculus, modeling with differential equations, probability, and inferential statistics. The second is an upper-division course in computational neuroscience. We provide a description of each course, detailed syllabi, examples of content, and a brief discussion of the main issues encountered in developing and offering the courses.
This Essay explores the notion that specialized cells have unique vulnerabilities to environmental contingencies that microRNAs help to counteract. Given the ease with which new microRNAs evolve, they may serve as ideal facilitators for the emergence of new cell types.
Adipose tissue is a dynamic endocrine and paracrine organ producing a large number of signalling proteins collectively termed adipokines. Some of them are mediators in the cross-talk between adipose tissue and the brain in regulating food intake and energy homoeostasis. However, the hypothalamus is not the only brain target for adipokines, and food intake is not the only biological effect of these signals. Rather, some adipokines support various cognitive functions and exert neurotrophic activity. Current data on adipose-derived neuropeptides, neurotrophic factors, pituitary hormones and hypothalamic releasing factors is highlighted in this review. We propose that adipose tissue is a member of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. Cumulatively, this is conceptualized as neuroadipology, a new example of a link between neurobiology and other topics, such as neuroimmunology and neuroendocrinology. Because adipose tissue is a bona fide endocrine organ, neuroadipology may be considered a new discipline in neuroendocrinology. It may have a wide-ranging potential within a variety of neuronal and metabolic functions in health and disease.
Polyglutamine pathologies are neurodegenerative diseases that manifest both general polyglutamine toxicity and mutant protein-specific effects. Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian Atrophy (DRPLA) is one of these disorders caused by mutations in the Atrophin-1 protein. We have generated several models for DRPLA in Drosophila and analysed the mechanisms of cellular and organism toxicity. Our genetic and ultrastructural analysis of neurodegeneration suggests that autophagy may have a role in cellular degeneration when polyglutamine proteins are overexpressed in neuronal and glial cells. Clearance of autophagic organelles is blocked at the lysosomal level after correct fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes. This leads to accumulation of autofluorescent pigments and proteinaceous residues usually degraded by the autophagy-lysosome system. Under these circumstances, further pharmacological and genetic induction of autophagy does not rescue neurodegeneration by polyglutamine Atrophins, in contrast to many other neurodegenerative conditions. Our data thus provide a crucial insight into the specific mechanism of a polyglutamine disease and reveal important differences in the role of autophagy with respect to other diseases of the same family.
Mitochondria are highly dynamic organelles that continuously undergo two opposite processes, fission and fusion. Mitochondrial dynamics influence not only mitochondrial morphology, but also mitochondrial biogenesis, mitochondrial distribution within the cell, cell bioenergetics, and cell injury or death. Drp1 mediates mitochondrial fission, whereas Mfn1/2 and Opa1 control mitochondrial fusion. Neurons require large amounts of energy to carry out their highly specialized functions. Thus, mitochondrial dysfunction is a prominent feature in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. Mutations of Mfn2 and Opa1 lead to neuropathies such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A and autosomal dominant optic atrophy. Moreover, both A peptide and mutant huntingtin protein induce mitochondrial fragmentation and neuronal cell death. In addition, mutants of Parkinson's disease-related genes also show abnormal mitochondrial morphology. This review highlights our current understanding of abnormal mitochondrial dynamics relevant to neuronal synaptic loss and cell death in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease.
Neuronal activity regulates the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in brain. In darkness, reduced neuronal activity in the visual cortex markedly decreases total BDNF transcription level in adult rats. Epigenetic mechanisms are crucially involved in the regulation of gene expression in response to environmental stimuli. In this study, we examined the effect of 1week of light deprivation (LD) on the activity-dependent changes in BDNF expression from different promoters in the visual cortex and hippocampus. We analyzed the correlation between the chromatin state of Bdnf promoters, exon-specific transcripts levels, and total protein levels in light-deprived rats and in rats reared under normal light-dark cycle. We found that 1week of LD significantly reduced Bdnf mRNA and protein in the visual cortex but not in the hippocampus. However, epigenetic analysis revealed that LD increased histone-3 methylation and DNA methylation at the Bdnf promoter IV in both the visual cortex and hippocampus. These data highlight the spatial differences in signaling pathways that lead to the BDNF expression in response to diminished ambient light.
It is well known that traumatic or ischemic brain injury is followed by acute excitotoxicity caused by the presence of abnormally high glutamate (Glu) in brain fluids. It has recently been demonstrated that excess Glu can be eliminated from brain into blood following the intravenous administration of oxaloacetate (OxAc), which, by scavenging blood Glu, induces an enhanced and neuroprotective brain-to-blood Glu efflux. In this study, we subjected rats to intravenous OxAc administration (i.v., 12.5, 25, and 50mg/kg, respectively), and studied its effects on somatosensory evoked cortical potentials (EPs). Against our expectation, the amplitudes of EPs did not decrease but increased in a dose- and time-dependent manner after OxAc administration. Similar effects were observed when blood Glu scavenging was enhanced by combining OxAc (12.5mg/kgbw) with recombinant glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT, 0.14nmol/100g rat). On the basis of these results, we suggest that the changes of amplitudes of the EPs involve not only a glutamatergic but also the weakening of a GABAergic component. We cannot rule out the possibility that OxAc penetrates into the brain and improves mitochondrial functions.
Many G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are known to modulate cell growth and differentiation by stimulating the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERKs). In growth factor signaling, ERKs are typically stimulated through an elaborate network of modules consisting of adaptors, protein kinases, and the small GTPase Ras. The mechanism by which G protein signals tap into the ERK signaling pathway has thus far remain elusive. Members of the Gq family of G proteins, in particular Galpha16, have been shown to associate with tetratricopeptide repeat 1 (TPR1), an adaptor protein which preferentially binds to Ras. Here, we examined if TPR1 is indeed the missing link between Galpha16 signaling and Ras activation. Expression of Galpha16QL, a constitutively active mutant of Galpha16, in HEK 293 cells led to the formation of GTP-bound Ras and the subsequent phosphorylation of ERK. Likewise, stimulation of endogenou G16-coupled CCR1 chemokine receptors produced the same responses in human erythroleukemia cells. siRNA-mediated knockdown of TPR1 or expression of a dominant negative mutant of TPR1 effectively abolished the ability of Galpha16QL to induce Ras activation in HEK 293 cells. In contrast, these manipulations had no inhibitory effect on Galpha16QL induced activation of phospholipase Cbeta. Galpha16QL-induced phosphorylations of downstream targets including ERK, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, and IkappaB kinase were significantly suppressed upon expression of the dominant negative mutant of TPR1. Furthermore, SOS2, a Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor, was found to form a complex with TPR1 and Galpha16QL. Expression of SOS2 enhanced Galpha16QL-induced Ras activation and its subsequent signaling. Collectively, our results suggest that Galpha16 regulates multiple signaling pathways by activating Ras through its association with TPR1, but TPR1 is not required for Galpha16 to stimulate phospholipase Cbeta.
Chronic challenge of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase-4A4 (PDE4A4) with certain PDE4 selective inhibitors causes it to reversibly form intracellular aggregates that are not membrane-encapsulated. These aggregates are neither stress granules (SGs) nor processing bodies (PBs) as they contain neither PABP-1 nor Dcp1a, respectively. However, the PDE4 inhibitor rolipram decreases arsenite-induced SGs and increases the amount of PBs, while arsenite challenge ablates rolipram-induced PDE4A4 aggregates. PDE4A4 aggregates are neither autophagic vesicles (autophagosomes) nor aggresomes, although microtubule disruptors ablate PDE4A4 aggregate formation. PDE4A4 constitutively co-immunoprecipitates with p62 protein (sequestosome1, SQSTM1), which locates to both PDE4A4 aggregates and autophagosomes in cells constitutively challenged with rolipram. The mTor inhibitor, rapamycin, activates autophagy, prevents PDE4A4 from forming intracellular aggregates and triggers the loss of bound p62 from PDE4A4. siRNA-mediated knockdown of p62 attenuates PDE4A4 aggregate formation. The p62-binding protein, light chain 3 (LC3), is not found in PDE4A4 aggregates. Blockade of proteasome activity and activation of autophagy with MG132 both increases the level of ubiquitinated proteins found associated with PDE4A4 and inhibits PDE4A4 aggregate formation. Activation of autophagy with either thapsigargin or ionomycin inhibits PDE4A4 aggregate formation. Inhibition of autophagy with either wortmannin or LY294002 activates PDE4A4 aggregate formation. The protein kinase C inhibitors, RO 320432 and GO 6983, and the ERK inhibitors UO 126 and PD 98059 all activated PDE4A4 aggregate formation, whilst roscovitine, thalidomide and the tyrosine kinase inhibitors, genistein and AG17, all inhibited this process. We suggest that the fate of p62-containing protein aggregates need not necessarily be terminal, through delivery to autophagic vesicles and aggresomes. Instead, we propose a novel regulatory mechanism where a sub-population of p62-containing protein aggregates would form in a rapid, reversible manner so as to sequester specific cargo away from their normal, functionally important site(s) within the cell. Thus an appropriate conformational change in the target protein would confer reversible recruitment into a sub-population of p62-containing protein aggregates and so provide a regulatory function by removing these cargo proteins from their functionally important site(s) in a cell.
PACAP is a critical regulator of long-term catecholamine secretion from the adrenal medulla in vivo, however the receptor or pathways for Ca(2+) entry triggering acute and sustained secretion have not been adequately characterized. We have previously cloned the bovine adrenal chromaffin cell PAC1 receptor that contains the molecular determinants required for PACAP-induced Ca(2+) elevation and is responsible for imparting extracellular Ca(2+) influx-dependent secretory competence in PC12 cells. Here, we use this cell model to gain mechanistic insights into PAC1hop-dependent Ca(2+) pathways responsible for catecholamine secretion. PACAP-modulated extracellular Ca(2+) entry in PC12 cells could be partially blocked with nimodipine, an inhibitor of L-type VGCCs and partially blocked by 2-APB, an inhibitor and modulator of various transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. Despite the co-existence of these two modes of Ca(2+) entry, sustained catecholamine secretion in PC12 cells was exclusively modulated by 2-APB-sensitive Ca(2+) channels. While IP3 generation occurred after PACAP exposure, most PACAP-induced Ca(2+) mobilization involved release from ryanodine-gated cytosolic stores. 2-APB-sensitive Ca(2+) influx, and subsequent catecholamine secretion was however not functionally related to intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization and store depletion. The reconstituted PAC1hop-expessing PC12 cell model therefore recapitulates both PACAP-induced Ca(2+) release from ER stores and extracellular Ca(2+) entry that restores PACAP-induced secretory competence in neuroendocrine cells. We demonstrate here that although bPAC1hop receptor occupancy induces Ca(2+) entry through two independent sources, VGCCs and 2-APB-sensitive channels, only the latter contributes importantly to sustained vesicular catecholamine release that is a fundamental characteristic of this neuropeptide system. These results emphasize the importance of establishing functional linkages between Ca(2+) signaling pathways initiated by pleotrophic signaling molecules such as PACAP, and physiologically important downstream events, such as secretion, triggered by them.
The function of any brain structure depends on its neuronal composition and on the pattern of its extrinsic and intrinsic excitatory and inhibitory synaptic connectivity. In this issue of Cerebral Cortex, 3 related papers provide the most comprehensive analysis to date of the cellular and synaptic relationships of a standard cortical column in the somatosensory cortex of the Wistar rat. It is hoped that understanding normal composition of this archetypical cortical column may help to explain its functional operations, expose subtle pathological changes that could cause abnormal sensory and cognitive functions, and provide insight into evolution of the cerebral cortex.
Hierarchical organization of human auditory cortex has been inferred from functional imaging observations that core regions respond to simple stimuli (tones) whereas downstream regions are selectively responsive to more complex stimuli (band-pass noise, speech). It is assumed that core regions code low-level features, which are combined at higher levels in the auditory system to yield more abstract neural codes. However, this hypothesis has not been critically evaluated in the auditory domain. We assessed sensitivity to acoustic variation within intelligible versus unintelligible speech using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a multivariate pattern analysis. Core auditory regions on the dorsal plane of the superior temporal gyrus exhibited high levels of sensitivity to acoustic features, whereas downstream auditory regions in both anterior superior temporal sulcus and posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) bilaterally showed greater sensitivity to whether speech was intelligible or not and less sensitivity to acoustic variation (acoustic invariance). Acoustic invariance was most pronounced in more pSTS regions of both hemispheres, which we argue support phonological level representations. This finding provides direct evidence for a hierarchical organization of human auditory cortex and clarifies the cortical pathways supporting the processing of intelligible speech.
Perception of dispositions of others revealed by movement is an essential ingredient of adaptive daily-life social behavior. Brain imaging points to several brain regions involved in visual processing of social interaction represented by motion of geometric shapes. However, temporal interrelations among these regions remain unknown. Keeping in mind that successful visual social perception depends on intact communication throughout the brain, we focus here on analysis of the induced gamma neuromagnetic response to social interaction revealed by motion. A peak of induced gamma activity of 62 Hz was found at 1 s from the stimulus onset over the right parieto-temporal junction. Two further enhancements in gamma response of lower frequency of 44 Hz occurred at 1.4 s over the medial prefrontal and posterior temporal cortices in the right hemisphere. Subsequent boosts of 44 Hz were found at 1.6 s over the left temporal and right posterior temporal cortices. For the first time, the findings identify the cortical network engaged in visual processing of social interaction revealed by motion and help to better understand proper functioning of the social brain circuitry.
In this presentation, we describe a novel method for estimating the onset time course of psychophysical odor adaptation in human observers. The method employs stimulus conditions derived from an analogous stimulus paradigm in audition. To test this procedure, we used liquid-dilution olfactometry to estimate 2-bottle discrimination thresholds for brief (600 ms) presentations of vanilla odor; 17 volunteers (14 females; ages 18-24) served as participants. The adapting odorant concentration for each participant was set relative to baseline threshold for the 600-ms target alone (i.e., the same level relative to each participant's threshold). To characterize the adaptation-onset time course, we compared thresholds for targets presented simultaneously with the adapting stimulus as a function of the relative delay between the onset of the adapting stimulus and onset of the target. As predicted from the analogous auditory studies, thresholds for the target stimulus increased in an orderly manner with increases in adaptation-to-target onset delay (i.e., as the adaptation process progressively decreased sensitivity). Initial increases in threshold were consistently observed for the briefest onset delays of 50-100 ms. An onset time constant was estimated at 319 ms by fitting a 2-component exponential to the mean group function. Adaptation magnitude was dependent on the level of adapting odorant, relative to threshold. When thresholds were measured in one participant with a different, unrelated target odorant, cineole, there was no effect of the vanilla-adapting stimulus on threshold. The results suggest that olfactory rapid adaptation is measurable psychophysically within 50-200 ms after odor onset, values consistent with physiological measures of adaptation in olfactory receptor neurons. This novel stimulus paradigm offers a powerful psychophysical tool to study both odor adaptation and stimulus interactions at the olfactory periphery.
Odor stimuli play an important role in the perception of food flavor. Olfactory dysfunction is thus likely to affect eating behavior. In the present study, we hypothesized that dysfunctional olfactory perception promotes sensory-specific satiety, a decrease in pleasure derived from a certain test food during and shortly after its consumption relative to other unconsumed control foods. A total of 34 hyposmic/anosmic participants were compared with 29 normosmic control participants. All participants repeatedly consumed a fixed portion of one and the same food item, a procedure known to induce sensory satiation. We found evidence for sensory-specific satiety (SSS) regardless of olfactory function. It thus appears that olfactory deficits have no major effect on SSS.
Ethnic minority children continue to have substantial unmet mental health needs, and evidence-based treatments (EBTs) have proved challenging to disseminate widely among ethnic minority communities. Indeed, policy makers have made an important distinction between EBTs, interventions that have proven efficacy in clinical trials, and evidence-based practice, which involves &quot;the integration of the best available research with clinical expertise in the context of patient characteristics, culture, and preferences.&quot; The present research evidence suggests that several interventions have been found to be effective in ethnic minority populations without a need for major adaptations of the original interventions. However, this article highlights the need to deliver evidence-based practice, which is defined as the implementation of EBTs delivered with fidelity and with the integration of important cultural systems and community factors.
Although culture has long been recognized as having a significant impact on human development and its variations, many child and adolescent psychiatrists and mental health clinicians assume a universal nonvariance to normal development, with the risk of identifying variations as pathologic. This article reviews the conceptual basis for the role of culture in human development, particularly psychosocial and cognitive development, presents evidence and support from field observations of children in diverse cultures, and discusses the emerging evidence from the field of cultural neuroscience. Implications for these different perspectives on future research, childhood education, and even intercultural relations are presented.
Studies of regional hemispheric asymmetries point to relatively less activity in left frontal and right posterior regions in depression. Anxiety was associated with increased right posterior activity, which may be related to arousal and, in anxious-depressed individuals, offset the posterior asymmetry typically seen in depression. These asymmetries have been indexed by resting EEG or inferred through the use of lateralized auditory and visual tasks (e.g., dichotic listening and chimeric faces). However, associations between regional EEG activity and neurocognitive function in depression or anxiety remain unclear. The present study used matched verbal (Word Finding) and spatial (Dot Localization) tasks to compare task-related alpha asymmetries in depressed patients grouped according to level of trait anxiety. EEG and behavioral performance were recorded from depressed patients with high anxiety (n = 14) or low anxiety (n = 14) and 21 age- and education-matched healthy adults during the two tasks, and alpha power was averaged within each task. As predicted, the two patient groups exhibited opposite patterns of regional hemispheric alpha asymmetry. Greater right than left central-parietal activation was seen in the high-anxiety depressed group during the spatial task, whereas greater left than right frontal-central activation was found in the low-anxiety depressed group during the verbal task. Group differences in task performance were in the expected direction but did not reach statistical significance. These results are consistent with Heller's two-dimensional model of depression and anxiety and highlight the sensitivity of task-related EEG alpha in discriminating among subgroups of depressed patients differing in trait anxiety.



Quality of life (QOL) describes an individual's subjective perception of their position in life as evidenced by their physical, psychological and social functioning. Although an established outcome measure in physical health, QOL has more recently become an increasingly important measure in mental health clinical work and research. This article reviews the evidence describing the impact of medications on QOL in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Databases were searched for research studies describing the effects of medication on QOL in ADHD: 25 relevant studies were identified. Most (n=20) of these studies have focused on children and adolescents, and most have investigated a single molecule, atomoxetine (n=15), with relatively few studies investigating methylphenidate (n=5), amfetamines (n=4) and manifaxine (n=1). These studies support a positive short-term effect of medication on QOL in ADHD for children, adolescents and adults that mirrors, to some extent, the effects of these medications on ADHD symptoms, although with smaller effect sizes. Notwithstanding measurement issues, it will continue to be important that those designing and conducting clinical trials in ADHD, including both pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments, continue to include measures of QOL as secondary outcome measures. In particular, information about QOL effects in adults and in subjects of all ages taking methylphenidate and amfetamine treatments is urgently needed. The lack of systematic studies of the impact on QOL of psychological therapies, either on their own or in multimodal combinations with medication, is a serious omission that should be urgently addressed.
Fingers can be used to express numerical magnitudes, and cultural habits about the fixed order in which fingers are raised determine which configurations become canonical and which non-canonical. Although both types of configuration carry magnitude information, it has been shown that the canonical ones are recognized faster and directly linked to number semantics. Here we tested whether this difference is a consequence of differences in the qualitative way of processing the two types of configurations. When participants named Arabic digits (Experiment 1) or verbal numerals (Experiment 2) primed by canonical and non-canonical finger configurations, qualitatively different priming patterns were observed for the two types of configurations. Canonical configurations activated a place coding representation, with priming spreading to close smaller and larger magnitudes as a function of the prime-target distance. Conversely, non-canonical configurations activated a summation coding representation priming smaller and equal magnitudes independently of the prime-target distance, and larger targets depending on this distance.
How axons in the developing nervous system navigate to their correct targets is a fundamental question in neuroscience. Studies of axon guidance in the embryonic central nervous system (CNS) of Drosophila melanogaster have proved instrumental to the identification of molecules and mechanisms that regulate wiring. The relative simplicity of the Drosophila embryonic CNS, the advantages of genetic approaches, and the ability to analyze the pathfinding decisions of well-defined axon groups or even individual axons have all contributed to our understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of axon guidance and target selection. In this protocol, we describe methods for using fluorescent antibody staining as well as horseradish peroxidase (HRP) immunohistochemistry to reveal axon-projection patterns and identify specific guidance molecules. In the presence of 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride (DAB), HRP forms a brown, stable precipitate that allows visualization of axon populations under white light. This can be quite advantageous when teaching basic embryonic anatomy and dissection techniques, because unlike fluorescent antibody staining, HRP can be visualized in a lighted room. HRP detection does not allow precise colocalization of signals, nor can multiple colors be visualized simultaneously. These objectives are easily achieved with fluorescent antibody staining.
It is standardly believed that the localisation of cognitive function by means of impairments arising from cortical tumour is not possible as the functional defects that result are mild and unspecific. These assumptions were not supported in an investigation of four processes generally sensitive to right posterior cortical lesions, when patients with parieto-occipital lesions were compared with prefrontal ones. In three of the tests loading on the individual processes - Reaching Accuracy, Star Cancellation, Fragmented Letters and Cube Analysis - parieto-occipital impairments were found in the basic groups analysis and this was so in the right-hemisphere group. More critically, in these tests Lesion Behaviour Mapping showed the critical lesion site for the tests to have relatively little overlap with those of the other tests, indicating that the cognitive effects were not widespread and diffuse. In addition, in three of the tests the critical lesion sites fitted localisations arrived from other procedures. Patients with high-grade tumours performed considerably worse than those with low-grade tumours in only two of the tests (Star Cancellation, Cube Analysis) particularly in the right parieto-occipital group. In three (Reaching Accuracy, Star Cancellation, Cube Analysis) there was a deterioration with the operation specifically in the low-grade tumour patients. It is suggested that a tumour patient series may provide converging evidence for the localisation of a function initially obtained by some other procedure.
According to a recent study conducted on patients with posterior cerebral artery (PCA) infarcts (Capitani etal., 2009), a prevalent impairment of fruit and vegetable knowledge might be due to damage of the left fusiform gyrus, whereas the representation of animals might be disrupted by anterior temporal lesions. To check the influence of gender and anatomical factors in a larger number of patients, a review was made of all the single-case studies of patients who satisfied the following criteria: (a) a prevalent or selective defect in the representation of animals or fruit and vegetable knowledge; (b) the presence of detailed anatomical data, allowing to evaluate if there is a clear distinction between lesions provoking a prevalent defect for animals and for fruits and vegetables. Results showed that both similarities and differences exist between patients showing a selective impairment for animals and for fruits and vegetables. Important lesions of the mesial and inferior areas of the temporal lobes are, indeed, often observed in patients with every kind of category-specific semantic disorder for living entities, but aetiological, anatomical and gender-related familiarity factors determine the prevalent impairment of animals or of fruits and vegetables in these patients. A prevalent impairment of fruits and vegetables is usually observed in men showing a lesion in the territory of the left PCA, encroaching upon the occipital and the infero-mesial aspects of the left temporal lobe, whereas a prevalent impairment of animals is often found in women showing a bilateral lesion of the anterior temporal cortices. The anatomical differences are interpreted in terms of the 'sensori-motor model of semantic knowledge', whereas the gender-related asymmetries are considered as due to social roles related familiarity factors.

Aging has been a subject of interest since primordial times. More recently, it became clear that aging is the major known risk factor for several neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. A major focus in the field of aging is to examine whether the genetic regulators of lifespan also regulate the trigger and/or progression of age-related disorders. Sirtuins, which belong to the Sir2 family of NAD(+)-dependent deacetylases, are known to regulate longevity in yeast, worms, and flies. In mammals, there are seven homologs of the yeast Sir2, Sirt1-7. Therefore, the challenge now is to unravel howthe seven mammalian Sir2 proteins communicate to regulate the cross talk between aging and the onset and progression of age-related disorders. Here, we review how sirtuins contribute for aging and, in particular, for neurodegeneration and how they are becoming attractive targets for therapeutic intervention.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disease selectively leading to striatal neurodegeneration, but also affecting the cortex and the hypothalamus. Although it is hard to predict the sequence of cell-damaging events occurring in HD patients, several pathological mechanisms have been proposed to explain HD selective neurodegeneration and disease symptomatology. Abnormalities in mitochondrial function and bioenergetics contribute to cell death and have been reported in HD-affected individuals, both in central and peripheral tissues. Moreover, the latter has been characterized in several HD models. Thus, this review describes the converging mechanisms that lead to mitochondrial and metabolic abnormalities in thoroughly studied in vivo and in vitro HD models, including excitotoxicity, altered calcium handling, changes in mitochondrial structure and dynamics and transcription deregulation, which may represent important disease therapeutic targets. Furthermore, the review describes the current evidences of metabolic disturbances in the brain of HD-affected humans and of peripheral metabolic and mitochondrial changes, weight loss and endocrine abnormalities operating in the whole HD body.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in old age. Cognitive impairment in AD may be partially due to overall hypometabolism. Indeed, AD is characterized by an early region-specific decline in glucose utilization and by mitochondrial dysfunction, which have deleterious consequences for neurons through increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), ATP depletion and activation of cell death processes. In this article, we provide an overview of the alterations on energetic metabolism occurring in AD. First, we resume the evidences that link the 'metabolic syndrome' with increased risk for developing AD and revisit the major changes occurring on both extra-mitochondrial and mitochondrial metabolic pathways, as revealed by imaging studies and biochemical analysis of brain and peripheral samples obtained from AD patients. We also cover the recent findings on cellular and animal models that highlight mitochondrial dysfunction as a fundamental mechanism in AD pathogenesis. Recent evidence posits that mitochondrial abnormalities in this neurodegenerative disorder are associated with changes in mitochondrial dynamics and can be induced by amyloid-beta (A) that progressively accumulates within this organelle, acting as a direct toxin. Furthermore, A induces activation of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and/or excessive release of calcium from endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that may underlie mitochondrial calcium dyshomeostasis thereby disturbing organelle functioning and, ultimately, damaging neurons. Throughout the review, we further discuss several therapeutic strategies aimed to restore neuronal metabolic function in cellular and animal models of AD, some of which have reached the stage of clinical trials.
New therapies are being developed for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). These advances are based on understanding pathophysiology or the development of medications with greater selectivity in classes of agents with known efficacy. Prucalopride, the newest European Medicines Agency-approved 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (5-HT(4)) agonist, is effective in the treatment of chronic constipation with improved cardiovascular safety relative to older 5-HT(4) drugs; similarly, ramosetron, the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 3 (5-HT(3)) antagonist, appears efficacious in diarrhea-predominant IBS. Secretagogues with different mechanisms of action target apical domains in enterocytes that are involved in chloride secretion, such as chloride channels, the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator, and guanylate cyclase C. As a class, such secretagogues have high efficacy and safety for constipation. With more data obtained from phase 2 and 3 trials, we expect other classes of medications, including bile acid modulators, anti-inflammatory agents, visceral analgesics, and newer centrally acting agents to be efficacious and enter the armamentarium for the treatment of IBS in the future.

Reconstructing neuronal circuits at the level of synapses is a central problem in neuroscience, and the focus of the nascent field of connectomics. Previously used to reconstruct the C. elegans wiring diagram, serial-section transmission electron microscopy (ssTEM) is a proven technique for the task. However, to reconstruct more complex circuits, ssTEM will require the automation of image processing. We review progress in the processing of electron microscopy images and, in particular, a semi-automated reconstruction pipeline deployed at Janelia Farm. Drosophila circuits underlying identified behaviors are being reconstructed in the pipeline with the goal of generating a complete Drosophila connectome.

Connections between neurons can be found by checking whether synapses exist at points of contact, which in turn are determined by neural shapes. Finding these shapes is a special case of image segmentation, which is laborious for humans and would ideally be performed by computers. New metrics properly quantify the performance of a computer algorithm using its disagreement with 'true' segmentations of example images. New machine learning methods search for segmentation algorithms that minimize such metrics. These advances have reduced computer errors dramatically. It should now be faster for a human to correct the remaining errors than to segment an image manually. Further reductions in human effort are expected, and crucial for finding connectomes more complex than that of Caenorhabditis elegans.
The precise spatial and temporal control afforded by microfluidic devices make them uniquely suited as experimental tools for cellular neuroscience. Micro-structures have been developed to direct the placement of cells and small organisms within a device. Microfluidics can precisely define pharmacological microenvironments, mimicking conditions found in vivo with the advantage of defined parameters which are usually difficult to control and manipulate in vivo. These devices are compatible with high-resolution microscopy, are simple to assemble, and are reproducible. In this review we will focus on microfluidic devices that have recently been developed for small, whole organisms such as C. elegans and dissociated cultured neurons. These devices have improved control over the placement of cells or organisms and allowed unprecedented experimental access, enabling novel investigations in neurobiology.
The recent invention of super-resolution fluorescence microscopy brings more than an order of magnitude gain in the spatial resolution of light microscopy. New opportunities keep emerging with the multicolor, three-dimensional, and live imaging functionalities gained in the past three years. The power of this technology has been demonstrated by imaging the organization of organelles and molecular complexes, with recent applications increasingly showing its potential in neurobiology. These developments are exemplified by the visualization of components inside dendritic spines to fine morphologies of neurons. In combination with correlative electron microscopy, functional imaging, and electrical/optogenetic stimulation tools, super-resolution fluorescence microscopy has the potential to provide further insights ranging from the molecular details of neurons up to the functional mechanisms of neuronal circuits.
Microglial cells constitute the resident immune cell population of the mammalian central nervous system. One striking feature of these cells is their highly dynamic nature under both normal and pathological brain conditions. The highly branched processes of resting microglia display a constitutive mobility and undergo rapid directional movement towards sites of acute tissue disruption. Microglia can be converted by a large number of different stimuli to a chronically activated state by signaling through both purinergic and Toll-like receptor systems, among others. Recent work has uncovered some of the mechanisms underlying microglia dynamics and shed new light into the functional significance of this enigmatic member of the glial cell family.

A fundamental feature of membranes is the lateral diffusion of lipids and proteins. Control of lateral diffusion provides a mechanism for regulating the structure and function of synapses. Single-particle tracking (SPT) has emerged as a powerful way to directly visualize these movements. SPT can reveal complex diffusive behaviors, which can be regulated by neuronal activity over time and space. Such is the case for neurotransmitter receptors, which are transiently stabilized at synapses by scaffolding molecules. This regulation provides new insight into mechanisms by which the dynamic equilibrium of receptor-scaffold assembly can be regulated. We will briefly review here recent data on this mechanism, which ultimately tunes the number of receptors at synapses and therefore synaptic strength.
Recent technological advances have led to new light-weight battery-operated systems for electrophysiology. Such systems are head mounted, run for days without experimenter intervention, and can record and stimulate from single or multiple electrodes implanted in a freely behaving primate. Here we discuss existing systems, studies that use them, and how they can augment traditional, physically restrained, 'in-rig' electrophysiology. With existing technical capabilities, these systems can acquire multiple signal classes, such as spikes, local field potential, and electromyography signals, and can stimulate based on real-time processing of recorded signals. Moving forward, this class of technologies, along with advances in neural signal processing and behavioral monitoring, have the potential to dramatically expand the scope and scale of electrophysiological studies.
Fluorescent proteins have revolutionized cell biology and, therefore, our understanding of the complex molecular and cellular mechanisms that wire the brain together and enable its plasticity throughout life. The ability to visualize cell biological processes has inspired the development of alternative protein labeling strategies by both chemists and biologists. Among those approaches are the introduction of small bioorthogonal chemical reporters and new fluorescent probes by either genetic encoding or by utilizing the cell's own biosynthesis machinery in live cells. This review will highlight recent advances in approaches to track discrete proteins or whole subpopulations of a proteome including post-translational modifications with spatiotemporal resolution.
Fast synaptic inhibition is largely mediated by GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs), ligand-gated chloride channels that play an essential role in the control of cell and network activity in the brain. Recent work has demonstrated that the delivery, number and stability of GABA(A)Rs at inhibitory synapses play a key role in the dynamic regulation of inhibitory synaptic efficacy and plasticity. The regulatory pathways essential for the fine-tuning of synaptic inhibition have also emerged as key sites of vulnerability during pathological changes in cell excitability in disease states.
The classical roles of (2) proteins are as accessory calcium channel subunits, enhancing channel trafficking. They were thought to have type-I transmembrane topology, but we find that they can form GPI-anchored proteins. Moreover (2)-1 and (2)-3 have been shown to have novel functions in synaptogenesis, independent of their effect on calcium channels. In neurons, the (2)-1 subunits are present mainly in presynaptic terminals. Peripheral sensory nerve injury results in the up-regulation of (2)-1 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, and there is a consequent increase in trafficking of (2)-1 to their terminals. Furthermore, gabapentinoid drugs, which bind to (2)-1 and (2)-2, not only impair their trafficking, but also affect (2)-1-dependent synaptogenesis. These drugs may interfere with (2) function at several different levels.
The successful transduction of action potentials along vertebrate axons is highly reliant on myelin, the concentric layers of membrane surrounding most large diameter axons. Within the central nervous system myelin is produced by oligodendrocytes. Developmentally, the oligodendrocyte linage arises from subventricular zone progenitors that give rise to oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs), which divide and migrate throughout the CNS before terminally differentiating to generate mature oligodendrocytes which myelinate receptive axons. Each step of progression along the lineage is under tight transcriptional control, elucidation of this control is vital for understanding developmental myelination and for developing strategies to promote repair in demyelinating diseases. Recent studies have identified a number of new transcriptional regulators and microRNAs as having key roles in CNS myelination.
Planar cell polarity (PCP), the organization of cell sheets in the tangential plane, is regulated by a set of 'core' PCP genes. Over the last few years, evidence has accumulated that PCP signaling is important for brain development and function. PCP signaling in the neuroepithelium and otic placode controls neural tube closure, the organization of inner ear sensory cells and probably neural stem cell divisions. PCP signaling also acts in postmitotic neurons, and regulates neuronal migration, axon guidance as well as neuronal maturation and survival. Although several key players in PCP signaling have been identified, their mechanisms of action remain elusive, particularly in the nervous system.


In appetitive Pavlovian associative learning, a stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS) that has been associated with the delivery of a reinforcing event (unconditioned stimulus, US; e.g., food) can subsequently elicit or modulate goal-directed instrumental behaviors. For example, a Pavlovian CS can serve to reinforce (novel) instrumental behavior (conditioned reinforcement or CRf), or it can energize and potentiate ongoing instrumental responses when presented non-contingently (Pavlovian-instrumental transfer or PIT). Notably, these different effects of a Pavlovian CS on instrumental behavior are mediated by dissociable psychological and neurobiological mechanisms. Given the critical role that Pavlovian-instrumental interactions play in regulating motivated behavior and maladaptive manifestations of motivation such as eating disorders and addictions, understanding the underlying psychological and neurobiological mechanisms will be important. This unit describes behavioral protocols that produce robust and reliable PIT and CRf in mice and that open the door for future studies using transgenic approaches into the molecular mechanisms underlying associative learning and motivation.
Lentiviral vectors have emerged over the last decade as powerful, reliable, and safe tools for stable gene transfer in a wide variety of mammalian cells. Unlike other vectors derived from oncoretroviruses, they allow for stable gene delivery into most nondividing primary cells, including neurons. This is why lentivectors (LVs) are becoming the most useful and promising tools in the field of neuroscience, not only for research, but also for future gene and cell therapy approaches. LVs derived from HIV-1 have gradually evolved to display many desirable features aimed at increasing both their safety and their versatility. These latest designs are reviewed in this unit. This unit also describes protocols for production and titration of LVs that can be implemented in a research laboratory setting, with an emphasis on standardization to improve transposability of results between laboratories.

The aim of this review is to discuss the existing evidence supporting different processes of visual brain plasticity after early damage, as opposed to damage that occurs during adulthood. There is initial evidence that some of the neuroplastic mechanisms adopted by the brain after early damage to the visual system are unavailable at a later stage. These are, for example, the ability to differentiate functional tissue within a larger dysplastic cortex during its formation, or to develop new thalamo-cortical connections able to bypass the lesion and reach their cortical destination in the occipital cortex. The young brain also uses the same mechanisms available at later stages of development but in a more efficient way. For example, in people with visual field defects of central origin, the anatomical expansion of the extrastriatal visual network is greater after an early lesion than after a later one, which results in more efficient mechanisms of visual exploration of the blind field. A similar mechanism is likely to support some of the differences found in people with blindsight, the phenomenon of unconscious visual perception in the blind field. In particular, compared with people with late lesions, those with early brain damage appear to have stronger subjective awareness of stimuli hitting the blind visual field, reported as a conscious feeling that something is present in the visual field. Expanding our knowledge of these mechanisms could help the development of early therapeutic interventions aimed at supporting and enhancing visual reorganization at a time of greatest potential brain plasticity.

Regeneration of injured adult CNS axons is inhibited by formation of a glial scar. Immature astrocytes are able to support robust neurite outgrowth and reduce scarring, therefore, we tested whether these cells would have this effect if transplanted into brain injuries. Utilizing an in vitro spot gradient model that recreates the strongly inhibitory proteoglycan environment of the glial scar we found that, alone, immature, but not mature, astrocytes had a limited ability to form bridges across the most inhibitory outer rim. In turn, the astrocyte bridges could promote adult sensory axon re-growth across the gradient. The use of selective enzyme inhibitors revealed that MMP-2 enables immature astrocytes to cross the proteoglycan rim. The bridge-building process and axon regeneration across the immature glial bridges were greatly enhanced by chondroitinase ABC pretreatment of the spots. We used microlesions in the cingulum of the adult rat brains to test the ability of matrix modification and immature astrocytes to form a bridge for axon regeneration in vivo. Injured axons were visualized via p75 immunolabeling and the extent to which these axons regenerated was quantified. Immature astrocytes coinjected with chondroitinase ABC-induced axonal regeneration beyond the distal edge of the lesion. However, when used alone, neither treatment was capable of promoting axonal regeneration. Our findings indicate that when faced with a minimal lesion, neurons of the basal forebrain can regenerate in the presence of a proper bridge across the lesion and when levels of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) in the glial scar are reduced.

People with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of cognitive dysfunction and dementia. This review explores the nature and severity of cognitive changes in patients with type 2 diabetes. Possible risk factors such as hypo- and hyperglycemia, vascular risk factors, micro- and macrovascular complications, depression and genetic factors will be examined, as well as findings from brain imaging and autopsy studies. We will show that type 2 diabetes is associated with modest cognitive decrements in non-demented patients that evolve only slowly over time, but also with an increased risk of more severe cognitive deficits and dementia. There is a dissociation between these two 'types' of cognitive dysfunction with regard to affected age groups and course of development. Therefore, we hypothesize that the mild and severe cognitive deficits observed in patients with type 2 diabetes reflect separate processes, possibly with different risk factors and aetiologies.
Repetitive DNA sequences constitute a large fraction of the genomes of humans and other animal species. Tandem repeats are a major class of repetitive DNA and the extent of their polymorphic distributions and functions within the human genome are only beginning to be explored. Tandem repeat polymorphisms (TRPs) provide a unique source of genomic variability and recent evidence suggests they can modulate a range of biological processes, in developing and mature organisms. Tandem repeats can change length during meiosis and mitosis, providing a dynamic source of genetic variation which may not only influence evolutionary processes, but also somatic cellular selection. Furthermore, recent evidence for post-mitotic instability of specific tandem repeats in neurons supports their additional possible roles in neuronal function and dysfunction. The mutation rate of TRPs is higher and the extent of polymorphism is far more diverse than that of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Whereas SNPs are invariably binary in nature, TRPs generally exhibit extended digital (multiallelic) distributions, which provide a much richer range of polymorphic variants, and thus a wider possible range of genetic contribution to disease susceptibility. Expansions in tandem repeats are known to cause many monogenic disorders, which mainly affect the nervous system, including Huntington's disease, various spinocerebellar ataxias, other polyglutamine diseases, Friedreich ataxia, fragile X syndrome, myoclonic epilepsy, polyalanine disorders, and myotonic dystrophy. Furthermore, it has recently been proposed that TRPs could help solve the conundrum of &quot;missing heritability&quot; produced by SNP-based genome-wide association studies of various polygenic complex diseases. There are hundreds of thousands of unique tandem repeats in the human genome and their polymorphic distributions have the potential to greatly influence functional diversity and disease susceptibility. Recent discoveries in this expanding field are discussed, with a focus on the role of TRPs in brain development, function, and dysfunction.
As a defensive behavior of escaping from the predators, sudden inflating (&quot;puffing&quot;) has been found in all members of the pufferfish sister taxa Diodontidae and Tetraodontidae. However, the mechanism of inflation is largely unknown. To further understand the inflation behavior of Tetraodontidae, morphological dissection, X-ray and staining methods were conducted to investigate morphological variations and functional adaptation during the inflation in Takifugu obscurus. The results indicated that after receiving stimulation, Takifugu obscurus quickly and frequently swallows water or/and air into the flexible but tough sac, which is a distinct portion of the specialized esophagus. For adapting the inflation, the anterior and posterior joints of the sac and the digestive duct are tightened by special musculature; and the structure and arrangement of the skin of the body, as well as the abdomen muscle bundles are particularly modified to be elasticated; more over, even the backbone and the nerve are ready for flexible positioning change. This study provides some important information about the inflation mechanism of the Takifugu obscurus in sucking and expelling water/air during the puffing behavior, which would be helpful to further understand the neural control mechanism of pufferfish inflation.


The invasive round goby has a recognised role in transferring contaminants through foodwebs, but little work has been done on contaminant impacts on round gobies themselves. Here we present the first case study of contaminant biomarkers and subpopulation structure variation in round gobies, in relation to habitat contamination, within a Canadian Area of Concern, Hamilton Harbour. Copper and cadmium were elevated in livers of fish from contaminated habitats. Although catch abundances were similar across sites, fish were smaller, a greater proportion of fish were female and more males were in reproductive condition in contaminated sites. Fish from contaminated areas showed more fin loss. Males from contaminated sites showed intersex gonads and genitalia. Ethoxyresorufin-o-deethylase (EROD) activity was higher in fish collected near polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-rich sediments. The results indicate that contaminants impact the characteristics of round goby populations, which could affect ecosystems beyond toxicant biomagnification. This study also confirms that round gobies can be abundant in polluted habitats, which may draw predators-facilitating mobilisation of contaminants in foodwebs.

Oxytocin (OT) is a nonapeptide essential for maternal care. The development of the OT neuroendocrine system is a multi-step process dependent on the action of many transcription factors, but upstream signaling molecules regulating this process are still poorly understood. In this study, we examined if fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8), a signaling molecule critical for forebrain development, is essential for the proper formation of the OT system. Using immunohistochemistry, we showed a significant reduction in the number of neurons immunoreactive for the mature OT peptide in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) in the hypothalamus of homozygous (HOMO) FGF8 hypomorphic mice compared to wild-type mice. The number of neurons positive for oxyphysin prohormone in the SON but not the PVN was also significantly reduced in FGF8 HOMO hypomorphs. However, steady-state mRNA levels of the oxyphysin prohormone were not significantly different between FGF8 hypomorphs and WT mice. These data suggest that a global reduction in FGF8 signaling leads to an overall reduction of mature OT and oxyphysin prohormone levels that may have resulted from defects in multiple stages of the hormone-synthesis pathway. Since proper hormone synthesis is a hallmark of mature OT neurons, this study suggests that FGF8 signaling may contribute to the phenotypic maturation of a neuroendocrine system that originates within the diencephalon.
Sexual differentiation of the rodent brain occurs during a perinatal critical period when androgen production from the male testis is locally converted to estradiol in neurons, resulting in masculinization of adult sexual behavior. Adult brain responses to hormones are programmed developmentally by estradiol exposure, but the mechanism(s) by which these changes are permanently organized remains poorly understood. Activation of steroid receptors plays a major role in organization of the brain, and we hypothesized that estradiol-induced alteration of steroid-receptor gene methylation is a critical component to this process. Estrogen receptor (ER)- and ER- and progesterone receptor are expressed at high levels within the preoptic area (POA) and the mediobasal hypothalamus, two brain regions critical for the expression of male and female sexual behavior. The percent methylation on the ER- promoter increased markedly across development. During the critical period of sexual differentiation, females had significantly increased methylation than males or females masculinized with estradiol at two CpG sites. By adulthood, the neonatal sex difference and hormonal modulation of methylation were replaced with a new pattern at a different CpG site on the ER- promoter. In contrast, the percent methylation on the progesterone receptor and ER- promoter did not change developmentally but was modulated by hormones and exhibited only late emerging transient sex differences. These data indicate that sex differences in the methylation pattern of genes important for sexual behavior are epigenetically modified during development, but the specific changes observed do not endure and are not necessarily temporally associated with neonatal hormone exposure.
Here we briefly summarize the most consistent structural MRI studies on hippocampus in major depression and debate the effects of clinical variables on hippocampal morphology.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are two common neurodegenerative diseases that result in the progressive damage or death of neurons. Environmental agents have the potential to damage the developing and mature nervous system, resulting in neurodegenerative diseases. Heritable changes in gene expression that do not involve coding sequence modifications are referred to as 'epigenetic'. These modifications include DNA methylation and downstream modification of histones. Environmental factors, including heavy metals and dietary folate intake, perturb neurodegenerative genes by epigenetic means, leading to altered gene expression and late-onset neurodegenerative diseases. Research into the genetic control of DNA methylation indicates an allelic skewing in a significant proportion of genes. This phenomenon may determine how an individual's genetic makeup can alter the effect an environmental factor has on their risk of developing neurodegeneration. Finally, preliminary evidence using cell culture and transgenic animal models suggests that whole classes of pan-epigenetic modifiers will have significant protective effects against common neurodegenerative diseases.
Ictal events include those of the autonomic nervous system. This sympathetic stimulation may persist into the postictal period, affecting cardiopulmonary function. Such postictal effects include potentially fatal alterations in cardiac rhythm and ventilatory function, management challenges such as pulmonary edema, and diagnostically confusing laboratory abnormalities such as fever and cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis. These and other effects on the heart and lung in the postictal period are accordingly reviewed.





One hundred and seven patients in vegetative state (VS) were evaluated neurologically and electrophysiologically over 3 months (90 days) after the onset of brain injury. Among these patients, 21 were treated with deep brain stimulation (DBS). The stimulation sites were the mesencephalic reticular formation (two patients) and centromedian-parafascicularis nucleus complex (19 cases). Eight of the patients recovered from VS and were able to obey verbal commands at 13 and 10 months in the case of head trauma and at 19, 14, 13, 12, 12 and 8 months in the case of vascular disease after comatose brain injury, and no patients without DBS recovered from VS spontaneously within 24 months after brain injury. The eight patients who recovered from VS showed desynchronization on continuous EEG frequency analysis. The Vth wave of the auditory brainstem response and N20 of the somatosensory evoked potential could be recorded, although with a prolonged latency, and the pain-related P250 was recorded with an amplitude of &gt; 7 V. Sixteen (14.9%) of the 107 VS patients satisfied these criteria in our electrophysiological evaluation, 10 of whom were treated with DBS and six of whom were not treated with DBS. In these 16 patients, the recovery rate from VS was different between the DBS therapy group and the no DBS therapy group (P &lt; 0.01, Fisher's exact probability test) These findings indicate that DBS may be useful for the recovery of patients from VS if the candidates are selected on the basis of electrophysiological criteria.
We review the history of efforts to apply central thalamic deep brain stimulation (CT/DBS) to restore consciousness in patients in a coma or vegetative state by changing the arousal state. Early experimental and clinical studies, and the results of a recent single-subject human study that demonstrated both immediate behavioral facilitation and carry-over effects of CT/DBS are reviewed. We consider possible mechanisms underlying CT/DBS effects on cognitively-mediated behaviors in conscious patients in light of the anatomical connectivity and physiological specializations of the central thalamus. Immediate and carry-over effects of CT/DBS are discussed within the context of possible effects on neuronal plasticity and gene expression. We conclude that CT/DBS should be studied as a therapeutic intervention to improve impaired cognitive function in severely brain-injured patients who, in addition to demonstrating clinical evidence of consciousness and goal-directed behavior, retain sufficient preservation of large-scale cerebral networks within the anterior forebrain. Although available data provide evidence for proof-of-concept, very significant challenges for study design and development of CT/DBS for clinical use are identified.
The remarkable efficacy of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for a range of treatment-resistant disorders is still not matched by a comparable understanding of the underlying neural mechanisms. Some progress has been made using translational research with a range of neuroscientific techniques, and here we review the most promising emerging principles. On balance, DBS appears to work by restoring normal oscillatory activity between a network of key brain regions. Further research using this causal neuromodulatory tool may provide vital insights into fundamental brain function, as well as guide targets for future treatments. In particular, DBS could have an important role in restoring the balance of the brain's default network and thus repairing the malignant brain states associated with affective disorders, which give rise to serious disabling problems such as anhedonia, the lack of pleasure. At the same time, it is important to proceed with caution and not repeat the errors from the era of psychosurgery.
Children are known to be particularly vulnerable to the effects of noise on speech perception, and it is commonly acknowledged that failure of central auditory processes can lead to these difficulties with speech-in-noise (SIN) perception. However, little is known about the mechanistic relationship between central processes and the perception of SIN. Our aims were twofold: to examine the effects of noise on the central encoding of speech through measurement of cortical event-related potentials and to examine the relationship between cortical processing and behavioral indices of SIN perception. We recorded cortical responses to the speech syllable [da] in quiet and multi-talker babble noise in 32 children with a broad range of SIN perception. Outcomes suggest inordinate effects of noise on auditory function in the bottom SIN perceivers compared with the top perceivers. The cortical amplitudes in the top SIN group remained stable between conditions, whereas amplitudes increased significantly in the bottom SIN group, suggesting a developmental central processing impairment in the bottom perceivers that may contribute to difficulties in encoding and perceiving speech in challenging listening environments.
Acute necrotising encephalopathy (ANE) is a rare encephalitis-like syndrome usually reported in East Asia. This clinical syndrome tends to be triggered by viral febrile illness with rapid deterioration to seizures, coma and a generally poor outcome. Diagnosis is usually made on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Its epidemiology is unknown largely due to under-recognition. Recurrent ANE has recently been associated with a newly discovered autosomal dominant mutation RAN-binding protein 2 now termed ANE1. There had been reports encouraging the use of empirical corticosteroids as treatment for this condition. However, there have not been any clinical trials to date. Here we report an unusual case of a Caucasian toddler who had suffered two episodes of ANE, but did not receive any specific treatment and has normal physical and cognitive outcome at 1 year follow up. He has this missense mutation in the gene of the RAN-binding protein 2 as have his mother and brother who are both well. This case adds to the worldwide literature and expands on the spectrum of outcomes in order to bring about better recognition in the Caucasian population.

Short segment posterior fixation is the preferred method for stabilizing thoracolumbar fractures. In case of significant disruption of the anterior column, the simple short segment construct does not ensure adequate stability. In this study, we tried to evaluate the effect of inclusion of the fractured vertebra in short segment fixation of thoracolumbar fractures. In a prospective randomized study, eighty patients with thoracolumbar fractures treated just with posterior pedicular fixation were randomized into two groups receiving either the one level above and one level below excluding the fracture level (bridging group), or including the fracture level (including group). Different clinical and radiological parameters were recorded and followed. A sum of 80 patients (42 patients in group 1 and 38 patients in group 2) were enrolled in the study. The patients in both the groups showed similar clinical outcome. There was a high rate of instrumentation failure in the &quot;bridging&quot; group. The &quot;bridging&quot; group showed a mean worsening (29%) in kyphosis, whereas the &quot;including&quot; group improved significantly by a mean of 6%. The significant effect of the &quot;including&quot; technique on the reduction of kyphotic deformity was most prominent in type C fractures. In conclusion, inclusion of the fracture level into the construct offers a better kyphosis correction, in addition to fewer instrument failures, without additional complications, and with a comparable-if not better-clinical and functional outcome. We recommend insertion of screws into pedicles of the fractured thoracolumbar vertebra when considering a short segment posterior fixation, especially in Magerl type C fractures.
The ability to correct reaching movements for changes in target position has been described as the hand's 'automatic pilot'. These corrections are preconscious and occur by default in double-step reaching tasks, even if the goal is to react to the target jump in some other way, for instance by stopping the movement (STOP instruction). Nonetheless, corrections are strongly modulated by conscious intention: participants make more corrections when asked to follow the target (GO instruction) and can suppress them when explicitly asked not to follow the target (NOGO instruction). We studied the influence of a cognitively demanding (auditory 1-back) task upon correction behaviour under GO, STOP and NOGO instructions. Correction rates under the STOP instruction were unaffected by cognitive load, consistent with the assumption that they reflect the default behaviour of the automatic pilot. Correction rates under the GO instruction were also unaffected, suggesting that minimal cognitive resources are required to enhance online correction. By contrast, cognitive load impeded the ability to suppress online corrections under the NOGO instruction. These data reveal a constitutional bias in the automatic pilot system: intentional suppression of the default correction behaviour is cognitively demanding, but enhancement towards greater responsiveness is seemingly effortless.
Since the discovery of 'mirror neurons' in the monkey premotor and parietal cortex, an increasing body of evidence in animals and humans alike has supported the notion of the inextricable link between action execution and action perception. Although research originally focused on the relationship between performed and viewed actions, more recent studies highlight the importance of representing the actions of others through audition. In the first part of this article, we discuss animal studies, which provide direct evidence that action is inherently linked to multi-sensory cues, as well as the studies carried out on healthy subjects by using state-of-the-art cognitive neuroscience techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), event-related potentials (ERP), magnetoencephalography (MEG), and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). In the second section, we review the lesion analysis studies in brain-damaged patients demonstrating the link between 'resonant' fronto-parieto-temporal networks and the ability to represent an action by hearing its sound. Moreover, we examine the evidence in favour of somatotopy as a possible representational rule underlying the auditory mapping of actions and consider the links between language and audio-motor action mapping. We conclude with a discussion of some outstanding questions for future research on the link between actions and the sounds they produce.
The paper reviews the contribution of functional neuroimaging investigations (using single photon emission tomography, positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance) to the study of the neural mechanisms of recovery in patients with unilateral spatial neglect due to stroke. In addition, it highlights the important contribution of Luigi Pizzamiglio's experimental work in establishing a theoretical framework for the interpretation of imaging findings. The main tenet of this conception is that the brain reorganisation associated to recovery results from the engagement of both ipsilesional and contralesional brain areas, which in normal subjects are associated to task-relevant processes, such as oculomotor behaviour and visuo-spatial attentional shifts.
A variety of lesions in different cerebral regions may affect the human ability to orient in the environment, resulting in 'topographical disorientation'. In a recent study, we documented the first case of Developmental Topographical Disorientation (DTD), in a person with a life-long inability to orient despite otherwise well-preserved cognitive functions, and in the absence of a cerebral injury/malformation or other neurological condition. This selective topographical disorientation was due to her inability to form a 'cognitive map', a mental representation of the environment, which in turn impaired her ability to orient in both familiar and unfamiliar surroundings. Here, we describe 120 new cases of DTD recruited via the internet and assessed with an online battery testing their cognitive and orientation skills. We found that people with DTD differ from matched (age, gender and education) healthy controls only in those skills confined to the orientation/navigation domain, among which the ability to form a cognitive map was the most significant factor that distinguished a person affected by DTD from control subjects.
Cognitive processes, such as spatial attention, are thought to rely on extended networks in the human brain. Both clinical data from lesioned patients and fMRI data acquired when healthy subjects perform particular cognitive tasks typically implicate a wide expanse of potentially contributing areas, rather than just a single brain area. Conversely, evidence from more targeted interventions, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) or invasive microstimulation of the brain, or selective study of patients with highly focal brain damage, can sometimes indicate that a single brain area may make a key contribution to a particular cognitive process. But this in turn raises questions about how such a brain area may interface with other interconnected areas within a more extended network to support cognitive processes. Here, we provide a brief overview of new approaches that seek to characterise the causal role of particular brain areas within networks of several interacting areas, by measuring the effects of manipulations for a targeted area on function in remote interconnected areas. In human participants, these approaches include concurrent TMS-fMRI and TMS-EEG, as well as combination of the focal lesion method in selected patients with fMRI and/or EEG measures of the functional impact from the lesion on interconnected intact brain areas. Such approaches shed new light on how frontal cortex and parietal cortex modulate sensory areas in the service of attention and cognition, for the normal and damaged human brain.
The aim of our project was to test the hypothesis that patients with dry eye have a significant degree of inflammation and lymphocyte infiltration in conjunctival epithelium by using flow cytometry analysis of cells stored in cell culture medium. Impression cytology specimens were collected in 15 normal subjects and 15 dry eye patients. Samples collected from the right eye were placed in Phosphate Buffered Saline containing 0.05% paraformaldehyde (PFA), and samples from the left eye in cell culture medium containing 10% foetal calf serum (FCS). Phenotypic analysis was performed on cells derived from 21 dry eye patients and 16 healthy controls. The cells collected in FCS were stained for the expression of CK19, CD3, CD4, CD8, CD56, CD19, CD20, CD14 and HLA-DR, and analyzed by flow cytometry. FCS samples contained a statistically increased number of cells when compared to PFA samples. No statistically significant differences were present in the number of CD45+CK19- cells, CD3+ and CD4+T cells, B and NK cells in dry eye patients compared to healthy controls. In the dry eye group there was a significant difference in the CD4/CD8 ratio respect to what observed in normal subjects, and an increased number of CD14+ cells. HLA-DR expression was increased only in CK19+ conjunctival epithelial cells of dry eye patients. This study indicates that immune cells isolated from the superficial layer of the conjunctiva may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of dry eye, and that a new method of preservation of impression cytology samples can enhance flow cytometry analysis of epithelial and immune cells of the conjunctiva.
We developed an approach to generate a three-dimensional map that facilitates the assessment of epithelial nerve density in different corneal areas to define aging and gender influence on human corneal nerve architecture. Twenty-eight fresh human eyes from 14 donors of different ages were studied. Corneal nerves were stained and consecutive images acquired with a fluorescence microscope, recorded at the same plane, and merged for viewing the complete epithelial and stromal nerve architecture. After whole mount examination, the same cornea was also used for transection. Stromal nerves entered the cornea in a radial pattern, subsequently dividing into smaller branches. Some branches connected at the center of the stroma, but most penetrated upward into the epithelium. No differences were observed between nerve densities in the four corneal quadrants. Epithelial innervation in the limbal and most of the peripheral area was supplied by a superficial network surrounding the limbal area. Central epithelial nerves were supplied by branches of the stromal nerve network. Epithelial nerve density and terminal numbers were higher in the center of the cornea, rather than the periphery. There were no differences in epithelial nerve density between genders, but there was a progressive nerve density reduction concomitant with aging, mainly in eye samples of donors 70-years of age and older. The modified technique of tissue preparation used for this study allowed for observation of new nerve structure features and, for the first time, provided a complete view of the human corneal nerve architecture. Our study reveals that aging decreases the number of central epithelial nerve terminals, and increases the presence of irregular anomalies beneath the basal layer.
Among genes abnormally expressed in myotonic dystrophy type1 (DM1), the myotubularin-related 1 gene (MTMR1) was related to impaired muscle differentiation. Therefore, we analyzed MTMR1 expression in correlation with CUG-binding protein1 (CUG-BP1) and muscleblind-like1 protein (MBNL1) steady-state levels and with morphological features in muscle tissues from DM1 and myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2) patients. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR for MTMR1 was done on muscle biopsies and primary muscle cultures. The presence of impaired muscle fiber maturation was evaluated using immunochemistry for neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), Vimentin and neonatal myosin heavy chain. CUG-BP1 and MBNL1 steady-state levels were estimated by Western blot. RNA-fluorescence in situ hybridization combined with immunochemistry for CUG-BP1, MBNL1 and NCAM were performed on serial muscle sections. An aberrant splicing of MTMR1 and a significant amount of NCAM-positive myofibers were detected in DM1 and DM2 muscle biopsies; these alterations correlated with DNA repeat expansion size only in DM1. CUG-BP1 levels were increased only in DM1 muscles, while MBNL1 levels were similar among DM1, DM2 and controls. Normal and NCAM-positive myofibers displayed no differences either in the amount of ribonuclear foci and the intracellular distribution of MBNL1 and CUG-BP1. In conclusion, an aberrant MTMR1 expression and signs of altered myofiber maturation were documented in both DM1 and in DM2 muscle tissues. The more severe dysregulation of MTMR1 expression in DM1 versus DM2, along with increased CUG-BP1 levels only in DM1 tissues, suggests that the mutual antagonism between MBNL1 and CUG-BP1 on alternative splicing is more unbalanced in DM1.
Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs), comprising of polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and inclusion-body myositis, are characterized by muscle weakness and various types of inflammatory changes in muscle cells. They also show non-inflammatory changes, including perifascicular atrophy, mitochondrial changes, and amyloid protein accumulation. It is possible that some molecules/mechanisms bridge the extracellular inflammatory stimulation and intracellular non-inflammatory changes. One such mechanism, Ca(2+) influx leading to calpain activation has been proposed. In this study, we demonstrated that post-treatment with calpeptin (calpain inhibitor) attenuated intracellular changes to prevent apoptosis (Wright staining) through both mitochondrial pathway (increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio) and endoplasmic reticulum stress pathway (activation of caspase-12), which were induced by interferon-gamma (IFN-) stimulation in rat L6 myoblast cells. Our results also showed that calpeptin treatment inhibited the expression of calpain, aspartyl protease cathepsin D, and amyloid precursor protein. Thus, our results indicate that calpain inhibition plays a pivotal role in attenuating muscle cell damage from inflammatory stimulation due to IFN-, and this may suggest calpain as a possible therapeutic target in IIMs.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) impairs sensory systems causing allodynia. Measuring the development of allodynia in rodent models of SCI is challenging due to spinal shock and marked motor impairments. Assessment of SCI-induced allodynia is not standardized across labs, making interpretation of results difficult. Therefore, we validated sensory threshold assessment after SCI and developed a novel assessment of allodynia prior to motor recovery in a rat SCI model. One hundred fifty-six Sprague-Dawley rats received T8 laminectomy or mild to moderate SCI using the OSU SCI device (0.3 mm to 1.3 mm cord displacement). To determine tactile thresholds, von Frey hairs (VFH) were applied in Up-Down or ascending order to the dorsal or plantar hindpaw. The most efficient and valid procedures that maintain high sensitivity and specificity were identified. Ten Up-Down VFH applications yielded stable thresholds; reducing the risk of threshold decay and unnecessary exposure to painful stimuli. Importantly, distraction of SCI-rats with food revealed differential decay of thresholds than when distraction is not provided. The new test uses dorsal VFH stimulation and is independent of trunk or hindlimb control. Acute dorsal VFH thresholds collected before recovery of hindlimb weight support accurately predicted plantar VFH thresholds measured at late timepoints (chi(2)=8.479; p&lt;0.05). Thus, standardized testing early after SCI using the dorsal VFH test or later using 10 stimuli in the Up-Down test produces valid measures of tactile sensation across many SCI severities. Early detection of allodynia in experimental SCI will allow identification of mechanisms responsible for pain development and determine targets for therapeutic interventions.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is gaining interest as a target for deep brain stimulation (DBS) in refractory neuropsychiatric disorders with impulsivity as core symptom. The nucleus accumbens is composed of two subterritories, core and shell, which have different anatomical connections. In animal models, it has been shown that DBS of the NAc changes impulsive action. Here, we tested the hypothesis that a change in impulsive action by DBS of the NAc is associated with changes in dopamine levels. Rats received stimulating electrodes either in the NAc core or shell, and underwent behavioral testing in a reaction time task. In addition, in a second experiment, the effect of DBS of the NAc core and shell on extracellular dopamine and serotonin levels was assessed in the NAc and medial prefrontal cortex. Control subjects received sham surgery. We have found that DBS of the NAc shell stimulation induced more impulsive action but less perseverative checking. These effects were associated with increased levels of dopamine and serotonin in the NAc, but not in the medial prefrontal cortex. DBS of the NAc core had no effect on impulsive action, but decreased perseverative responses indicative of a better impulse control. In these subjects, no effects were found on neurotransmitter levels. Our data point out that DBS of the NAc shell has negative effects on impulsive action which is accompanied by increases of dopamine and serotonin levels in the NAc, whereas DBS of the NAc core has beneficial behavioral effects.

There remains a translational gap between research findings and their implementation in clinical practice that applies to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), as well as to other major disorders of brain health in childhood, adolescence and adulthood. Research studies have identified potential 'markers' to support diagnostic, functional assessment and treatment decisions, but there is little consensus about these markers. Of these potential markers, cognitive measures of thinking functions, such as sustaining attention and associated electrical brain activity, show promise in complementing the clinical management process. Emerging evidence highlights the relevance of emotional, as well as thinking, functions to ADHD. Here, we outline an integrative neuroscience framework for ADHD that offers one means to bring together cognitive measures of thinking functions with measures of emotion, and their brain and genetic correlates. Understanding these measures and the relationships between them is a first step towards the development of tools that will help to assess the heterogeneity of ADHD, and aid in tailoring treatment choices.
Neuroendocrinology has moved far beyond its initial focus on the regulation of pituitary hormone secretion. It now embraces not only the actions on the brain of a diverse range of 'new' hormones, such as leptin and ghrelin, but also the expanding roles of peptides as hormone-like messengers within the brain, controlling many fundamental behaviors and physiological processes. A recent International Congress of Neuroendocrinology highlighted the translational importance of some of these new insights.
Peptide fractionation is extremely important in proteomics approaches. Full proteome characterization is desired from complex organisms, and with growing interest in post-translational modifications an extended protein sequence coverage is required. Peptide fractionation techniques have the great challenge of feeding current mass spectrometers in a way in which these issues are met. Peptide fractionation can be divided into three simple components: the column characteristics; the mobile phase; and peptide properties (charge, polarity, hydrophobicity and size). The current challenges are in the combination of these three components to allow comprehensive proteomics studies to be improved.
Besides modulating pain, stress, physiological functions, motivation, and reward, the opioid system has been implicated in developmental and adult mammalian neurogenesis and gliogenesis. In adult male songbirds including zebra finches, neurons generated from the ventricular zone (VZ) of the lateral ventricles are incorporated throughout the telencephalon, including the song control nuclei, HVC, and area X. Although the endogenous opioid met-enkephalin is present in neurons adjacent to the VZ and is upregulated in song control regions during singing, it is not known whether the opioid system can modulate adult neurogenesis/gliogenesis in zebra finches. We used quantitative RT-PCR and in situ hybridization to demonstrate that - and -opioid receptors are expressed by the VZ of adult male zebra finches. Treating cultured VZ cells from male birds with the opioid antagonist naloxone led to an increase in cell proliferation measured by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation, whereas administering met-enkephalin had the opposite effect, compared with saline-treated cultures. Systemically administering naloxone (2.5 mg/kg body wt) to adult male zebra finches for 4 d also led to a significant increase in cell proliferation in the ventral VZ of these birds, compared with saline-treated controls. Our results show that cell proliferation is augmented by naloxone in the VZ adjacent to the anterior commissure, suggesting that the endogenous opioids modulate adult neurogenesis/gliogenesis by inhibiting cell proliferation in songbirds.

Various compounds of anthropogenic origin represent environmental contaminants (EC) that penetrate the food chain and are frequently detected in human milk and maternal blood at the time of delivery. These ECs can affect the development of the fetus and can be transferred to the newborn during lactation. Many studies have used animal models to study the impact of ECs on the development of the nervous system and have reported effects of early exposure on neural and neuroendocrine systems and on behavior, when the exposed animals are tested as adults. Some of these effects persist across generations and may involve epigenetic mechanisms. The majority of these studies in developmental toxicology treat the pregnant or lactating animal with ECs in order to deliver the contaminants to the developing offspring. Almost universally, the mother is viewed as a passive conduit for the ECs, and maternal behavior is rarely assessed. Here we review the literature on the effects of ECs on maternal care and find mounting evidence that important components of the care given to the offspring are affected by maternal exposure to different ECs. Some of these changes in maternal behavior appear to be secondary to changes in the behavior and/or stimulus properties of the exposed offspring, but others are likely to be direct effects of the ECs on the maternal nervous and endocrine systems. Considering the extent to which the quality of maternal care affects the development of the offspring, it becomes imperative to determine the contributions that changes in maternal behavior make to the deficits traditionally ascribed solely to direct effects of ECs on the developing organism. Given the complexity and importance of mother-infant interactions, future research on developmental toxicology must consider the effects of ECs not only on the offspring, but also on the mother and on the interactions and social bond between mother and infant.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is the third most frequent form of muscular dystrophy. Heart rate variability (HRV) analysis is a means of evaluating the activity of the autonomic nervous system. The aim of this study was to evaluate HRV in FSHD patients. Fifty-five consecutive FSHD patients were enrolled (31 men, age 26-72 years). Muscular impairment was measured using a clinical severity scale (CSS). Patients were compared with a control group of 55 healthy subjects, matched for age and sex. HRV was analyzed in the time domain and in the frequency domain. Patients showed increased spectral power of the low-frequency band. Spectral power of the high-frequency band was inversely correlated with CSS score. FSHD is associated with a slight increase in sympathetic output and with a decrease in parasympathetic output. These modifications become more evident with the progression of the disease and could increase the risk of arrhythmias and other cardiovascular events.
It was proposed to investigate whether the central nervous system is able to select the most appropriate reference frame for controlling subjects' vertical orientation in response to severe environmental constraints such as microgravity and support perturbations. The question addressed was whether the subjects, regardless of their perceptual typology, might be able to use the same visual reference frame to control their vertical orientation. Fifteen subjects were asked to perform a sit-to-stand (STS) task under microgravity. Subjects were seated on a chair with their feet fixed to a horizontal or forwards tilted support (20). When the support was tilted the subjects' ankles were placed at an angle of 110. Two main findings emerged from this study. First, in all the experimental conditions, the results obtained showed that the subjects' controlled their postural orientation fairly correctly but not very precisely, since a bias was systematically observed in their head and trunk orientation. In other words, changes in their ankle angles and the absence of gravity only slightly disturbed their vertical body orientation, and when these two constraints were applied concomitantly, their effects were not cumulative. Secondly, contrary to our initial hypothesis, the subjects' postural orientation performances were not correlated with the perceptual typology. All the subjects preferentially used the visual reference frame to control their vertical postural orientation. The present findings confirm that the proprioceptive dominance of visual independent (VI) subjects enhances their ability to select the most appropriate reference frame to deal with inter-sensory disturbances such as those consisting here of microgravity combined with proprioceptive perturbations imposed at ankle level.
Physiological dependence and associated withdrawal episodes are thought to constitute a motivational force that sustains alcohol use and abuse and may contribute to relapse in dependent individuals. Although no animal model duplicates alcoholism, models for specific factors, like withdrawal, are useful for identifying potential genetic and neural determinants of liability in humans. Previously, we identified a quantitative trait locus (QTL) and gene (Mpdz, which encodes the multi-PDZ domain protein) on chromosome 4 with a large effect on alcohol withdrawal in mice. Using congenic mice that confirm this QTL and c-Fos expression as a high-resolution marker of neuronal activation, we report that congenic mice show significantly less neuronal activity associated with alcohol withdrawal in the rostroventral caudate putamen (rvCP), but not other parts of the striatum, compared with background strain mice. Moreover, bilateral rvCP lesions significantly increase alcohol withdrawal severity. Using retrograde (fluorogold) and anterograde (Texas Red conjugated dextran amine) tract tracing, we found that 25% of c-Fos immunoreactive rvCP neurons project to caudolateral substantia nigra pars reticulata (clSNr), which we previously found is crucially involved in withdrawal following acute and repeated alcohol exposure. Our results expand upon work suggesting that this QTL impacts alcohol withdrawal via basal ganglia circuitry associated with limbic function, and indicate that an rvCP-clSNr projection plays a critical role. Given the growing body of evidence that the syntenic region of human chromosome 9p and human MPDZ gene are associated with alcohol abuse, our results may facilitate research on alcohol dependence and associated withdrawal in clinical populations.
The purpose of this study was to ascertain the relative contribution of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) of the subventricular zone (SVZ) to lineages that repopulate the injured striatum following focal ischemia. We utilized a tamoxifen-inducible Cre/loxP system under control of the nestin promoter, which provides permanent YFP labeling of multipotent nestin(+) SVZ-NSPCs prior to ischemic injury and continued YFP expression in all subsequent progeny following stroke. YFP reporter expression was induced in adult male nestin-CreER(T2):R26R-YFP mice by tamoxifen administration (180 mg kg(-1), daily for 5 days). Fourteen days later, mice were subjected to 60-min transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and sacrificed at 2 days, 2 weeks, or 6 weeks post-MCAO for phenotypic fate mapping of YFP(+) cells using lineage-specific markers. Migration of YFP(+) cells from SVZ into the injured striatal parenchyma was apparent at 2 and 6 weeks, but not 2 days, post-MCAO. At 2 weeks post-MCAO, the average percent distribution of YFP(+) cells within the injured striatal parenchyma was as follows: 10% Dcx(+) neuroblasts, 15-20% oligodendrocyte progenitors, 59% GFAP(+) astrocytes, and only rare NeuN(+) postmitotic neurons. A similar phenotypic distribution was observed at 6 weeks, except for an increased average percentage of YFP(+) cells that expressed Dcx(+) (20%) or NeuN (5%). YFP(+) cells did not express endothelial markers, but displayed unique anatomical relationships with striatal vasculature. These results indicate that nestin(+) NSPCs within the SVZ mount a multilineage response to stroke that includes a gliogenic component more predominant than previously appreciated.
A number of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV) positive subjects are also opiate abusers. These individuals are at high risk to develop neurological complications. However, little is still known about the molecular mechanism(s) linking opiates and HIV neurotoxicity. To learn more, we exposed rat neuronal/glial cultures prepared from different brain areas to opiate agonists and HIV envelope glycoproteins gp120IIIB or BaL. These strains bind to CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors, respectively, and promote neuronal death. Morphine did not synergize the toxic effect of gp120IIIB but inhibited the cytotoxic property of gp120BaL. This effect was blocked by naloxone and reproduced by the mu opioid receptor agonist DAMGO. To examine the potential mechanism(s) of neuroprotection, we determined the effect of morphine on the release of chemokines CCL5 and CXCL12 in neurons, astrocytes, and microglia cultures. CCL5 has been shown to prevent gp120BaL neurotoxicity while CXCL12 decreases neuronal survival. Morphine elicited a time-dependent release of CCL5 but failed to affect the release of CXCL12. This effect was observed only in primary cultures of astrocytes. To examine the role of endogenous CCL5 in the neuroprotective activity of morphine, mixed cerebellar neurons/glial cells were immunoneutralized against CCL5 prior to morphine and gp120 treatment. In these cells the neuroprotective effect of opiate agonists was blocked. Our data suggest that morphine may exhibit a neuroprotective activity against M-tropic gp120 through the release of CCL5 from astrocytes.
The dentate gyrus is a brain region where neurons are continuously born throughout life. In the adult, the role of its radial glia in neurogenesis has attracted much attention over the past years; however, little is known about the generation and differentiation of glial cells and their relationship to radial glia during the ontogenetic development of this brain structure. Here, we combine immunohistochemical phenotyping using antibodies against glial marker proteins with BrdU birthdating to characterize the development of the secondary radial glial scaffold in the dentate gyrus and its potential to differentiate into astrocytes. We demonstrate that the expression of brain lipid-binding protein, GLAST, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) characterizes immature differentiating cells confined to an astrocytic fate in the early postnatal dentate gyrus. On the basis of our studies, we propose a model where immature astrocytes migrate radially through the granule cell layer to adopt their final positions in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Time-lapse imaging of acute hippocampal slices from hGFAP-eGFP transgenic mice provides direct evidence for such a migration mode of differentiating astroglial cells in the developing dentate gyrus.
Understanding the pathophysiology and pharmacology of migraine has been driven by astute clinical observations, elegant experimental medicine studies, and importantly by studying highly effective anti-migraine agents in the laboratory and the clinic. Significant progress has been made in the use of functional brain imaging to compliment observational studies of migraine phenotypes by highlighting pathways within the brain that may be involved in predisposition to migraine, modulating migraine pain or that could be sensitive to pharmacological or behavioral therapeutic intervention. In drug discovery, molecular imaging approaches compliment functional neuroimaging by visualizing migraine drug targets within the brain. Molecular imaging enables the selection and evaluation of drug candidates by confirming that they engage their targets sufficiently at well tolerated doses to test our therapeutic hypotheses. Migraine is a progressive disorder. Developing our knowledge of where drugs act in the brain and of how the brain is altered in both episodic migraine (interictal state and ictal state) and chronic migraine are important steps to understanding why there is such differential responsiveness to therapeutics among migraine patients and to improving how they are evaluated and treated.
The movement in recent years towards evidence-based practice (EBP) in health care systems and policy has permeated the substance abuse treatment system, leading to a growing number of federal and statewide initiatives to mandate EBP implementation. Nevertheless, due to a lack of consensus in the addiction field regarding procedures or criteria to identify EBPs, the optimal processes for disseminating empirically based interventions into real-world clinical settings have not been identified. Although working lists of interventions considered to be evidence-based have been developed by a number of constituencies advocating EBP dissemination in addiction treatment settings, the use of EBP lists to form policy-driven mandates has been controversial. This article examines the concept of EBP, critically reviews criteria used to evaluate the evidence basis of interventions, and highlights the manner in which such criteria have been applied in the addictions field. Controversies regarding EBP implementation policies and practices in addiction treatment are described, and suggestions are made to shift the focus of dissemination efforts from manualized psychosocial interventions to specific skill sets that are broadly applicable and easily learned by clinicians. Organizational and workforce barriers to EBP implementation are delineated, with corresponding recommendations to facilitate successful dissemination of evidence-based skills.
We studied the effect of auditory training on the 40-Hz auditory steady-state response (ASSR) known to localize tonotopically to the region of primary auditory cortex (A1). The stimulus procedure was designed to minimize competitive interactions among frequency representations in A1 and delivered target events at random times in a training window, to increase the likelihood that neuroplastic changes could be detected. Experiment 1 found that repeated exposure to this stimulus advanced the phase of the ASSR (shortened the time delay between the 40-Hz response and stimulus waveforms). The phase advance appeared at the outset of the second of two sessions separated by 24-72 h, did not require active training, and was not accompanied by changes in ASSR amplitude over this time interval. Experiment 2 applied training for 10 sessions to reveal further advances in ASSR phase and also an increase in ASSR amplitude, but the amplitude effect lagged that on phase and did not correlate with perceptual performance while the phase advance did. A control group trained for a single session showed a phase advance but no amplitude enhancement when tested 6 weeks later (retention). In both experiments attention to auditory signals increased ASSR amplitude but had no effect on ASSR phase. Our results reveal a persistent form of neural plasticity expressed in the phase of ASSRs generated from the region of A1, which occurs either in A1 or in subcortical nuclei projecting to this region.
Several studies have demonstrated that treatment with intracochlear chronic electrical stimulation (CES) protects spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) from degeneration in deafened animals. Other studies could not confirm this effect of CES. The present study examined whether CES in a mode as presented in cochlear implant users (amplitude modulated, high pulse rate) affects survival, morphology and functionality of SGCs in deafened guinea pigs. Eleven guinea pigs were implanted in the right cochlea with an electrode array to monitor the electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses (eABRs). The guinea pigs were deafened four weeks later. Two days after deafening, monopolar CES was started in five animals through three electrodes in the basal cochlear turn. CES lasted 4 hours per day, five days per week, for six weeks. SGC packing densities, perikaryal area, cell circularity, amplitudes of suprathreshold eABRs and eABR thresholds were not affected by CES. SGCs of all implanted cochleae were larger and more circular than SGCs in unimplanted cochleae, but this did not depend on CES treatment. Interestingly, an increase in eABR latencies observed after deafening, occurred faster in CES-treated than in untreated animals. In conclusion, amplitude-modulated chronic electrical stimulation with a high pulse rate does not affect survival, morphology and functionality of spiral ganglion cells with the exception of eABR latencies.
Three experiments studied the effect of stimulus polarity on the Electrically Evoked Compound Action Potential (ECAP) obtained with the masker-probe paradigm on different sites along the cochlea in cochlear implant users. Experiment 1 used a biphasic cathodic-1st (BIC) masker and showed that ECAP N(1) peak latencies were longer for BIC than for biphasic anodic-1st (BIA) probes on all electrodes under test. Both the latency of each probe as well as the latency difference between BIA and BIC probes increased when the phase width (PW) of the masker and probe were increased together. Experiment 2 used maskers with long inter-phase gaps (IPGs), and, by manipulating the polarity of the second phase (closest in time to the biphasic probe), showed that only an anodic phase could mask the probe response. Experiment 3 used maskers and probes with long IPGs and measured ECAPs to the first phase of the probe; ECAPs could be measured when both this phase and the second phase of the masker were anodic, but not when they were cathodic. Our results extend those of a previous study, showing that the auditory nerve in humans is preferentially activated by anodic stimulation, to different sites along the cochlea.
Increased excitability and plasticity of adult-generated hippocampal granule cells during a critical period suggests that they may &quot;orthogonalize&quot; memories according to time. One version of this &quot;temporal tag&quot; hypothesis suggests that young granule cells are particularly responsive during a specific time period after their genesis, allowing them to play a significant role in sculpting CA3 representations, after which they become much less responsive to any input. An alternative possibility is that the granule cells active during their window of increased plasticity, and excitability become selectively tuned to events that occurred during that time and participate in later reinstatement of those experiences, to the exclusion of other cells. To discriminate between these possibilities, rats were exposed to different environments at different times over many weeks, and cell activation was subsequently assessed during a single session in which all environments were revisited. Dispersing the initial experiences in time did not lead to the increase in total recruitment at reinstatement time predicted by the selective tuning hypothesis. The data indicate that, during a given time frame, only a very small number of granule cells participate in many experiences, with most not participating significantly in any. Based on these and previous data, the small excitable population of granule cells probably correspond to the most recently generated cells. It appears that, rather than contributing to the recollection of long past events, most granule cells, possibly 90-95%, are effectively &quot;retired.&quot; If granule cells indeed sculpt CA3 representations (which remains to be shown), then a possible consequence of having a new set of granule cells participate when old memories are reinstated is that new representations of these experiences might be generated in CA3. Whatever the case, the present data may be interpreted to undermine the standard &quot;orthogonalizer&quot; theory of the role of the dentate gyrus in memory.
Matrix Metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) has been demonstrated to play a crucial role in maintenance of NMDA receptor-dependent LTP and in lateral mobility of these receptors. However, the effect of MMP-9 on NMDA receptor (NMDAR) functional properties is unknown. For this purpose we have investigated the impact of recombinant MMP-9 on the whole-cell NMDAR-mediated current responses in cultured hippocampal neurons. Treatment with MMP-9 induced a reversible acceleration of desensitization and deactivation kinetics but had no effect on current amplitude. Interestingly, phorbol ester, a PKC activator known to enhance NMDAR lateral mobility, induced kinetic changes of currents similar to those produced by MMP-9. In conclusion, our results show that MMP-9 reversibly modulates the NMDAR kinetics and raise a possibility that this modulation could be related to the lateral mobility of these receptors.
We used a recently developed test of spatial memory--the Four Mountains Test--to investigate the core cognitive processes underpinning topographical disorientation in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (a-MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Performance of these clinical groups was compared with age-matched controls, patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), and patients with subjective memory impairments. We investigated the perception (concurrent match-to-sample) and short-term retention (2-s delayed match-to-sample) of the configuration of topographical features in computer-generated landscapes shown from different viewpoints. Thirty-one patients were tested (7 AD, 6 a-MCI, 7 temporal variant FTLD, 5 frontal variant FTLD, 6 subjective memory impairment) and 25 age- and gender-matched controls. Brain MRI was available for 27 patients; medial temporal lobe atrophy was assessed using a visual rating scale. Patients with a-MCI or mild AD were impaired on topographical short-term memory, but not perception. No other group differences were found on the topographical subtests. Notably, patients with temporal variants of FTLD performed normally, regardless of the laterality of damage. Subtests for the perception and retention of nonspatial aspects of the landscapes (weather conditions, seasonal and daily variations in lighting and color) were poor at differentiating the patient groups. These results indicate a core deficit in representing topographical layout, even for very short durations, within the context of more general long-term memory impairments found in AD, and suggest that this function is particularly sensitive to the earliest stages of the disease.
A proper motor activity relies on a correct cerebellar function. The Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 voltage-gated potassium channels are key proteins involved in cerebellar function and dysfunction, as the lack of these causes severe motor deficits. Both channel subunits are coexpressed in granule cells and are rapidly activated at relatively positive potentials to support the generation of fast action potentials. However, the contribution of each subunit to the molecular architecture of the parallel fibers, the granule cell axons, is so far unknown. The goal of this study was to elucidate the relative distribution of Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 in specific compartments of the rat parallel fibers by using a pre-embedding immunocytochemical method for electron microscopy. Numerous Kv3.1b and Kv3.3 silver-intensified gold particles were associated with membranes of parallel fiber synaptic terminals and their intervaricose segments. Kv3.1b was found in about 85% of parallel fiber synaptic terminals and in about 47% of their intervaricose portions. However, only 28% of intervaricosities and 23% of parallel fiber presynaptic boutons were Kv3.3 immunopositive. The analysis also revealed that 54% of Purkinje cell dendritic spines localized Kv3.3. Although both potassium channel subunits share localization in the same presynaptic parallel fiber compartments, the present results with the method used indicate that there are a higher percentage of parallel fibers labeled for Kv3.1b than for Kv3.3, and that the labeling intensity for each subunit is higher in specific subcompartments analyzed than in others.
Being exposed to fear signals makes us feel threatened and prompts us to prepare an adaptive response. In our previous studies, we suggested that amygdala (AMG) and premotor cortex (PM) play a role in the preparation of the observers' motor response required by the situation. The present experiment aimed at assessing how interindividual differences in alexithymia--a personality trait associated with deficits in emotional reactivity and regulation--influence the neural network associated with the perception of fear. Using fMRI, we scanned 34 healthy subjects while they were passively observing fearful body expressions. Applying a dimensional approach, we performed correlation analyses between fear-related brain areas and alexithymia scores among all participants. Using a categorical approach, we conducted a between-group comparison (13 high vs. 12 low-alexithymia subjects). Our results were threefold. First, the right AMG activity in response to fearful stimuli was negatively correlated with the level of difficulty to identify emotions. Second, PM activity was linked to reduced subjective emotional reactivity. Third, the between-group comparison revealed greater activity in anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for high than low-alexithymia scorers. Moreover, the relationship between ACC and PM was in opposite direction in individuals with high (negative link) and low (positive link) alexithymia. Therefore, compared to our previous findings, we hereby further reveal how ACC interacts with PM to sustain self-regulation of one's own emotional state in response to threatening social signals. Moreover, this neural mechanism could account for the description of the &quot;cold-blooded&quot; personality of individuals with alexithymia.

Primary motor cortex (M1) plays a role in motor learning, although the exact nature of that involvement remains unclear. The present study examined the relationship between motor learning and cortical plasticity by manipulating augmented feedback during motor training. Two groups of 10 participants performed a wrist flexion-extension waveform-tracking task with either concurrent and terminal augmented feedback after every trial (100% FB) or only terminal feedback after every alternate trial (50% FB). Single- and paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to assess cortical excitability short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) before, after, and 24 h following (retention) motor training. The 50% FB group performed better at retention than the 100% FB group, indicative of enhanced learning due to reduced FB scheduling. Cortical excitability did not change during acquisition for either group, however, the 50% FB group had elevated M1 excitability at retention, suggesting M1 involvement in the consolidation of learning. Reduced SICI following practice suggests a reduction of intracortical inhibition during motor skill acquisition. ICF was unchanged. It is concluded that the nature of M1 modulation associated with the acquisition and retention of a novel motor skill appears to vary with the nature and complexity of task requirements.
Adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists exert antiparkinsonian effects in animal models and several drugs in this class are currently being assessed in clinical trials. Preladenant (SCH-420814) is an adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist with a high affinity and very high selectivity for adenosine A(2A) receptors, which is being developed by Merck &amp; Co Inc (following its acquisition of Schering-Plough Corp) for the potential treatment of Parkinson's disease. Preclinical studies in rodent and primate models of parkinsonism demonstrated that preladenant can reverse the motor impairments induced by dopamine depletion or antagonism. Phase I and II clinical trials indicated that preladenant was well tolerated. Moreover, preladenant met its major endpoints by reducing OFF time and increasing ON time in l-DOPA-treated patients with Parkinson's disease, without worsening dyskinesias. Therefore, preladenant may have considerable utility for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, as well as the parkinsonian side effects of dopamine D2 receptor antagonists. As research has suggested that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists are active in animal models of effort-based decision making, it is possible that preladenant could also be useful for treating energy-related symptoms, such as fatigue, psychomotor retardation and anergia in patients with parkinsonism or depression. At the time of publication, phase III clinical trials were recruiting patients with Parkinson's disease.
Closed-loop operation of a brain-machine interface (BMI) relies on the subject's ability to learn an inverse transformation of the plant to be controlled. In this paper, we propose a model of the learning process that undergoes closed-loop BMI operation. We first explore the properties of the model and show that it is able to learn an inverse model of the controlled plant. Then, we compare the model predictions to actual experimental neural and behavioral data from nonhuman primates operating a BMI, which demonstrate high accordance of the model with the experimental data. Applying tools from control theory to this learning model will help in the design of a new generation of neural information decoders which will maximize learning speed for BMI users.
Normal aging of the nervous system is associated with some degree of decline in a number of cognitive functions. With the present day attempts to increase the life span, understanding the metabolic interactions and various mechanisms involved in normal neuronal aging continues to be a challenge. Loss of neurons is now recognized to be more modest than the initial estimates suggested and the loss only affected some of the specific neuroanatomical areas like hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Individual neurons in addition show reduced size of dendritic and axonal arborization. Neurons have significant homeostatic control of the essential physiological functions like synaptic excitability, gene expression and metabolic regulation. Deviation in these normal events can have severe consequences as observed in aging and neurodegeneration. Based on experimental evidence, the evolution of aging is probably the result of altered metabolic triad: the mitochondria, reactive oxygen species and intracellular calcium homeostasis. Perturbations in the metabolic and functional state of this triad lead to a state of decreased homeostatic reserve, where the aged neurons still could maintain adequate function during normal activity. However, these neurons become vulnerable to the stress of excessive metabolic loads associated with spells of ischemia, trauma progressing to neuronal degeneration. Age-related neuronal dysfunction probably involves a host of subtle changes involving the synapses, receptors, neurotransmitters, cytological alterations, electrical transmission, leading to cognitive dysfunction. An exaggeration of it could be the clinical manifestation of dementia, with intraneuronal accumulation of protein aggregates deranging the metabolic state. This review deals with some of the structural, functional and metabolic features of aging nervous system and discusses briefly the functional consequences.
Depression is conventionally viewed as a state of chemical imbalance, and antidepressants are suggested to act through increasing monoaminergic neurotransmission. These views are currently considered simplistic. This article examines the animal and human literature on the neurohistological mechanisms underlying stress, depression and antidepressant treatment. Pathological stress and depression are associated with changes such as loss of dendritic spines, shrinkage of the dendritic tree and loss of synapses in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. There is also a decrease in glia. Apoptosis may occur under extreme circumstances. In contrast, there is increased dendritic arborization and synaptogenesis in the amygdala. Antidepressant treatment protects against and even reverses some but not all of these stress-induced neurohistological changes. Pathological stress results in an aberrant neuroplasticity response characterized by abnormally increased activity in the amygdala and by impaired functioning of the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and downstream structures. This aberrant neuroplasticity response directly explains most of the clinical symptoms of depression. Antidepressant treatment protects against stress-induced pathoplastic neurohistological and neurocognitive changes. Antidepressant treatment also restores functional neuroplasticity in stressed organisms and, thereby, presumably, facilitates re-adaptation through learning and memory mechanisms. Thus, the stress-depression syndrome and the therapeutic and prophylactic efficacy of antidepressant treatments can be explained through a hardwiring analogy. In this context, glutamate is an important neurotransmitter.


Loss of expression of the 3G11 epitope, present on disialoceramide that is predominantly found on CD4(+) T cells, has been associated with a regulatory T cell (Treg) phenotype and tolerance induction in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Here we report that treatment with anti-3G11 mAb shifts the immune response from pro-inflammatory to tolerogenic and suppresses both chronic-progressive and relapsing-remitting EAE. This therapeutic effect can be achieved at different stages of EAE. Treatment with anti-3G11 mAb increased the proportion of Foxp3(+)CD25(+)CD4(+) Tregs and IL-10 production while inhibiting production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and responsiveness to IL-2 and decreasing the proportion of T(h)17 cells. The effect of anti-3G11 mAb was diminished in IL-10(-/-) mice, indicating that this cytokine mediates some of its effects. As 3G11 belongs to the ganglioside family, which is expressed on the surface of both murine and human CD4(+) T cells, targeting this class of molecules may provide a novel approach for treating autoimmune diseases.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is considered a housekeeping glycolitic enzyme that recently has been implicated in cell signaling. Under apoptotic stresses, cells activate nitric oxide formation leading to S-nitrosylation of GAPDH that binds to Siah and translocates to the nucleus. The GAPDH-Siah interaction depends on the integrity of lysine 227 in human GAPDH, being the mutant K227A unable to associate with Siah. As lysine residues are susceptible to be modified by acetylation, we aimed to analyze whether acetylation could mediate transport of GAPDH from cytoplasm to the nucleus. We observed that the acetyltransferase P300/CBP-associated factor (PCAF) interacts with and acetylates GAPDH. We also found that over-expression of PCAF induces the nuclear translocation of GAPDH and that for this translocation its intact acetylase activity is needed. Finally, the knocking down of PCAF reduces nuclear translocation of GAPDH induced by apoptotic stimuli. By spot mapping analysis we first identified Lys 117 and 251 as the putative GAPDH residues that could be acetylated by PCAF. We further demonstrated that both Lys were necessary but not sufficient for nuclear translocation of GAPDH after apoptotic stimulation. Finally, we identified Lys 227 as a third GAPDH residue whose acetylation is needed for its transport from cytoplasm to the nucleus. Thus, results reported here indicate that nuclear translocation of GAPDH is mediated by acetylation of three specific Lys residues (117, 227 and 251 in human cells). Our results also revealed that PCAF participates in the GAPDH acetylation that leads to its translocation to the nucleus.
Transactive response DNA binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) is a DNA and RNA binding protein involved in RNA processing and with structural resemblance to heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). TDP-43 serves multiple functions with roles in transcriptional regulation, pre-mRNA splicing and translational regulation. TDP-43 is also crucial for embryonic development with increasing evidence indirectly implicating its involvement in other cellular processes including microRNA biogenesis, apoptosis and cell division. The role of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration has been actively studied since identification as a major component of the ubiquitinated inclusions seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). TDP-43 pathology has also been identified in several other neurodegenerative diseases. These disorders are collectively referred to as TDP-43 proteinopathies. The identification of rare TDP-43 mutations in sporadic and familial forms of ALS and FTLD suggests TDP-43 plays an important pathogenic role, rather than merely being a marker of the disease.
Several studies suggest that prenatal stress is a possible risk factor in the development of autism spectrum disorders. However, many children exposed to stress prenatally are born healthy and develop typically, suggesting that other factors must contribute to autism. Genes that contribute to stress reactivity may, therefore, exacerbate prenatal stress-mediated behavioral changes in the adult offspring. One candidate gene linked to increased stress reactivity encodes the serotonin transporter. Specifically, an insertion/deletion (long/short allele) polymorphism upstream of the serotonin transporter gene correlates with differential expression and function of the serotonin transporter and a heightened response to stressors. Heterozygous serotonin transporter knockout mice show reductions in serotonin transporter expression similar to the human short polymorphism. In this study, the role of prenatal stress and maternal serotonin transporter genotype were assessed in mice to determine whether their combined effect produces reductions in social behavior in the adult offspring. Pregnant serotonin transporter heterozygous knockout and wild-type dams were placed in either a control condition or subjected to chronic variable stress. The adult offspring were subsequently assessed for social interaction and anxiety using a three-chamber social approach task, ultrasonic vocalization detection, elevated-plus maze and an open field task. Results indicated that prenatal stress and reduced serotonin transporter expression of the dam may have the combined effect of producing changes in social interaction and social interest in the offspring consistent with those observed in autism spectrum disorder. This data indicates a possible combined effect of maternal serotonin transporter genotype and prenatal stress contributing to the production of autistic-like behaviors in offspring.
This article selectively highlights relevant areas of neuroscience research which have direct application for attachment theory and group psychotherapy. Emerging evidence from the neurosciences is revealing that the developing brain of the infant, sculpted by the earliest attachment relationships, continues to be malleable in adulthood and can be profoundly influenced by ongoing relationships throughout one's lifespan. Advances in the neurosciences are also supporting the idea that strong attachment bonds and external interpersonal interactions that arise within the context of these attachments are registered as a person's neurophysiology and neurobiology. Attachment theory in particular provides a common language and conceptual framework from which the contributions from the neurosciences can be made applicable to group psychotherapy.

An understanding of the principles of neuroscience that illuminate how interpersonal relationships shape the brain, especially as articulated by interpersonal neurobiology (IPNB) (Siegel, 1999), may help group therapists 1) increase their holding capacity, 2) offer patients a framework that can decrease shame and increase regulation, and 3) identify methods of group interaction that can foster neuroplasticity, support neural integration, and lead to greater well-being and more fulfilling relationships. This paper introduces several aspects of neuroscience and discusses how therapist awareness and sharing of this knowledge with group participants at the right empathic moment can be both a psychoeducational support and a promoter of neural integration. While numerous neuroscience topics may be of help, here we will suggest three: early brain development, including the nature of implicit, explicit, and autobiographical memory; group as a source of regulation (with a brief mention of mirror neurons); and four domains of neural integration that are particularly useful in the setting of group therapy.

There is now compelling evidence that cannabis consumption might precipitate psychosis onset. The objective of the present study was to assess the role of individual sensitivity to the psychotogenic effect of cannabis in male patients with schizophrenia. The lifetime diagnosis, disease and substance-use history were determined using a standardized interview in 190 patients with schizophrenia. Of patients with lifetime cannabis use (n=121), 44 were characterized as Cannabis-sensitive (CS) patients if the onset of psychotic symptoms occurred within 1 month following the initiation of cannabis consumption, or following a marked rise of cannabis consumption, or marked aggravation of psychotic symptoms each time the subject used cannabis. Age at onset of psychosis was not different in patients with lifetime cannabis use compared to non-users. By contrast, the first psychotic episode occurred 2.6 yr earlier in CS compared to Non-cannabis-sensitive (NCS) patients (p=0.006). Moreover, a specific excess of family history of psychotic disorder was found in CS patients, but not of any other psychiatric disorder, as well as an earlier age at exposure to cannabis (16.7+/-2.5 yr, p=0.03). Sensitivity to psychotogenic effects of cannabis in schizophrenia patients could be related to both genetic vulnerability to schizophrenia and the influence of cannabis on brain maturation and could modulate the influence of cannabis on the onset of schizophrenia.
Biogenic amines such as norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin play a well-described role in the treatment of mood disorders and some types of pain. As alpha2A-adrenoceptors regulate the release of these neurotransmitters, we examined the therapeutic potential of BRL 44408, a potent (Ki=8.5 nM) and selective (&gt;50-fold) alpha2A-adrenoceptor antagonist (K(B)=7.9 nM). In rats, BRL 44408 penetrated the central nervous system resulting in peak brain and plasma concentrations of 586 ng/g and 1124 ng/ml, respectively. In a pharmacodynamic assay, pretreatment with BRL 44408 to rats responding under a fixed-ratio 30 operant response paradigm resulted in a rightward shift of the clonidine dose-response curve, an effect indicative of alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonism in vivo. Consistent with presynaptic autoreceptor antagonism and tonic regulation of neurotransmitter release, acute administration of BRL 44408 elevated extracellular concentrations of norepinephrine and dopamine, but not serotonin, in the medial prefrontal cortex. Additionally, BRL 44408, probably by inhibiting alpha2A heteroceptors, produced a significant increase in cortical levels of acetylcholine. In the forced swim test and schedule-induced polydipsia assay, BRL 44408 produced an antidepressant-like response by dose-dependently decreasing immobility time and adjunctive water intake, respectively, while in a model of visceral pain, BRL 44408 exhibited analgesic activity by decreasing para-phenylquinone (PPQ)-induced abdominal stretching. Finally, BRL 44408 did not produce deficits in overall motor coordination nor alter general locomotor activity. This preclinical characterization of the neurochemical and behavioural profile of BRL 44408 suggests that selective antagonism of alpha2A-adrenoceptors may represent an effective treatment strategy for mood disorders and visceral pain.
The innervation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is incontrovertible and, with its activation, functions as the principal, if not exclusive, stimulator of BAT thermogenesis. The parasympathetic innervation of BAT only appears in two minor BAT depots, but not in the major interscapular BAT (IBAT) depot. BAT thermogenesis is triggered by the release of norepinephrine from its sympathetic nerve terminals, stimulating 3-adrenoceptors that turns on a cascade of intracellular events ending in activation of uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1). BAT also has sensory innervation that may function to monitor BAT lipolysis, a response necessary for activation of UCP-1 by fatty acids, or perhaps responding in a feedback manner to BAT temperature changes. The central sympathetic outflow circuits ultimately terminating in BAT have been revealed by injecting the retrograde viral transneuronal tract tracer, pseudorabies virus, into the tissue; moreover, there is a high degree of colocalization of melanocortin 4-receptor mRNA on these neurons across the neural axis. The necessary and sufficient central BAT SNS outflow sites that are activated by various thermogenic stimuli are not precisely known. In a chronic decerebration procedure, IBAT UCP-1 gene expression can be triggered by fourth ventricular injections of melanotan II, the melanocortin 3/4 receptor agonist, suggesting that there is sufficient hindbrain neural circuitry to generate thermogenic responses with this stimulation. The recent recognition of BAT in normal adult humans suggests a potential target for stimulation of energy expenditure by BAT to help mitigate increased body fat storage.


The current prevalent opinion is that a diagnosis of chronic headache should be established in patients who have had a form of primary headache other than cluster headache on at least 15 days a month for at least 3 months. Chronic headache so defined includes four different subtypes: hemicrania continua and new daily persistent headache--two rare forms currently included in the group &quot;Other primary headaches&quot; of the 2004 International Classification of Headache Disorders, second edition (ICHD-II)--chronic tension-type headache, and chronic migraine. Regarding the latter, which has been better known lately as transformed migraine, the current revised diagnostic criteria establish that migraine must be present on at least 8 of the at least 15 days of headache per month and that there must not be any overuse of symptomatic medication. Chronic headache affects about 3-5% of the general population and results in a variety of negative repercussions both on individuals and on society at large.
This article describes state of the art concepts of neurological rehabilitation in Germany. In parallel to enormous growth of knowledge in the neurosciences also neurological rehabilitation has made significant progress. The increasing use of concepts of evidence based medicine and an early translation of knowledge from the neurosciences into clinical rehabilitation practice contribute to therapeutic advances. It is now widely accepted, that rehabilitation should start early and should be organized in a multidisciplinary professional team. Therapeutic procedures selected should be evidence based and have to be modified to find custom tailored solutions for individual patients. General rules derived from neuroscientific knowledge have been shown to be useful to design new therapeutic techniques. Neuromodulatory stimulation and special pharmacological treatments provide further options for enhancing results of rehabilitation.

The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of anti-microbial resistance in intubated patients in intensive care unit (ICU) of Bahonar hospital in Kerman province, Iran during the year 2008. Tracheal samples were obtained from 111 intubated patients in the ICU by broncoalveolar lavage method. Amikacin, Ceftazidim and Imipenem were used to evaluate antibiotic susceptibility. For detecting anti-microbial susceptibility, minimum inhibitory concentration method were used. Colony counts equal or more than 104 microorganisms/mL were considered resistant. Overall we obtained positive tracheal cultures from 32 patients (29%) out of 111 intubated ones. The most common micro organisms isolated were Klebsiella (90.6%), Acinetobacter (28.1%) and Pseudomonas (21.9%). The results showed that the most common resistance was against to ceftazidim. The susceptibility of Klebsiellain tracheal cultures to the antibiotics was only 5%. E. coli in both sexes was 100% resistant to the tested antibiotics. In the ICU, There was a very big problem concerning antibiotic resistance. Most of the isolated microorganisms were resistant to both the old and the new antibiotics. It may be related to the inappropriate use of antibiotics, bacterial contamination of enteral feeding and infection transmission by medical staff or instruments.

The complex relationship between temperament and personal identity, and between these and mental disorders, is of critical interest to both philosophy and psychopathology. More than other living creatures, human beings are constituted and characterized by the interplay of their genotype and phenotype. There appears to be an explanatory gap between the almost perfect genetic identity and the individual differences among humans. One reason for this gap is that a human being is a person besides a physiological organism. We propose an outline of a theoretical model that might somewhat mitigate the explanatory discrepancies between physiological mechanisms and individual human emotional experience and behaviour. Arguing for the pervasive nature of human affectivity, i.e., for the assumption that human consciousness and behaviour is characterised by being permeated by affectivity; to envisage the dynamics of emotional experience, we make use of a three-levelled model of human personal identity that differentiates between factors that are simultaneously at work in the constitution of the individual human person: 1) core emotions, 2) affective temperament types/affective character traits, and 3) personhood. These levels are investigated separately in order to respect the methodological diversity among them (neuroscience, psychopathology, and philosophy), but they are eventually brought together in a hermeneutical account of human personhood.
The purpose of this study was to determine if a computer-aided instruction learning module improves students' knowledge of the neuroanatomy/physiology and clinical examination of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal (DCML) system. Sixty-one physical therapy students enrolled in a clinical neurology course in entry-level PT educational programs at two universities participated in the study. Students from University-1 (U1;) had not had a previous neuroanatomy course, while students from University-2 (U2;) had taken a neuroanatomy course in the previous semester. Before and after working with the learning module, students took a paper-and-pencil test on the neuroanatomy/physiology and clinical examination of the DCML system. Kruskal-Wallis one-way ANOVA and Mann-Whitney tests were used to determine if differences existed between neuroanatomy/physiology examination scores and clinical examination scores before and after taking the learning module, and between student groups based on university attended. For students from U1, neuroanatomy/physiology post-test scores improved significantly over pre-test scores (p &lt; 0.001), while post-test scores of students from U2 did not (p = 0.60). Neuroanatomy/physiology pre-test scores from U2 were significantly better than those from U1 (p &lt; 0.001); there was no significant difference in post-test scores (p = 0.062). Clinical examination pre-test and post-test scores from U2 were significantly better than those from U1 (p &lt; 0.001). Clinical examination post-test scores improved significantly from the pre-test scores for both U1 (p &lt; 0.001) and U2 (p &lt; 0.001).

Social Neuroscience maintains that human survival depends on interpersonal relations, and that shared circuits evolved to enhance our ability to interact with and understand other people. Shared circuits operate by re-creating the Others experience in the same brain regions used for Self experience. The interpersonal understanding made possible by shared circuits is, for the most part, outside conscious awareness and plays a role in the transference-counter transference interaction. The brain mechanisms of shared circuits are presented and clinical vignettes illustrate the use of the concept of shared circuits in the clinical setting.
The natural history of life span cognitive performance and its late-life determinants have been studied from an array of perspectives. Significant insights come from psychological disciplines, including cognitive, developmental, and neuropsychology, as well as from medical specialties, such as geriatrics, neurology, psychiatry, neuroradiology, and neuropathology, that contribute to the growing interdisciplinary scientific field: cognitive neuroscience of aging. This survey of longitudinal studies of aging suggests that disease-oriented investigations commonly do not adequately consider normative cognitive changes, whereas developmental studies do not sufficiently measure and model nonnormative cognitive aging. This article argues for an integrative perspective that considers both of these influences on cognitive trajectories and presents a series of methodological concerns that have not been addressed comprehensively. Interdisciplinary methods from longitudinal observational studies should be leveraged to enable translational interventions to promote brain longevity.
Many specifically human psychiatric and neurological conditions have developmental origins. Rodent models are extremely valuable for the investigation of brain development, but cannot provide insight into aspects that are specifically human. The human brain, and particularly the cerebral cortex, has some unique genetic, molecular, cellular and anatomical features, and these need to be further explored. Cortical expansion in human is not just quantitative; there are some novel types of neurons and cytoarchitectonic areas identified by their gene expression, connectivity and functions that do not exist in rodents. Recent research into human brain development has revealed more elaborated neurogenetic compartments, radial and tangential migration, transient cell layers in the subplate, and a greater diversity of early-generated neurons, including predecessor neurons. Recently there has been a renaissance of the study of human brain development because of these unique differences, made possible by the availability of new techniques. This review gives a flavour of the recent studies stemming from this renewed focus on the developing human brain.
Schizophrenia probably has a developmental origin. This review refers to three of our published series of studies related to this hypothesis: loss of dendritic spines on cerebral neocortical pyramidal neurons, decreased numerical density of glutamatergic neurons, and microgliosis. First, brains of schizophrenic patients and non-schizophrenic controls were obtained post mortem and blocks of multiple cortical areas impregnated with a Rapid Golgi method. Spines were counted on the dendrites of pyramidal neurons of which the soma was in layer III (which takes part in corticocortical connectivity) and which met strict criteria for impregnation quality. Data were obtained blind: diagnoses were only revealed by a third party after measurements were completed. The mean spine count in all cortical areas studied in the control series was 243 mm(-1) of dendrite and in the schizophrenics 108. Measurements in frontal and temporal association cortex showed the greatest reduction in spine number in schizophrenia (299 in control frontal cortex and 101 in schizophrenics, and 276 mm(-1) in control temporal cortex and 125 in schizophrenics). There was no correlation of spine loss with age at death. Our results support the concept of a neurodevelopmental defect in the neuropil affecting glutamatergic neurons in schizophrenia and may help to explain loss of cortical volume without loss of neurons. In a second part of our study we used an antibody to the kainate receptor subunit GluR 5/6/7 and showed a decrease in numerical density of presumed glutamatergic neurons in schizophrenic orbitofrontal cortex. Finally, as glia play a major role in the developing nervous system, we investigated whether schizophrenia was associated with glial changes in frontal and temporal cortex. Astroglia and microglia were identified in schizophrenic and control brains, using antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and class II human leucocyte antigen (HLA-DR), respectively. Significant increases were found in microglial numerical density in schizophrenics compared with controls: 28% in frontal area 9 (115 cells mm(-2) compared with 89), and a 57% increase in temporal area 22 (139 cells mm(-2) compared with 88). For both areas, astroglia showed no significant differences between schizophrenics and controls. No significant differences were found in cortical thickness or total neuronal numerical density between the two groups. This specific increase in numerical density of microglia in temporal and frontal cortex of chronic schizophrenics, not related to aging, could be related to possible changes in cortical neuropil architecture as revealed by loss of dendritic spines.
California drug treatment programs may use funds to address barriers to work faced by Proposition 36 offenders, most of whom are not working at treatment entry, but employment services utilization and related behavioral outcomes have never been studied. This study examined primary data collected on 1,453 offenders by 30 programs during 2004 to explore the characteristics, employment services utilization, and outcomes of those who did and did not receive employment services while in drug treatment. One-year outcomes were mostly similar across groups, however, increases in the proportion of offenders employed, receiving income from employment and family or friends, and being paid for work were significantly greater among the received-employment-services group, and a greater proportion of this group also completed drug treatment. Employment services utilization was less likely for persons recruited from outpatient settings and more likely with greater severity of family/social problems and desire for services. Odds of employment one-year post-treatment entry were higher for those of Hispanic race/ethnicity (vs. White) and for those with treatment completion/longer retention but lower for those who were older, lived in specific counties, had greater employment problem severity at intake, and received other income-related services. Strategies for improving employment services utilization and outcomes among Proposition 36 offenders are discussed.
Abnormal hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein Tau is a hallmark of Alzheimer disease and related diseases called tauopathies. As yet, the exact mechanism by which this pathology causes neurodegeneration is not understood. The present study provides direct evidence that Tau abnormal hyperphosphorylation causes its aggregation, breakdown of the microtubule network, and cell death and identifies phosphorylation sites involved in neurotoxicity. We generated pseudophosphorylated Tau proteins by mutating Ser/Thr to Glu and, as controls, to Ala. These mutations involved one, two, or three pathological phosphorylation sites by site-directed mutagenesis using as backbones the wild type or FTDP-17 mutant R406W Tau. Pseudophosphorylated and corresponding control Tau proteins were expressed transiently in PC12 and CHO cells. We found that a single phosphorylation site alone had little influence on the biological activity of Tau, except Thr(212), which, upon mutation to Glu in the R406W background, induced Tau aggregation in cells, suggesting phosphorylation at this site along with a modification on the C-terminal of the protein facilitates self-assembly of Tau. The expression of R406W Tau pseudophosphorylated at Thr(212), Thr(231), and Ser(262) triggered caspase-3 activation in as much as 85% of the transfected cells, whereas the corresponding value for wild type pseudophosphorylated Tau was 30%. Cells transfected with pseudophosphorylated Tau became TUNEL-positive.
Understanding serotonergic (5-HT) signaling is critical for understanding human physiology, behavior, and neuropsychiatric disease. 5-HT mediates its actions via ionotropic and metabotropic 5-HT receptors. The 5-HT(1A) receptor is a metabotropic G protein-coupled receptor linked to the G(i/o) signaling pathway and has been specifically implicated in the pathogenesis of depression and anxiety. To understand and precisely control 5-HT(1A) signaling, we created a light-activated G protein-coupled receptor that targets into 5-HT(1A) receptor domains and substitutes for endogenous 5-HT(1A) receptors. To induce 5-HT(1A)-like targeting, vertebrate rhodopsin was tagged with the C-terminal domain (CT) of 5-HT(1A) (Rh-CT(5-HT1A)). Rh-CT(5-HT1A) activates G protein-coupled inward rectifying K(+) channels in response to light and causes membrane hyperpolarization in hippocampal neurons, similar to the agonist-induced responses of the 5-HT(1A) receptor. The intracellular distribution of Rh-CT(5-HT1A) resembles that of the 5-HT(1A) receptor; Rh-CT(5-HT1A) localizes to somatodendritic sites and is efficiently trafficked to distal dendritic processes. Additionally, neuronal expression of Rh-CT(5-HT1A), but not Rh, decreases 5-HT(1A) agonist sensitivity, suggesting that Rh-CT(5-HT1A) and 5-HT(1A) receptors compete to interact with the same trafficking machinery. Finally, Rh-CT(5-HT1A) is able to rescue 5-HT(1A) signaling of 5-HT(1A) KO mice in cultured neurons and in slices of the dorsal raphe showing that Rh-CT(5-HT1A) is able to functionally compensate for native 5-HT(1A). Thus, as an optogenetic tool, Rh-CT(5-HT1A) has the potential to directly correlate in vivo 5-HT(1A) signaling with 5-HT neuron activity and behavior in both normal animals and animal models of neuropsychiatric disease.
Zinc finger protein 423 encodes a 30 Zn-finger transcription factor involved in cerebellar and olfactory development. ZFP423 is a known interactor of SMAD1-SMAD4 and of Collier/Olf-1/EBF proteins, and acts as a modifier of retinoic acid-induced differentiation. In the present article, we show that ZFP423 interacts with the Notch1 intracellular domain in mammalian cell lines and in Xenopus neurula embryos, to activate the expression of the Notch1 target Hes5/ESR1. This effect is antagonized by EBF transcription factors, both in cultured cells and in Xenopus embryos, and amplified in vitro by BMP4, suggesting that ZFP423 acts to integrate BMP and Notch signaling, selectively promoting their convergence onto the Hes5 gene promoter.
The impingement syndrome and tendinopathy of the rotator cuff are the most common causes (complaints) of pain and disability of the shoulder. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a specific rehabilitative protocol, integrated with the administration of a nutritional supplement, in the conservative rehabilitative treatment, as well as in post-surgery, of patients with lesions of the rotator cuff. Two groups with syndrome of the rotator cuff were formed to follow different therapeutic courses, in relation to the choice of each subject to undergo the conservative treatment (Arm A) or the surgical one (Arm B). In Arm A the study included the association of therapy with ESWT (shock waves) with the proprioceptive Multi Joint System, for rehabilitating joint movement and muscle strength of the shoulder, and a specific nutritional supplement to reduce the pain and conserve the cartilage tissue. Between February 2009 and June 2009, we enrolled 30 subjects (randomized into three homogenous groups A1, A2, A3), average age 4510 years, with rotator cuff syndrome with calcification of the shoulder, diagnosed through clinical examination and investigative instruments (X-ray, echography or NMR). In Arm B, from September 2009 to January 2010, we enrolled 50 patients (randomized into two groups, B1 and B2), 24 male (average age 58.4: min 28 and max 78) and 26 females (average age 59.5: min 30 and max 80), who had undergone rotator cuff operations and acromionplasty for non-massive lesions without important gleno-humeral instability, with either open or arthroscopic procedures. The analysis of the results of Arm A highlights that in terms of reducing pain the main benefits were found in Group A1 where the supplement was given. From the analysis of the data of Arm B, in both groups an improvement of the first 4 items evaluated was evident. In Group B1, 84 percent of the patients declared to be satisfied and improved and 16 percent were dissatisfied; in Group B2, where the nutritional supplement was given, 92 percent were satisfied and 8 percent were dissatisfied. In conclusion, we retain that in cases of rotator cuff syndrome, an integrated rehabilitative approach, whether conservative or post-surgical, directed at taking total control of the patient, must observe particular attention to the optimization of the articular tissular metabolic balance in order to favour better functional recovery.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of several diseases and may also result from drugs with unwanted side effects on mitochondrial biochemistry. The mitochondrial membrane potential is a good indicator of mitochondrial function. Here, the authors have developed a no-wash mitochondrial membrane potential assay using 2-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-N-ethylpyridinium iodide (DASPEI), a rarely used mitochondrial potentiometric probe, in a 96-well format using a fluorescent plate reader. The assay was validated using 2 protonophores (CCCP, DNP), which are known uncouplers, and the neuroleptic thioridazine, which is a suspected mitochondrial toxicant. CCCP and DNP have short-term depolarizing effects, and thioridazine has long-term hyperpolarizing effects on the mitochondrial membrane potential of Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The assay also detected changes of the mitochondrial membrane potential in CHO cells exposed to cobalt (mimicking hypoxia) and in PC12 cells exposed to amyloid , demonstrating that the assay can be used in cellular models of hypoxia and Alzheimer's disease. The assay needs no washing steps, has a Z' value &gt;0.5, can be used on standard fluorometers, has good post liquid-handling stability, and thus is suitable for large-scale screening efforts. In summary, the DASPEI assay is simple and rapid and may be of use in toxicological testing, drug target discovery, and mechanistic models of diseases involving mitochondrial dysfunction.
Previous studies have shown that dendrites are influenced by substrate stiffness when neurons are plated in either pure or mixed cultures. However, because substrate rigidity can also affect other aspects of culture development known to impact dendrite branching, such as overall cell number, it is unclear whether substrate stiffness exerts a direct or indirect effect on dendrite morphology. In this study, we determine whether substrate stiffness plays a critical role in regulating dendrite branching independent of cell number. We plated primary mixed hippocampal cultures on soft and stiff gels, with Young's moduli of 1 kPa and 7 kPa, respectively. We found that neurons plated on stiffer substrates showed increased branching relative to neurons grown on softer substrates at the same cell number. On the stiff gels, we also observed a cell number-dependent effect, in which increasing initial plating density decreased dendrite branching. This change correlates with an increase in extracellular glutamate. We concluded that both cell number and substrate stiffness play roles in determining dendrite branching, and that the two effects are independent of one another.
We describe the use of DNA transposons as tools for carrying out functional screenings in murine embryonic stem (ES) cell-derived neural stem (NS) cells. NS cells are a new type of stem cells featuring radial glial properties, that undergoes symmetric cell division for an indefinite number of passages, expanding as a monolayer. In this model, the previously unreported Sleeping Beauty transposase M3A achieves an optimal blend of clone generation efficiency and low redundancy of integrations per clone, compared to the SB100X Sleeping Beauty variant and to the piggyBac transposon. The technology described here makes it possible to randomly trap genes in the NS cell genome and modify their expression or tag them with fluorescent markers and selectable genes, allowing recombinant cells to be isolated and expanded clonally. This approach will facilitate the identification of novel determinants of stem cell biology and neural cell fate specification in NS cells.

Acute ethanol intoxication and exposure (AE) has been known to impair wound healing and associated angiogenesis. Here, we found that AE diminished the formation of novel reparative lipid mediator 14S,21-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,10Z,12E,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid (14S,21-diHDHA) and its biosynthetic intermediate 14S-hydroxy-DHA (14S-HDHA) from docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in murine wounds. However, AE did not reduce the formation of DHA and the intermediate 21-HDHA. These results indicate that in the biosynthetic pathways of 14S,21-diHDHA in wounds, AE suppresses the 14S-hydroxy-generating activity of 12-lipoxygenase-like (LOX-like), but does not suppress the 21-hydroxy-generating activity of cytochrome P450 and DHA-generating activities. The AE-suppression of 12-LOX-like activity was further confirmed by the diminished formation of 12-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid in wounds under AE. Supplementing 14S,21-diHDHA to wounds rescued the AE-impaired healing and vascularization. 14S,21-diHDHA restored AE-impaired processes of angiogenesis in vitro: endothelial cell migration, tubulogenesis, and phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Taken together, the suppression of 14S,21-diHDHA formation is responsible, at least partially, for the AE-impairment of cutaneous wound healing and angiogenesis. Supplementing 14S,21-diHDHA to compensate its deficit in AE-impaired wounds rescues the healing and angiogenesis. These results provide a novel mechanistic insight for AE-impaired wound healing that involves the necessary roles of 14S,21-diHDHA. They also offer leads for developing 14S,21-diHDHA-related therapeutics to ameliorate AE-impairment of wound healing.
Opioids modulate the electrical activity of magnocellular neurons (MCN) and inhibit neuropeptide release at their terminals in the neurohypophysis. We have previously shown that micro-opioid receptor (MOR) activation induces a stronger inhibition of oxytocin (OT) than vasopressin (AVP) release from isolated MCN terminals. This higher sensitivity of OT release is due, at least in part, to the selective targeting of R-type calcium channels. We now describe the underlying basis for AVP's weaker inhibition by MOR activation and provide a more complete explanation of the complicated effects on neuropeptide release. We found that N-type calcium channels in AVP terminals are differentially modulated by MOR; enhanced at lower concentrations but increasingly inhibited at higher concentrations of agonists. On the other hand, N-type calcium channels in OT terminals were always inhibited. The response pattern in co-labeled terminals was analogous to that observed in AVP-containing terminals. Changes in intracellular calcium concentration and neuropeptide release corroborated these results as they showed a similar pattern of enhancement and inhibition in AVP terminals contrasting with solely inhibitory responses in OT terminals to MOR agonists. We established that fast translocation of Ca(2+) channels to the plasma membrane was not mediating current increments and thus, changes in channel kinetic properties are most likely involved. Finally, we reveal a distinct Ca-channel beta-subunit expression between each type of nerve endings that could explain some of the differences in responses to MOR activation. These results help advance our understanding of the complex modulatory mechanisms utilized by MORs in regulating presynaptic neuropeptide release.
Release of neurotransmitter is activated by the influx of calcium. Inhibition of Ca(2+) channels results in less calcium influx into the terminals and presumably a reduction in transmitter release. In the neurohypophysis (NH), Ca(2+) channel kinetics, and the associated Ca(2+) influx, is primarily controlled by membrane voltage and can be modulated, in a voltage-dependent manner, by G-protein subunits interacting with voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). In this series of experiments we test whether the kappa- and micro-opioid inhibition of Ca(2+) currents in NH terminals is voltage-dependent. Voltage-dependent relief of G-protein inhibition of VGCC can be achieved with either a depolarizing square pre-pulse or by action potential waveforms. Both protocols were tested in the presence and absence of opioid agonists targeting the kappa- and micro-receptors in neurohypophysial terminals. The kappa-opioid VGCC inhibition is relieved by such pre-pulses, suggesting that this receptor is involved in a voltage-dependent membrane delimited pathway. In contrast, micro-opioid inhibition of VGCC is not relieved by such pre-pulses, indicating a voltage-independent diffusible second-messenger signaling pathway. Furthermore, relief of kappa-opioid inhibition during a physiologic action potential (AP) burst stimulation indicates the possibility of activity-dependent modulation in vivo. Differences in the facilitation of Ca(2+) channels due to specific G-protein modulation during a burst of APs may contribute to the fine-tuning of Ca(2+)-dependent neuropeptide release in other CNS terminals, as well.
Various proteases in the brain contribute to ischemic brain injury. We investigated the involvement of the asparaginyl endopeptidase legumain after experimental stroke. On the basis of gene array studies and in situ hybridizations, we observed an increase of legumain expression in the peri-infarct area of rats after transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) for 120mins with a maximum expression at 24 and 48h. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed the expression of legumain in Iba1(+) microglial cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive astrocytes of the peri-infarct area in mice after MCAO. Post-stroke recovery was also studied in aged legumain-deficient mice (45 to 58 weeks old). Legumain-deficient mice did not show any differences in physiologic parameters compared with respective littermates before, during MCAO (45mins), and the subsequent recovery period of 8 days. Moreover, legumain deficiency had no effect on mortality, infarct volume, and the neurologic deficit determined by the rotating pole test, a standardized grip strength test, and the pole test. However, a reduced number of invading CD74(+) cells in the ischemic hemisphere indicates an involvement in post-stroke inflammation. We conclude that legumain is not essential for the functional deficit after MCAO but may be involved in mechanisms of immune cell invasion.

This study investigated agreement between boys and their parents when reporting on health-related quality of life and the effects of steroid use, age, and physical functioning on self-reported health-related quality of life in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory and brief functional measures were administered to 35 parent-son dyads. We found that agreement between parents and their sons was moderate (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC](2,1) = 0.66; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.40-0.80) to poor (ICC(2,1) = 0.64; 95% CI, 0.43-0.64). The boys' self-reports revealed a relationship between disease progression and physical functioning (r = -.75; P = .01); however, disease stage was not related to psychosocial functioning (r = -.27; NS). Parents and boys affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy have a moderate to poor agreement on health-related quality of life measures, with parents reporting lower overall health-related quality of life when compared with their sons.
The neurobiological mechanisms by which childhood maltreatment heightens vulnerability to psychopathology remain poorly understood. It is likely that a complex interaction between environmental experiences (including poor caregiving) and an individual's genetic make-up influence neurobiological development across infancy and childhood, which in turn sets the stage for a child's psychological and emotional development. This review provides a concise synopsis of those studies investigating the neurobiological and genetic factors associated with childhood maltreatment and adversity. We first provide an overview of the neuroendocrine findings, drawing from animal and human studies. These studies indicate an association between early adversity and atypical development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress response, which can predispose to psychiatric vulnerability in adulthood. We then review the neuroimaging findings of structural and functional brain differences in children and adults who have experienced childhood maltreatment. These studies offer evidence of several structural differences associated with early stress, most notably in the corpus callosum in children and the hippocampus in adults; functional studies have reported atypical activation of several brain regions, including decreased activity of the prefrontal cortex. Next we consider studies that suggest that the effect of environmental adversity may be conditional on an individual's genotype. We also briefly consider the possible role that epigenetic mechanisms might play in mediating the impact of early adversity. Finally we consider several ways in which the neurobiological and genetic research may be relevant to clinical practice and intervention.
In this study, we evaluate the ability of digitized digital X-ray radiogrammetry (DXR) bone mineral density (BMD) to identify women with reduced BMD at femoral neck, assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The study population contained women with recent low-energy distal radius fracture and women recruited from the general population, all aged 50 yr or older. The correlation between hand BMD and femoral neck BMD was r=0.65 (p&lt;0.001). We used a triage approach where 2 cutoffs for DXR T-score were defined at which patients with 90% sensitivity and 90% specificity could be identified to have or not have reduced BMD at femoral neck, defined as T-score -2.5 standard deviation (SD). The upper and lower DXR T-score cutoffs were -1.2 and -2.7, respectively. Applying the triage approach in the whole cohort, 32% would require a central DXA assessment to determine the presence or absence of femoral neck T-score -2.5 SD. Our data suggest that DXR can be used to reduce the numbers of patients in need of DXA femoral neck and may, thus, be of clinical value where access to DXA is limited.
Brain injury after focal cerebral ischemia, the most common cause of stroke, develops from a series of pathological processes, including excitotoxicity, inflammation, and apoptosis. While NMDA receptors have been implicated in excitotoxicity, attempts to prevent ischemic brain damage by blocking NMDA receptors have been disappointing. Disruption of neuroprotective pathways may be another avenue responsible for ischemic damage, and thus preservation of neuronal survival may be important for prevention of ischemic brain injury. Here, we report that suppression of proteolytic degradation of transient receptor potential canonical 6 (TRPC6) prevented ischemic neuronal cell death in a rat model of stroke. The TRPC6 protein level in neurons was greatly reduced in ischemia via NMDA receptor-dependent calpain proteolysis of the N-terminal domain of TRPC6 at Lys. This downregulation was specific for TRPC6 and preceded neuronal death. In a rat model of ischemia, activating TRPC6 prevented neuronal death, while blocking TRPC6 increased sensitivity to ischemia. A fusion peptide derived from the calpain cleavage site in TRPC6 inhibited degradation of TRPC6, reduced infarct size, and improved behavioral performance measures via the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) signaling pathway. Thus, TRPC6 proteolysis contributed to ischemic neuronal cell death, and suppression of its degradation preserved neuronal survival and prevented ischemic brain damage.
To assess the pathophysiological complexity of cortical dysplasia-related intractable focal epilepsy among surgical candidates, using our data-based EEG classification system, we reviewed preresection scalp awake and sleep EEGs (median, 8) in 46 consecutive patients whose resected pathology disclosed cortical dysplasia. Epileptiform phenomena occurred on at least one EEG in 42 (91%) patients. Twenty-three (50%) of the 46 patients displayed at least one type of independently occurring abnormality (spikes, excess delta, or theta) in each hemisphere. Nineteen of these 23 (83%), thus 41% of all 46 patients, showed independently occurring epileptiform abnormalities (spikes) in each hemisphere, i.e., the multiple independent spike foci phenomenon. In an additional 13 of the 46 (28%) patients, spike foci involving more than one lobe appeared within a single hemisphere. Thus, spike foci involving more than one lobe appeared in 32 of the 46 (70%) patients. Generalized bilaterally synchronous epileptiform features (spike waves, slow spike waves, or fast rhythmic waves) appeared in 10 (22%) of the 46 patients. Two findings suggest more widespread dysfunction among extratemporal patients than temporal patients: (1) a significantly higher number of lobes containing focal interictal epileptiform activity in extra temporal patients (mean = 3.14) than among temporal patients (mean = 2.14) (P = 0.02), (2) a higher percentage of bisynchronous epileptiform abnormalities: 8 of 23 (35%) versus 2 of 23 (9%). Among 34 patients with a Principal Spike Lobe (more active spiking over more EEGs), those of 32 (94%) arose from the ultimately resected lobe. Of the 30 patients with scalp-recorded seizures, relationship between seizure origin and ultimately resected lobe were same lobe (16 patients), same and adjacent lobes (12), adjacent lobe only (1), and distant lobe (1). Thus, despite the multifocality of several EEG features, Principal Spike Lobe and scalp-recorded seizure origin correlate well with epileptogenesis.

A 24-year-old male patient with refractory Tourette syndrome was treated with deep brain stimulation (DBS) and developed subsequent bilateral subcortical haematomas. Additional blood tests revealed abnormalities of plasma factor XIIIA and tryptophan levels, which may be associated with Tourette syndrome. Neurosurgeons who perform DBS surgery on patients with Tourette syndrome must be aware of possible disastrous complications resulting from factor XIIIA disorders of blood haemostasis. Routine screening for this condition is not typically performed prior to surgery in these patients.
Intracranial perineural spread (PNS) is a rare complication of cutaneous malignancies and refers to access of the tumor to the intracranial space typically by tracking along cranial nerves. Patients are usually treated with palliative external-beam radiotherapy or with radiosurgery if there has been prior standard radiotherapy. Two patients are presented, both with cranial neuropathies occurring years after treatment for cutaneous malignancies. Radiographic workup showed recurrent tumor involving multiple cranial nerves. Both patients were treated with CyberKnife radiosurgery. To the author's knowledge, these are the first reported patients with intracranial PNS treated via CyberKnife radiosurgery.
Compelling diagnostic definitions and evidence-based treatment recommendations for schizoaffective disorder are lacking, but clinicians can still develop an effective, individualized treatment regimen for patients with this condition. The steps necessary to help patients with schizoaffective disorder reach and maintain remission are to confirm the diagnosis, evaluate the patient's predictors of outcome, be aware of the available pharmacotherapeutic options and prescribe appropriate medications, and implement psychotherapy when patients achieve remission. In this brief activity, these essential steps are discussed and treatment recommendations are offered.

This meta-analysis examined the effectiveness of treatments of bipolar depression. Trials were identified using the MEDLINE, EMBASE, http://www.clinicaltrials.gov, and Cochrane databases (1993 to July 2008). The outcome measures included mean change in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) or Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) total scores, and rates of response and remission. Overall, 19 publications were included. Medications included quetiapine, lamotrigine, paroxetine, lithium, olanzapine, aripiprazole, phenelzine, and divalproex. The most trials were identified for quetiapine (5) and lamotrigine (6). Not all medications were associated with symptomatic improvement (significant reduction in MADRS/HAM-D total scores vs placebo), with lamotrigine, paroxetine, aripiprazole, and lithium not being different from placebo. Highest reductions in MADRS scores versus placebo were reported for the olanzapine-fluoxetine combination (1 trial: -6.6; 95% confidence interval [CI], -9.59 to -3.61; P = 0.000) and quetiapine monotherapy (5 trials: for 300 mg/d, -4.8; 95% CI, -6.18 to -3.49; P = 0.000; for 600 mg/d, -4.8; 95% CI, -6.22 to -3.28; P = 0.000), with quetiapine monotherapy also showing the highest reduction in HAM-D scores (4 trials: -4.0; 95% CI, -5.0 to -2.9; P = 0.000). All medications except paroxetine, lithium, aripiprazole, and phenelzine significantly improved the ratio of probabilities of response (overall rate, 1.31; 95% CI, 1.22-1.40) and remission (1.32; 95% CI, 1.20-1.45) versus placebo. Variability in efficacy exists between treatments of bipolar depression. Quetiapine and the olanzapine-fluoxetine combination showed the greatest symptomatic improvement. Efficacy considerations will need to be balanced against safety and tolerability of the individual agents.
Perimenopausal and early postmenopausal women have shown an increased risk for developing depression (new onset or recurrent); concomitant vasomotor and other menopause-related complaints significantly affect quality of life and overall functioning. This study examined the effects of quetiapine extended release (XR) in midlife women with major depressive disorder who also reported significant menopause-related symptoms. Forty eligible women with major depressive disorder entered a 2-week, placebo lead-in phase, followed by an 8-week open trial with quetiapine XR, flexible dose, 150-300 mg/d. The primary outcome measure (depressive symptoms) was assessed using the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores. Other measures included menopause symptoms (Greene Climacteric Scale total scores and subscores) and the impact of hot flashes on functioning (Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale). Weight, cholesterol, triglycerides, and glucose levels were monitored. Data from 24 subjects (modified intent-to-treat, last observation carried forward; quetiapine XR mean dose, 191 [SD, 55] mg/d) showed improvement in depressive and menopause-related symptoms, that is, reduction in MADRS, GCS, and Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale scores (P &lt; 0.01 for all comparisons). Seventeen subjects were considered responders (&gt;50% reduction in MADRS scores); 15 achieved remission (MADRS&lt;10). Main adverse effects included drowsiness and dry mouth. Based on these preliminary results, quetiapine XR should be further examined in larger, controlled trials for the management of depressed, symptomatic midlife women.
Relaxin-3 (RLN3) and its native receptor, relaxin family peptide 3 receptor (RXFP3), constitute a newly identified neuropeptide system enriched in mammalian brain. The distribution of RLN3/RXFP3 networks in rat brain and recent experimental studies suggest a role for this system in modulation of arousal, stress, metabolism, and cognition. In order to facilitate exploration of the biology of RLN3/RXFP3 in complementary murine models, this study mapped the neuroanatomical distribution of the RLN3/RXFP3 system in mouse brain. Adult, male wildtype and RLN3 knock-out (KO)/LacZ knock-in (KI) mice were used to map the central distribution of RLN3 gene expression and RLN3-like immunoreactivity (-LI). The distribution of RXFP3 mRNA and protein was determined using [(35)S]-oligonucleotide probes and a radiolabeled RXFP3-selective agonist ([(125)I]-R3/I5), respectively. High densities of neurons expressing RLN3 mRNA, RLN3-associated beta-galactosidase activity and RLN3-LI were detected in the nucleus incertus (or nucleus O), while smaller populations of positive neurons were observed in the pontine raph, the periaqueductal gray and a region adjacent to the lateral substantia nigra. RLN3-LI was observed in nerve fibers/terminals in nucleus incertus and broadly throughout the pons, midbrain, hypothalamus, thalamus, septum, hippocampus, and neocortex, but was absent in RLN3 KO/LacZ KI mice. This RLN3 neural network overlapped the regional distribution of RXFP3 mRNA and [(125)I]-R3/I5 binding sites in wildtype and RLN3 KO/LacZ KI mice. These findings provide further evidence for the conserved nature of RLN3/RXFP3 systems in mammalian brain and the ability of RLN3/RXFP3 signaling to modulate &quot;behavioral state&quot; and an array of circuits involved in arousal, stress responses, affective state, and cognition.
It is widely assumed that the human brain contains genetically identical cells through which postgenomic mechanisms contribute to its enormous diversity and complexity. The relatively recent identification of neural cells throughout the neuraxis showing somatically generated mosaic aneuploidy indicates that the vertebrate brain can be genomically heterogeneous (Rehen et al. [2001] Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 98:13361-13366; Rehen et al. [2005] J. Neurosci. 25:2176-2180; Yurov et al. [2007] PLoS ONE:e558; Westra et al. [2008] J. Comp. Neurol. 507:1944-1951). The extent of human neural aneuploidy is currently unknown because of technically limited sample sizes, but is reported to be small (Iourov et al. [2006] Int. Rev. Cytol. 249:143-191). During efforts to interrogate larger cell populations by using DNA content analyses, a surprising result was obtained: human frontal cortex brain cells were found to display &quot;DNA content variation (DCV)&quot; characterized by an increased range of DNA content both in cell populations and within single cells. On average, DNA content increased by approximately 250 megabases, often representing a substantial fraction of cells within a given sample. DCV within individual human brains showed regional variation, with increased prevalence in the frontal cortex and less variation in the cerebellum. Further, DCV varied between individual brains. These results identify DCV as a new feature of the human brain, encompassing and further extending genomic alterations produced by aneuploidy, which may contribute to neural diversity in normal and pathophysiological states, altered functions of normal and disease-linked genes, and differences among individuals.


Using 20 levels of intensity, we measured children's thresholds to discriminate the six basic emotional expressions from neutral and their misidentification rates. Combined with the results of a previous study using the same method (Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 102 (2009) 503-521), the results indicate that by 5 years of age, children are adult-like, or nearly adult-like, for happy expressions on all measures. Children's sensitivity to other expressions continues to improve between 5 and 10 years of age (e.g., surprise, disgust, fear) or even after 10 years of age (e.g., anger, sad). The results indicate that there is a slow development of sensitivity to the expression of all basic emotions except happy. This slow development may impact children's social and cognitive development by limiting their sensitivity to subtle expressions of disapproval or disappointment.
Humans and lower animals time as if using a stopwatch that can be &quot;stopped&quot; or &quot;reset&quot; on command. This view is challenged by data from the peak-interval procedure with gaps: Unexpected retention intervals (gaps) delay the response function in a seemingly continuous fashion, from stop to reset. We evaluated whether these results are an artifact of averaging over trials, or whether subjects use discrete alternatives or a continuum of alternatives in individual-trials: A Probability-of-Reset hypothesis proposes that in individual gap trials subjects stochastically use discrete alternatives (stop/reset), such that when averaged over trials, the response distribution in gap trials falls in between &quot;stop&quot; and &quot;reset.&quot; Alternatively, a Resource Allocation hypothesis proposes that during individual gap trials working memory for the pregap duration decays, such that the response function in individual gap trials is shifted rightward in a continuous fashion. Both hypotheses provided very good fits with the observed individual-trial distributions, although the Resource Allocation hypothesis generated reliably better fits. Results provide support for the usefulness of individual-trial analyses in dissociating theoretical alternatives in interval timing tasks.
Microglia, the immune cells of the central nervous system, are attracted to sites of injury. The injury releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) into the extracellular space, activating the microglia, but the full mechanism of release is not known. In glial cells, a family of physiologically regulated unpaired gap junction channels called innexons (invertebrates) or pannexons (vertebrates) located in the cell membrane is permeable to ATP. Innexons, but not pannexons, also pair to make gap junctions. Glial calcium waves, triggered by injury or mechanical stimulation, open pannexon/innexon channels and cause the release of ATP. It has been hypothesized that a glial calcium wave that triggers the release of ATP causes rapid microglial migration to distant lesions. In the present study in the leech, in which a single giant glial cell ensheathes each connective, hydrolysis of ATP with 10 U/ml apyrase or block of innexons with 10 M carbenoxolone (CBX), which decreased injury-induced ATP release, reduced both movement of microglia and their accumulation at lesions. Directed movement and accumulation were restored in CBX by adding ATP, consistent with separate actions of ATP and nitric oxide, which is required for directed movement but does not activate glia. Injection of glia with innexin2 (Hminx2) RNAi inhibited release of carboxyfluorescein dye and microglial migration, whereas injection of innexin1 (Hminx1) RNAi did not when measured 2 days after injection, indicating that glial cells' ATP release through innexons was required for microglial migration after nerve injury. Focal stimulation either mechanically or with ATP generated a calcium wave in the glial cell; injury caused a large, persistent intracellular calcium response. Neither the calcium wave nor the persistent response required ATP or its release. Thus, in the leech, innexin membrane channels releasing ATP from glia are required for migration and accumulation of microglia after nerve injury.
The high sensitivity of scotopic vision depends on the efficient retinal processing of single photon responses generated by individual rod photoreceptors. At the first synapse in the mammalian retina, rod outputs are pooled by a rod &quot;ON&quot; bipolar cell, which uses a G-protein signaling cascade to enhance the fidelity of the single photon response under conditions where few rods absorb light. Here we show in mouse rod bipolar cells that both splice variants of the G(o)  subunit, G(o1) and G(o2), mediate light responses under the control of mGluR6 receptors, and their coordinated action is critical for maximizing sensitivity. We found that the light response of rod bipolar cells was primarily mediated by G(o1), but the loss of G(o2) caused a reduction in the light sensitivity. This reduced sensitivity was not attributable to the reduction in the total number of G(o)  subunits, or the altered balance of expression levels between the two splice variants. These results indicate that G(o1) and G(o2) both mediate a depolarizing light response in rod bipolar cells without occluding each other's actions, suggesting they might act independently on a common effector. Thus, G(o2) plays a role in improving the sensitivity of rod bipolar cells through its action with G(o1). The coordinated action of two splice variants of a single G may represent a novel mechanism for the fine control of G-protein activity.
No guidelines for performing and presenting the results of studies on patients with medication overuse headache (MOH) exist. The aim of this study was to review long-term outcome measures in follow-up studies published in 2006 or later. We included MOH studies with &gt;6 months duration presenting a minimum of one predefined end point. In total, nine studies were identified. The 1,589 MOH patients (22% men) had an overall mean frequency of 25.3 headache days/month at baseline. Headache days/month at the end of follow-up was reported in six studies (mean 13.8 days/month). The decrease was more pronounced for studies including patients with migraine only (-14.6 days/month) compared to studies with the original diagnoses of migraine and tension-type headache (-9.2 days/month). Six studies reported relapse rate (mean of 26%) and/or responder rate (mean of 28%). Medication days/month and change in headache index at the end of follow-up were reported in only one and two of nine studies, respectively. The present review demonstrated a lack of uniform end points used in recently published follow-up studies. Guidelines for presenting follow-up data on MOH are needed and we propose end points such as headache days/month, medication days/month, relapse rate and responder rate defined as 50% reduction of headache frequency and/or headache index from baseline.


This article explores reactions of clinical neurologists of the late-nineteenth century to the concept of a unified nerve cell, the &quot;neuron,&quot; which developed from the research on fine anatomy of the nervous system and from conclusions of Waldeyer based on that research. Assessment shows that Waldeyer's role in the acceptance of the neuron theory was not straightforward. A study of primarily American medical literature shows rapid acceptance, eager applications, and high expectations. Nonetheless, some clinicians were disappointed in its immediate relevance. An explanation for this disappointment is offered.
While the study of genetic diseases is a rather recent development in science, von Recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis (NF1) has a rich pictorial history, seemingly dating back to the thirteenth century. In 1768, Akenside published a scientifically-based description of NF1, recognizing that the monsters of scholars, such as Par and Aldrovandi, in fact suffered from a disorder of the nerves. The neuromas of NF1 were first detailed by Smith in 1849, but Frederick von Recklinghausen is credited with its discovery and coined the name of the disorder in 1882. NF1 research widely increased between 1909 and 1990, due to the erroneous diagnosis of the Elephant Man, Joseph Merrick.
Late 1950s was a period of recognition of Russian neurophysiology by international neuroscience community and vice versa. This process of &quot;opening windows in both directions&quot; might be illustrated by the story of The Moscow Colloquium on Electroencephalography of Higher Nervous Activity. The Colloquium took place on October 6-11, 1958 at the House of Scientists in Moscow. It was organized by the Academy of Sciences of the USSR under the initiative of the Institute for Higher Nervous Activity and focused on (a) EEG correlates of cortical excitation and inhibition; (b) electrophysiological study of different brain structures and their role in conditioned reflexes; and (c) EEG of higher nervous activity in humans. At the final session it was suggested to launch an International Year for the Study of the Brain and to ask UNESCO for international coordination of brain research. This resulted into the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO) founded in 1960. This article is based on unpublished records of international contacts of Soviet neurophysiologists and organization of the Moscow Colloquium from the Archive of Russian Academy of Science (ARAN), reports in Soviet periodicals, publications in obscure Festschriften, etc.

The cytokine interferon (IFN)- is successfully used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. However, some patients fail to respond to therapy, probably due to different biological patterns that are of importance in influencing clinical response. A common mechanism involved in the modulation of responsiveness to cytokine is represented by regulation of their receptor expression through autocrine-ligand-mediated loops. Mechanistically, IFN- exerts its biological effects through interaction with the IFN-/--receptor (IFNAR), which then activates several transcription factors. IFNAR is composed of 2 chains, IFNAR-1 and IFNAR-2, which associate with IFN- to form a ternary complex. The major ligand-binding subunit is IFNAR-2 and it exists in 3 mRNA splice variants, resulting in 2 transmembrane (IFNAR-2b and IFNAR-2c) isoforms and a soluble (IFNAR-2a) one. On the contrary, from normal cells only one IFNAR-1 isoform, with transcriptional capacity, was identified. In the past decades, considerable information has accumulated pertaining to the downregulation of the IFNAR complex in IFN-treated patients, but only a few studies have investigated the molecular events involved in this phenomenon. The intent of the present review is to place this receptor downregulation in the context of IFN- therapy and of its clinical and biological outcomes in IFN--treated patients.

CD84 is 1 of the 9 SLAM family cell-surface receptors involved in leukocyte activation. The CD84 ectodomain is highly glycosylated, and its cytoplasmic tail contains 2 copies of an ITSM, which can be phosphorylated. Here, we report that although mouse CD84 was present on all BM HSCs, its expression declined in developing thymic and BM lymphocytes. However, CD84 expression levels did increase significantly during the later maturation stages and were expressed abundantly on mature B and T cells. Among lymphocyte subsets, the highest expression was found on innate-like lymphocytes; specifically, on NKT and marginal zone B cells. Splenic CD4+ T(FH) cells exhibited higher levels of CD84 compared with the other CD4+ T cell subsets. CD84 was expressed abundantly on monocytes, macrophages, granulocytes, and DCs. Moreover, as the function of CD84 in myeloid cells remains unknown, we focused on the role this receptor plays in mouse macrophage activation. Transfection of CD84 in RAW-264.7 macrophages led to an increase in MAPK phosphorylation and NF-B activation upon LPS stimulation. Concomitantly, the presence of CD84 increased the LPS-induced secretion of TNF- and MCP-1 but lowered IL-10 and IL-6 production significantly. This modulatory effect was mediated by Y(300) within the second ITSM of CD84. Additionally, CD84 knock-down decreased TNF- and IL-6 production in LPS-activated BMDMs. Taken together, these results show that mouse CD84 is a pan-leukocyte receptor, able to modulate signaling pathways downstream of TLR4, and regulates macrophage cell-fate decisions and effector functions.

Human ischemic stroke is an acute disorder followed by a recovery period which may be of varying duration and mechanism. Imaging has created a means to explore the stroke process in vivo, particularly its underlying pathophysiology and recovery mechanisms. Evidence from multicenter studies has shown that, in the acute phase, arterial recanalization and reperfusion of ischemic brain tissue are the most important determinants of recovery. This is followed by functional and structural changes in the perilesional tissue and in large-scale bihemispheric networks that continue with different dynamics for weeks to months. Proof-of-principle studies have revealed that the behavioral gains induced by rehabilitation are paralleled by changes in functional representations. This is supported by data from neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies early after stroke which have shown that dedicated training can induce changes in cerebral functional representations. Accordingly, there is clear evidence that neuroimaging has a significant potential for monitoring the hemodynamic, functional, and structural factors determining recovery from stroke. New imaging methods may provide relevant biomarkers for treatment decisions and therapeutic monitoring. By combining neuroimaging with electrophysiological measures, opportunities exist to develop neuroscience-based strategies in rehabilitation.

On initial inspection, bone remodeling, the process whereby the skeleton adapts through time, appears to be relatively simple. Two cell types, the bone-forming osteoblasts and the bone-resorbing osteoclasts, interact to keep bone mass relatively stable throughout adult life. However, the complexity of the regulatory influences on these cells is continuing to expand our understanding of the intricacy of skeletal physiology and also the interactions between other organ systems and bone. One such example of the broadening of understanding in this field has occurred in the last decade with study of the central, neural regulation of bone mass. Initial studies of an adipose-derived hormone, leptin, helped define a direct, sympathetic pathway involving efferent neural signals from the hypothalamus to receptors on the osteoblast. Since the leptin-mediated pathway has been continuously modified to reveal a complex system involving neuromedin U, cocaine- and amphetamine-related transcript and serotonin interacting within the hypothalamus and brainstem to regulate both bone formation and resorption in cancellous bone, a number of other systems have also been identified. Neuropeptide Y, acting through hypothalamic Y2 receptors, is capable of skeleton-wide modulation of osteoblast activity, with important coordination between body weight and bone mass. Cannabinoids, acting through central cannabinoid receptor 1 and bone cell cannabinoid receptor 2 receptors, modulate osteoclast activity, thereby identifying pathways active on both aspects of the bone remodeling process. This review explores the key central pathways to bone and explores the complexity of the interactions being revealed by this emergent field of research.

Recently, the authors published a sequential decoding algorithm for motor brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) that infers movement directly from spike trains and produces a new kinematic output every time an observation of neural activity is present at its input. Such a methodology also needs a special instantaneous neuronal encoding model to relate instantaneous kinematics to every neural spike activity. This requirement is unlike the tuning methods commonly used in computational neuroscience, which are based on time windows of neural and kinematic data. This paper develops a novel, online, encoding model that uses the instantaneous kinematic variables (position, velocity and acceleration in 2D or 3D space) to estimate the mean value of an inhomogeneous Poisson model. During BMI decoding the mapping from neural spikes to kinematics is one to one and easy to implement by simply reading the spike times directly. Due to the high temporal resolution of the encoding, the delay between motor cortex neurons and kinematics needs to be estimated in the encoding stage. Mutual information is employed to select the optimal time index defined as the lag for which the spike event is maximally informative with respect to the kinematics. We extensively compare the windowed tuning models with the proposed method. The big difference between them resides in the high firing rate portion of the tuning curve, which is rather important for BMI-decoding performance. This paper shows that implementing such an instantaneous tuning model in sequential Monte Carlo point process estimation based on spike timing provides statistically better kinematic reconstructions than the linear and exponential spike-tuning models.
The loss of segregation of neuronal signal processing pathways is an important hypothesis for explaining the origin of functional deficits as associated with Parkinson's disease. Here we use a modeling approach which is utilized to study the influence of deep brain stimulation on the restoration of segregated activity in the target structures. Besides the spontaneous activity of the target network, the model considers a weak sensory input mimicking signal processing tasks, electrical deep brain stimulation delivered through a standard DBS electrode and synaptic plasticity. We demonstrate that the sensory input is capable of inducing a modification of the network structure which results in segregated microcircuits if the network is initialized in the healthy, desynchronized state. Depending on the strength and coverage, the sensory input is capable of restoring the functional sub-circuits even if the network is initialized in the synchronized, pathological state. Weak coordinated reset stimulation, applied to a network featuring a loss of segregation caused by global synchronization, is able to restore the segregated activity and to truncate the pathological, synchronized activity.
The objectives of the study are to evaluate the prevalence and the associated factors of thought disorders in a large cross-sectional population of non-demented out patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Four-hundred and nineteen consecutive non-demented PD patients were studied through the DoPaMiP cross-sectional study. Demographic and clinical variables were recorded, including motor and cognitive status, dependency, depressive and anxious symptoms, dysautonomia and sleep disorders. The presence of thought disorders over the past 15 days was assessed by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part I. Patients with and without thought disorders were compared using parametric tests. Logistic regression was applied to significant data. Thought disorders were present in 105 patients (25%) including vivid dreams in 83 (19.8%), benign hallucinations in 17 (4.1%), and hallucinations without insight in 5 (1.2%). No patient had delusion. Patients with thought disorders were more dependent than the others. Thought disorders were associated with longer PD duration, greater UPDRS scores and the presence of motor complications. Conversely, UPDRS tremor sub-score was lower in patients without thought disorders. Thought disorders were also associated with dysautonomia, lower MMSE score, depression and sleep disorders. Logistic regression identified PD duration, lower MMSE score, depressive and dysautonomic signs as independent risk factors. In conclusion, mild thought disorders were present in 25% of non-demented outpatients with PD, but hallucinations were present in 5% only. Thought disorders were associated with PD duration, depressive and dysautonomic symptoms and lower MMSE score.
Insulin plays an important metabolic and transmitter role in the central nervous system, but few studies have investigated the relationship between central and peripheral insulin concentrations. 35 patients undergoing knee surgery had cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples drawn before, 3 h after, and in the morning following surgery. Serum insulin concentrations increased after surgery and CSF insulin concentrations changed in the same direction with far smaller amplitude. These results indicate that the blood-brain barrier protects the brain from stress-induced peripheral hormonal fluctuations.

Protracted opiate withdrawal can extend for months of disrupted hormonal circadian rhythms. We examined rodent behaviors and these circadian disturbances in hormone and peptide levels as well as brain clock gene expression during 60 days of protracted withdrawal. Our behavioral tests included open field, elevated plus maze, and sucrose preference tests at 36 h, 10, 30, and 60 days after stopping chronic morphine. At these four assessment points, we collected samples every 4 h for 24 h to examine circadian rhythms in blood hormone and peptide levels and brain expression of rPER1, rPER2, and rPER3 clock genes. Decreased locomotor activity and elevated adrenocorticotropic hormone and melatonin levels persisted for 2 months after morphine withdrawal, but corticosterone was elevated only at 36 h and 10 days after withdrawal. Orexin levels were high at 36 h after withdrawal, but then reversed during protracted withdrawal to abnormally low levels. Beta-endorphin (-EP) levels showed no differences from normal. However, circadian rhythms were blunted for all of these hormones. Corticosterone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, and orexin blunting persisted at least for 60 days. The blunted circadian rhythm of -EP and melatonin recovered by day 60, but the peak phase of -EP was delayed about 8 h. Blunted circadian rhythms and reduced expression of rPER1, rPER2, and rPER3 persisted at least for 60 days in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens core, central nucleus of the amygdala, Hippocampus, and ventral tegmental area. Circadian rhythms of rPER1 in the nucleus accumbens shell and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and of rPER2 in the central nucleus of the amygdala were reversed. Disrupted circadian rhythms of rPER1, rPER 2, and rPER3 expression in reward-related brain circuits and blunted circadian rhythms in peripheral hormones and peptides may play a role in protracted opiate withdrawal and contribute to relapse.
Gamma-hydroxybutyrate is found both naturally in the brain and self-administered as a drug of abuse. It has been reported to act at endogenous -hydroxybutyrate (GHB) receptors and GABA(B) receptors [GABA(B)R], and may also be metabolized to GABA. Here, the metabolic fingerprints of a range of concentrations of GHB were measured in brain cortical tissue slices and compared with those of ligands active at GHB and GABA-R using principal components analysis (PCA) to identify sites of GHB activity. Low concentrations of GHB (1.0 M) produced fingerprints similar to those of ligands active at GHB receptors and 4-containing GABA(A)R. A total of 10 M GHB clustered proximate to mainstream GABAergic synapse ligands, such as 1.0 M baclofen, a GABA(B)R agonist. Higher concentrations of GHB (30 M) clustered with GABA(C)R agonists and the metabolic responses induced by blockade of the GABA transporter-1 (GAT1). The metabolic responses induced by 60 and 100 M GHB were mimicked by simultaneous blockade of GAT1 and GAT3, addition of low concentrations of GABA(C)R antagonists, or increasing cytoplasmic GABA concentrations by incubation with the GABA transaminase inhibitor vigabatrin. These data suggest that at concentrations &gt; 30 M, GHB may be active via metabolism to GABA, which is then acting upon an unidentified GABAergic master switch receptor (possibly a high-affinity extrasynaptic receptor), or GHB may itself be acting directly on an extrasynaptic GABA-R, capable of turning off large numbers of cells. These results offer an explanation for the steep dose-response curve of GHB seen in vivo, and suggest potential target receptors for further investigation.
Nucleotides act as early signals for microglial recruitment to sites of CNS injury. As microglial motility and activation can be influenced by several local factors at the site of the lesion, we investigated the effects of interferon-gamma, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or transforming growth factor- (TGF-) addition to mixed glial cell cultures, on microglial migration in response to ADP, P2Y12 and P2Y1 mRNA expression as well as on the expression of an array of genes associated with the process of microglial activation. First, we demonstrated, by pharmacological inhibition and by using small interfering RNAs, that in addition to P2Y12, P2Y1 is involved in ADP-stimulated microglial migration. The ability of specific agonists to induce Ca(2+) mobilization further confirmed the expression of functional P2Y receptors in microglia. Then, we found that migratory capability and expression of both P2Y receptors were abrogated in microglial cells from LPS-stimulated mixed glial cultures, while TGF- increased ADP-induced migration and the expression of P2Y12 and P2Y1 receptors. Interferon-gamma did not influence receptor expression or microglial migration. Finally, the patterns of gene expression induced in microglia by LPS or TGF- treatment of mixed glial cultures were clearly distinct. LPS induced a set of classical pro-inflammatory genes, whereas TGF- increased the expression of genes associated with atypical microglial phenotype, namely arginase-1 and TGF- genes. These results imply that both P2Y1 and P2Y12 may guide microglia toward the lesion. They also suggest that the modulation of microglial purinergic receptors expression by local factors, through direct and/or astrocyte-mediated actions, may represent a novel mechanism affecting neuroinflammatory response.
GIGYF2 has been reported as a candidate gene for PARK11-linked Parkinson's disease (PD). Heterozygous knockout of GIGYF2 results in neurodegeneration, suggesting important roles for GIGYF2 (Grb10 interacting GYF protein 2) in the CNS. In this study, we used novel GIGYF2 antibodies to clarify the distribution and function of GIGYF2. GIGYF2 was widely expressed, most highly in the pancreas and testis, and moderately in brain, lung, liver, kidney and spleen. In the brain, GIGYF2 was tightly associated with membrane in the S3 fraction, and localised in neuronal perikarya and proximal dendrites. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated sites of GIGYF2 localisation throughout the mouse brain, with high levels in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, olfactory bulb and brainstem nuclei, but low levels in the substantia nigra and striatum. GIGYF2 was present in endosomes immunopositive for Rab4 and Grb10. Expression of GIGYF2 altered insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor trafficking and enhanced IGF-1-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation, but not IGF-1 receptor or serine/threonine protein kinase Akt phosphorylation. There were no significant differences in signalling activation between cells expressing wild-type and putative PD-associated mutant GIGYF2. In PD brains, GIGYF2 did not localise to Lewy bodies. Our findings indicate a role for GIGYF2 in the regulation of signalling at endosomes, but no contribution of GIGYF2 to the pathogenesis of PD.
This report demonstrates that a repeated 'challenge' high-dose methamphetamine (METH) injection regimen rapidly decreases striatal K(+)-stimulated dopamine (DA) release concurrent with decreases in both synaptosomal membrane-associated (referred to herein as membrane-associated) and previously reported decreases in non-synaptosomal membrane-associated (presumably cytoplasmic) vesicular DA uptake and content. Resembling previously reported effects involving cytoplasmic vesicles wherein uptake was decreased 48 h after treatment, the decrease in membrane-associated uptake persisted 72 h. Cytoplasmic and membrane-associated vesicular DA uptakes were decreased 7 days after the challenge regimen. A single METH injection also rapidly decreased K(+)-stimulated DA release, membrane-associated DA content, and membrane-associated DA uptake; however, unlike after the challenge regimen, the decrease in uptake recovered by 24 h. Pre-treatment with the D(2) receptor antagonist, eticlopride, did not attenuate the decrease in membrane-associated uptake as assessed 1 h after either a single or challenge treatment. However, eticlopride attenuated the decrease in membrane-associated uptake caused by the challenge regimen as assessed 24 h later. These data reveal complex effects of METH on vesicular function that vary according to the vesicle population under study, dosing regimen, and time after treatment. These may contribute to both the decrease in K(+)-stimulated DA release and the persistent dopaminergic deficits caused by METH.
Retinal horizontal cell feedback acts as a gain control at the first synapse in the visual system and generates center-surround receptive fields in the outer retina. One model of feedback proposes that elevation of protons in the photoreceptor synaptic cleft produces feedback. Most evidence supporting the proton model has depended on the effect of proton buffers, in particular aminosulfonates, but these agents could potentially have effects other than external pH regulation. We therefore determined if the effects of aminosulfonates on horizontal cell rollback, an indicator of feedback, were consistent with external proton buffering. Intracellular recording from horizontal cells in isolated goldfish retina revealed that rollback was blocked only by aminosulfonates with an acid dissociation constant suited for buffering at the pH (7.5) of the Ringer's solution. In isolated goldfish horizontal cells, aminosulfonates, even those that did not block rollback, altered intracellular pH. This suggests that the effect of aminosulfonates on rollback is not because of changing intracellular pH. Measures of both intracellular and extracellular pH revealed that treatment with either glutamate or kainate resulted in acidification. As glutamate produced both internal and external acidification, intracellular and extracellular horizontal cell pH would be expected to increase in response to light, a change consistent with the proton model of feedback.
D-amphetamine (AMPH) down-regulates the norepinephrine transporter (NET), although the exact trafficking pathways altered and motifs involved are not known. Therefore, we examined the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in AMPH-induced NET regulation in human placental trophoblast cells expressing the wild-type (WT)-hNET and the hNET double mutant (DM)-bearing protein kinase C (PKC)-resistant T258A + S259A motif. NET function and surface expression were significantly reduced in cells expressing WT-hNET but not in cells expressing hNET-DM following AMPH treatment. AMPH inhibited plasma membrane recycling of both WT-hNET and hNET-DM. In contrast, AMPH stimulated endocytosis of WT-hNET, and did not affect hNET-DM endocytosis. Although PKC or calcium/calmodulin- dependent kinase-II (CaMKII) inhibition or depletion of calcium failed to block AMPH-mediated down-regulation of WT-hNET, NET-specific blocker desipramine completely prevented AMPH-induced down-regulation. Furthermore, AMPH treatment had no effect on phospho-CaMKII immunoreactivity. The inhibitory potency of AMPH was highest on hNET-DM, intermediary on T258A and S259A single mutants and lowest on WT-hNET. Single mutants exhibited partial resistance to AMPH-mediated down-regulation. AMPH accumulation was similar in cells expressing WT-hNET or hNET-DM. The results demonstrate that reduced plasma membrane insertion and enhanced endocytosis account for AMPH-mediated NET down-regulation, and provide the first evidence that T258/S259 motif is involved only in AMPH-induced NET endocytosis that is desipramine-sensitive, but PKC and CaMKII independent.
The adult subventricular zone (SVZ) is a potential source of precursor cells to replace neural cells lost during demyelination. To better understand the molecular events that regulate neural precursor cell responsiveness in this context we undertook a microarray and quantitative PCR based analysis of genes expressed within the SVZ during cuprizone-induced demyelination. We identified an up-regulation of the genes encoding bone morphogenic protein 4 (BMP4) and its receptors. Immunohistochemistry confirmed an increase in BMP4 protein levels and also showed an increase in phosphorylated SMAD 1/5/8, a key component of BMP4 signalling, during demyelination. In vitro analysis revealed that neural precursor cells isolated from demyelinated animals, as well as those treated with BMP4, produce more astrocytes. Similarly, there were increased numbers of astrocytes in vivo within the SVZ during demyelination. Intraventricular infusion of Noggin, an endogenous antagonist of BMP4, during cuprizone-induced demyelination reduced pSMAD1/5/8, decreased astrocyte numbers and increased oligodendrocyte numbers in the SVZ. Our results suggest that lineage commitment of SVZ neural precursor cells is altered during demyelination and that BMP signalling plays a role in this process.
In vivo glucocorticoid (GC) secretion exhibits a distinctive ultradian rhythmicity. The lipophilic hormone can rapidly diffuse into cells, although only the pulse peak is of sufficient amplitude to activate the low affinity glucocorticoid receptor (GR). Discrete pulses readily access brain regions such as the hippocampus where GR expression is enriched and known to regulate neuronal function, including memory and learning processes. In the present study, we have tested the hypothesis that GR brain targets are responsive to ultradian GC rhythmicity. We have used adrenalectomised rats replaced with pulses of corticosterone to determine the transcriptional effects of ultradian pulses in the hippocampus. Confocal microscopy confirmed that each GC pulse results in transient GR nuclear localisation in hippocampal CA1 neurones. Concomitant GR activation and DNA binding was demonstrated by synthetic glucocorticoid response element oligonucleotide binding, and verified for the Clock gene Period 1 promoter region by chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Strikingly each GC pulse induced a 'burst' of transcription of Period 1 measured by heterogeneous nuclear RNA quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The net effect of pulsatile GC exposure on accumulation of the mature transcript was also assessed, revealing a plateau of mRNA levels throughout the time course of pulsatile exposure, indicating the pulse timing works optimally for steady state Per1 expression. The plateau dropped to baseline within 120 min of the final pulse, indicating a relatively short half-life for hippocampal Per1. The significance of this strict temporal control is that any perturbation to the pulse frequency or duration would have rapid quantitative effects on the levels of Per1. This in turn could affect hippocampal function, especially circadian related memory and learning processes.


We evaluated the clinical characteristics and outcome of tracheostomy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) using data from the Piemonte and Valle d'Aosta Register for ALS, a prospective epidemiological register collecting all ALS incident cases in two Italian regions. Among the 1260 patients incident in the period 1995-2004, 134 (10.6%) underwent tracheostomy. Young male patients were more likely to be tracheostomised. Site of onset (bulbar vs spinal) and period of diagnosis (1995-1999 vs 2000-2004) did not influence the likelihood of being tracheostomised. The mean duration of hospital stay was 52.0 days (SD 60.5). Overall, 27 patients died while still in hospital (20.1%). Sixty-five patients (48.5%) were discharged to home, whereas 42 (31.3%) were admitted to long-term care facilities. The median survival time after tracheostomy was 253 days. In the Cox multivariable model, the factors independently related to a longer survival were enteral nutrition, age, marital status and ALS centre follow-up. In conclusion, in an epidemiological setting, ALS survival after tracheostomy was &lt;1 year. Sociocultural factors influence the probability of choice to be tracheostomised, even in a highly socialized health system as Italian one.

Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is a life-threatening condition with high mortality. The pathogenesis underlying the reactivation of latent herpes simplex virus (HSV) remains undefined. We present the case of a 55-year-old female who developed HSE type 1 during brain irradiation and antioedematous dexamethasone treatment for leptomeningeal metastasized breast tumor with epileptic seizures. During the radiotherapy (RT), after a total of 32 Gray administrated in 16 fractions, our patient developed cognitive impairment and partial epileptic status without fever. Two days later the patient's clinical conditions had deteriorated and high fever manifested. A diagnosis of HSE type 1 was made by a positive cerebrospinal fluid polymerase chain reaction. Antiviral therapy with high doses of acyclovir was practiced for four weeks but the comatose state persisted. The patient died 59 days after the last RT fraction. The temporal relationship of RT to the occurrence of HSE suggests that cranial irradiation may play a role in the reactivation of latent HSV. Although antiviral therapy resistance is infrequent in immunocompetent patients, it is one of the main problems in immunocompromized patients.
The complex manifestations of chronic multiple sclerosis (MS)are due in part to widespread axonal abnormalities that affect lesional and nonlesional areas in the central nervous system. We describe an association between microglial activation and axon/oligodendrocyte pathology at nodal and paranodal domains in normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) of MS cases and in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The extent of paranodal axoglial (neurofascin-155(+)/Caspr1(+)) disruption correlated with local microglial inflammation and axonal injury (expression of nonphosphorylated neurofilaments) in MS NAWM. These changes were independent of demyelinating lesions and did not correlate with the density of infiltrating lymphocytes. Similar axoglial alterations were seen in the subcortical white matter of Parkinson disease cases and in preclinical EAE, at a time point when there is microglial activation before the infiltration of immune cells. Disruption of the axoglial unit in adjuvant-immunized animals was reversible and coincided with the resolution of microglial inflammation; paranodal damage and microglial inflammation persisted in chronic EAE. Axoglial integrity could be preserved by the administration of minocycline, which inhibited microglial activation, in actively immunized animals. These data indicate that, in MS NAWM, permanent disruption to axoglial domains in an environment of microglial inflammation is an early indicator of axonal injury that likely affects nerve conduction and may contribute to physiologic dysfunction.
Vaccinations targeting extracellular superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutants are beneficial in mouse models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Because of its misfolded nature, wild-type nonmetallated SOD1 protein (WT-apo) may have therapeutic application for vaccination of various SOD1 mutants. We compared the effects of WT-apo to those of a G93A SOD1 vaccine in low-copy G93A SOD1 transgenic mice. Both SOD1 vaccines induced antibody against G93A SOD1 and significantly delayed disease onset compared with saline/adjuvant controls. WT-apo SOD1 significantly extended the life span of vaccinated mice. The vaccines potentiated TH2 deviation in the spinal cord as determined by the ratio of interleukin-4 to interferon- (IFN) or tumor necrosis factor and induced C1q deposition around motor neurons. Transgenic mice had abundant microglial expression of signal transducers and activators of transcription 4, an activator of transcription of IFN, in the spinal cord implicating IFN in the pathogenesis. On the other hand, the sera from G93A SOD1-vaccinated mice showed higher IFN or tumor necrosis factor and yielded a lower IgG1/IgG2c ratio than the sera from WT-apo-vaccinated mice. These results indicate that the TH1/TH2 milieu is affected by specific vaccinations and that antigenicity might counteract beneficial effects by enhancing TH1 immunity. Thus, because of its lower TH1 induction, WT-apo may be a therapeutic option and have broader application in ALS associated with diverse SOD1 mutations.
PICALM, the gene encoding phosphatidylinositol-binding clathrin assembly (picalm) protein, was recently shown to be associated with risk of Alzheimer disease (AD). Picalm is a key component of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. It recruits clathrin and adaptor protein 2 (AP-2) to the plasma membrane and, along with, AP-2 recognizes target proteins. The attached clathrin triskelions cause membrane deformation around the target proteins enclosing them within clathrin-coated vesicles to be processed in lysosomes or endosomes. We examined the distribution of picalm in control and AD brain tissue and measured levels of picalm messenger RNA (mRNA) by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunolabeling of brain tissue showed that picalm is predominately present in endothelial cells. This was further supported by the demonstration of picalm in human cerebral microvascular cells grown in culture. Picalm mRNA was elevated in relation to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase but not factor VIII-related antigen or CD31 mRNA in the frontal cortex in AD. No change was seen in the temporal cortex or thalamus. The transport of A across vessel walls and into the bloodstream is a major pathway of A removal from the brain and picalm is ideally situated within endothelial cells to participate in this process. Further research is needed to determine whether PICALM expression is influenced by A levels and whether it affects A uptake and transport by endothelial cells.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a potent regulator of inhibitory synaptic transmission, although the locus of this effect and the underlying mechanisms are controversial. We explored a potential interaction between BDNF and endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid) signaling because activation of type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptors potently regulates -aminobutyric acid (GABA) release and both trkB tyrosine kinase receptors and CB1 receptors are highly expressed at synapses in neocortical layer 2/3. Here, we found that the effects of BDNF at inhibitory cortical synapses are mediated by the release of endocannabinoids acting retrogradely at presynaptic CB1 receptors. Specifically, acute application of BDNF rapidly reduced the amplitude of inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) via postsynaptic trkB receptor activation because intracellular delivery of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a completely blocked the BDNF effect. Although triggered by postsynaptic trkB activation, BDNF exposure decreased presynaptic release probability, as evidenced by increases in the paired-pulse ratio and coefficient of variation of evoked responses. In addition, BDNF decreased the frequency but not the amplitude of action potential-independent miniature IPSCs and BDNF did not alter the postsynaptic response to locally applied GABA. These results suggest that BDNF induces the release of a retrograde messenger from the postsynaptic cell that regulates presynaptic neurotransmitter release. Consistent with a role for endocannabinoids as the retrograde signal, the effect of BDNF on IPSCs was blocked by CB1 receptor antagonists and was occluded by a cannabinoid receptor agonist. Furthermore, inhibiting endocannabinoid synthesis or transport also disrupted the BDNF effect, implicating postsynaptic endocannabinoid release triggered by BDNF.
Smooth pursuit eye movements are driven by retinal motion signals. These retinal motion signals are converted into motor commands that obey Listing's law (i.e., no accumulation of ocular torsion). The fact that smooth pursuit follows Listing's law is often taken as evidence that no explicit reference frame transformation between the retinal velocity input and the head-centered motor command is required. Such eye-position-dependent reference frame transformations between eye- and head-centered coordinates have been well-described for saccades to static targets. Here we suggest that such an eye (and head)-position-dependent reference frame transformation is also required for target motion (i.e., velocity) driving smooth pursuit eye movements. Therefore we tested smooth pursuit initiation under different three-dimensional eye positions and compared human performance to model simulations. We specifically tested if the ocular rotation axis changed with vertical eye position, if the misalignment of the spatial and retinal axes during oblique fixations was taken into account, and if ocular torsion (due to head roll) was compensated for. If no eye-position-dependent velocity transformation was used, the pursuit initiation should follow the retinal direction, independently of eye position; in contrast, a correct visuomotor velocity transformation would result in spatially correct pursuit initiation. Overall subjects accounted for all three components of the visuomotor velocity transformation, but we did observe differences in the compensatory gains between individual subjects. We concluded that the brain does perform a visuomotor velocity transformation but that this transformation was prone to noise and inaccuracies of the internal model.
Thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT) neurons exhibit a postburst apamin-resistant slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) that is unique to midline thalamus, displays activity dependence, and is abolished in tetrodotoxin. Analysis of the underlying sI(AHP) confirmed a requirement for Ca(2+) influx with contributions from P/Q-, N-, L-, and R subtype channels, a reversal potential near E(K)(+) and a significant reduction by UCL-2077, barium or TEA, consistent with a role for K(Ca) channels. sI(AHP) was significantly reduced by activation of either the cAMP or the protein kinase C (PKC) signaling pathway. Further analysis of the sAHP revealed an activity-dependent but Ca(2+)-independent component that was reduced in high [K(+)](o) and blockable after Na(+) substitution with Li(+) or in the presence of quinidine, suggesting a role for K(Na) channels. The Ca(2+)-independent sAHP component was selectively reduced by activation of the PKC signaling pathway. The sAHP contributed to spike frequency adaptation, which was sensitive to activation of either cAMP or PKC signaling pathways and, near the peak of membrane hyperpolarization, was sufficient to cause de-inactivation of low threshold T-Type Ca(2+) channels, thus promoting burst firing. PVT neurons are densely innervated by orexin-immunoreactive fibers, and depolarized by exogenously applied orexins. We now report that orexin A significantly reduced both Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent sI(AHP), and spike frequency adaptation. Furthermore orexin A-induced sI(AHP) inhibition was mediated through activation of PKC but not PKA. Collectively, these observations suggest that K(Ca) and K(Na) channels have a role in a sAHP that contributes to spike frequency adaptation and neuronal excitability in PVT neurons and that the sAHP is a novel target for modulation by the arousal- and feeding-promoting orexin neuropeptides.
Non-REM (slow-wave) sleep has been shown to facilitate temporal lobe epileptiform events, whereas REM sleep seems more restrictive. This state-dependent modulation may be the result of the enhancement of excitatory synaptic transmission and/or the degree of network synchronization expressed within the hippocampus of the temporal lobe. The slow oscillation (SO), a 1 Hz oscillatory pattern expressed during non-REM sleep and urethane anesthesia, has been recently shown to facilitate the generation, maintenance, and propagation of stimulus-evoked epileptiform activity in the hippocampus. To further address the state-dependent modulation of epileptic activity during the SO, we studied the properties of short-duration interictal-like activity generated by focal application of penicillin in the hippocampus of urethane-anesthetized rats. Epileptiform spikes were larger but only slightly more prevalent during the SO as opposed to the theta (REM-like) state. More notably, however, epileptic spikes had a significant tendency to occur just following the peak negativity of ongoing SO cycles. Because of the known phase-dependent changes in 1) synaptic excitability (just following the positive peak of the SO) and 2) network synchronization (during the negative peak of the SO), these results suggest that it is the synchrony and not the changes in synaptic excitability that lead to the facilitation of epileptiform activity during sleep-like slow wave states.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated currents are enhanced by phosphorylation. We have investigated effects of phosphorylation-dependent short-term plasticity of NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) on the induction of long-term depression (LTD). We confirmed in whole cell clamped CA1 pyramidal neurons that LTD is induced by pairing stimulus protocols. However, after serine-threonine phosphorylation was modified by postsynaptic introduction of a protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) inhibitor, the same pairing protocol evoked long-term potentiation (LTP). We determined effects of modification of phosphatase activity on evoked NMDA EPSCs during LTD induction protocols. During LTD induction, using a protocol pairing depolarization to -40 mV and 0.5 Hz stimulation, NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs undergo a short-term enhancement at the start of the protocol. In neurons in which PP1 activity was inhibited, this short-term enhancement was markedly amplified. We then investigated the effect of this enhancement on Ca(2+) entry during the start of the LTD induction protocol. Enhancement of NMDA receptor-mediated responses was accompanied by an amplification of induction protocol-evoked Ca(2+) transients. Furthermore, this amplification required synaptic activation during the protocol, consistent with an enhancement of Ca(2+) entry mediated by NMDA receptor activation. The sign of NMDA receptor-mediated long-term plasticity, whether potentiation or depression depends on the amplitude of the synaptic Ca(2+) transient during induction. We conclude that short-term phosphorylation-dependent plasticity of the NMDA receptor-mediated EPSCs contributes significantly to the effect of phosphatase inhibition on the subsequent induction of LTD or LTP.
Strong evidence that premotor interneurons provide ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurons with feedback information on their actions on motoneurons was previously found for Ia inhibitory interneurons and Renshaw cells, while indications for similar actions of other premotor interneurons were weaker and indirect. Therefore the aim of the present study was to reexamine this possibility with respect to interneurons relaying actions of group Ib afferents from tendon organs and group II afferents from muscle spindles. In all, 133 VSCT neurons in the L3-L5 segments (including 41 spinal border neurons) were recorded from intracellularly in deeply anesthetized cats to verify that stimuli applied in motor nuclei evoked monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) attributable to stimulation of axon collaterals of premotor interneurons. IPSPs were found in over two thirds of the investigated neurons. When intraspinal stimuli were preceded by stimuli applied to a muscle nerve at critical intervals, IPSPs evoked from motor nuclei were considerably reduced, indicating a collision of nerve volleys in axons of interneurons activated by group I and group II afferents. In individual VSCT neurons monosynaptic IPSPs were evoked from both biceps-semitendinosus and gastrocnemius-soleus motor nuclei, in parallel with disynaptic IPSPs from group Ib and group II as well as group Ia afferents. These observations indicate that individual VSCT neurons may monitor the degree of inhibition of both flexor and extensor motoneurons by premotor interneurons in inhibitory pathways from group Ib and group II afferents to motoneurons. They may thus be providing the cerebellum with feedback information on actions of these premotor interneurons on motoneurons.
We constantly make eye movements to bring objects of interest onto the fovea for more detailed processing. Activity in area V4, a prestriate visual area, is enhanced at the location corresponding to the target of an eye movement. However, the precise role of activity in V4 in relation to these saccades and the modulation of other cortical areas in the oculomotor system remains unknown. V4 could be a source of visual feature information used to select the eye movement, or alternatively, it could reflect the locus of spatial attention. To test these hypotheses, we trained monkeys on a visual search task in which they were free to move their eyes. We found that activity in area V4 reflected the direction of the upcoming saccade but did not predict the latency of the saccade in contrast to activity in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). We suggest that the signals in V4, unlike those in LIP, are not directly involved in the generation of the saccade itself but rather are more closely linked to visual perception and attention. Although V4 and LIP have different roles in spatial attention and preparing eye movements, they likely perform complimentary processes during visual search.
Brief radiant laser pulses selectively activate skin nociceptors and elicit transient brain responses (laser-evoked potentials [LEPs]). When LEPs are elicited by pairs of stimuli (S1-S2) delivered at different interstimulus intervals (ISIs), the S2-LEP is strongly reduced at short ISIs (250 ms) and progressively recovers at longer ISIs (2,000 ms). This finding has been interpreted in terms of order of arrival of nociceptive volleys and refractoriness of neural generators of LEPs. However, an alternative explanation is the modulation of another experimental factor: the novelty of the eliciting stimulus. To test this alternative hypothesis, we recorded LEPs elicited by pairs of nociceptive stimuli delivered at four ISIs (250, 500, 1,000, 2,000 ms), using two different conditions. In the constant condition, the ISI was identical across the trials of each block, whereas in the variable condition, the ISI was varied randomly across trials and single-stimulus trials were intermixed with paired trials. Therefore the time of occurrence of S2 was both less novel and more predictable in the constant than in the variable condition. In the constant condition, we observed a significant ISI-dependent suppression of the biphasic negative-positive wave (N2-P2) complex of the S2-LEP. In contrast, in the variable condition, the S2-LEP was completely unaffected by stimulus repetition. The pain ratings elicited by S2 were not different in the two conditions. These results indicate that the repetition-suppression of the S2-LEP is not due to refractoriness in nociceptive afferent pathways, but to a modulation of novelty and/or temporal predictability of the eliciting stimulus. This provides further support to the notion that stimulus saliency constitutes a crucial determinant of LEP magnitude and that a significant fraction of the brain activity time-locked to a brief and transient sensory stimulus is not directly related to the quality and the intensity of the corresponding sensation, but to bottom-up attentional processes.
An open-label, experimental, prospective 5-month follow-up study was performed with 19 patients with psychogenic nonepileptic seizures and anxiety disorder and/or depression who were treated with venlafaxine. The authors held monthly visits and evaluated changes in baseline Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores, Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores, and the number of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures. HAM-D scores, HAM-A scores, and the number of nonepileptic seizures showed a statistically significant decrease which was maintained over the study period. Based on this study, the authors conclude that venlafaxine may help reduce nonepileptic seizures in patients with additional anxious and/or depressive symptoms.
Anosognosia and apathy are among the most common behavioral and psychological disorders of Alzheimer's disease and are significantly associated in cross-sectional studies. The aim for this study was to carry out for the first time a longitudinal assessment of this association with the aim of clarifying the predictive role between anosognosia and apathy in Alzheimer's disease. A consecutive series of 213 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were assessed for the presence of apathy and anosognosia using a specific neuropsychiatry assessment. One hundred fifty four of the patients (72%) had a follow-up assessment between 1 and 4 years after the baseline evaluation. Patients with anosognosia at baseline had a significant increase in apathy scores during follow-up relative to patients without anosognosia at both assessments. Conversely, patients with or without apathy had an increase of similar magnitude in anosognosia scores. In conclusion, anosognosia is a significant predictor of apathy in Alzheimer's disease. This may be related to a specific pattern of progression of neuropathology and/or to poor adjustment of Alzheimer's disease patients with poor insight into their functional deficits.
How body position influences brain tissue oxygen (PbtO2) and intracranial pressure (ICP) in critically ill neurosurgical patients remains poorly defined. In a prospective observational repeated measures study, we examined the effects of 12 different body positions on neurodynamic and hemodynamic outcomes. Thirty-three consecutive patients (mean +/- SD, age = 48.3 +/- 16.6 years; 22 men), admitted after traumatic brain injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage, or craniotomy for tumor, were evaluated in a neurocritical care unit at a level 1 academic trauma center. Patients were eligible if the admission score in the Glasgow Coma Scale was &lt; or =8 and they had a Licox CMP Monitoring System (Integra Neurosciences, Plainsboro, NJ). Patients were exposed to all 12 positions in random order. Changes from baseline to the 15-minute postposition assessment mean change scores showed a downward trend for PbtO2 for all positions with statistically significant decreases observed for supine head of bed (HOB) elevated 30 degrees and 45 degrees (p &lt; .01) and right and left lateral positioning HOB 30 degrees (p &lt; .05). ICP decreased with supine HOB 45 degrees (p &lt; .01) and knee elevation, HOB 30 degrees and 45 degrees (p &lt; .05), and increased (p &lt; .05) with right and left lateral HOB 15 degrees. Hemodynamic parameters were similar in the various positions. Positioning practices can positively or negatively affect PbtO2 and ICP and fluctuate with considerable variability among patients. Nurses must consider potential effects of turning, evaluate changes with positioning on the basis of monitoring feedback from multimodality devices, and make independent clinical judgments about optimal positions to maintain or improve cerebral oxygenation.
This quantitative study was designed to identify the needs of family members of neuroscience patients. An adaptation of the Critical Care Family Needs Inventory was used to identify the top 10 needs of neuroscience families. Results were compared on the basis of whether the admission was planned or emergent. Needs were further examined on the basis of a family's perception of patient prognosis and communication with physicians and nurses. Most needs were recognized as being either important or very important with the need for information about the patient's care receiving the highest rating. Significant differences were noted between family members who expected their loved one to return to normal or with a slight decrease in activity versus those who expected their loved one to have a moderate to complete inability to perform normal activities. Communication with nurses was rated excellent or good significantly more often than communication with physicians.
The purpose of this study was to characterize temporal patterns of functional and cognitive disability changes during the acute period in hemorrhagic stroke patients. The study subjects were 62 hemorrhagic stroke patients admitted to a surgical intensive care unit at a university hospital located in Incheon, South Korea. As outcome variables, functional disability, cognitive ability, and employment status were evaluated directly at 1, 3, and 6 months after admission. The results showed that significant improvements in functional and cognitive ability were observed between 1 and 6 months after admission. In terms of functional disability, subjects considered their overall functional ability (dependence on others) to be less recovered than the specific functional abilities (feeding, grooming, or toileting): 75% of the subjects stated that they were completely independent on others, whereas 92.9%, 83.9%, and 83.9% of subjects indicated that they were completely independent for feeding, grooming, and toileting at the 6-month assessments, respectively. In terms of cognitive ability, attention, communication, and memory recovery rates were found to be relatively good. However, the proportion of subjects that achieved complete problem solving and safety and social behavior recovery were lower than those that achieved attention, communication, and memory recovery. Our findings can provide the empirical evidences when neuroscience nurses use educational and supportive strategies for rehabilitation of hemorrhagic stroke patients.
Sex is emerging as an important factor in the etiology and expression of many different pathological conditions, including stroke. Initially, the levels of sex hormones were thought to be the major contributor to these sex differences, especially after puberty, when gonadal steroid levels sharply diverge between the sexes. More recently, it is recognized that sex differences also result from the organizational effects of sex hormone exposure early in development, even in the absence of hormone exposure later in life, as well as effects mediated by the sex chromosomes themselves. Epigenetic modifications of developmental genes important in sexual differentiation and the response to sex steroid hormones are also emerging as another important contributor to sex differences in disease expression. This review describes recent research on the relationship between hormones, organizational-activational effects of gonadal steroids, and epigenetic modifications in brain pathology, focusing specifically on cerebral ischemia.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the ability of astrocyte-derived factors to influence neural progenitor cell differentiation. We previously demonstrated that rat adult hippocampal progenitor cells (AHPCs) immunoreactive for the neuronal marker class III beta-tubulin (TUJ1) were significantly increased in the presence of astrocyte-derived soluble factors under noncontact coculture conditions. Using whole-cell patch-clamp analysis, we observed that the cocultured AHPCs displayed two prominent voltage-gated conductances, tetraethyl ammonium (TEA)-sensitive outward currents and fast transient inward currents. The outward and inward current densities of the cocultured AHPCs were approximately 2.5-fold and 1.7-fold greater, respectively, than those of cells cultured alone. These results suggest that astrocyte-derived soluble factors induce neuronal commitment of AHPCs. To investigate further the activity of a candidate neurogenic factor on AHPC differentiation, we cultured AHPCs in the presence or absence of purified rat recombinant interleukin-6 (IL-6). We also confirmed that the astrocytes used in this study produced IL-6 by ELISA and RT-qPCR. When AHPCs were cultured with IL-6 for 6-7 days, the TUJ1-immunoreactive AHPCs and the average length of TUJ1-immunoreactive neurites were significantly increased compared with the cells cultured without IL-6. Moreover, IL-6 increased the inward current density to an extent comparable to that of coculture with astrocytes, with no significant differences in the outward current density, apparent resting potential, or cell capacitance. These results suggest that astrocyte-derived IL-6 may facilitate AHPC neuronal differentiation. Our findings have important implications for understanding injury-induced neurogenesis and developing cell-based therapeutic strategies using neural progenitors.
Although it has been known for some time that chronic caloric or dietary restriction reduces the risk of neurodegenerative disorders and injury following ischemia, the possible role of chronic restriction in improving outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI) has not been previously studied. Therefore, 2-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into two dietary groups, an ad libitum fed group (AL) and a caloric-restriction group (CR) that was provided with 70% of the food intake of AL rats (n = 10/group). After 4 months, a weight-drop device (300 g) was used to produce a 2-mm bilateral medial frontal cortex contusion following craniotomy. Additional animals in each dietary group (n = 10) were used as sham-operated controls. The CR diet resulted in body weights that were reduced by 30% compared with AL controls. Not only did CR decrease the size of the cortical lesion after injury, there were marked improvements in spatial memory as measured by Morris water maze that included an increase in the number of animals successfully finding the platform as well as significantly reduced time to finding the hidden platform. Western analysis, used to examine the expression of proteins that play a role in neuronal survival, revealed significant increases in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the cortical region around the site of injury and in the hippocampus in CR rats after injury. These findings suggest that molecular mechanisms involved in cell survival may play a role in reducing tissue damage and improving cognition after TBI and that these mechanisms can be regulated by dietary interventions.
Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is a common denominator in many conditions leading to cell death in the cochlea, yet little is known of the cochlea's endogenous mechanisms involved in preventing oxidative stress and its consequences in the cochlea. We have recently described a corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) signaling system in the inner ear involved in susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss. We use biochemical and proteomics assays to define further the role of CRF signaling in the response of cochlear cells to aminoglycoside exposure. We demonstrate that activity via the CRF(2) class of receptors protects against aminoglycoside-induced ROS production and activation of cell death pathways. This study suggests for the first time a role for CRF signaling in protecting the cochlea against oxidative stress, and our proteomics data suggest novel mechanisms beyond induction of free radical scavengers that are involved in its protective mechanisms.
Analysis of optimal sites for neurosurgical interventions in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) suggests that significant clinical benefits may be achieved by involvement of the zona incerta (ZI). Unilateral electrolytic ZI lesions were made in intact and ipsilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA)-lesioned rats. Extracellular levels of glutamate, dopamine, and its metabolites in the ipsilateral striatum of awake rats were measured by using microdialysis, and tests of behavioral asymmetry were performed. In intact rats, ZI lesions had no effect on striatal extracellular glutamate or absolute levels of dopamine or metabolites, but dopamine metabolism decreased. After ZI lesions, contralateral forepaw use decreased in the forepaw adjusting steps test, but there was no change in response to vibrissa stimulation or cylinder exploration. There was no development of rotational asymmetry with amphetamine. In 6OHDA-lesioned rats, striatal extracellular glutamate levels were elevated compared with controls. ZI lesions reduced the increased levels of glutamate back to normal values. ZI lesions reduced dopamine and homovanillic acid levels and showed a trend toward a decrease in dopamine metabolism. 6OHDA-lesioned rats demonstrated the expected asymmetry of motor behaviors. After ZI lesions, ipsilateral turns following amphetamine injection were reduced, and there was a trend toward improved symmetry of forepaw use as determined with the forepaw adjusting steps test. There was no change in forepaw use with vibrissa stimulation or cylinder exploration. These data indicate that lesions of the ZI can affect striatal neurochemistry and motor behavioral asymmetry and suggest potential mechanisms by which ZI lesions may improve symptoms in PD.


Chiari malformation (CM) is the downward herniation of the caudal part of the cerebellum and/or medulla oblongata into the spinal canal. It can alter several neurological functions, including respiratory control and upper airway motility, and can be the cause of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB). The authors describe a 6-year-old boy affected by CM Type II associated with myelomeningocele who showed symptoms indicative of severe airway obstruction during sleep. Polysomnography revealed severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS). Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated herniation of the cerebellar tonsils and diffuse ventricular dilation with a large pseudocystic formation in the third ventricle. Surgical marsupialization of the cystic wall was performed, associated with ventriculocystostomy and endoscopic replacement of the ventricular catheter. Polysomnography repeated 2 months after surgery revealed a striking improvement in the sleep-related respiratory pattern. The pathogenesis of OSAS was probably referable to a combination of CM and elevated intracranial pressure. However, the striking improvement of symptoms after ventriculoatrial shunt placement suggested that hydrocephalus plays a major role in this condition. Assessment and effective treatment of SDB is crucial in the care of patients with CM.
Neuropathic pain and motor deficits are detrimental consequences of injury to the spinal cord. In experimental settings, numerous neuroprotective agents are being explored for their therapeutic benefits. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an interesting candidate molecule in this respect since it is not only associated with angiogenesis, but also with neuroprotection and neurite growth. Other investigators have reported improved motor outcomes following intraparenchymal VEGF treatment. Here we demonstrate the therapeutic effects of daily intrathecal treatment of the contused thoracic rat spinal cord with the 165-isoform of VEGF during the first week after injury. We show that VEGF treatment resulted in a statistically significant attenuation of mechanical, but not thermal, hypersensitivity of the hindpaws, while motor deficits remained unaffected. Tissue sparing was also unchanged by VEGF treatment. Microglial responses at the lumbar spinal cord, which have been linked with spinal cord injury-induced hypersensitivity, were found to be unaffected by VEGF treatment. We conclude that repetitive intrathecal VEGF delivery has limited therapeutic effects on spinal cord injury outcome.
We have previously shown that the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) significantly improves several histological and behavioral measures after spinal cord injury (SCI). White matter damage plays a key role in neurological outcome following SCI. Therefore, we examined the effects of the acute intravenous (IV) administration of DHA (250nmol/kg) 30min after thoracic compression SCI in rats, alone or in combination with a DHA-enriched diet (400mg/kg/d, administered for 6 weeks post-injury), on white matter pathology. By 1 week post-injury, the acute IV DHA injection led to significantly reduced axonal dysfunction, as indicated by accumulation of -amyloid precursor protein (-55% compared to vehicle-injected controls) in the dorsal columns. The loss of cytoskeletal proteins following SCI was also significantly reduced. There were 43% and 73% more axons immunoreactive for non-phosphorylated 200-kD neurofilament in the ventral white matter and ventrolateral white matter, respectively, in animals receiving DHA injections than vehicle-injected rats. The acute DHA treatment also led to a significant improvement in microtubule-associated protein-2 immunoreactivity. By 6 weeks, damage to myelin and serotonergic fibers was also reduced. For some of the parameters measured, the combination of DHA injection and DHA-enriched diet led to greater neuroprotection than DHA injection alone. These findings demonstrate the therapeutic potential of DHA in SCI, and clearly indicate that this fatty acid confers significant protection to the white matter.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and viral proteins affect neuronal survival and neuron-glial cell interactions, which culminate in neurological disorders. HIV-1 infects regions of neurogenesis in human adult and pediatric brain. However, little is known about the effect of HIV-1 or viral proteins on the properties of human neural precursor cells (hNPCs), particularly neurogenesis, hence a detailed investigation on these lines is warranted. Human neural precursor cells were cultured in presence and absence of HIV-1B transactivating protein Tat to investigate if HIV-1 viral protein alters the properties of human neural precursor cells. Cellular and molecular approaches were adopted to study the effect of HIV-1B transactivating protein Tat on proliferation and differentiation potential of human fetal brain-derived NPCs. Cell proliferation assays such as BrdU and Ki67 staining and pathway-specific cDNA and protein arrays were used in the study. Data reveal that HIV-1B Tat protein severely affects proliferation of hNPCs, as evident by lower incorporation of BrdU and Ki67 staining as well as neurosphere assay. HIV-1 Tat substantially attenuated neurogenesis, as evident by the smaller numbers of Tuj-1- and doublecortin-positive cells differentiated from hNPCs, without affecting their viability. These data suggest that HIV-1 Tat alters the properties of human neural precursor cells via attenuation of the cell cycle regulatory unit cyclin D1 and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, particularly extracellular signal-related kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). The study provides new insights into cellular and molecular mechanisms that may modulate human neural precursor cell properties in HIV/AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) individuals. Validation with autopsy brain samples is necessary to further substantiate these important observations.






The cerebellar cortex is crucial for sensorimotor integration. Sensorimotor inputs converge on cerebellar Purkinje cells via two afferent pathways: the climbing fibre pathway triggering complex spikes, and the mossy fibreparallel fibre pathway, modulating the simple spike activities of Purkinje cells. We used, for the first time, the mouse whisker system as a model system to study the encoding of somatosensory input by Purkinje cells.We show that most Purkinje cells in ipsilateral crus 1 and crus 2 of awake mice respond to whisker stimulation with complex spike and/or simple spike responses. Single-whisker stimulation in anaesthetised mice revealed that the receptive fields of complex spike and simple spike responses were strikingly different. Complex spike responses, which proved to be sensitive to the amplitude, speed and direction of whisker movement, were evoked by only one or a few whiskers. Simple spike responses, which were not affected by the direction of movement, could be evoked by many individual whiskers. The receptive fields of Purkinje cells were largely intermingled, and we suggest that this facilitates the rapid integration of sensory inputs from different sources. Furthermore, we describe that individual Purkinje cells, at least under anaesthesia, may be bound in two functional ensembles based on the receptive fields and the synchrony of the complex spike and simple spike responses. The complex spike ensembles were oriented in the sagittal plane, following the anatomical organization of the climbing fibres, while the simple spike ensembles were oriented in the transversal plane, as are the beams of parallel fibres.
Melatonin, a circadian rhythm-promoting molecule secreted mainly by the pineal gland, has a variety of biological functions and neuroprotective effects including control of sleep-wake cycle, seasonal reproduction, and body temperature as well as preventing neuronal cell death induced by neurotoxic substances. Melatonin also modulates neural stem cell (NSC) function including proliferation and differentiation in embryonic brain tissue. However, the involvement of melatonin in adult neurogenesis is still not clear. Here, we report that precursor cells from adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle, the main neurogenic area of the adult brain, express melatonin receptors. In addition, precursor cells derived from this area treated with melatonin exhibited increased proliferative activity. However, when cells were treated with luzindole, a competitive inhibitor of melatonin receptors, or pertussis toxin, an uncoupler of Gi from adenylate cyclase, melatonin-induced proliferation was reduced. Under these conditions, melatonin induced the differentiation of precursor cells to neuronal cells without an upregulation of the number of glia cells. Because stem cell replacement is thought to play an important therapeutic role in neurodegenerative diseases, melatonin might be beneficial for stimulating endogenous neural stem cells.

Increased pro-inflammatory state has been implicated in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder. The aim of this study was to determine serum levels of TNF- and soluble TNF- receptors 1 and 2 (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2) in anti-depressant free depressed elderly patients as compared to healthy controls. Sixty-seven older adults (28 with major depression and 39 controls) were enrolled to this study. Participants were assessed by the SCID and diagnosis of major depressive episode was made according to the DSM-IV criteria. Serum TNF-, sTNFR1 and sTNFR2 were determined by ELISA. Anti-depressant free patients with late-life depression showed an increased level of the sTNFR2 as compared to controls (p=0.03). No significant differences were found in serum TNF- and sTNFR1 levels (p=0.1 and p=0.4, respectively). There was no correlation between serum levels of these inflammatory markers and the severity of depression. Our findings provide additional evidence of the involvement of abnormal pro-inflammatory state in late-life depression.
Previous studies with 1.5T or 3.0T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have produced mixed results regarding the structural changes of the hippocampus in major depressive disorder (MDD). Subtle region-specific hippocampal tissue changes might be more sensitively detected by measuring the T2* relaxation time (T2*-RT) by ultra-high-field (UHF) MRI, as it provides much higher contrast and sensitivity and consequently greater resolution. We assessed the T2*-RTs of hippocampal sub-regions in 16 MDD patients (9 with recurrent MDD) and 16 control subjects using an UHF 7.0T MRI system. T2*-RTs of CA1, CA2, CA3, CA4, and subiculum were calculated for both left and right hippocampus. MDD patients had significantly longer T2*-RTs in the right CA1 and subiculum than control subjects. Patients with recurrent MDD had significantly longer T2*-RTs in the right subiculum than those experiencing a first depressive episode, and longer T2*-RTs in the right CA1, CA3, and subiculum than control subjects. Values for T2*-RTs of the right CA3 were significantly correlated with illness duration. In conclusion, we report that T2*-RTs in the right subiculum and CA1 were increased in patients with MDD, especially in cases of recurrent MDD. These findings suggest that region-specific hippocampal damage may be occurring in recurrent depression.
Psychological distress and coping styles have been suggested to relate to altered function in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, although there remains much to be understood about their relationships. High and low cortisol levels (or reactivity) both represent HPA axis dysfunction, with accumulated evidence suggesting that they are linked to different types of psychopathology. The dexamethasone (DEX)/corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) test has been extensively used to identify HPA axis abnormalities in various psychiatric conditions including mood disorders; however, the possible associations of psychological distress and coping styles with HPA axis function have not been well documented using this test. Here, we examined the relationships of HPA axis reactivity as measured by the DEX/CRH test with subjectively perceived psychological distress and coping styles, both of which were assessed with self-report questionnaires, in 121 healthy volunteers. Subjects were divided into three groups by the cortisol suppression pattern, namely the incomplete-suppressors (DST-Cortisol5g/dL or DEX/CRH-Cortisol5g/dL), moderate-suppressors (DST-Cortisol&lt;5g/dL and 1g/dLDEX/CRH -Cortisol&lt;5g/dL), and enhanced-suppressors (DST-Cortisol&lt;5g/dL and DEX/CRH-Cortisol&lt;1g/dL). The enhanced-suppressors showed significantly higher scores in obsessive-compulsive, interpersonal sensitivity and anxiety symptoms and significantly more frequent use of avoidant coping strategy, compared to the other two groups. These results point to the important role of enhanced suppression of cortisol, or blunted cortisol reactivity, in non-clinical psychopathology such as avoidant coping strategy and greater psychological distress.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a devastating major mental illness associated with high rates of suicide and work loss. There is an emerging body of data suggesting that bipolar disorder is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. In this context, the present study aims to investigate the effects of mood stabilizers lithium (Li) and valproate (VPT) on mitochondrial respiratory chain activity in brain of rats undergoing treatment with the pro-manic agent d-AMPH d-amphetamine (d-AMPH). In the reversal treatment, Wistar rats were first given d-AMPH or saline for 14 days, and then, between days 8 and 14, rats were treated with Li, VPA or saline (Sal). In the prevention treatment, rats were pretreated with Li, VPA or Sal. Locomotor behavior was assessed using the open-field task and mitochondrial chain activity complexes I, II, III and IV were measured in brain structures (hippocampus, striatum and prefrontal). Li and VPA reversed and prevented d-AMPH-induced hyperactivity. In both experiments, d-AMPH inhibited mitochondrial respiratory chain activity in all analyzed structures. In the reversal treatment, VPA reversed d-AMPH-induced dysfunction in all brain regions analyzed. In the prevention experiment, the effects of Li and VPA on d-AMPH-induced mitochondrial dysfunction were dependent on the brain region analyzed. These findings suggested that dopamine can be an important link for the mitochondrial dysfunction seen in BD and, Li and VPA exert protective effects against this d-AMPH-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, but this effect varies depending on the brain region and the treatment regimen.
Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) is a widely used animal model of depression. The present study was undertaken to investigate behavioral, physiological and molecular effects of CUS and/or chronic antidepressant treatment (venlafaxine or imipramine) in the same set of animals. Anhedonia, a core symptom of depression, was assessed by measuring consumption of a palatable solution. Exposure to CUS reduced intake of a palatable solution and this effect was prevented by chronic antidepressant treatment. Moreover, chronic antidepressant treatment decreased depressive-like behavior in a modified forced swim test in stressed rats. Present evidence suggests a role for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in depression. BDNF mRNA levels in the ventral and dorsal hippocampus were assessed by in situ hybridization. Exposure to CUS was not correlated with a decrease but rather with an increase in BDNF mRNA expression in both the dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus and the CA3 region of the ventral hippocampus indicating that there is no simple link between depression-like behaviors per se and brain BDNF levels in rats. However, a significant increase in BDNF mRNA levels in the dentate gyrus of the dorsal hippocampus correlated with chronic antidepressant treatment emphasizing a role for BDNF in the mechanisms underlying antidepressant activity.
Early emotional stress is associated with a life-long burden of risk for later depression and stressful life events contribute to the development of depressive episodes. In this study we investigated whether childhood stress is associated with structural brain alterations in patients with major depression (MD). Forty-three patients with MD and 44 age as well as gender matched healthy control subjects were investigated using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Region of interest analysis of the hippocampus, whole brain voxel-based morphometry (VBM) and assessment of childhood stress was carried out. Significantly smaller hippocampal white matter and prefrontal gray matter volume was observed in patients with MD compared to healthy controls. In particular left hippocampal white matter was smaller in patients, who had emotional childhood neglect, compared to those without neglect. For male patients this effect was seen in the left and right hippocampus. Moreover, physical neglect during childhood affected prefrontal gray matter volume in healthy subjects. Both emotional neglect and brain structural abnormalities predicted cumulative illness duration and there was a significant interaction between emotional neglect and prefrontal volumes as well as hippocampal white matter on the illness course. Childhood neglect resulted in hippocampal white matter changes in patients with major depression, pronounced at the left side and in males. Most interestingly, childhood stress and brain structure volumes independently predicted cumulative illness course. Subjects with both, structural brain changes and childhood emotional neglect seem to be at a very high risk to develop a more severe illness course.
In a previous case report, published in this journal, we described a postoperative delirium in a patient during recovery from parathyroidectomy. We noted that the delirium resembled serotonin toxicity and that the patient had been taking paroxetine until 2 days before surgery. We offered several tentative explanations for this event, including an adverse interaction between paroxetine and other agent(s) used in the course of the anaesthesia. Recent developments in characterisation of serotonin toxicity have prompted us to re-examine the clinical details surrounding this life-threatening event. It is now known to be important that the patient was given methylene blue, pre-operatively, to enable visualisation of the parathyroid glands. Methylene blue has been found to be a potent inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO), and several cases of serotonin toxicity have been reported recently following its administration. All these cases are consistent with the well-known risk of serotonin toxicity when drugs that augment serotonergic transmission are given in combination with an MAO inhibitor. Methylene blue is used in a variety of surgical settings as well as for treatment of various types of hypotensive shock and methemoglobinaemia. It is also being studied for treatment of Alzheimer's disease and malaria. In this paper, we outline the pharmacology of methylene blue and the aetiology of serotonin toxicity to help prevent further unintentional co-administration of drugs that risk precipitating this life-threatening drug interaction.
It is well accepted that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) arrange into dimers or higher-order oligomers that may modify various functions of GPCRs. GPCR-type purinergic receptors (i.e. adenosine and P2Y receptors) tend to form heterodimers with GPCRs not only of the different families but also of the same purinergic receptor families, leading to alterations in functional properties. In the present review, we focus on current knowledge of the formation of heterodimers between metabotropic purinergic receptors that activate novel functions in response to extracellular nucleosides/nucleotides, revealing that the dimerization seems to be employed for 'fine-tuning' of purinergic signaling. Thus, the relationship between adenosine and adenosine triphosphate is likely to be more and more intimate than simply being a metabolite of the other.
Based on indications of direct physical interactions between neuropeptide and monoamine receptors in the early 1980s, the term receptor-receptor interactions was introduced and later on the term receptor heteromerization in the early 1990s. Allosteric mechanisms allow an integrative activity to emerge either intramolecularly in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) monomers or intermolecularly via receptor-receptor interactions in GPCR homodimers, heterodimers, and receptor mosaics. Stable heteromers of Class A receptors may be formed that involve strong high energy arginine-phosphate electrostatic interactions. These receptor-receptor interactions markedly increase the repertoire of GPCR recognition, signaling and trafficking in which the minimal signaling unit in the GPCR homomers appears to be one receptor and one G protein. GPCR homomers and GPCR assemblies are not isolated but also directly interact with other proteins to form horizontal molecular networks at the plasma membrane.

The frequency for movements along the longitudinal axis during running peaks at approximately 3 Hz. Other physiological systems (e.g. heart rate and brain cortical activity) are known to show a dominant frequency of ~3 Hz connected to exercise. As recent studies have proposed a clear correlation between musical tempo, mood, and performance output, we wished to ascertain whether peak locomotion frequency of ~3 Hz during running is synchronized with different intrinsic and extrinsic frequencies. Eighteen healthy regular runners performed three outdoor running sessions at different intensities. Oscillations along the longitudinal axis were recorded using an accelerometer (ActiBelt). Electrocortical activity was recorded using electroencephalography before and after exercise and analysed in the delta frequency range (2-4 Hz). In addition, the frequency spectra of the participants' favourite musical pieces were analysed. Data revealed a peak frequency at around 2.7 to 2.8 Hz for the vertical acceleration during running. Similar oscillation patterns were found for heart rate and musical pieces. Electroencephalographic delta activity increased after running. Results of this study give reason to speculate that a strong relationship exists between intrinsic and extrinsic oscillation patterns during exercise. A frequency of approximately 3 Hz seems to be dominant in different physiological systems and seems to be rated as pleasurable when choosing the appropriate music for exercising. This is in line with previous research showing that an adequate choice of music during exercise enhances performance output and mood.
Events during early life can affect reproductive and metabolic functions in adulthood. We evaluated the programming effects of a single early postnatal estradiol injection (within 3h after birth) in female rats. We assessed ovarian and parametrial adipose tissue morphology, evaluated gene expression related to follicular development and adipose tissue metabolism, and developed a non-invasive volumetric estimation of parametrial adipose tissue by magnetic resonance imaging. Estradiol reduced ovarian weight, increased antral follicle size and number of atretic antral follicles, and decreased theca interna thickness in atretic antral follicles. Adult estradiol-injected rats also had malformed vaginal openings and lacked corpora lutea, confirming anovulation. Estradiol markedly reduced parametrial adipose tissue mass. Adipocyte size was unchanged, suggesting reduced adipocyte number. Parametrial adipose tissue lipoprotein lipase activity was increased. In ovaries, estradiol increased mRNA expression of adiponectin, complement component 3, estrogen receptor , and glucose transporter 3 and 4; in parametrial adipose tissue, expression of complement component 3 was increased, expression of estrogen receptor  was decreased, and expression of leptin, lipoprotein lipase, and hormone-sensitive lipase was unaffected. These findings suggest that early postnatal estradiol exposure of female rats result in long-lasting effects on the ovary and parametrial adipose tissue at adult age.


Preparing students for a career in cognitive neuroscience may be especially challenging due to the expense and complexity of many types of cognitive neuroscience technologies. However, it is possible to train students in cognitive neuroscience at a primarily undergraduate university (PUI) in both the classroom and the laboratory. First, we propose specific methods that can be used in the classroom to make cognitive neuroscience material accessible. We also suggest ways to introduce cognitive neuroscience methodology through lab-based courses or activities. Second, we offer suggestions on how to conduct more complex functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalogram (EEG) research with undergraduates at a small school. We hope that these suggestions will be a helpful guide for those wishing to prepare their students for further studies and careers in this exciting and challenging field.
The benefits of undergraduate students taking a professional training year (PTY) as part of their neuroscience degree have been analyzed for fifteen cohorts of students between 1994 and 2008. Those students taking the PTY scored 4.4% more in their final year aggregated total than those who did not. In addition, these students were 2.58 times more likely to gain a first class degree and 4.8 times less likely to gain a second class (division two) degree than those who did not take the placement year. Analysis of final year marks, whether or not they had taken the PTY, indicated a significantly better performance by female students. Progression onwards to postgraduate study for a PhD was almost four times higher for PTY students than for those not taking the PTY. No PTY students progressed on to a Masters scheme of postgraduate study whereas a small number of three year students did. The benefits of a PTY also extended to students' self-enhancement and maturity as judged by themselves, their peers and by academic staff. This study, the first for the relatively new undergraduate discipline of neuroscience, confirms earlier findings for other academic disciplines.
This article describes a neuroscience outreach program developed by college undergraduates and aimed at second graders. Over a period of four weeks, twenty-five Denison students enrolled in a non-majors course on gender and the brain visited twenty-four second grade classrooms to engage a total of 464 students. We had a mission to both promote college awareness and to specifically bring some brain science into the classroom. The desire to engage students with the brain was in part a wish to celebrate brain awareness week and in part a wish to follow a feminist tenet of bridging theory and practice via activism. The college students chose six activities: a brain puzzle, a sock content guessing game, a jelly bean olfaction and taste test, mystery noises, a message transmission game, and a version of tag. During our outreach with the second graders, my students monitored student engagement and compared engagement between male and female second graders. Engagement was high for nearly all activities but girls were more engaged than boys during the brain puzzle and jelly bean activities. Effect sizes measured as Cohen's &quot;d&quot; statistics were small to large (0.2 to 0.93). The other four activities (mystery socks, mystery noises, message transmission and neuron chain tag) showed no difference in engagement between male and female second graders. Our program benefited the Denison students as well, introducing many to community involvement and awakening in them an interest in teaching or working with kids.
Cross-modality, or the interaction between the different senses, has emerged as a fundamental concept in perceptual neuroscience and psychology. The traditional idea of five separate senses with independent neural substrates has been invalidated by both psychophysical findings of sensory integration and neurophysiological discoveries of multi-modal neurons in many areas of the brain. Even areas previously thought to be unimodal have been shown to be influenced by other senses, thus establishing multisensory integration as a key principle of perceptual neuroscience. There are several obstacles to students' understanding of the concept. First, everyday subjective experience is modal: one sees, hears, smells the world and is rarely aware that these seemingly separate impressions are in reality fully integrated with each other. Second, standard content in undergraduate classes and textbooks still emphasizes the modal model of the senses and their corresponding brain areas and rarely mentions cross-modal phenomena. Third, feasible classroom demonstrations of cross-modality are few, making it difficult to provide students with first-hand experience that would aid their understanding of the principle. This article describes an accessible and effective classroom demonstration of cross-modality between low-level vision, touch and proprioception. It consists in the illusion of eyelid droop in one eye when the other eye has been dark-adapted and when both eyes are exposed to the dark. The perceptual effect is dramatic and reliable. It illustrates cross-modality at a fundamental level of perception and might provide a means to help integrate the teaching of the concept into the standard content of undergraduate classes.
Students are rarely given an opportunity to think deeply about experimental design or asked to develop experimental protocols on their own. Without participating in these endeavors, they are often unaware of the many decisions necessary to construct a precise methodology. This article describes an on-line reaction time program, and how I have used this program as a teaching tool for students to explore experimental design. This approach can be tailored to meet the level of any undergraduate student - from non-science majors to upper-level biology/psychology/neuroscience majors, affording all students the opportunity to think like a scientist. Described is how I use the reaction time program for a whole class demonstration and discussion, as well as, how it can be used for a written assignment in which each student designs and conducts his/her own experiment outside of the classroom. Comments from several students, who did the written assignment, are included to provide a sense of their thoughts and considerations. When students are given a simple method, such as the measurement of reaction time, it allows them to focus exclusively on developing precise methodology, which taps into types of thinking that they are not often asked to exhibit in other science classes.
Behavioral assays in the undergraduate neuroscience laboratory are useful for illustrating a variety of physiological concepts. An example is homeostatic temperature regulation (thermoregulation). Many model organisms, from flies to mice, regulate internal temperatures in part by moving to suitable climates (thermotaxis). A particularly reliable method of quantifying temperature-dependent thermotactic behaviors is the two-temperature preference behavioral assay. In this preparation, an organism is free to move between two temperature-controlled surfaces, thus revealing its preferred thermal environment. Here we present the design and construction of a two-temperature preference assay chamber. The device uses Peltier-based thermoelectric modules (TECs) for heating and cooling, and is capable of precision control of temperatures from -5C to 60C. Our approach can be easily adapted for use in a variety of physiological and behavioral assays that require precise temperature control over a wide range of temperatures.
Among the most common events in our daily lives is seeing people in action. Scientists have accumulated evidence suggesting humans may have developed specialized mechanisms for recognizing these visual events. In the current experiments, we apply the &quot;bubbles&quot; technique to construct space-time classification movies that reveal the key features human observers use to discriminate biological motion stimuli (point-light and stick figure walkers). We find that observers rely on similar features for both types of stimuli, namely, form information in the upper body and dynamic information in the relative motion of the limbs. To measure the contributions of motion and form analyses in this task, we computed classification movies from the responses of a biologically plausible model that can discriminate biological motion patterns (M. A. Giese &amp; T. Poggio, 2003). The model classification movies reveal similar key features to observers, with the model's motion and form pathways each capturing unique aspects of human performance. In a second experiment, we computed classification movies derived from trials of varying exposure times (67-267 ms) and demonstrate the transition to form-based strategies as motion information becomes less available. Overall, these results highlight the relative contributions of motion and form computations to biological motion perception.
Stereo vision displays a well-known anisotropy: disparity-defined slant is easier to detect for rotations about a horizontal axis than about a vertical axis, and low-frequency sinusoidal depth corrugations are easier to detect when the corrugations are horizontal than when they are vertical. Here, we determined disparity thresholds for vertically and horizontally oriented depth corrugations with both sinusoidal and square-wave profiles. We found that the orientation anisotropy for square waves is much weaker than for sine waves and is almost independent of frequency. This weaker anisotropy for square waves can be explained by considering the Fourier harmonics present in the stimulus. Using linear models imported from the luminance and texture perception domain, the disparity thresholds for square waves can be very well predicted from those for sine waves, for both horizontally and vertically oriented corrugations. For horizontally oriented corrugations, models based on the root mean square of the output of a single linear channel or the output of multiple linear channels worked equally well. This is consistent with previous evidence suggesting that stereo vision has multiple channels tuned to different spatial frequencies of horizontally oriented disparity modulations. However, for vertically oriented corrugations, only the root mean squared output of a single linear channel explained the data. We suggest that the stereo anisotropy may arise because the stereo system possesses multiple spatial frequency channels for detecting horizontally oriented modulations in horizontal disparity, but only one for vertically oriented modulations.
In binocular rivalry, the visual percept alternates stochastically between two dichoptically presented stimuli. It is established that both processes related to the eye of origin and binocular, stimulus-related processes account for these fluctuations in conscious perception. Here we studied how their relative contributions vary over time. We applied brief disruptions to rivalry displays, concurrent with an optional eye swap, at varying time intervals after one stimulus became visible (dominant). We found that early in a dominance phase the dominant eye determined the percept by stabilizing its own contribution (regardless of the stimulus), with an additional yet weaker stabilizing contribution of the stimulus (regardless of the eye). Their stabilizing contributions declined in parallel with time so that late in a dominance phase the stimulus (and in some cases also the eye-based) contribution turned negative, favoring a perceptual (or ocular) switch. Our findings show that depending on the time, first processes related to the eye of origin and then those related to the stimulus can have a greater net influence on the stability of the conscious percept. Their co-varying change may be due to feedback from image- to eye-of-origin representations.
Disease mongering starts at the top of recent accusations being hurled at psychiatry. It is used to refer to the attempts by pharmaceutical companies or others who have similar interests, to enlarge the market for a treatment by convincing people that they are sick and need medical intervention. This paper critically analyses the 'for' and 'against' arguments of disease mongering in psychiatric disorders, both new and old, such as Bipolar disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Restless legs syndrome, Premenstrual dysphoric disorder, female sexual dysfunction, social phobia, metabolic syndrome and road rage disorder.
Cognitive impairment is a common and largely undiagnosed finding in a significant number of dialysis patients. These alterations may result from concomitant cerebrovascular disease, hemodynamic instability, the uremic milieu, or changes induced by the dialysis process. In order to gain further insight into this, we recruited 12 stable chronic hemodialysis patients (without clinical neurological disease) and an age- and gender-matched cohort of 12 control individuals (without renal or neurological problems) in a prospective, single-center study. In order to disentangle the influence of dialysis itself on memory function, each dialysis patient was tested twice: once immediately before dialysis following a long weekend (t1) and again the day after this dialysis (t2). The control individuals were tested in the same time frame. Neuropsychological testing found that the control individuals performed significantly better in verbal learning, motor speed, task switching, verbal comprehension, word fluency, spatial visualization, spatial perception, and reasoning; all independent of the time point. Functional magnetic resonance imaging of the whole brain in seven hemodialysis patients found significantly more bilateral activation of the hippocampus during the verbal working memory task at t2 relative to t1 compared with their seven matched control counterparts. Thus, our study found differential and task-specific activation of memory-relevant brain areas during a dialysis cycle.
The present study investigated the postoperative plasma concentrations of corticosterone and buprenorphine in male Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats, treated with buprenorphine administered either through subcutaneous (SC) injection or through voluntary ingestion (VI). The animals were treated with buprenorphine for pre-emptive analgesia prior to surgical placement of a jugular catheter, followed by automated blood sampling during 96 h. Buprenorphine was administered on a regular basis throughout the experiment, and blood was collected on selected time points. Body weight was measured before and 96 h after surgery. It was found that the two rat stocks responded in a similar manner to both buprenorphine treatments, with the exception of body weight change in Wistar rats, in which body weight was reduced after SC treatment. The plasma concentration of corticosterone was significantly higher in the SC-treated animals than in the VI-treated animals during the first 18 h of the study, while plasma buprenorphine concentration was at least as high and more even over time after VI treatment. The present study shows that buprenorphine administration through VI is suitable for both Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats, with lower stress response and higher plasma concentrations of buprenorphine than after the traditional SC route of administration.
Haemodynamic stroke is a type of ischaemic stroke that is caused by hypoperfusion rather than by embolism or local vasculopathy. It can be caused by systemic diseases such as heart failure or hypotension, but also by severe obstruction of the carotid or vertebral arteries. Patients with haemodynamic stroke or transient ischaemic attack might show specific clinical features that distinguish them from patients with embolism or local small-vessel disease. Ancillary investigations of cerebral perfusion can show whether blood flow to the brain is compromised and provide important prognostic information. Management of patients who have hypoperfusion as the major cause of ischaemic stroke or as a contributing factor is hampered by the lack of clinical trials. Treatment aimed at increasing cerebral blood flow might be considered in selected patients on the basis of information from case series. Further research is needed to define criteria for the diagnosis of haemodynamic stroke and to investigate treatment options in controlled studies.


Researchers studying complex cognition have grown increasingly interested in mapping symbolic cognitive architectures onto subsymbolic brain models. Such a mapping seems essential for understanding cognition under all but the most extreme viewpoints (namely, that cognition consists exclusively of digitally implemented rules; or instead, involves no rules whatsoever). Making this mapping reduces to specifying an interface between symbolic and subsymbolic descriptions of brain activity. To that end, we propose parameterization techniques for building cognitive models as programmable, structured, recurrent neural networks. Feedback strength in these models determines whether their components implement classically subsymbolic neural network functions (e.g., pattern recognition), or instead, logical rules and digital memory. These techniques support the implementation of limited production systems. Though inherently sequential and symbolic, these neural production systems can exploit principles of parallel, analog processing from decision-making models in psychology and neuroscience to explain the effects of brain damage on problem solving behavior.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging of the spinal cord (spinal fMRI) has facilitated the noninvasive visualization of neural activity in the spinal cord (SC) and brainstem of both animals and humans. This technique has yet to gain the widespread usage of brain fMRI, due in part to the intrinsic technical challenges spinal fMRI presents and to the narrower scope of applications it fulfills. Nonetheless, methodological progress has been considerable and rapid. To date, spinal fMRI studies have investigated SC function during sensory or motor task paradigms in spinal cord injury (SCI), multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuropathic pain (NP) patient populations, all of which have yielded consistent and sensitive results. The most recent study in our laboratory has successfully used spinal fMRI to examine cervical SC activity in a SCI patient with a metallic fixation device spanning the C(4) to C(6) vertebrae, a critical step in realizing the clinical utility of the technique. The literature reviewed in this article suggests that spinal fMRI is poised for usage in a wide range of patient populations, as multiple groups have observed intriguing, yet consistent, results using standard, readily available MR systems and hardware. The next step is the implementation of this technique in the clinic to supplement standard qualitative behavioral assessments of SCI. Spinal fMRI may offer insight into the subtleties of function in the injured and diseased SC, and support the development of new methods for treatment and monitoring.
Despite the popularity and widespread application of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in recent years, the physiological bases of signal change are not yet fully understood. Blood oxygen level-dependant (BOLD) contrast - attributed to local changes in blood flow and oxygenation, and therefore magnetic susceptibility - has become the most prevalent means of functional neuroimaging. However, at short echo times, spin-echo sequences show considerable deviations from the BOLD model, implying a second, non-BOLD component of signal change. This has been dubbed &quot;signal enhancement by extravascular water protons&quot; (SEEP) and is proposed to result from proton-density changes associated with cellular swelling. Given that such changes are independent of magnetic susceptibility, SEEP may offer new and improved opportunities for carrying out fMRI in regions with close proximity to air-tissue and/or bone-tissue interfaces (e.g., the prefrontal cortex and spinal cord), as well as regions close to large blood vessels, which may not be ideally suited for BOLD imaging. However, because of the interdisciplinary nature of the literature, there has yet to be a thorough synthesis, tying together the various and sometimes disparate aspects of SEEP theory. As such, we aim to provide a concise yet comprehensive overview of SEEP, including recent and compelling evidence for its validity, its current applications and its future relevance to the rapidly expanding field of functional neuroimaging. Before presenting the evidence for a non-BOLD component of endogenous functional contrast, and to enable a more critical review for the nonexpert reader, we begin by reviewing the fundamental principles underlying BOLD theory.
The combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been proposed as a tool to study brain dynamics with both high temporal and high spatial resolution. Multimodal imaging techniques rely on the assumption of a common neuronal source for the different recorded signals. In order to maximally exploit the combination of these techniques, one needs to understand the coupling (i.e., the relation) between electroencephalographic (EEG) and fMRI blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signals. Recently, simultaneous EEG-fMRI measurements have been used to investigate the relation between the two signals. Previous attempts at the analysis of simultaneous EEG-fMRI data reported significant correlations between regional BOLD activations and modulation of both event-related potential (ERP) and oscillatory EEG power, mostly in the alpha but also in other frequency bands. Beyond the correlation of the two measured brain signals, the relevant issue we address here is the ability of predicting the signal in one modality using information from the other modality. Using multivariate machine learning-based regression, we show how it is possible to predict EEG power oscillations from simultaneously acquired fMRI data during an eyes-open/eyes-closed task using either the original channels or the underlying cortically distributed sources as the relevant EEG signal for the analysis of multimodal data.
Manganese (Mn(2+))-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) offers the possibility to generate longitudinal maps of brain activity in unrestrained and behaving animals. However, Mn(2+) is a metabolic toxin and a competitive inhibitor for Ca(2+), and therefore, a yet unsolved question in MEMRI studies is whether the concentrations of metal ion used may alter brain physiology. In the present work we have investigated the behavioral, electrophysiological and histopathological consequences of MnCl(2) administration at concentrations and dosage protocols regularly used in MEMRI. Three groups of animals were sc injected with saline, 0.1 and 0.5 mmol/kg MnCl(2), respectively. In vivo electrophysiological recordings in the hippocampal formation revealed a mild but detectable decrease in both excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) and population spike (PS) amplitude under the highest MnCl(2) dose. The EPSP to PS ratio was preserved at control levels, indicating that neuronal excitability was not affected. Experiments of pair pulse facilitation demonstrated a dose dependent increase in the potentiation of the second pulse, suggesting presynaptic Ca(2+) competition as the mechanism for the decreased neuronal response. Tetanization of the perforant path induced a long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission that was comparable in all groups, regardless of treatment. Accordingly, the choice accuracy tested on a hippocampal-dependent learning task was not affected. However, the response latency in the same task was largely increased in the group receiving 0.5 mmol/kg of MnCl(2). Immunohistological examination of the hippocampus at the end of the experiments revealed no sign of neuronal toxicity or glial reaction. Although we show that MEMRI at 0.1 mmol/Kg MnCl(2) may be safely applied to the study of cognitive networks, a detailed assessment of toxicity is strongly recommended for each particular study and Mn(2+) administration protocol.

The increasing number of publications featuring the use of stem cells in regenerative processes supports the idea that they are revolutionizing regenerative medicine research. In an analysis of the articles published in the journal Cell Transplantation - The Regenerative Medicine Journal between 2008 and 2009, which reveals the topics and categories that are on the cutting edge of regenerative medicine research, stem cells are becoming increasingly relevant as the &quot;runner-up&quot; category to &quot;neuroscience&quot; related articles. The high volume of stem cell research casts a bright light on the hope for stem cells and their role in regenerative medicine as a number of reports deal with research using stem cells entering, or seeking approval for, clinical trials. The &quot;methods and new technologies&quot; and &quot;tissue engineering&quot; sections were almost equally as popular, and in part, reflect attempts to maximize the potential of stem cells and other treatments for the repair of damaged tissue. Transplantation studies were again more popular than non-transplantation, and the contribution of stem cell-related transplants was greater than other types of transplants. The non-transplantation articles were predominantly related to new methods for the preparation, isolation and manipulation of materials for transplant by specific culture media, gene therapy, medicines, dietary supplements, and co-culturing with other cells and further elucidation of disease mechanisms. A sizeable proportion of the transplantation articles reported on how previously new methods may have aided the ability of the cells or tissue to exert beneficial effects following transplantation.
This article reviews research using the Deese/Roediger-McDermott (DRM) associative memory illusion, whereby people falsely remember words that were not presented. This illusion has broadly influenced basic theories of memory in cognitive psychology and neuroscience and naturally raises the question as to how these theories apply to more complex autobiographical memories. Some applicability is evident from research linking individual differences in the DRM illusion to false autobiographical memories (e.g., misremembering public events) and fantastic autobiographical beliefs (e.g., memories from past lives). But which aspects generalize? Here it is argued that a process-oriented approach is needed in order to answer this question. Many productive years of DRM research indicate that multiple and often opposing psychological processes cause even the most basic false memories. In light of these discoveries, more researchers need to use methods that isolate these component processes if the goal is to understand false memories both in the lab and in life.
This study examined the efficacy of a novel TRPV1 antagonist, JNJ-17203212, in two experimental rat models that exhibit a hypersensitive visceral motor response (VMR) to colorectal distension (CRD). In the first model, intraluminal administration of acetic acid (1% solution) into the distal colon produced an acute colonic hypersensitivity. In the second model, intraluminal administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) into the distal colon produced a chronic, post-inflammatory colonic hypersensitivity 30 days post-TNBS administration. Throughout this study, colonic sensitivity was assessed via quantification of VMR to CRD in rats following a single, oral administration of JNJ-17203212 (3, 10 or 30 mg/kg) or vehicle. Intraluminal administration of acetic acid and TNBS resulted in increased VMR to CRD when compared to controls. In both groups, VMR to CRD was significantly reduced by administration of JNJ-17203212 at 30 mg/kg. The results of this study show that the selective TRPV1 antagonist, JNJ-17203212, reduces sensitivity to luminal distension in both an acute, noninflammatory and a chronic, post-inflammatory rodent model of colonic hypersensitivity. These data indicate that TRPV1 is involved in the pathogenesis of visceral hypersensitivity and that JNJ-17203212 may be a potential therapeutic agent for functional bowel disorders characterized by abdominal hypersensitivity, such as irritable bowel syndrome.
Recent advances in cross-disciplinary studies linking architecture and neuroscience have revealed that much of the built environment for health-care delivery may actually impair rather than improve health outcomes by disrupting effective communication and increasing patient and staff stress. This is also true for maternity care provision, where it is suggested that the design of the environment can also impact on the experiences and outcomes for birthing women. The aim of this paper is to describe the development of a conceptual model based on literature and understandings of design, communication, stress and model of care. The model explores potential relationships among a set of key variables that need to be considered by researchers wishing to determine the characteristics of optimal birth environments in relation to birth outcomes for women and infants. The conceptual model hypothesises that safe satisfying birth is reliant on the level of stress experienced by a woman and the staff around her, stress influences the quality of communication with women and between staff, and this process is mediated by the design of the birth unit and model of care. The conceptual model is offered as a starting point for researchers who have an appreciation of the complexity of birth and the ability to bring together colleagues from a range of disciplines to explore the pre-requisites for safe and effective maternity care in new ways.

Suicide is a serious public health problem. The World Health Organization (WHO), recognizing the growing problem of suicide worldwide and urged member nations to address the phenomenon. Since the time of Enrico Morselli, the suicide rate the changed dramatically in some Italian areas whereas it has remained approximately the same in other regions. During the period 1980-2006, about 4000 suicide deaths among Italian residents were certified on average each year. For each suicide there are probably about twenty suicide attempts resulting in a great burden for individuals, their families and society. Suicidal individuals often talk about suicide, death, and/or having no reason to live. Most suicidal individuals give definite warnings of their suicidal intentions, but significant others are either unaware of the significance of these warnings or do not know how to respond to them. The assumption that these individuals want to die because they suffer from a psychiatric disorder must be substituted by a phenomenological approach to suicide. An approach centred on the intersubjectivity allows recognition an unbearable psychological pain for which the suicide is perceived as the best solution. Suicide is best understood not so much as a movement toward death as it is a movement away from something and that something is always the same: intolerable emotion, unendurable, or unacceptable anguish. If the level of suffering is reduced the individual will choose to live. The author looks back and ahead for preventing suicide in the Italian territory and reflects on the many suicide activities across Italy in which he was involved over the past two years.
Suicide completion is a leading cause of death for children, adolescents, and young adults. There is evidence that the suicide rate for those aged 15 to 24 years has tripled since 1950, and suicide is now the second or third leading cause of death in this age group. Recent studies indicate that the incidence of suicide attempts among adolescents may exceed 10% annually. The role of caregivers and schools (as well as colleges and universities) is important in the assessment, management, and prevention of suicidal behaviour in children and youth. Recognition of risk factors for suicide is of paramount importance for prevention. Furthermore, a number of educational programs have demonstrated possible key roles in implementing suicide prevention strategies. As suicide is a problem of concern among Italian youths, this paper overviews current official statistical evidence of the phenomenon and suggests a national suicide prevention strategy based on a number of tools already involved in this field, especially in the USA.


The metabolic regulator AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) maintains cellular homeostasis through regulation of proteins involved in energy-producing and -consuming pathways. Although AMPK phosphorylation targets include cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins, the precise mechanisms that regulate AMPK localization, and thus its access to these substrates, are unclear. We identify highly conserved carboxy-terminal hydrophobic amino acids that function as a leptomycin B-sensitive, CRM1-dependent nuclear export sequence (NES) in the AMPK catalytic subunit (AMPK). When this sequence is modified AMPK shows increased nuclear localization via a Ran-dependent import pathway. Cytoplasmic localization can be restored by substituting well-defined snurportin-1 or protein kinase A inhibitor (PKIA) CRM1-binding NESs into AMPK. We demonstrate a functional requirement in vivo for the AMPK carboxy-terminal NES, as transgenic Drosophila expressing AMPK lacking this NES fail to rescue lethality of AMPK null mutant flies and show decreased activation loop phosphorylation under heat-shock stress. Sequestered to the nucleus, this truncated protein shows highly reduced phosphorylation at the key Thr172 activation residue, suggesting that AMPK activation predominantly occurs in the cytoplasm under unstressed conditions. Thus, modulation of CRM1-mediated export of AMPK via its C-terminal NES provides an additional mechanism for cells to use in the regulation of AMPK activity and localization.
Maytansine and its analogues (maytansinoids) are potent microtubule-targeted compounds that inhibit proliferation of cells at mitosis. Antibody-maytansinoid conjugates consisting of maytansinoids (DM1 and DM4) attached to tumor-specific antibodies have shown promising clinical results. To determine the mechanism by which the antibody-DM1 conjugates inhibit cell proliferation, we examined the effects of the cleavable anti-EpCAM-SPP-DM1 and uncleavable anti-EpCAM-SMCC-DM1 conjugates on MCF7 human breast tumor cells. We also examined the effects of the free maytansinoids, maytansine and S-methyl DM1 (a version of DM1 that is stable in cell culture medium), for comparison. Both the conjugates and free maytansinoids potently inhibited MCF7 cell proliferation at nanomolar and subnanomolar concentrations, respectively, by arresting the cells in mitotic prometaphase/metaphase. Arrest occurred in concert with the internalization and intracellular processing of both conjugates under conditions that induced abnormal spindle organization and suppressed microtubule dynamic instability. Microtubule depolymerization occurred only at significantly higher drug concentrations. The results indicate that free maytansinoids, antibody-maytansinoid conjugates, and their metabolites exert their potent antimitotic effects through a common mechanism involving suppression of microtubule dynamic instability.
Maytansine is a potent microtubule-targeted compound that induces mitotic arrest and kills tumor cells at subnanomolar concentrations. However, its side effects and lack of tumor specificity have prevented successful clinical use. Recently, antibody-conjugated maytansine derivatives have been developed to overcome these drawbacks. Several conjugates show promising early clinical results. We evaluated the effects on microtubule polymerization and dynamic instability of maytansine and two cellular metabolites (S-methyl-DM1 and S-methyl-DM4) of antibody-maytansinoid conjugates that are potent in cells at picomolar levels and that are active in tumor-bearing mice. Although S-methyl-DM1 and S-methyl-DM4 inhibited polymerization more weakly than maytansine, at 100 nmol/L they suppressed dynamic instability more strongly than maytansine (by 84% and 73%, respectively, compared with 45% for maytansine). However, unlike maytansine, S-methyl-DM1 and S-methyl-DM4 induced tubulin aggregates detectable by electron microscopy at concentrations 2 mol/L, with S-methyl-DM4 showing more extensive aggregate formation than S-methyl-DM1. Both maytansine and S-methyl-DM1 bound to tubulin with similar K(D) values (0.86  0.2 and 0.93  0.2 mol/L, respectively). Tritiated S-methyl-DM1 bound to 37 high-affinity sites per microtubule (K(D), 0.1  0.05 mol/L). Thus, S-methyl-DM1 binds to high-affinity sites on microtubules 20-fold more strongly than vinblastine. The high-affinity binding is likely at microtubule ends and is responsible for suppression of microtubule dynamic instability. Also, at higher concentrations, S-methyl-DM1 showed low-affinity binding either to a larger number of sites on microtubules or to sedimentable tubulin aggregates. Overall, the maytansine derivatives that result from cellular metabolism of the antibody conjugates are themselves potent microtubule poisons, interacting with microtubules as effectively as or more effectively than the parent molecule.
Hypoxia in neonates can cause permanent brain damage by gene and receptor level alterations mediated through changes in neurotransmitters. The present study evaluated GABA(B) receptor alterations, gene expression changes in glutamate decarboxylase and hypoxia-inducible factor 1A in the cerebral cortex of hypoxic neonatal rats and the resuscitation groups with glucose, oxygen, and epinephrine. Under hypoxic stress, a significant decrease in total GABA and GABA(B) receptors, GABA(B) and GAD gene expression was observed in the cerebral cortex, which accounts for the respiratory inhibition. Hypoxia-inducible factor 1A was upregulated under hypoxia to maintain body homeostasis. Hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose alone and with oxygen showed a reversal of the receptor alterations and changes in GAD and HIF-1A to near control. Being a source of immediate energy, glucose can reduce the ATP-depletion-induced changes in GABA and oxygenation, which helps in encountering hypoxia. Resuscitation with oxygen alone and epinephrine was less effective in reversing the receptor alterations. Thus, our study suggests that reduction in the GABA(B) receptors functional regulation during hypoxia plays an important role in cortical damage. Resuscitation with glucose alone and glucose and oxygen to hypoxic neonatal rats helps in protecting the brain from severe hypoxic damage.
The activity of the neuronal-specific potassium chloride co-transporter KCC2 allows neurons to maintain low intracellular Cl(-) concentrations. These low Cl(-) concentrations are critical in mediating fast synaptic inhibition upon the activation of Cl(-)-permeable ligand-gated ion channels such as type A gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Deficits in KCC2 functional expression thus play central roles in the etiology of epilepsy and ischemia. It is emerging that KCC2 is phosphorylated on tyrosine residues, but the molecular substrates for this covalent modification within KCC2 and its functional significance remain poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that in HEK-293 cells the principal sites of tyrosine phosphorylation within KCC2 are residues 903 and 1087 (Y903/1087), which lie within the major C-terminal intracellular domain of KCC2. Phosphorylation of Y903/1087 decreases the cell surface stability of KCC2 principally by enhancing their lysozomal degradation. We further demonstrate that in cultured hippocampal neurons prolonged activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) enhances KCC2 tyrosine phosphorylation and lysozomal degradation. Consistent with our in vitro studies, induction of status epilepticus (SE) in mice using pilocarpine, a mAChR agonist, induces large deficits in the cell surface stability of KCC2 together with enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation. Tyrosine phosphorylation of KCC2 is thus likely to play a key role in regulating the degradation of KCC2, a process that may be responsible for pathological losses of KCC2 function that are evident in SE and other forms of epilepsy.
The family of calcium-dependent neutral proteases, calpains, was discovered more than 30 years ago, but their functional roles in the nervous system under physiological or pathological conditions still remain unclear. Although calpain was proposed to participate in synaptic plasticity and in learning and memory in the early 1980s, the precise mechanism regarding its activation, its target(s) and the functional consequences of its activation have remained controversial. A major issue has been the identification of roles of the two major calpain isoforms present in the brain, calpain-1 and calpain-2, and the calcium requirement for their activation, which exceeds levels that could be reached intracellularly under conditions leading to changes in synaptic efficacy. In this review, we discussed the features of calpains that make them ideally suited to link certain patterns of presynaptic activity to the structural modifications of dendritic spines that could underlie synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. We then summarize recent findings that provide critical answers to the various questions raised by the initial hypothesis, and that further support the idea that, in brain, calpain-2 plays critical roles in developmental and adult synaptic plasticity.
Tenascin-C (TNC), a major component of the extracellular matrix, is strongly upregulated after injuries of the central nervous system (CNS) but its role in tissue repair is not understood. Both regeneration promoting and inhibiting roles of TNC have been proposed considering its abilities to both support and restrict neurite outgrowth in vitro. Here, we show that spontaneous recovery of locomotor functions after spinal cord injury is impaired in adult TNC-deficient (TNC(-/-)) mice in comparison to wild-type (TNC(+/+)) mice. The impaired recovery was associated with attenuated excitability of the plantar Hoffmann reflex (H-reflex), reduced glutamatergic input, reduced sprouting of monaminergic axons in the lumbar spinal cord and enhanced post-traumatic degeneration of corticospinal axons. The degeneration of corticospinal axons in TNC(-/-) mice was normalized to TNC(+/+) levels by application of the alternatively spliced TNC fibronectin type III homologous domain D (fnD). Finally, overexpression of TNC-fnD via adeno-associated virus in wild-type mice improved locomotor recovery, increased monaminergic axons sprouting, and reduced lesion scar volume after spinal cord injury. The functional efficacy of the viral-mediated TNC indicates a potentially useful approach for treatment of spinal cord injury.

Retrovirus-like particles containing the multiple sclerosis-associated retrovirus RNA, significantly found in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with multiple sclerosis, have been preliminarily associated with a short-term poor clinical and radiological prognosis of the disease. We asked whether these prognostic indications are still measurable after a long-term clinical evaluation (10 years). Our 10-year blind observational study confirms that the presence of multiple sclerosis-associated retrovirus in the cerebrospinal fluid of early multiple sclerosis patients is associated with a significantly greater rate of relapse-unrelated unremitting disability and secondary progression of the disease.

We report an 18-month-old Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) patient who developed a rapid-onset neuropathy, with proximal and distal weakness, and non-uniform nerve conduction studies. The neuropathy responded well to immunomodulation, confirming the coexistence of an inherited and an inflammatory neuropathy. Unexpected clinical and/or electrophysiological manifestations in CMT1A patients should alert clinicians to concomitant inflammatory neuropathy. In addition, this association raises reflections about disease mechanism in CMT1A.
High titers of anti-GM1 ganglioside antibodies have been associated with multifocal motor neuropathy, a chronic asymmetric and exclusively motor disorder. We describe a patient with a progressive selective motor but symmetric polyneuropathy, followed over 5 years, with markedly elevated titers of anti-GM1 antibodies. The electrophysiological changes suggestive of motor demyelination were widespread, beyond conduction block alone, and involved contiguous nerve segments with complete sparing of sensory conduction. Progressive, predominantly motor, symmetric, demyelinating polyneuropathy may be an unusual relative of multifocal motor neuropathy, associated with anti-GM1 antibodies.
Modeling of human neuropsychiatric disorders in animals is extremely challenging given the subjective nature of many symptoms, the lack of biomarkers and objective diagnostic tests, and the early state of the relevant neurobiology and genetics. Nonetheless, progress in understanding pathophysiology and in treatment development would benefit greatly from improved animal models. Here we review the current state of animal models of mental illness, with a focus on schizophrenia, depression and bipolar disorder. We argue for areas of focus that might increase the likelihood of creating more useful models, at least for some disorders, and for explicit guidelines when animal models are reported.

Although muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) and NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are important for synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, the manner in which they interact is poorly understood. We found that stimulation of muscarinic receptors, either by an agonist or by the synaptic release of acetylcholine, led to long-term depression (LTD) of NMDAR-mediated synaptic transmission. This form of LTD involved the release of Ca2+ from IP-sensitive intracellular stores and was expressed via the internalization of NMDARs. Our results suggest that the molecular mechanism involves a dynamic interaction between the neuronal calcium sensor protein hippocalcin, the clathrin adaptor molecule AP2, the postsynaptic density enriched protein PSD-95 and NMDARs. We propose that hippocalcin binds to the SH3 region of PSD-95 under basal conditions, but it translocates to the plasma membrane on sensing Ca2+; in doing so, it causes PSD-95 to dissociate from NMDARs, permitting AP2 to bind and initiate their dynamin-dependent endocytosis.
Alternative pre-mRNA splicing occurs extensively in the nervous systems of complex organisms, including humans, considerably expanding the potential size of the proteome. Cell-specific alternative pre-mRNA splicing is thought to optimize protein function for specialized cellular tasks, but direct evidence for this is limited. Transmission of noxious thermal stimuli relies on the activity of N-type Ca(V)2.2 calcium channels in nociceptors. Using an exon-replacement strategy in mice, we show that mutually exclusive splicing patterns in the Ca(V)2.2 gene modulate N-type channel function in nociceptors, leading to a change in morphine analgesia. Exon 37a (e37a) enhances -opioid receptor-mediated inhibition of N-type calcium channels by promoting activity-independent inhibition. In the absence of e37a, spinal morphine analgesia is weakened in vivo but the basal response to noxious thermal stimuli is not altered. Our data suggest that highly specialized, discrete cellular responsiveness in vivo can be attributed to alternative splicing events regulated at the level of individual neurons.
Proprioceptive sensory signals inform the CNS of the consequences of motor acts, but effective motor planning involves internal neural systems capable of anticipating actual sensory feedback. Just where and how predictive systems exert their influence remains poorly understood. We explored the possibility that spinocerebellar neurons that convey proprioceptive sensory information also integrate information from cortical command systems. Analysis of the circuitry and physiology of identified dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons in mouse spinal cord revealed distinct populations of Clarke's column neurons that received direct excitatory and/or indirect inhibitory inputs from descending corticospinal axons. The convergence of these descending inhibitory and excitatory inputs to Clarke's column neurons established local spinal circuits with the capacity to mark or modulate incoming proprioceptive input. Together, our genetic, anatomical and physiological results indicate that Clarke's column spinocerebellar neurons nucleate local spinal corollary circuits that are relevant to motor planning and evaluation.
Transcriptional cascades are required for the specification of serotonin (5-HT) neurons and behaviors modulated by 5-HT. Several cascade factors are expressed throughout the lifespan, which suggests that their control of behavior might not be temporally restricted to programming normal numbers of 5-HT neurons. We used new mouse conditional targeting approaches to investigate the ongoing requirements for Pet-1 (also called Fev), a cascade factor that is required for the initiation of 5-HT synthesis, but whose expression persists into adulthood. We found that Pet-1 was required after the generation of 5-HT neurons for multiple steps in 5-HT neuron maturation, including axonal innervation of the somatosensory cortex, expression of appropriate firing properties, and the expression of the Htr1a and Htr1b autoreceptors. Pet-1 was still required in adult 5-HT neurons to preserve normal anxiety-related behaviors through direct autoregulated control of serotonergic gene expression. These findings indicate that Pet-1 is required across the lifespan of the mouse and that behavioral pathogenesis can result from both developmental and adult-onset alterations in serotonergic transcription.
Over the past 300 years, the migraine field has been dominated by two main theories-the vascular theory and the central neuronal theory. The success of vasoconstrictors such as ergotamine and the triptans in treating acute migraine bolstered the vascular theory, but evidence is now emerging that vasodilatation is neither necessary nor sufficient to induce a migraine attack. Attention is now turning to the core migraine circuits in the brain, which include the trigeminal ganglia, trigeminal nucleus, medullary modulatory regions, pons, periaqueductal gray matter, hypothalamus and thalamus. Migraine triggers are likely to reflect a disturbance in overall balance of the circuits involved in the modulation of sensory activity, particularly those with relevance to the head. In this Review, we consider the evidence pointing towards a neuronal mechanism in migraine development, highlighting the role of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which is found in small to medium-sized neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. CGRP is released during migraine attacks and can trigger migraine in patients, and CGRP receptor antagonists can abort migraine. We also examine whether other drugs, such as triptans, might exert their antimigraine effects via their actions on the neuronal circuit as opposed to the intracranial vasculature.

To celebrate the first 10 years of Nature Reviews Neuroscience, we invited the authors of the most cited article of each year to look back on the state of their field of research at the time of publication and the impact their article has had, and to discuss the questions that might be answered in the next 10 years. This selection of highly cited articles provides interesting snapshots of the progress that has been made in diverse areas of neuroscience. They show the enormous influence of neuroimaging techniques and highlight concepts that have generated substantial interest in the past decade, such as neuroimmunology, social neuroscience and the 'network approach' to brain function. These advancements will pave the way for further exciting discoveries that lie ahead.
The classical concept of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) homeostasis comprises a feedback system within which circulating levels of glucocorticoid hormones maintain the brain and body in an optimal steady state. However, studies involving new techniques for investigating the real-time dynamics of both glucocorticoid hormones and glucocorticoid receptor function paint a different picture--namely, of continuous dynamic equilibration throughout this neuroendocrine system. This dynamic state is dictated by feedforward and feedback regulatory loops and by stochastic interactions at the level of DNA binding. We propose that this continuous oscillatory activity is crucial for optimal responsiveness of glucocorticoid-sensitive neural processes.
The acquisition and consolidation of memories of stressful events is modulated by glucocorticoids, a type of corticosteroid hormone that is released in high levels from the adrenal glands after exposure to a stressful event. These effects occur through activation of mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) and glucocorticoid receptors (GRs). The molecular mechanisms that underlie the effects of glucocorticoids on synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory have recently begun to be identified. Glucocorticoids regulate AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate) receptor trafficking--which is crucially involved in synaptic transmission and plasticity--both rapidly and persistently. Stress hormones may, through modulation of AMPA receptor function, promote the consolidation of behaviourally relevant information.
Many emotional stimuli are processed without being consciously perceived. Recent evidence indicates that subcortical structures have a substantial role in this processing. These structures are part of a phylogenetically ancient pathway that has specific functional properties and that interacts with cortical processes. There is now increasing evidence that non-consciously perceived emotional stimuli induce distinct neurophysiological changes and influence behaviour towards the consciously perceived world. Understanding the neural bases of the non-conscious perception of emotional signals will clarify the phylogenetic continuity of emotion systems across species and the integration of cortical and subcortical activity in the human brain.
Recent findings in neuroscience have shown differential patterns in brain activity in response to similar stimuli and activities across cultural and social differences. This calls for a framework to understand how such differences may come to be implemented in brains and neurons. Based on strands of research in social anthropology, we argue that human practices are characterized by particular patterns, and that participating in these patterns orders how people perceive and act in particular group- and context-specific ways. This then leads to a particular patterning of neuronal processes that may be detected using e.g. brain imaging methods. We illustrate this through (a) a classical example of phoneme perception (b) recent work on performance in experimental game play. We then discuss these findings in the light of predictive models of brain function. We argue that a 'culture as patterned practices' approach obviates a rigid nature-culture distinction, avoids the problems involved in conceptualizing 'culture' as a homogenous grouping variable, and suggests that participating as a competent participant in particular practices may affect both the subjective (first person) experience and (third person) objective measures of behavior and brain activity.
&quot;Artificial humans&quot;, so-called &quot;Embodied Conversational Agents&quot; and humanoid robots, are assumed to facilitate human-technology interaction referring to the unique human capacities of interpersonal communication and social information processing. While early research and development in artificial intelligence (AI) focused on processing and production of natural language, the &quot;new AI&quot; has also taken into account the emotional and relational aspects of communication with an emphasis both on understanding and production of nonverbal behavior. This shift in attention in computer science and engineering is reflected in recent developments in psychology and social cognitive neuroscience. This article addresses key challenges which emerge from the goal to equip machines with socio-emotional intelligence and to enable them to interpret subtle nonverbal cues and to respond to social affordances with naturally appearing behavior from both perspectives. In particular, we propose that the creation of credible artificial humans not only defines the ultimate test for our understanding of human communication and social cognition but also provides a unique research tool to improve our knowledge about the underlying psychological processes and neural mechanisms.
Beta-amyloid accumulates around neurons in Alzheimer's disease and is thought to contribute to the neurodegenerative process. This study examined the role of the tumour suppressor protein, p53, in the neurodegenerative pathway, with focus on the interaction of p53 with the lysosomal system. beta-Amyloid increased expression of p53 and its transcription target, Bax, in cultured cortical neurons. In addition, A beta increased the association of phospho-p53(ser15) with the lysosomal compartment and this correlated with destabilization of the lysosomal membrane and a concomitant increase in cytosolic cathepsin-L activity. These effects of beta-amyloid were abolished by the p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha, and siRNA-mediated knockdown of p53, demonstrating that p53 is a critical regulator of lysosomal integrity and the induction of cathepsin-L protease activity. In addition, activation of the apoptotic cascade was abolished by pifithrin-alpha. We conclude that p53 associates with the lysosome to regulate a lysosomal branch of the apoptotic cascade which contributes to beta-amyloid-mediated neurodegeneration.
Amyloid plaques and tau neurofibrillary tangles, the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), begin accumulating in the healthy human brain decades before clinical dementia symptoms can be detected. There is great interest in how this pathology spreads in the living brain and its association with cognitive deterioration. Using MRI-derived cortical surface models and four-dimensional animation techniques, we related cognitive ability to positron emission tomography (PET) signal from 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile ([(18)F]FDDNP), a molecular imaging probe for plaques and tangles. We examined this relationship at each cortical surface point in 23 older adults (10 cognitively intact, 6 with amnestic mild cognitive impairment, 7 with AD). [(18)F]FDDNP-PET signal was highly correlated with cognitive performance, even in cognitively intact subjects. Animations of [(18)F]FDDNP signal growth with decreased cognition across all subjects (http://www.loni.ucla.edu/ approximately thompson/FDDNP/video.html) mirrored the classic Braak and Braak trajectory in lateral temporal, parietal, and frontal cortices. Regions in which cognitive performance was significantly correlated with [(18)F]FDDNP signal include those that deteriorate earliest in AD, suggesting the potential utility of [(18)F]FDDNP for early diagnosis.
The functions of PTEN (phosphatase/tensin homolog)-induced putative kinase (PINK1), which is mutated in early-onset Parkinson's disease, are poorly understood. We characterized a PINK1 antibody and found colocalization of PINK1-like immunoreactivity with aminergic markers. We inactivated translation of Pink1 using morpholino-oligonucleotides (MOs) in larval zebrafish. Dopaminergic neurons consisted of two sets of neuron populations, marked by complementary expression of two tyrosine hydroxylase genes th1 and th2. Translation inhibition of pink1 resulted in reduction of both th mRNA forms until day 5 or 7, respectively. The affected dopaminergic neurons were in one group expressing th1 and three groups expressing th2. Lack of Pink1 sensitized the fish to subeffective doses of MPTP, which caused a locomotor deficit and facilitated loss of th1 in one diencephalic dopaminergic cell group. Control experiments with pink1 mRNA and control MO suggested that effects with the splice site targeting MO were specific. Distinct groups of dopaminergic neurons are thus sensitive to loss of Pink1. Sensitization of the pink1 morphant fish to MPTP toxicity suggests that genetic factors play a role in toxin-induced Parkinson's disease.
Thirty Parkinson's disease (PD) patients were divided into three equal groups according to their disease duration while 10 normal healthy volunteers matched for age and sex served as a control group. Striatal and extrastriatal serotonergic function was studied with (11)C-DASB PET, a marker of serotonin transporter availability. (11)C-DASB binding was correlated with disease disability and exposure to dopaminergic therapy. We found significant (11)C-DASB binding reductions in striatal, brainstem, and cortical regions in PD but no correlations were evident between (11)C-DASB binding and UPDRS scores, Hoehn &amp;Yahr staging, disease duration and level of exposure to dopaminergic therapy. Our results suggest that progressive non-linear serotonergic dysfunction occurs in PD but it does not determine levels of disability. Additionally, chronic exposure to dopaminergic therapy does not appear to influence SERT binding.
The mechanisms underlying the efficacy of the ketogenic diet (KD) remain unknown. Recently, we showed that the KD increased glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis. Since the NF E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) transcription factor is a primary responder to cellular stress and can upregulate GSH biosynthesis, we asked whether the KD activates the Nrf2 pathway. Here we report that rats consuming a KD show acute production of H(2)O(2) from hippocampal mitochondria, which decreases below control levels by 3 weeks, suggestive of an adaptive response. 4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), an electrophilic lipid peroxidation end product known to activate the Nrf2 detoxification pathway, was also acutely increased by the KD. Nrf2 nuclear accumulation was evident in both the hippocampus and liver, and the Nrf2 target, NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1), exhibited increased activity in both the hippocampus and liver after 3 weeks. We also found chronic depletion of liver tissue GSH, while liver mitochondrial antioxidant capacity was preserved. These data suggest that the KD initially produces mild oxidative and electrophilic stress, which may systemically activate the Nrf2 pathway via redox signaling, leading to chronic cellular adaptation, induction of protective proteins, and improvement of the mitochondrial redox state.
Approximately 10% of the cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are inherited, with the majority of identified linkages in the gene encoding Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Recent studies showed that human wild-type SOD1 (SOD1(WT)) overexpression accelerated disease in mice expressing human SOD1 mutants linked to ALS. However, there is a controversy whether the exacerbation mechanism occurs through coaggregation of human SOD1(WT) with SOD1 mutants, stabilization by SOD1(WT) of toxic soluble SOD1 species, or conversion of SOD1(WT) into toxic species through oxidative damage. To further address whether the exacerbation of disease requires misfolding, modifications, and/or interaction of SOD1(WT) with pathogenic forms of SOD1 species, we have studied the effect of human SOD1(WT) overexpression in mice expressing the murine mutant Sod1(G86R). Surprisingly, unlike a previous report with SOD1(G85R) mice, SOD1(WT) overexpression did not affect the life span of Sod1(G86R) mice. Our analysis of spinal cord extracts revealed a lack of heterodimerization or aggregation between human SOD1(WT) and mouse Sod1(G86R) proteins. Moreover, there was no evidence of conversion of SOD1(WT) into misfolded or abnormal SOD1 isoforms based on immunoreactivity with monoclonal antibodies specific to misfolded forms of SOD1 mutants and on analysis of SOD1 isoforms after two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. We conclude that a direct interaction between wild type and mutant forms of SOD1 is required for exacerbation of ALS disease by SOD1(WT) protein.
Inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin has been shown to suppress seizures in TSC/PTEN genetic models. Rapamycin, when applied immediately before or after a neurological insult, also prevents the development of spontaneous recurrent seizures (epileptogenesis) in an acquired model. In the present study, we examined the mTOR pathway in rats that had already developed chronic spontaneous seizures in a pilocarpine model. We found that mTOR is aberrantly activated in brain tissues from rats with chronic seizures. Furthermore, inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin treatment significantly reduces seizure activity. Finally, mTOR inhibition also significantly suppresses mossy fiber sprouting. Our findings suggest the possibility for a much broader window for intervention for some acquired epilepsies by targeting the mTOR pathway.
Neurodegenerative diseases impose a burden on society, yet for the most part, the mechanisms underlying neuronal dysfunction and death in these disorders remain unclear despite the identification of relevant disease genes. Given the molecular conservation in neuronal signaling pathways across vertebrate and invertebrate species, many researchers have turned to the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to identify the mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disease pathology. C. elegans can be engineered to express human proteins associated with neurodegeneration; additionally, the function of C. elegans orthologs of human neurodegenerative disease genes can be dissected. Herein, we examine major C. elegans neurodegeneration models that recapitulate many aspects of human neurodegenerative disease and we survey the screens that have identified modifier genes. This review highlights how the C. elegans community has used this versatile organism to model several aspects of human neurodegeneration and how these studies have contributed to our understanding of human disease.
As a consequence of the widespread use of zebrafish in developmental biology studies, an extensive array of experimental tools and techniques has been assembled; it has recently become apparent that these might be exploited in the analysis of human neurodegenerative diseases. A surprising degree of functional conservation has been demonstrated between human genes implicated in neurodegenerative diseases and their zebrafish orthologues. In zebrafish models of recessive parkinsonism, Parkin or Pink1 knockdown gave rise to specific loss of dopamine neurons; in a zebrafish model of recessive spinal muscular atrophy, loss of Smn1 function caused specific motor axonal defects. In addition, pathological features of several dominant diseases were replicated by transgenic over-expression of mutant human proteins, including Tau, Huntingtin, and SOD1. In some cases, conservation of relevant cellular pathways was sufficient that disease-specific posttranslational changes to the respective proteins were found in the zebrafish models. These data collectively suggest that the zebrafish can be an appropriate setting in which to model the molecular events underlying human neuropsychiatric disease. Consequently, novel findings yielded by studies in zebrafish models may be applicable to human diseases; this is an exciting prospect, in view of the many potential uses of zebrafish models, for example, screening for lead therapeutic compounds, rapid functional assessments of putative modifier genes, and live observation of pathogenic mechanisms in vivo.
Modulatory neurotransmitters which signal through G protein-coupled receptors control brain functions which deteriorate in degenerative brain diseases. During the past decade many of these systems have been mapped in the zebrafish brain. The main architecture of the systems in zebrafish brain resembles that of the mammals, despite differences in the development of the telencephalon and mesodiencephalon. Modulatory neurotransmitters systems which degenerate in human diseases include dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin, histamine, acetylcholine and orexin/hypocretin. Although the number of G protein-coupled receptors in zebrafish is clearly larger than in mammals, many receptors have similar expression patterns, binding and signaling properties as in mammals. Distinct differences between mammals and zebrafish include duplication of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene in zebrafish, and presence of one instead of two monoamine oxidase genes. Zebrafish are sensitive to neurotoxins including MPTP, and exposure to this neurotoxin induces a decline in dopamine content and number of detectable tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in distinct nuclei. Sensitivity to important neurotoxins, many available genetic methods, rapid development and large-scale quantitative behavioral methods in addition to advanced quantitative anatomical methods render zebrafish an optimal organism for studies on disease mechanisms.
Dopamine is cytotoxic and may play a role in the development of Parkinson's disease. However, its interaction with environmental risk factors such as pesticides remains poorly understood. The vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) regulates intracellular dopamine content, and we have tested the neuroprotective effects of VMAT in vivo using the model organism Drosophila melanogaster. We find that Drosophila VMAT (dVMAT) mutants contain fewer dopaminergic neurons than wild type, consistent with a developmental effect, and that dopaminergic cell loss in the mutant is exacerbated by the pesticides rotenone and paraquat. Overexpression of DVMAT protein does not increase the survival of animals exposed to rotenone, but blocks the loss of dopaminergic neurons caused by this pesticide. These results are the first to demonstrate an interaction between a VMAT and pesticides in vivo, and provide an important model to investigate the mechanisms by which pesticides and cellular DA may interact to kill dopaminergic cells.
Acute nicotine enhances multiple types of learning including trace fear conditioning but the underlying neural substrates of these effects are not well understood. Trace fear conditioning critically involves the medial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, which both express nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Therefore, nicotine could act in either or both areas to enhance trace fear conditioning. To identify the underlying neural areas and nAChR subtypes, we examined the effects of infusion of nicotine, or nicotinic antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHE: high-affinity nAChRs) or methyllycaconitine (MLA: low-affinity nAChRs) into the dorsal hippocampus, ventral hippocampus, and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) on trace and contextual fear conditioning. We found that the effects of nicotine on trace and contextual fear conditioning vary by brain region and nAChR subtype. The dorsal hippocampus was involved in the effects of nicotine on both trace and contextual fear conditioning but each task was sensitive to different doses of nicotine. Additionally, dorsal hippocampal infusion of the antagonist DHE produced deficits in trace but not contextual fear conditioning. Nicotine infusion into the ventral hippocampus produced deficits in both trace and contextual fear conditioning. In the mPFC, nicotine enhanced trace but not contextual fear conditioning. Interestingly, infusion of the antagonists MLA or DHE in the mPFC also enhanced trace fear conditioning. These findings suggest that nicotine acts on different substrates to enhance trace versus contextual fear conditioning, and that nicotine-induced desensitization of nAChRs in the mPFC may contribute to the effects of nicotine on trace fear conditioning.
Alpha3-containing (alpha 3*) and alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are expressed in human IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells and implicated in Ca(2+) signaling. In this study, we investigated the intracellular Ca(2+) transient generation evoked by selective activation of alpha 3* (agonist potency rank order: epibatidine&gt;varenicline&gt;nicotine approximately cytisine) and alpha 7 (rank order in the presence of alpha 7 positive allosteric modulator or PAM: A-795723&gt;NS6784 approximately PNU-282987) using, respectively, varenicline and NS6784 (+alpha 7 PAM) by Ca(2+) imaging. Effects of inhibitors of nAChRs (MLA and mecamylamine), ER Ca(2+) ATPase pump (CPA and thapsigargin), Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (ryanodine and dantrolene), Ca(2+) channels (nitrendipine, diltiazem, and Cd(2+)), and removal of extracellular Ca(2+) were examined. alpha 7 PAMs, when tested in the presence of NS6784, were more active when added first, followed by the agonist, than in the reverse order. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) - but not CPA, thapsigargin, ryanodine, dantrolene, nitrendipine, diltiazem, or Cd(2+) - diminished the alpha 7 agonist-evoked Ca(2+) transients. In contrast, only diltiazem and nitrendipine and removal of extracellular Ca(2+) inhibited the alpha 3*-mediated Ca(2+) transients. The differential effect of diltiazem and nitrendipine versus Cd(2+) was due to direct inhibition of alpha 3* nAChRs as revealed by Ca(2+) imaging in HEK-293 cells expressing human alpha 3 beta 4 nAChRs and patch clamp in IMR-32 cells. In summary, this study provides evidence that alpha 3* and alpha 7 nAChR agonist-evoked global Ca(2+) transient generation in IMR-32 cells does not primarily involve voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels, intracellular Ca(2+) stores, or Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release. These mechanisms may, however, be still involved in other forms of nAChR-mediated Ca(2+) signaling.
Maternal obesity may affect the child's long-term development and health, increasing the risk of diabetes and metabolic syndrome. In addition to the metabolic and endocrine systems, recent reports have indicated that maternal obesity also modulates neural circuit formation in the offspring. However, this not yet been fully investigated. Here, we examined the effect of diet-induced maternal obesity on hippocampal development and function in the mouse offspring. Adult female mice were fed either a normal diet (ND, 4% fat) or a high-fat diet (HFD, 32% fat) before mating and throughout pregnancy and lactation. After weaning, all offspring were fed with a normal diet. We found that HFD offspring showed increased lipid peroxidation in the hippocampus during early postnatal development. HFD offspring had less brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus than ND offspring. BDNF has been shown to play crucial roles in neuronal differentiation, plasticity and hippocampus-dependent cognitive functions such as spatial learning and memory. Using retroviral labeling, we demonstrated that dendritic arborization of new hippocampal neurons was impaired in the young HFD offspring. Finally, we evaluated cognitive function in these offspring using hippocampus-dependent behavioral tasks. The Barnes maze test demonstrated that HFD offspring showed impaired acquisition of spatial learning in the young but not adult period. This study, using a mouse model, indicates that diet-induced maternal obesity impairs hippocampal BDNF production and spatial cognitive function in young offspring, possibly due to their metabolic and oxidative changes.

This study explored the effect of coral calcium hydride (CCH) on rat intrahippocampal antioxidant ability by measuring the PCAM nitroxide radical decay ratio when CCH was (a) co-perfused into the hippocampus and (b) fed orally to the rats for 4 weeks under a freely moving state. Estimation of the in vivo antioxidant effect was obtained by administration of the blood-brain barrier-permeable PCAM nitroxide radical and the measured PCAM radical decay ratio then correlated to the amount of antioxidant in the brain using electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy combined with microdialysis. The half-life periods of PCAM in rats treated with CCH in both the co-perfusion and orally fed groups were significantly shorter compared to the control group. These results clarify the mechanism that CCH may exert antioxidant activity by significantly enhancing the basal endogenous antioxidant ability in the hippocampus through a synergistic effect with -tocopherol and ascorbic acid.
To better understand the development of hydrocephalus of different origins, we evaluated cytokine and growth factor concentration in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with hydrocephalus. CSF was collected from patients developing hydrocephalus following hemorrhage (n=15), patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (n=10), and following the embolization of unruptured intracranial aneurysms (n=9). Myelography patients (n=15) served as controls. Quantification of 11 molecules relating angiogenesis, inflammation, and wound healing in the CSF was performed using ELISA. All three hydrocephalus groups had decreased concentration of TIMP-4 compared to the normal group. The hemorrhage group showed increased concentration of IL-6, IL-8, MCP-1, MMP-9, and TIMP-1 compared to the control group. The unruptured aneurysm group had increased concentration of IL-6 and decreased concentration of TIMP-2 compared to the control group. Compared to the normal patients, increased concentrations of wound healing molecules were evident in all three groups. Increased inflammation was evident in the hemorrhage and unruptured aneurysm groups.
It is known that the NMDA-R NR1 subunit is needed for the receptor activity and that under hypoxia the evolution toward apoptosis or neuronal survival depends on the balance NR2A/NR2B subunits. This paper analyzes the effect of acute hypoxia on the above mentioned subunits mRNAs during development. The mean percentage of NR1+ neurons displayed the higher plasticity during development while the NR2A+ neurons the higher stability. Acute hypoxia increased the mean percentage of NR1+ and NR2B+ neurons at ED12 but only that of NR1+ neurons at ED18. Acute hypoxia increased the levels of expression of NR1 and NR2B mRNAs at ED12 without changes in the NR2A mRNA. During early stages there is a higher sensitivity to change the subunits mRNA levels under a hypoxic treatment. At ED12 acute hypoxia increased the probability of co-expression of the NR1-NR2A and NR1-NR2B subunits combinations, the level of NR1 and NR2B and the ratio NR2B/NR2A. These conditions facilitate the evolution towards apoptosis.
Hypoglycemia is the major problem to blood glucose homeostasis in treatment of diabetes and is associated with severe irreversible consequences including seizures, coma and death. GABAergic inhibitory function in the cerebral cortex plays an important role in controlling the excitability and responsiveness of cortical neurons. Present study analysed effects of insulin induced hypoglycemia and streptozotocin induced diabetes on the cortical GABA receptor binding, GABA(A1), GABA(B) receptor subtype expression, GAD and GLUT3 expression. Diabetic rats showed decreased [(3)H] GABA binding in the cerebral cortex compared to control while hypoglycemia exacerbated the decrease. GABA receptor subunits; GABA(A1), GABA(B) and GAD expression significantly decreased in diabetic rats whereas hypoglycemia significanly decreased the expression compared to diabetic. GLUT3 expression significantly up regulated during both hypo and hyperglycemia. Our results showed that hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia decreased GABAergic neuroprotective function in the cerebral cortex, which account for the increased vulnerability of cerebral cortex to subsequent neuronal damage during hypo/hyperglycemia.


Genetic variation in the leucine-rich repeat and Ig domain containing 1 gene (LINGO1) was recently associated with an increased risk of developing essential tremor (ET) and Parkinson disease (PD). Herein, we performed a comprehensive study of LINGO1 and its paralog LINGO2 in ET and PD by sequencing both genes in patients (ET, n=95; PD, n=96) and by examining haplotype-tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (tSNPs) in a multicenter North American series of patients (ET, n=1,247; PD, n=633) and controls (n=642). The sequencing study identified six novel coding variants in LINGO1 (p.S4C, p.V107M, p.A277T, p.R423R, p.G537A, p.D610D) and three in LINGO2 (p.D135D, p.P217P, p.V565V), however segregation analysis did not support pathogenicity. The association study employed 16 tSNPs at the LINGO1 locus and 21 at the LINGO2 locus. One variant in LINGO1 (rs9652490) displayed evidence of an association with ET (odds ratio (OR)=0.63; P=0.026) and PD (OR=0.54; P=0.016). Additionally, four other tSNPs in LINGO1 and one in LINGO2 were associated with ET and one tSNP in LINGO2 associated with PD (P&lt;0.05). Further analysis identified one tSNP in LINGO1 and two in LINGO2 which influenced age at onset of ET and two tSNPs in LINGO1 which altered age at onset of PD (P&lt;0.05). Our results support a role for LINGO1 and LINGO2 in determining risk for and perhaps age at onset of ET and PD. Further studies are warranted to confirm these findings and to determine the pathogenic mechanisms involved.
The visual cortex in each hemisphere is linked to the opposite hemisphere by axonal projections that pass through the splenium of the corpus callosum. Visual-callosal connections in humans and macaques are found along the V1/V2 border where the vertical meridian is represented. Here we identify the topography of V1 vertical midline projections through the splenium within six human subjects with normal vision using diffusion-weighted MR imaging and probabilistic diffusion tractography. Tractography seed points within the splenium were classified according to their estimated connectivity profiles to topographic subregions of V1, as defined by functional retinotopic mapping. First, we report a ventral-dorsal mapping within the splenium with fibers from ventral V1 (representing the upper visual field) projecting to the inferior-anterior corner of the splenium and fibers from dorsal V1 (representing the lower visual field) projecting to the superior-posterior end. Second, we also report an eccentricity gradient of projections from foveal-to-peripheral V1 subregions running in the anterior-superior to posterior-inferior direction, orthogonal to the dorsal-ventral mapping. These results confirm and add to a previous diffusion MRI study (Dougherty et al., 2005) which identified a dorsal/ventral mapping of human splenial fibers. These findings yield a more detailed view of the structural organization of the splenium than previously reported and offer new opportunities to study structural plasticity in the visual system.
Previous neuroimaging studies of spatial perspective taking have tended not to activate the brain's mentalising network. We predicted that a task that requires the use of perspective taking in a communicative context would lead to the activation of mentalising regions. In the current task, participants followed auditory instructions to move objects in a set of shelves. A 2x2 factorial design was employed. In the Director factor, two directors (one female and one male) either stood behind or next to the shelves, or were replaced by symbolic cues. In the Object factor, participants needed to use the cues (position of the directors or symbolic cues) to select one of three possible objects, or only one object could be selected. Mere presence of the Directors was associated with activity in the superior dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and the superior/middle temporal sulci, extending into the extrastriate body area and the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), regions previously found to be responsive to human bodies and faces respectively. The interaction between the Director and Object factors, which requires participants to take into account the perspective of the director, led to additional recruitment of the superior dorsal MPFC, a region activated when thinking about dissimilar others' mental states, and the middle temporal gyri, extending into the left temporal pole. Our results show that using perspective taking in a communicative context, which requires participants to think not only about what the other person sees but also about his/her intentions, leads to the recruitment of superior dorsal MPFC and parts of the social brain network.
The memory-guided saccade paradigm is an ideal experimental model for studying spatial working memory. Both the posterior parietal cortex and frontal cortex are known to play a role in working memory; however, there is much debate about the degree of their involvement in the retention of information. We used event-related potentials and electromagnetic tomography to clarify the precise time course and location of the neural correlates of spatial working memory during a memory-guided saccade task in humans. We observed sustained activity in the inferior parietal lobe and extrastriate areas that persisted for the entire duration of the sensory- and memory-phases. This time course reveals that these regions participate in both initial sensory processing of visual cues and in the short-term maintenance of spatial location memory. Similar sustained activation was also observed in the anterior cingulate cortex, probably reflecting attentive control during the task. Differential activity between conditions was also recorded in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and in the frontal eye fields, but only during the initial part of the memory-phase. This finding suggests that these areas are not involved in the storage of spatial information, but rather in response selection and in transformation of spatial information into a motor coordinate framework, respectively. By exploiting techniques that provide exquisite temporal resolution and reasonably precise anatomical localization, this study provides evidence supporting the key role of inferior parietal lobe in the storage of spatial information during a working memory guided saccade.
The identification, modeling, and analysis of interactions between nodes of neural systems in the human brain have become the aim of interest of many studies in neuroscience. The complex neural network structure and its correlations with brain functions have played a role in all areas of neuroscience, including the comprehension of cognitive and emotional processing. Indeed, understanding how information is stored, retrieved, processed, and transmitted is one of the ultimate challenges in brain research. In this context, in functional neuroimaging, connectivity analysis is a major tool for the exploration and characterization of the information flow between specialized brain regions. In most functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, connectivity analysis is carried out by first selecting regions of interest (ROI) and then calculating an average BOLD time series (across the voxels in each cluster). Some studies have shown that the average may not be a good choice and have suggested, as an alternative, the use of principal component analysis (PCA) to extract the principal eigen-time series from the ROI(s). In this paper, we introduce a novel approach called cluster Granger analysis (CGA) to study connectivity between ROIs. The main aim of this method was to employ multiple eigen-time series in each ROI to avoid temporal information loss during identification of Granger causality. Such information loss is inherent in averaging (e.g., to yield a single &quot;representative&quot; time series per ROI). This, in turn, may lead to a lack of power in detecting connections. The proposed approach is based on multivariate statistical analysis and integrates PCA and partial canonical correlation in a framework of Granger causality for clusters (sets) of time series. We also describe an algorithm for statistical significance testing based on bootstrapping. By using Monte Carlo simulations, we show that the proposed approach outperforms conventional Granger causality analysis (i.e., using representative time series extracted by signal averaging or first principal components estimation from ROIs). The usefulness of the CGA approach in real fMRI data is illustrated in an experiment using human faces expressing emotions. With this data set, the proposed approach suggested the presence of significantly more connections between the ROIs than were detected using a single representative time series in each ROI.
Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) has been proposed to estimate neuronal connectivity from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) using a biophysical model that links synaptic activity to hemodynamic processes. However, it is well known that fMRI is sensitive not only to neuronal activity, but also to many other psychophysiological responses which may be task-related, such as changes in cardio-respiratory activity. They are not explicitly taken into account in the generative models of DCM and their effects on estimated neuronal connectivity are not known. The main goal of this study was to report the face validity of DCM in the presence of strong physiological confounds that presumably cannot be corrected for, using an fMRI experiment of vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) performed in rats. First, a simple simulation was used to evaluate the principled ability of DCM to recover directed connectivity in the presence of a confounding factor. Second, we tested the experimental validity using measures of the BOLD correlates of left 5Hz VNS. Because VNS mostly activates the central autonomic regulation system, fMRI signals were likely to represent both direct and indirect vascular responses to such activation. In addition to the inference of standard statistical parametric maps, DCM was thus used to estimate directed neural connectivity in a small brain network including the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) known to receive vagal afferents. Though blood pressure changes may constitute a major physiological confound in this dataset, model comparison of DCMs still allowed the identification of the NTS as the input station of the VNS pathway to the brain. Our study indicates that current developments of DCM are robust to psychophysiological responses to some extent, but does not exclude the need to develop specific models of brain - body interactions within the DCM framework to better estimate neuronal connectivity from fMRI time series.
Baboon, with its large brain size and extensive cortical folding compared to other non-human primates, serves as a good model for neuroscience research. This study reports the implementation of a baboon model for blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI studies (1.5 x 1.5 x 4 mm resolution) on a clinical 3T-MRI scanner. BOLD fMRI responses to hypercapnic (5% CO(2)) challenge, 10 Hz flicker visual, and vibrotactile somatosensory-motor stimulations were investigated in baboons anesthetized sequentially with isoflurane and ketamine. Hypercapnia evoked robust BOLD increases. Paralysis was determined to be necessary to achieve reproducible functional activations within and between subjects under our experimental conditions. With optimized anesthetic doses (0.8-1.0% isoflurane or 6-8 mg/kg/h ketamine) and adequate paralysis (vecuronium, 0.2 mg/kg), robust activations were detected in the visual (V), primary (S1) and secondary (S2) somatosensory, primary motor (M cortices), supplementary motor area (SMA), lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and thalamus (Th). Data were tabulated for 11 trials under isoflurane and 10 trials under ketamine on 5 baboons. S1, S2, M, and V activations were detected in essentially all trials (90-100% of the time, except 82% for S2 under isoflurane and 70% for M under ketamine). LGN activations were detected 64-70% of the time under both anesthetics. SMA and Th activations were detected 36-45% of the time under isoflurane and 60% of the time under ketamine. BOLD percent changes among different structures were slightly higher under ketamine than isoflurane (0.75% versus 0.58% averaging all structures), but none was statistically different (P&gt;0.05). This baboon model offers an opportunity to non-invasively image brain functions and dysfunctions in large non-human primates.
Successful behavior requires a finely-tuned interplay of initiating and inhibiting motor programs to react effectively to constantly changing environmental demands. One particularly useful paradigm for investigating inhibitory motor control is the Stop-signal task, where already-initiated responses to Go-stimuli are to be inhibited upon the rapid subsequent presentation of a Stop-stimulus (yielding successful and unsuccessful Stop-trials). Despite the extensive use of this paradigm in functional neuroimaging, there is no consensus on which functional comparison to use to characterize response-inhibition-related brain activity. Here, we utilize conjunction analyses of successful and unsuccessful Stop-trials that are each contrasted against a reference condition. This conjunction approach identifies processes common to both Stop-trial types while excluding processes specific to either, thereby capitalizing on the presence of some response-inhibition-related activity in both conditions. Using this approach on fMRI data from human subjects, we identify a network of brain structures that was linked to both types of Stop-trials, including lateral-inferior frontal and medial frontal cortical areas and the caudate nucleus. In addition, comparisons with a reference condition matched for visual stimulation identified additional activity in the right inferior parietal cortex that may play a role in enhancing the processing of the Stop-stimuli. Finally, differences in stopping efficacy across subjects were associated with variations in activity in the left anterior insula. However, this region was also associated with general task accuracy (which furthermore correlated directly with stopping efficacy), suggesting that it might actually reflect a more general mechanism of performance control that supports response inhibition in a relatively nonspecific way.
In humans, areas around the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) have been found to play a crucial role in coding nonsymbolic numerosities (i.e., number of elements in a collection). In the parietal cortex of monkeys, some populations of neurons were found to respond selectively to sequentially- or simultaneously-presented numerosities, whereas other populations showed similar activation in both modes of presentation. However, whether such mode-dependent and -independent representations of numerosity also exist in humans is still unknown. Here, we used fMRI to identify the areas involved in numerosity processing while participants classified linear arrays of dots (simultaneous stimuli) or flashed dot sequences (sequential stimuli). The processing of simultaneous numerosities induced activations bilaterally in several areas of the IPS, whereas activations during the processing of sequential numerosities were restricted to the right hemisphere. A conjunction analysis showed that only the right IPS and precentral gyrus showed overlapping activations during the judgement of sequential and simultaneous stimuli. Voxelwise correlations confirmed the highly similar pattern of activation found in these regions during both tasks. This pattern was weaker or absent in mode-dependent regions, like the right inferior frontal cortex and the lateral occipital complex. Finally, a close look at the right IPS revealed an anterior-to-posterior gradient of activation with selective activation for sequential and simultaneous stimuli in the anterior and posterior areas, respectively, and overlapping activations in-between. This study provides the first direct evidence that, in humans, the right IPS contains both mode-dependent and mode-independent representations of numerosity.
A number of modern digital anatomy techniques, based on structural MR brain images, have recently become applicable to the non-human primate brain. Such voxel-based quantitative techniques require a species-specific standardized brain template. Here we present a brain template for the Japanese macaque (Macaca fuscata). The template was designed to be used as a tool for spatially normalising Japanese macaque brains into a standard space. Although this species of macaque monkey is widely used in neuroscience research, including studies of higher cognitive brain functions, no standard MRI template of its brain is presently available. The template presented here is based on T1/T2* weighted, high-resolution 4T MR images obtained from 16 male adult Japanese macaque monkeys. T1/T2* images were used to correct the signal inequalities resulting from the use of a surface coil. Based on these images, population-averaged probability maps were created for grey matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid. The new template presented here should facilitate future brain research using the Japanese macaque monkey. Whole brain templates are available at http://brainatlas.brain.riken.jp/jm/modules/xoonips/listitem.php?index_id=9.
Resting-state functional connectivity studies with fMRI showed that the brain is intrinsically organized into large-scale functional networks for which the hemodynamic signature is stable for about 10s. Spatial analyses of the topography of the spontaneous EEG also show discrete epochs of stable global brain states (so-called microstates), but they remain quasi-stationary for only about 100 ms. In order to test the relationship between the rapidly fluctuating EEG-defined microstates and the slowly oscillating fMRI-defined resting states, we recorded 64-channel EEG in the scanner while subjects were at rest with their eyes closed. Conventional EEG-microstate analysis determined the typical four EEG topographies that dominated across all subjects. The convolution of the time course of these maps with the hemodynamic response function allowed to fit a linear model to the fMRI BOLD responses and revealed four distinct distributed networks. These networks were spatially correlated with four of the resting-state networks (RSNs) that were found by the conventional fMRI group-level independent component analysis (ICA). These RSNs have previously been attributed to phonological processing, visual imagery, attention reorientation, and subjective interoceptive-autonomic processing. We found no EEG-correlate of the default mode network. Thus, the four typical microstates of the spontaneous EEG seem to represent the neurophysiological correlate of four of the RSNs and show that they are fluctuating much more rapidly than fMRI alone suggests.
Understanding relationships between the sequence and timing of brain developmental events across a given set of mammalian species can provide information about both neural development and evolution. Yet neurodevelopmental event timing data available from the published literature are incomplete, particularly for humans. Experimental documentation of unknown event timings requires considerable effort that can be expensive, time consuming, and for humans, often impossible. Application of suitable statistical models for translating neurodevelopmental event timings across mammalian species is essential. The present study implements an established statistical model and related functions as an open-source R package (ttime, translating time). The model incorporated into ttime allows predictions of unknown neurodevelopmental timings and explorations of phylogenetic relationships. The open-source package will enable transparency and reproducibility while minimizing redundancy. Sustainability and widespread dissemination will be guaranteed by the active CRAN (Comprehensive R Archive Network) community. The package updates the web-service (Clancy et al. 2007b) www.translatingtime.net by permitting predictions based on curated event timing databases which may include species not yet incorporated in the current model. The R package can be integrated into complex workflows that use the event predictions in their analyses. The package ttime is publicly available and can be downloaded from http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ttime/index.html .
We provide a free, open-source toolbox for non-linear time series analyses. The major goal of this project was to provide a toolbox for nonlinear time series analyses that is easily accessible to a wide range of neuroscientists. The toolbox offers modular, powerful and flexible algorithms embedded in an easy to handle graphical user interface (GUI). The toolbox can be run within the Matlab environment, but also as stand-alone solution without reference to a programming environment that is also usable for different PC operating systems (Windows and Linux). The Biopsychology--Nonlinear Analysis Toolbox and documentation are available freely and open-source from http://biopsynltoolbox.sourceforge.net.
Adults seeking treatment at hospitals' Emergency Departments (EDs) because of headache represent a major health-care issue. To date, there are no special guidelines for management of primary headache in adults seen at EDs and therapeutic approaches are often inconsistent. This review describes the therapeutic strategies that are most frequently used to treat primary headache in adult ED patients and their in situ efficacy, based on literature data, the type of medications studied in randomized clinical trials for the management of adult ED patients, and the recommendations found in the guidelines for symptomatic treatment of migraine. We also report on the experience of the Parma University Hospital ED in the year 2007 for the management of adult patients diagnosed with primary headache. Finally, we propose an algorithm for primary headache management in ED patients, which is based on the literature data and clinical experience, and is suitable for application in Italy.
A-wave is a late motor response that maintains the same characteristics of latency, amplitude and shape with every electrical stimuli at a proper given intensity. The presence of A-waves was reported both in chronic (CIDP) and acute (AIDP) forms of inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. It is attributed to the effect of either sprouting phenomena or ephaptic/ectopic discharge. In the first condition it could be a sign of functional recovery, while in the second it could represent an early indicator of demyelination. Aims of our research were to investigate retrospectively the presence of the A-waves, establishing whether its frequency is more common in CIDP or AIDP. Data from 77 patients, 57 male and 20 female, mean age 60.7 years (SD 15.4), were recovered from clinical records and their neurophysiological tests retrieved for reanalysis. Our results seem to indicate that A-waves can represent an early sign of acute pathology of peripheral nervous system.
Primitive trigeminal artery (PTA) is the most frequent embryonic communication between the carotid and vertebro-basilar system. PTA is a pathophysiology phenomenon which has been implicated as a rare cause of cranial nerve dysfunction. We report the case of a 40-year-old woman who developed a complete oculomotor nerve palsy caused by a persistent ecstatic trigeminal artery. Brain MRI and MRA studies documented a neurovascular conflict between the oculomotor nerve and a PTA. To the best of our knowledge there is no report about complete third cranial nerve palsy NC due to a PTA. A role of this rare vascular condition is discussed.
This experiment tests how people produce and detect deception while playing a computerized version of the dice game, Meyer. Deception is an integral part of this game, and the participants played it as in real life, without constraints on whether or when to attempt to deceive their opponent, and whether or when to accuse them of deception. We stress that deception is a complex act that cannot be exclusively associated with telling a falsehood, and that it is facilitated by hierarchical decision-making and risk evaluation. In comparison with a non-competitive control condition, both claiming truthfully and claiming falsely were associated with activity in fronto-polar cortex (BA10). However, relative to true claims, false claims were associated with greater activity in the premotor and parietal cortices. We speculate that the activity in BA10 is associated with the development of high-level executive strategies involved in both types of claim, while the premotor and parietal activity is associated with the need to select which particular claim to make.

Over the past decade, fMRI techniques have been increasingly used to interrogate the neural correlates of successful emotional memory encoding. These investigations have typically aimed to either characterize the contributions of the amygdala and medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system, replicating results in animals, or delineate the neural correlates of specific behavioral phenomena. It has remained difficult, however, to synthesize these findings into a systems neuroscience account of how networks across the whole-brain support the enhancing effects of emotion on memory encoding. To this end, the present study employed a meta-analytic approach using activation likelihood estimates to assess the anatomical specificity and reliability of event-related fMRI activations related to successful memory encoding for emotional versus neutral information. The meta-analysis revealed consistent clusters within bilateral amygdala, anterior hippocampus, anterior and posterior parahippocampal gyrus, the ventral visual stream, left lateral prefrontal cortex and right ventral parietal cortex. The results within the amygdala and MTL support a wealth of findings from the animal literature linking these regions to arousal-mediated memory effects. The consistency of findings in cortical targets, including the visual, prefrontal, and parietal cortices, underscores the importance of generating hypotheses regarding their participation in emotional memory formation. In particular, we propose that the amygdala interacts with these structures to promote enhancements in perceptual processing, semantic elaboration, and attention, which serve to benefit subsequent memory for emotional material. These findings may motivate future research on emotional modulation of widespread neural systems and the implications of this modulation for cognition.
Interplay between the cerebral hemispheres is vital for coordinating perception and behavior. One influential account holds that the hemispheres engage in rivalry, each inhibiting the other. In the somatosensory domain, a seminal paper claimed to demonstrate such interhemispheric rivalry, reporting improved tactile detection sensitivity on the right hand after transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the right parietal lobe (Seyal, Ro, &amp; Rafal, 1995). Such improvement in tactile detection ipsilateral to TMS could follow from interhemispheric rivalry, if one assumes that TMS disrupted cortical processing under the coil and thereby released the other hemisphere from inhibition. Here we extended the study by Seyal et al. (1995) to determine the effects of right parietal TMS on tactile processing for either hand, rather than only the ipsilateral hand. We performed two experiments applying TMS in the context of median-nerve stimulation; one experiment required somatosensory detection, the second somatosensory intensity discrimination. We found different TMS effects on detection versus discrimination, but neither set of results followed the prediction from hemispheric rivalry that enhanced performance for one hand should invariably be associated with impaired performance for the other hand, and vice-versa. Our results argue against a strict rivalry interpretation, instead suggesting that parietal TMS can provide a pedestal-like increment in somatosensory response.
Deficits in sustained attention may lead to action slips in everyday life as irrelevant action sequences are inappropriately triggered internally or by the environment. While deficits in sustained attention have been associated with damage to the frontal lobes of the brain, little is known about the role of the frontal lobes in the Elevator Counting subtest of the Test of Everyday Attention. In the current study, 55 frontal patients subdivided into medial, orbital and lateral subgroups, 18 patients with posterior lesions and 82 healthy controls performed the Elevator Counting task. The results revealed that patients with medial and left lateral prefrontal lesions were significantly impaired on the task compared to healthy controls. Research suggests that patients with medial lesions are susceptible to competition from task irrelevant schema; whereas the left lateral group in the current study may fail to keep track of the tones already presented.
Spatial neglect is most frequently observed after right-hemispheric stroke and is characterized by a failure to report, to respond, or to orient to stimuli presented to the contralesional side. Although many neglect patients show difficulties in accomplishing activities of daily living (ADL), to date the clinical assessment of neglect is based upon neuropsychological paper-and-pencil tests. Thus, essential information about the patient's functional status may be missed out. Accordingly, we aimed at developing a new neglect test battery that incorporates standardized ADL. Six conventional paper-and-pencil neglect tests and eight standardized ADL with newly developed neglect-specific scoring criteria and cut-off scores were administered to 68 right-hemispheric stroke patients. According to the neuropsychological tests 22 patients showed symptoms suggesting neglect, whereas 17 patients showed symptoms suggesting neglect according to the newly developed neglect test based upon ADL. Neglect-specific impairments in the neuropsychological tests were significantly associated with those in the ADL-based tests, although dissociations were observed in seven patients. Neglect severity (as reflected in the percentage of positive subtests) was comparable for both test batteries and both test instruments showed high interrater reliability. Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping revealed that the severity of neglect according to the neuropsychological and ADL-based tests was significantly associated with lesions within right fronto-parietal networks. We conclude that the newly developed ADL-based neglect battery provides an economic and ecologically valid tool for the assessment of neglect. The test can be used to assess and quantify neglect in everyday activities, and thus to monitor realistically rehabilitative needs of neglect patients.
A functionally hypoactive prefrontal cortex (PFC) is thought to contribute to decreased cognitive inhibitory control over drug-seeking behavior in cocaine addicts. Alterations in PFC dopamine (DA) and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission are involved in the development of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, and repeated exposure to cocaine decreases DA D2 receptor (D2R) function in the PFC. We used recordings in PFC slices from adult rats to investigate how repeated cocaine treatment followed by 2 weeks of withdrawal affects DA modulation of GABA transmission and interneuron firing. In agreement with previous results in drug-nave animals we found that in saline-treated control animals DA (20M) modulated evoked inhibitory post-synaptic currents (eIPSCs) in a biphasic, time- and receptor-dependent manner. Activation of D2Rs transiently reduced, whereas D1 receptor activation persistently increased the amplitude of eIPSCs. In cocaine-sensitized animals the D2R-dependent modulation of eIPSCs was abolished and the time course of DA effects was altered. In both saline- and cocaine-treated animals the effects of DA on eIPSCs were paralleled by distinct changes in spontaneous IPSCs (sIPSCs). In cocaine-treated animals the alterations in DA modulation of eIPSCs and sIPSCs correlated with a lack of D2R-specific reduction in action potential-independent GABA release, which might normally oppose D1-dependent increases in GABA transmission. Recordings from interneurons furthermore show that D2R activation can increase current-evoked spike firing in saline, but not in cocaine-treated animals. Altered DA regulation of inhibition during cocaine withdrawal could disturb normal cortical processing and contribute to a hypoactive PFC.
Opiate addiction is characterized by high rates of relapse even after long periods of abstinence, requiring new relapse-prevention treatments that do not have abuse potential. Recently, clinical studies suggested that the wake-promoting drug modafinil might decrease relapse in cocaine addicts. In addition, group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlu2/3R) have been suggested as a new therapeutic target for drug addiction. Here, we investigated the ability of modafinil to prevent the acute morphine to promote reinstatement of extinguished preference for morphine, and the involvement of mGlu2/3Rs in this effect. Conditioned place preference (CPP) for morphine was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats, followed by extinction training. Preference for the morphine-paired side was reinstated following extinction by a morphine-priming injection. The results of our study showed that modafinil (300mg/kg, i.p., but not 100mg/kg) 30min before the morphine-priming injection blocked reinstatement of extinguished CPP. The anti-reinstatement effect of modafinil was completely prevented by pretreatment with the selective mGlu2/3 antagonist LY341495. Additional experiments indicated that modafinil alone did not produce a preference, and that modafinil did not alter the expression of morphine CPP or the cueing properties of morphine either 1 or 14 days after morphine CPP conditioning. These data reveal a novel mechanism for modafinil actions, a role for mGlu2/3 receptors in reinstatement of opiate-seeking, and a new therapeutic option to treat relapse in opiate addiction.
Congenital brainstem malformation without associated cerebellar disorder is uncommon. Horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis is one such rare syndrome with brainstem hypoplasia without any disorder of the cerebellum. It has an autosomal recessive inheritance and is characterised by absent horizontal gaze and severe progressive scoliosis from birth. We describe a 58-year-old man with horizontal gaze palsy and severe thoracolumbar scoliosis with typical MR imaging findings of brainstem hypoplasia, and MR tractography confirmation of complete absence of decussation of the pyramidal tract fibers.
This study aimed to detect perilesional gliosis around solitary cerebral cysticerci (SCC) by magnetisation transfer imaging (MTI), to compare its incidence between patients administered and not administered albendazole. We prospectively randomised patients with SCC and new-onset seizures to treatment with albendazole plus antiepileptics (treatment), or antiepileptics only (control), and performed MRI scans at zero, three, six, 12 and 24 months. Data were analysed for lesion characteristics, perilesional MT hyperintensity and MT ratios, calculated from the lesion and perilesional area. Eighty-one patients' data were analysed (M-41, F-40; ages 6-52 years). About 13% scolices appeared hyperintense on MTI at baseline. T1-isointense cyst walls and perilesional area showed MT hyperintensity in 30 - 41.4%; this proportion increased over time. Persistently visible SCC and stage of degeneration at enrolment did not predict development of MT hyperintensity. MT ratios (range - 98.75 to 49.79) increased over time and differed significantly from normal parenchyma. No difference in MT ratios was noted between treatment and control groups. Qualitative perilesional MT hyperintensity was more often seen in control group. Perilesional gliosis is present in &gt;20% of SCC at six months, and continues to appear on later scans. Gliosis is independent of lesion persistence and stage of degeneration. Pre- and post-contrast MT imaging is equally useful in detection of gliosis. MT ratios from the lesion and perilesional parenchyma are significantly lower than from normal brain tissue at all stages of degeneration, but increase as degeneration occurs and healing progresses. Albendazole therapy does not affect the formation of perilesional gliosis.
Alzheimer's disease ranks the first cause for senile dementia. The amyloid cascade is proposed to contribute to the pathogenesis of this disease. In this cascade, amyloid  peptide (A) is produced through a sequential cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by  and  secretases, while its cleavage by  secretase precludes A production and generates neurotrophic sAPP. Thus, enhancing  secretase activity or suppressing  and  cleavage may reduce A formation and ameliorate the pathological process of the disease. Several regulatory mechanisms of APP cleavage have been established. The present review mainly summarizes the signaling pathways pertinent to the regulation of APP  cleavage.


Depression is associated with an inter-hemispheric imbalance; a hyperactive right-hemisphere (RH) and a relatively hypoactive left-hemisphere (LH). Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms which can explain why depression is associated with a RH dominance remain elusive. This article points out the potential links between functional cerebral asymmetries and specific symptoms and features of depression. There is evidence that the RH is selectively involved in processing negative emotions, pessimistic thoughts and unconstructive thinking styles--all which comprise the cognitive phenomenology of depression and in turn contribute to the elevated anxiety, stress and pain associated with the illness. Additionally, the RH mediates vigilance and arousal which may explain the sleep disturbances often reported in depression. The RH had also been linked with self-reflection, accounting for the tendency of depressed individuals to withdraw from their external environments and focus attention inward. Physiologically, RH activation is associated with hyprecortisolemia, which contributes to the deterioration of the immune system functioning and puts depressed patients at a greater risk of developing other illnesses, accounting for depression's high comorbidity with other diseases. Conversely, the LH is specifically involved in processing pleasurable experiences, and its relative attenuation is in line with the symptoms of anhedonia that characterize depression. The LH is also relatively more involved in decision-making processes, accounting for the indecisiveness that is often accompanied with depression.
The ganglion-cells in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Me5) process proprioceptive signals from the masticatory muscles and the periodontal ligaments, and are considered to regulate the rhythm of biting and bite strength. The locus coeruleus (LC) is the major source of noradrenergic projections in the brain and plays an important role in stressful situations and aggressive behavior. The two nuclei are adjacently located to each other in the lateral part of the periaqueductal gray matter of the fourth ventricle. In the present study, a small number of neurons were labeled in the LC with a neuronal tracer biotinylated dextran amine. The labeled single axons were traced from the labeled LC neuronal somata to the ipsilateral Me5 region where they produced terminal-like swellings. Some of the swellings appeared to make contact with the ganglion-cells of the Me5. These results suggest that the LC regulates the bite strength by modifying the ganglion-cell activity in the Me5. Additionally, these findings shed light on the enigma of why the main part of the Me5 at the level of pons is located at the lateral end of the gray matter ventral to the fourth ventricle, instead of at the trigeminal ganglion.







Hypothyroidism is frequently associated with different neuromuscular disorders. However, myotonia is rarely a revealing feature. We report a case of hypothyroidism secondary to Hashimoto's thyroiditis and myotonia. The patient is a 45-year-old woman who consulted for a progressive myotonia. Blood and thyroid assessments revealed peripheral hypothyroidism with low free thyroxine, high thyroid-stimulating hormone levels and high titers of anti-thyroperoxidase antibodies. Outcome was favorable with thyroid hormone substitution. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a common cause of hypothyroidism. The frequency of myopathy during hypothyroidism ranges from 30-80%. The main symptoms related are weakness, muscular cramps, and myalgia. Myotonia may reveal hypothyroidism. The pathogenic mechanism of this myotonia is still unknown. Good outcome of hypothyroid manifestations with thyroid hormone substitution requires systematic thyroid hormone screening in patients presenting with neuromuscular manifestations.
Secondary aneurysmal bone cyst in fibrous dysplasia is exceedingly rare, especially in the skull and particularly in the frontal bone. We present a case of aneurysmal bone cyst concomitant with fibrous dysplasia in the frontal bone in a 15-year-old male patient presenting with headache and euphoria with an uncharacteristic imaging appearance and treated successfully by total resection.
Arachnoid cysts of the posterior fossa are uncommon. Our case of a 49-year-old man presented with a 2 month history of headaches, nausea, and vertigo associated with walking instability. An MRI revealed a median well-circumscribed cystic lesion of the posterior fossa, with similar signal characteristics to CSF, and without connection to the fourth ventricle. This aspect suggested either arachnoid or hydatid cysts. Direct open surgery was performed allowing complete removal of the cyst wall, with a good outcome.
We herein present a 32-year-old Lebanese woman with a history of cardiac hydatid cyst presenting with headache, confusion, and right arm clumsiness. A CT of the head showed hemorrhagic infarct of the left fronto-parietal lobe. Eleven months later, the subsequent development of hydatid cysts within the necrotic area of the infracted hemisphere suggested a cerebral hydatid embolism of cardiac origin. In patients with a positive history of hydatid disease, hydatid embolism should be considered in the differential diagnosis of stroke in young patients.
Cerebral arterial stenosis is a major cause of stroke and of insufficient blood supply to the vertebral basilar system. Percutaneous transluminal cerebral angioplasty and stenting (PTCAS) have been used to preliminarily treat vertebrobasilar stenosis. However, the feasibility to treat the posterior cerebral arterial stenosis by PTCAS has not been fully established. We report a case of a 64-year-old man with a severe stenosis of the posterior cerebral artery that was treated successfully using a PTCAS procedure.







Dysphagia, or swallowing difficulty, is a common problem following severe traumatic brain injury and is associated with an increased risk of malnutrition and pneumonia. Management of patients with dysphagia following head injury is complicated by the presence of cognitive, communication, and behavioral impairments. The purpose of this review article is to help physicians taking care of traumatic brain injury patients understand and manage dysphagia. The article reviews the history of the study of swallowing, stages of swallowing, impairments of swallowing, neural control of swallowing, and the evaluation of patients with swallowing difficulties and their management. In addition to the general principles of dysphagia management, this article covers the management of dysphagic patients with tracheostomy and their nutritional management.
Sex differences in the brain are reflected in behavior and in the risk for neuropsychiatric disorders. The fetal brain develops in the male direction due to a direct effect of testosterone on the developing neurons, or in the female direction due to the absence of such a testosterone surge. Because sexual differentiation of the genitals takes place earlier in intrauterine life than sexual differentiation of the brain, these two processes can be influenced independently of each other. Gender identity (the conviction of belonging to the male or female gender), sexual orientation (heterosexuality, homosexuality, or bisexuality), pedophilia, sex differences in cognition, and the risks for neuropsychiatric disorders are programmed into our brains during early development. There is no proof that postnatal social environment has any crucial effect on gender identity or sexual orientation. Structural and functional sex differences in brain areas, together with changes in sex hormone levels and their receptors in development and adulthood, are closely related to sex differences in behavior and neuropsychiatric disorders. Knowing that such a relationship exists may help bring about sex-specific therapeutic strategies.
Today the fame of Alfred Russell Wallace is as the independent codiscoverer with Charles Darwin of the origin of species by natural selection. Although they were on very amiable terms all their lives, 11 years after announcing their discovery, Wallace and Darwin had a major disagreement on the evolution of human cognition. The author considers how this divergence and other disagreements, particularly on the role of instinct, are related to the differences in their class backgrounds, education, experience with non-European cultures, and views on socialism, phrenology, mesmerism, and spiritualism.
Mechanisms of plasticity are important to the astounding capacity of the brain to adapt and learn. Ion channels are significant contributors to neuronal plasticity, but their dysfunction has been implicated in several nervous system diseases from movement disorders to epilepsy. Although many inherited ion channel mutations have been associated with these disorders, it has been recently recognized that channelopathies can also include aberrant ion channel function that is acquired after an insult or injury to the brain. These acquired alterations are being investigated in animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy, where studies have shown functional changes in voltage-gated ion channels that lead to increases in excitability. Studies of these hyperexcitable neurons have included recordings in the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, and thalamus and support the existence of an extended seizure network with several nodes of altered activity that are established during epileptogenesis. A better understanding of the key ion channels and brain regions that are responsible for the development of this hyperexcitability, along with the molecular mechanisms involved, may provide novel treatment strategies for epilepsy.
Giants have been a subject of fascination throughout history. Whereas descriptions of giants have existed in the lay literature for millennia, the first attempt at a medical description was published by Johannes Wier in 1567. However, it was Pierre Marie, in 1886, who established the term &quot;acromegaly&quot; for the first time and established a distinct clinical diagnosis with clear clinical descriptions in 2 patients with the characteristic presentation. Multiple autopsy findings revealed a consistent correlation between acromegaly and pituitary enlargement. In 1909, Harvey Cushing postulated a hormone of growth&quot; as the underlying pathophysiological trigger involved in pituitary hypersecretion in patients with acromegaly. This theory was supported by his observations of clinical remission in patients with acromegaly in whom he had performed hypophysectomy. In this paper, the authors present some of the early accounts of acromegaly and gigantism, and describe its historical evolution as a medical and surgical entity.
DEEP BRAIN STIMULATION (DBS) as a therapy in neurological and psychiatric disorders is widely applied in the field of functional and stereotactic neurosurgery. In this respect, experimental DBS in animal models is performed to evaluate new indications and new technology. In this article, we review our experience with the concept of experimental DBS, including its development and validation. An electrode construction was developed using clinical principles to perform DBS unilaterally or bilaterally in freely moving rats. The stimulation parameters were adjusted for the rat using current density calculations. We performed validation studies in 2 animal models: a rat model of Parkinson's disease (bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine infusion in the striatum) and a rat model of Huntington's disease (transgenic rats). The effects of DBS were evaluated in different behavioral tasks measuring motor and cognitive functions. The electrode construction developed allows experimental DBS to be performed in freely moving rats. With the current setup, electrodes are placed in the target in 70% to 95% of the cases. Using a rat model, we showed that bilateral DBS of the subthalamic nucleus improves parkinsonian motor disability, but can induce behavioral side effects, similar to the clinical situation. In addition, we showed that DBS of the globus pallidus can improve motor and cognitive symptoms in a rat model of Huntington's disease. Nevertheless, during the process of the development and validation of experimental DBS, we encountered specific problems. These are discussed in detail. Experimental DBS in freely moving animals is an adequate tool to explore new indications for DBS and to refine DBS technology.





Alzheimer disease(AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. However, the availability of effective disease-modifying drugs for AD is currently limited. Thus, with the aging of the population, the mechanism-based therapeutics for AD is desperately needed. This article will discuss the recent advances of the development of drugs based on &quot;amyloid hypothesis&quot;, and the results of clinical trials. The inhibitors or modulators targeting beta- and gamma-secretases that are responsible enzymes for the generation of amyloid-beta peptide(Abeta) deposited in the Abeta brain, or Abeta immunotherapy using anti-Abeta antibodies, are promising candidates. Finally potential mechanism-based adverse effects of these treatments and the strategies to tackle these problems will be discussed.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a rapidly expanding clinical modality worldwide thanks to the availability of compact medical cyclotrons and automated chemistry for the production of radiopharmaceuticals. There is an armamentarium of fluorine-18 ((18)F) tracers that can be used for PET studies in the fields of oncology and neurosciences. However, most of the (18)F-tracers other than 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (FDG) are in less than optimum human use and there is considerable scope to bring potentially useful (18)F-tracers to clinical investigation stage. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) convened a consultants' group meeting to review the current status of (18)F-based radiotracers and to suggest means for accelerating their use for diagnostic applications. The consultants reviewed the developments including the synthetic approaches for the preparation of (18)F-tracers for oncology and neurosciences. A selection of three groups of (18)F-tracers that are useful either in oncology or in neurosciences was done based on well-defined criteria such as application, lack of toxicity, availability of precursors and ease of synthesis. Based on the recommendations of the consultants' group meeting, IAEA started a coordinated research project on &quot;Development of (18)F radiopharmaceuticals (beyond [(18)F]FDG) for use in oncology and neurosciences&quot; in which 14 countries are participating in a 3-year collaborative program. The outcomes of the coordinated research project are expected to catalyze the wider application of several more (18)F-radiopharmaceuticals beyond FDG for diagnostic applications in oncology and neurosciences.


Advances in clinical treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are hampered by its high infiltrative potential leading to distal metastasis. Since their ability to degrade the basal lamina and extracellular matrix, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) have a pivotal role in tumor invasion. The overexpression and the aberrant activity of MMPs especially of MMP2 and MMP9, during HNSCC development and progression have been reported. However, up to now little is known about the mechanism of their regulation in HNSCC. It has been demonstrated that MMP2/9 expression is negative regulated by extracellular signal regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) in HNSCC cell lines. ERKs are protein kinases belonging to the mitogen-activated protein kinases family, and they are involved in the regulation of different cellular aspects, from apoptosis to cell proliferation and differentiation. In the present study we evaluated MMP2 and MMP9 activity by gelatine zymography in 16 tissue samples of HNSCC and their paired normal mucosa from patients undergoing surgical treatment. Moreover, ERK1/2 activation was analyzed by immunoblotting. A statistically significant decrease in the levels of activated ERK2 in cancer specimens in comparison with paired normal tissues was observed, whereas a significant increase in the activity of MMP2 was found in cancer specimens. However, the statistical analysis failed to demonstrate a correlation between the increase in MMP2 activity and the reduction of ERK1/2 activation levels. The results obtained, therefore, rule out, for the first time in an ex vivo study, the existence of a negative correlation between ERK1/2 activation and MMP2 activity.



Habituation deficits in various sensory modalities have been observed in migraine patients in several experimental designs. The underlying neuronal mechanisms are, however, still unknown. Past studies have used electrophysiological measures and focussed on habituation behaviour during one single session. We were interested in how repeated painful stimulation over several days is processed, perceived and modulated in migraineurs. Fifteen migraine patients and 15 healthy controls were stimulated daily with a 20 min trigeminal pain paradigm for eight consecutive days, using functional MRI performed on days one and eight and one follow-up measurement three months later. The results demonstrate that migraine patients did not differ in behavioural pain ratings compared to the controls at any time. However, functional imaging data revealed a significant difference in several brain areas over time. The activity level in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) increased in healthy control subjects from day one to day eight, whereas it decreased in migraine patients. These data suggest that several brain areas known to be involved in endogenous pain control show a completely opposite behaviour in migraine patients compared to healthy controls. These brain networks seem not to be disrupted per se in migraine patients but changed activity over time responding to repetitive nociceptive input. The alteration of pain inhibitory circuits may be the underlying mechanism responsible for the dys-functional neuronal filters of sensory input.
The aim of this study was to investigate how exercise influenced endogenous pain modulation in healthy controls, shoulder myalgia patients and fibromyalgia (FM) patients. Twenty-one healthy subjects, 20 shoulder myalgia patients and 20 FM patients, all females, participated. They performed standardized static contractions, that is, outward shoulder rotation (m. infraspinatus) and knee extension (m. quadriceps). Pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) were determined bilaterally at m. infraspinatus and m. quadriceps. During contractions PPTs were assessed at the contracting muscle, the resting homologous contralateral muscle and contralaterally at a distant site (m. infraspinatus during contraction of m. quadriceps and vice versa). Myalgia patients had lower PPTs compared to healthy controls at m. infraspinatus bilaterally (p&lt;0.01), but not at m. quadriceps. FM patients had lower PPTs at all sites compared to healthy controls (p&lt;0.001) and myalgia patients (p&lt;0.001). During contraction of m. infraspinatus PPTs increased compared to baseline at the end of contraction in healthy controls (all sites: p&lt;0.003), but not in myalgia or FM patients. During contraction of m. quadriceps PPTs increased compared to baseline at the end of contraction in healthy controls (all sites: p&lt;0.001) and myalgia patients (all sites: p&lt;0.02), but not in FM patients. In conclusion, we found a normal activation of endogenous pain regulatory mechanisms in myalgia patients during contraction of the non-afflicted m. quadriceps, but a lack of pain inhibition during contraction of the painful m. infraspinatus. FM patients failed to activate their pain inhibitory mechanisms during all contractions.
Nephropathic cystinosis is a rare genetic metabolic disorder that results in accumulation of the amino acid cystine in lysosomes due to lack of a cystine-specific transporter protein. Cystine accumulates in cells throughout the body and causes progressive damage to multiple organs, including the brain. Neuromotor deficits have been qualitatively described in individuals with cystinosis. This study quantitatively examined fine-motor coordination in individuals with cystinosis. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were also performed to determine whether structural changes were associated with motor deficits. Participants were 52 children and adolescents with infantile nephropathic cystinosis and 49 controls, ages 2-17 years, divided into preacademic and school-age groups. Results indicated that both the preacademic and school-age cystinosis groups performed significantly more poorly than their matched control groups on the Motor Coordination Test. Further, the level of performance was not significantly different between the preacademic and school-age groups. There were no significant differences in motor coordination scores based on MRI findings. This is the first study to document a persistent, nonprogressive, fine-motor coordination deficit in children and adolescents with cystinosis. The fact that these difficulties are present in the preschool years lends further support to the theory that cystinosis adversely affects neurological functioning early in development. The absence of a relationship between brain structural changes and motor function suggests that an alternative cause for motor dysfunction must be at work in this disorder.
Much has been written about Freud's influence on popular culture. This article addresses the influence of literature on Freud's psychoanalytical theory, specifically the role that modern detective fiction played in shaping Freudian theory. Edgar Allan Poe gave Freud the literary precedent; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's creation Sherlock Holmes gave him the analytical model. In turn, the world of crime story-telling embedded Freudian theories in subsequent forms, spinning the tales of crime into a journey into the human mind. As these tales were popularized on the silver screen in the early 20th century, psychoanalytical ideas moved from the lecture halls into the cultural mainstream.
Parallel to psychiatry, &quot;philosophy of mind&quot; investigates the relationship between mind (mental domain) and body/brain (physical domain). Unlike older forms of philosophy of mind, contemporary analytical philosophy is not exclusively based on introspection and conceptual analysis, but also draws upon the empirical methods and findings of the sciences. This article outlines the conceptual framework of the &quot;mind-body problem&quot; as formulated in contemporary analytical philosophy and argues that this philosophical debate has potentially far-reaching implications for psychiatry as a clinical-scientific discipline, especially for its own autonomy and its relationship to neurology/neuroscience. This point is illustrated by a conceptual analysis of the five principles formulated in Kandel's 1998 article &quot;A New Intellectual Framework for Psychiatry.&quot; Kandel's position in the philosophical mind-body debate is ambiguous, ranging from reductive physicalism (psychophysical identity theory) to non-reductive physicalism (in which the mental &quot;supervenes&quot; on the physical) to epiphenomenalist dualism or even emergent dualism. We illustrate how these diverging interpretations result in radically different views on the identity of psychiatry and its relationship with the rapidly expanding domain of neurology/neuroscience.
Despite substantial progress in elucidating its neurobiological mechanisms, theoretical understanding of the placebo effect is poorly developed. Application of the semiotic theory developed by the American philosopher Charles Peirce offers a promising account of placebo effects as involving the apprehension and response to signs. The semiotic approach dovetails with the various psychological mechanisms invoked to account for placebo effects, such as conditioning and expectation, and bridges the biological and cultural dimensions of this fascinating phenomenon.

Peripheral leukocyte recruitment in neuroinflammatory conditions can exacerbate brain tissue damage by releasing cytotoxic mediators and by increasing vascular permeability. Cyclooxygenase (COX)-derived prostaglandins promote the migration of several immune cells in vitro, however, the specific roles of COX-1 and -2 on leukocyte recruitment in vivo have not been investigated. To examine the specific effects of COX-1 or COX-2 deficiency on neuroinflammation-induced leukocyte infiltration, we used a model of intracerebroventricular lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced neuroinflammation in COX-1(-/-), COX-2(-/-), and their respective wild-type (WT) ((+/+)) mice. After LPS, leukocyte infiltration and inflammatory response were attenuated in COX-1(-/-) and increased in COX-2(-/-) mice, compared with their respective WT controls. This influx of leukocytes was accompanied by a marked disruption of blood-brain barrier and differential expression of chemokines. These results indicate that COX-1 and COX-2 deletion differentially modulate leukocyte recruitment during neuroinflammation, and suggest that inhibition of COX-1 activity is beneficial, whereas COX-2 inhibition is detrimental, during a primary neuroinflammatory response.
Binge alcohol consumption is a rising concern in the United States, especially among adolescents. During this developmental period alcohol use is usually initiated and has been shown to cause detrimental effects on brain structure and function as well as cognitive/behavioral impairments in rats. Binge models, where animals are repeatedly administered high doses of ethanol typically over a period of three or four days cause these effects. There has been little work conducted aimed at investigating the long-term behavioral consequences of repeated binge administration during adolescence on later ethanol-induced behavior in young adulthood and adulthood. The repeated four-day binge model may serve as a good approximate for patterns of human adolescent alcohol consumption as this is similar to a &quot;bender&quot; in human alcoholics. The present set of experiments examined the dose-response and sex-related differences induced by repeated binge ethanol administration during adolescence on sweetened ethanol (Experiment 1) or saccharin (Experiment 2) intake in young adulthood. In both experiments, on postnatal days (PND) 28-31, PND 35-38 and PND 42-45, ethanol (1.5, 3.0 or 5.0 g/kg) or water was administered intragastrically to adolescent rats. Rats underwent abstinence from PND 46-59. Subsequently, in young adulthood, ethanol and saccharin intake were assessed. Exposure to any dose of ethanol during adolescence significantly enhanced ethanol intake in adulthood. However, while female rats had higher overall g/kg intake, males appear to be more vulnerable to the impact of adolescent ethanol exposure on subsequently increased ethanol intake in young adulthood. Exposure to ethanol during adolescence did not alter saccharin consumption in young adulthood in male or female rats. Considering that adolescence is the developmental period in which ethanol experimentation and consumption is usually initiated, the present set of experiments demonstrate the importance of elucidating the impact of early binge-pattern ethanol exposure on the subsequent predisposition to drink later in life.
Aging is the major risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases and oxidative stress is involved in the pathophysiology of these diseases. In this study, the possible antioxidant and neuroprotective properties of the polyphenolic antioxidant compound, Curcumin against homocysteine (Hcy) neurotoxicity was investigated. Curcumin (5 and 50mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally once daily for a period of 10 days beginning 5 days prior to Hcy (0.2 micromol/microl) intrahippocampal injection in rats. Biochemical and behavioral studies, including passive avoidance learning and locomotor activity tests were studied 24h after the last Curcumin or its vehicle injection. We detected Malondialdehyde (MDA) and Super oxide anion (SOA) in rats' hippocampi. Results indicated that Hcy could induce lipid peroxidation and increase MDA and SOA levels in rats' hippocampi. Additionally, Hcy impaired memory retention in passive avoidance learning test. However, Curcumin treatment decreased MDA and SOA levels significantly as well as improved learning and memory in rats. Histopathological analysis also indicated that Hcy could decrease hippocampus cell count and Curcumin inhibited this toxic effect. These results suggest that Hcy may induce lipid peroxidation in rats' hippocampi and polyphenol treatment (Curcumin) improved learning and memory deficits by protecting the nervous system against Hcy toxicity.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs) are potent inflammatory mediators that induce inflammation through the activation of CysLT1 and CysLT2 receptors. It has been reported that inflammatory mediators, such as prostaglandins, play an important role in angiogenesis. However, whether CysLTs and the receptor subtypes are involved in angiogenesis is not clarified. Here, we determined the effects of CysLT receptor agonist leukotriene D4 (LTD4) and antagonists on angiogenesis by rat thoracic aortic ring assay. We found that the microvessel growth in 25% serum-containing cultures was significantly inhibited by the CysLT1 receptor antagonist montelukast (0.1-1 microM), but not by the CysLT2 receptor antagonist BAY cyslt2 (0.1-1 microM). The microvessel growth in serum-free culture was affected neither by montelukast (0.01-1 microM) nor by BAY cyslt2 (0.1-1 microM). Furthermore, LTD4 at 100 nM significantly enhanced the microvessel growth in serum-free culture and LTD4 at 10-100 nM significantly enhanced the microvessel growth in 25% serum-containing cultures. The enhancement was abrogated by both montelukast and BAY cyslt2. Thus, CysLT1 receptors may mediate endogenously regulated microvessel growth in normal culture; whereas the exogenous agonist LTD4 induces angiogenesis through the activation of both CysLT1 and CysLT2 receptors. The CysLT receptor antagonists can be developed as angiogenesis inhibitors.
We show that a nonlinear coupling with delayed feedback between two limit-cycle oscillators can lead to phase-locked, periodically modulated, and chaotic phase synchronization as well as to desynchronization. Parameter regions with stable phase-locked states attain the well-known form of the swallows or shrimps found and studied for nonlinear maps. We demonstrate that the swallow regions can be accompanied by a different bifurcation scenario where the periodic orbits of the phase-locked states undergo a torus bifurcation instead of a previously reported period-doubling bifurcation. This property has an impact on the spatial organization of the swallows in the parameter space. The swallow regions contribute to the synchronization domain of the considered system, and we analytically approximate the parameter synchronization threshold.
The high incidence of concussions in contact sports and their impact on brain functions are a major cause for concern. To improve our understanding of brain functioning after sports-related concussion, advanced functional assessment techniques, namely event-related potentials (ERPs) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), have been recently used in research studies. Contrary to neuropsychological tests that measure verbal and/or motor responses, ERPs and fMRI assess the neural activities associated with cognitive/behavioral demands, and thus provide access to better comprehension of brain functioning. In fact, ERPs have excellent temporal resolution, and fMRI identifies the involved structures during a task. This article describes ERP and fMRI techniques and reviews the results obtained with these tools in sports-related concussion. Although these techniques are not yet readily available, they offer a unique clinical approach, particularly for complex cases (ie, athletes with multiple concussions, chronic symptoms) and objective measures that provide valuable information to guide management and return-to-play decision making.
Life on earth is subject to alternating cycles of day and night imposed by the rotation of the earth. Consequently, living things have evolved photodetective systems to synchronize their physiology and behavior with the external light-dark cycle. This form of photodetection is unlike the familiar &quot;image vision,&quot; in that the basic information is light or darkness over time, independent of spatial patterns. &quot;Nonimage&quot; vision is probably far more ancient than image vision and is widespread in living species. For mammals, it has long been assumed that the photoreceptors for nonimage vision are also the textbook rods and cones. However, recent years have witnessed the discovery of a small population of retinal ganglion cells in the mammalian eye that express a unique visual pigment called melanopsin. These ganglion cells are intrinsically photosensitive and drive a variety of nonimage visual functions. In addition to being photoreceptors themselves, they also constitute the major conduit for rod and cone signals to the brain for nonimage visual functions such as circadian photoentrainment and the pupillary light reflex. Here we review what is known about these novel mammalian photoreceptors.
Gamma oscillations are thought to temporally link the activity of distributed cells. We discuss mechanisms of gamma oscillations in the hippocampus and review evidence supporting a functional role for such oscillations in several key hippocampal operations, including cell grouping, dynamic routing, and memory. We propose that memory encoding and retrieval are coordinated by different frequencies of hippocampal gamma oscillations and suggest how transitions between slow and fast gamma may occur.

Many authors have proposed that facial expressions, by conveying emotional states of the person we are interacting with, influence the interaction behavior. We aimed at verifying how specific the effect is of the facial expressions of emotions of an individual (both their valence and relevance/specificity for the purpose of the action) with respect to how the action aimed at the same individual is executed. In addition, we investigated whether and how the effects of emotions on action execution are modulated by participants' empathic attitudes. We used a kinematic approach to analyze the simulation of feeding others, which consisted of recording the &quot;feeding trajectory&quot; by using a computer mouse. Actors could express different highly arousing emotions, namely happiness, disgust, anger, or a neutral expression. Response time was sensitive to the interaction between valence and relevance/specificity of emotion: disgust caused faster response. In addition, happiness induced slower feeding time and longer time to peak velocity, but only in blocks where it alternated with expressions of disgust. The kinematic profiles described how the effect of the specificity of the emotional context for feeding, namely a modulation of accuracy requirements, occurs. An early acceleration in kinematic relative-to-neutral feeding profiles occurred when actors expressed positive emotions (happiness) in blocks with specific-to-feeding negative emotions (disgust). On the other hand, the end-part of the action was slower when feeding happy with respect to neutral faces, confirming the increase of accuracy requirements and motor control. These kinematic effects were modulated by participants' empathic attitudes. In conclusion, the social dimension of emotions, that is, their ability to modulate others' action planning/execution, strictly depends on their relevance and specificity to the purpose of the action. This finding argues against a strict distinction between social and nonsocial emotions.


Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common psychiatric disorder and leading cause of disability worldwide. It is associated with increased mortality, especially from suicide. Heritability of MDD is estimated around 40%, suggesting that genotyping is a promising field for research into the development of MDD. According to the dopamine theory of affective disorders, a deficiency in dopaminergic neurotransmission may play a role in the major symptoms of MDD. Specific polymorphisms in genes that affect dopamine transmission could increase susceptibility to MDD. To determine the extent to which these genes influence vulnerability to MDD, we discuss genes for crucial steps in dopamine neurotransmission: synthesis, signalling and inactivation. The val158met polymorphism of the COMT gene exemplifies the lack of consensus in the literature: although it is one of the most reported polymorphisms that relates to MDD vulnerability, its role is not corroborated by meta-analysis. Gene-gene interactions and gene-environment interactions provide more explanatory potential than single gene associations. Two notable exceptions are the DRD4 and DAT gene: both have variable tandem repeat polymorphisms which may have a &quot;single gene&quot; influence on susceptibility to MDD.
The basolateral amygdala is a nodal structure within a distributed and interconnected network that regulates anxiety states and anxiety-related behavior. Administration of multiple anxiogenic drugs increases cellular responses (i.e., increases c-Fos expression) in a subregion of the basolateral amygdala, but the neurochemical phenotypes of these cells are not known. The basolateral amygdala contains glutamatergic projection neurons and several populations of -aminobutyric acid-synthesizing (GABAergic) interneurons, including a population of parvalbumin (PV)-expressing GABAergic interneurons that co-express the excitatory 5-HT(2A) receptor. The role for these PV-expressing GABAergic interneurons in anxiety-states is unclear. In this experiment we examined the effects of multiple anxiogenic drugs including the 5-HT(2C/2A) receptor agonist m-chlorophenyl piperazine (mCPP), the adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine, the (2)-adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine and the partial inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine allosteric site on the GABA(A) receptor, N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide (FG-7142), on c-Fos expression in PV-immunoreactive (PV-ir) interneurons in subdivisions of the basolateral amygdala. All drugs with the exception of mCPP increased c-Fos expression in PV-ir neurons in the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, anterior part (BLA). The numbers of c-Fos-immunoreactive (c-Fos-ir)/PV-ir GABAergic interneurons in the BLA were positively correlated with the numbers of c-Fos-ir serotonergic neurons in the mid-rostrocaudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) and with a measure of anxiety-related behavior. All four drugs increased c-Fos expression in non-PV-ir cells in most of the subdivisions of the basolateral amygdala that were sampled, compared with vehicle-injected controls. Together, these data suggest that the PV/5-HT(2A) receptor expressing GABAergic interneurons in the basolateral amygdala are part of a DR-basolateral amygdala neuronal circuit modulating anxiety-states and anxiety-related behavior.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of treatment with eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) after spinal cord compression injury in adult rats. Saline or EPA (250 nmol/kg) was administered intravenously 30 min after compression injury. Locomotor recovery was assessed daily using the BBB open-field locomotor score. One week after injury, animals were sacrificed and the spinal cord tissue containing the compression epicenter, and the adjacent rostral and caudal segments, was immunostained using specific markers for neurons, oligodendrocytes, axonal injury, and macrophages/microglia. Administration of EPA resulted in decreased axonal injury and increased neuronal and oligodendrocyte survival, in the lesion epicenter and adjacent tissue. The behavioural assessment mirrored the neuroprotective effects and showed a significantly improved functional recovery in animals treated with EPA compared to the saline-treated controls over the 7-day period. These observations suggest that EPA has neuroprotective properties when administered after spinal cord trauma.

Interferon- is used in patients with multiple sclerosis to reduce autoimmunity; although other psychiatric side-effects are common, in contrast to interferon-alpha, psychosis has been reported only once. A patient with multiple sclerosis developed auditory hallucinations, paranoid delusions, and increased aggressiveness after 16 months of treatment with interferon--1b, 250 mg every other day. He responded after about one month to antipsychotic treatment, but tended to relapse upon dose reduction, and after 2 years still needs antipsychotics to control his symptoms. Because there was no change in his magnetic resonance imaging between pre- and post-treatment with interferon, we concluded that psychosis was more related to interferon treatment than to the underlying disease.
Although the pathophysiology of depressive disorder remains elusive, two hypothetical frameworks seem to be promising: the involvement of hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis abnormalities and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the pathogenesis and in the mechanism of action of antidepressant treatments. In this review, we focused on research based on these two frameworks in relation to depression and related conditions and tried to formulate an integrated theory of the disorder. Hormonal challenge tests, such as the dexamethasone/corticotropin-releasing hormone test, have revealed elevated HPA activity (hypercortisolism) in at least a portion of patients with depression, although growing evidence has suggested that abnormally low HPA axis (hypocortisolism) has also been implicated in a variety of stress-related conditions. Several lines of evidence from postmortem studies, animal studies, blood levels, and genetic studies have suggested that BDNF is involved in the pathogenesis of depression and in the mechanism of action of biological treatments for depression. Considerable evidence has suggested that stress reduces the expression of BDNF and that antidepressant treatments increase it. Moreover, the glucocorticoid receptor interacts with the specific receptor of BDNF, TrkB, and excessive glucocorticoid interferes with BDNF signaling. Altered BDNF function is involved in the structural changes and possibly impaired neurogenesis in the brain of depressed patients. Based on these findings, an integrated schema of the pathological and recovery processes of depression is illustrated.
Little is known about the neuronal mechanism underpinning the pathophysiology of compulsive hoarding. We report the cerebral blood flow changes in an obsessive-convulsive patient with severe hoarding. The patient showed hyperperfusion of the fronto-temporal region and hypoperfusion of the striatal, the middle cingulate and the medial temporal regions during the stage with severe symptoms. Following improvement from the hoarding behaviors, the extent of hypoperfusion was expanded in the bilateral striatum, the anterior and middle cingulate gyrus. The result may substantiate evidence of the fronto-limbic abnormality involved in the pathophysiology of compulsive hoarding.
Perceiving objects activates the representation of their affordances. For example, experiments on compatibility effects showed that categorizing objects by producing certain handgrips (power or precision) is faster if the requested responses are compatible with the affordance elicited by the size of objects (e.g., small or large). The article presents a neural-network architecture that provides a general framework to account for compatibility effects. The model was designed with a methodological approach (computational embodied neuroscience) that aims to provide increasingly general accounts of brain and behavior (4 sources of constraints are used: neuroscientific data, behavioral data, embodied systems, reproduction of learning processes). The model is based on 4 principles of brain organization that we claim underlie most compatibility effects. First, visual perception and action are organized in the brain along a dorsal neural pathway encoding affordances and a ventral pathway encoding goals. Second, the prefrontal cortex within the ventral pathway gives a top-down bias to action selection by integrating information on stimuli, context, and goals. Third, reaction times depend on dynamic neural competitions for action selection that integrate bottom-up and top-down information. The congruence or incongruence between affordances and goals explains the different reaction times found in the experiments. Fourth, as words trigger internal simulations of their referents, they can cause compatibility effects as objects do. We validated the model by reproducing and explaining 3 types of compatibility effects and showed its heuristic power by producing 2 testable predictions. We also assessed the explicative power of the model by comparing it with related models and showed how it can be extended to account for other compatibility effects.
Rational models of cognition typically consider the abstract computational problems posed by the environment, assuming that people are capable of optimally solving those problems. This differs from more traditional formal models of cognition, which focus on the psychological processes responsible for behavior. A basic challenge for rational models is thus explaining how optimal solutions can be approximated by psychological processes. We outline a general strategy for answering this question, namely to explore the psychological plausibility of approximation algorithms developed in computer science and statistics. In particular, we argue that Monte Carlo methods provide a source of rational process models that connect optimal solutions to psychological processes. We support this argument through a detailed example, applying this approach to Anderson's (1990, 1991) rational model of categorization (RMC), which involves a particularly challenging computational problem. Drawing on a connection between the RMC and ideas from nonparametric Bayesian statistics, we propose 2 alternative algorithms for approximate inference in this model. The algorithms we consider include Gibbs sampling, a procedure appropriate when all stimuli are presented simultaneously, and particle filters, which sequentially approximate the posterior distribution with a small number of samples that are updated as new data become available. Applying these algorithms to several existing datasets shows that a particle filter with a single particle provides a good description of human inferences.
Understanding how the human brain translates sensory impressions into conscious percepts is a key challenge of neuroscience research. Work in this area has overwhelmingly centered on the conscious experience of vision at the exclusion of the other senses--in particular, smell. We hypothesized that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is a central substrate for olfactory conscious experience because of its privileged physiological role in odor processing. Combining functional magnetic resonance imaging, peripheral autonomic recordings, and olfactory psychophysics, we studied a case of complete anosmia (smell loss) in a patient with circumscribed traumatic brain injury to the right OFC. Despite a complete absence of conscious olfaction, the patient exhibited robust &quot;blind smell,&quot; as indexed by reliable odor-evoked neural activity in the left OFC and normal autonomic responses to odor hedonics during presentation of stimuli to the left nostril. These data highlight the right OFC's critical role in subserving human olfactory consciousness.
Although previous research suggests that depressive ruminators tend to become stuck in a particular mind-set, this mental inflexibility may not always be disadvantageous; in some cases, it may facilitate active maintenance of a single task goal in the face of distraction. To evaluate this hypothesis, we tested 98 college students, who differed in ruminative tendencies and dysphoria levels, on two executive-control tasks. One task emphasized fast-paced shifting between goals (letter naming), and one emphasized active goal maintenance (modified Stroop). Higher ruminative tendencies predicted more errors on the goal-shifting task but fewer errors on the goal-maintenance task; these results demonstrated that ruminative tendencies have both detrimental and beneficial effects. Moreover, although ruminative tendencies and dysphoria levels were moderately correlated (r = .42), higher dysphoria levels predicted more errors on the goal-maintenance task; this finding indicates that rumination and dysphoria can have opposing effects on executive control. Overall, these results suggest that depressive rumination reflects a trait associated with more stability (goal maintenance) than flexibility (goal shifting).
When multiple objects are presented briefly and simultaneously in a visual array, visual short-term memory (VSTM) can maintain only a limited number of these items. The present research report reveals that splitting the to-be-remembered items into two sequential arrays significantly increases VSTM performance relative to the simultaneous presentation of the same items. A memory benefit also emerges when the full object array is flashed twice (repeated) rather than being presented continuously for the same duration. Moreover, the sequential and repetition benefits are specifically pronounced for individuals with low performance for simultaneously presented items. Our results suggest that the conventional, simultaneous presentation mode may underestimate VSTM performance due to attentional limitations and/or competition between stimulus representations. In contrast, temporal segregation of the stimulus input may help participants maximize their performance and utilize their full VSTM capacity.
According to the &quot;extreme-male brain&quot; theory, elevated fetal testosterone levels may partly explain the skewed sex ratio found in Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). Correcting this testosterone imbalance by increasing estrogen levels may mitigate the abnormal phenotype. Accordingly, while control heterozygous reeler (rl/+) male mice - a putative model of neuroanatomical and behavioral endophenotypes in ASD - show a decreased number of Purkinje cells (PC) compared to control wild-type (+/+) littermates, neonatal estradiol administration has been shown to correct this deficit in the short-term (i.e. on postnatal day 15). Here, we further investigated the neuroanatomical and behavioral abnormalities of rl/+ male mice and the potential compensatory effects of neonatal treatment with estradiol. In a longitudinal study, we observed that: i) infant rl/+ mice showed reduced motivation for social stimuli; ii) adult rl/+ male mice showed reduced cognitive flexibility; iii) the number of amygdalar parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons were remarkably reduced in rl/+ mice; iv) neonatal estradiol administration into the cisterna magna reverted the abnormal profile both at the behavioral and at the neuroanatomical level in the amygdala but did not compensate for the cerebellar abnormalities in adulthood. This study supports the view that an increased excitation-to-inhibition ratio in the cerebellum and in the amygdala during a critical window of development could be crucial to the social and cognitive phenotype of male rl/+ mice, and that acute estradiol treatment during this critical window may mitigate symptoms' severity.







Functional imaging is a tool that has been long restricted to research programs. However, the availability of I-Ioflupane SPECT imaging has developed its' clinical utilization with a risk of misuse. There is room for improvement for the differential diagnosis between idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes and the measure of brain glucose metabolism with PET might fill this gap in the future. Conversely, functional imaging is still a major tool for the evaluation of new experimental therapeutic strategies in PD, especially for those aiming at restoring or protecting striatal dopaminergic innervation.

Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a complex psychopathology. Through recent developments, neuroscience is able to contribute to better understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of BPD manifestations. This article aims to demonstrate that BPD is in part due to executive and frontal dysregulation of the mechanisms responsible for the optimal functioning of inferences specific to theory of mind. To do so, four types of observations will be examined: parallels between frontal personality and BPD, the presence of frontal cognitive deficits in BPD, the consequences of childhood abuse and neglect on brain development and finally, the results of brain imagery in BPD. This article follows in the path of a growing interest in the integration of the neuroscientific perspective of BPD to current conceptualisations in psychopathology. The final aim is to try to offer an understanding of BPD manifestations that avoids the traditional splitting between mind and brain-psychology and biology-and to show the numerous associations between clinical psychology and neurobiology.

Although dyskinesias may be one of the first behavioral indicators of progressive striatal dysfunction, a mechanism critically implicated in the pathogenesis of psychotic disorders, little is known about the association between striatal structures and abnormal movements in high-risk populations. Thirty participants with a prodromal syndrome were rated for dyskinetic movements and underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Volumes of striatal brain structures were delineated. Elevated hyperkinetic movements were found to be associated with smaller putamen and results were replicated in the antipsychotic nave portion of the sample. Participants who converted over a 2-year follow-up period showed significantly smaller striatal volumes and a trend towards elevated dyskinetic movements, relative to those who did not convert. Movement abnormalities may reflect a striatal pathology that is present before formal psychosis onset, and potentially reflective of a heightened vulnerability for conversion.
Repeated study improves memory, but the underlying neural mechanisms of this improvement are not well understood. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and representational similarity analysis of brain activity, we found that, compared with forgotten items, subsequently remembered faces and words showed greater similarity in neural activation across multiple study in many brain regions, including (but not limited to) the regions whose mean activities were correlated with subsequent memory. This result addresses a longstanding debate in the study of memory by showing that successful episodic memory encoding occurs when the same neural representations are more precisely reactivated across study episodes, rather than when patterns of activation are more variable across time.
A case of focal inferior limb sensory-motor status epilepticus as the only manifestation of a multiple sclerosis (MS) relapse is described. To obtain evidence of the relationship between the seizures, the cortical plaque and the left foot motor area, an EEG-fMRI co-registration study was undertaken demonstrating that seizure-related BOLD signal substantially overlapped with the inflammatory lesion involving the foot sensory-motor cortex. Seizures did not respond to intravenous anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) but were controlled by steroid therapy.
Cerebral hypothermia reduces brain injury and improves behavioral recovery after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) at birth. However, using current enrolment criteria many infants are not helped, and conversely, a significant proportion of control infants survive without disability. In order to further improve treatment we need better biomarkers of injury. A 'true' biomarker for the phase of evolving, 'treatable' injury would allow us to identify not only whether infants are at risk of damage, but also whether they are still able to benefit from intervention. Even a less specific measure that allowed either more precise early identification of infants at risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome would reduce the variance of outcome of trials, improving trial power while reducing the number of infants unnecessarily treated. Finally, valid short-term surrogates for long term outcome after treatment would allow more rapid completion of preliminary evaluation and thus allow new strategies to be tested more rapidly. Experimental studies have demonstrated that there is a relatively limited 'window of opportunity' for effective treatment (up to about 6-8h after HI, the 'latent phase'), before secondary cell death begins. We critically evaluate the utility of proposed biochemical, electronic monitoring, and imaging biomarkers against this framework. This review highlights the two central limitations of most presently available biomarkers: that they are most precise for infants with severe injury who are already easily identified, and that their correlation is strongest at times well after the latent phase, when injury is no longer 'treatable'. This is an important area for further research.



A 66-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension using statin was admitted to the hospital with progressive myalgia. He had been on rosuvastatin for five months. After beginning the use of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors, he presented with severe muscle pain and maintained penile erection. Several days after interruption of therapy, muscle pain and penile erection disappeared. This case demonstrates the interaction of sildenafil with rosuvastatin might result in myopathy.


Generation of mesencephalic dopamine (mesDA) neurons from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) requires several stages of signaling from various extrinsic and intrinsic factors. To date, most methods incorporate exogenous treatment of Sonic hedgehog (SHH) to derive mesDA neurons. However, we and others have shown that this approach is inefficient for generating FOXA2+ cells, the precursors of mesDA neurons. As mesDA neurons are derived from the ventral floor plate (FP) regions of the embryonic neural tube, we sought to develop a system to derive FP cells from hESC. We show that forced expression of the transcription factor GLI1 in hESC at the earliest stage of neural induction, resulted in their commitment to FP lineage. The GLI1+ cells coexpressed FP markers, FOXA2 and Corin, and displayed exocrine SHH activity by ventrally patterning the surrounding neural progenitors. This system results in 63% FOXA2+ cells at the neural progenitor stage of hESC differentiation. The GLI1-transduced cells were also able to differentiate to neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase. This study demonstrates that GLI1 is a determinant of FP specification in hESC and describes a highly robust and efficient in vitro model system that mimics the ventral neural tube organizer.


Leukoaraiosis is a common finding in stroke patients and has been strongly associated with risk of incident stroke and dementia. Leukoaraiosis may also be an independent predictor of stroke outcomes. There is increasing evidence from neuroimaging to support the concept that some leukoaraiosis is caused by white matter infarcts, which may be particularly frequent in patients with aggressive small vessel diseases such as cerebral amyloid angiopathy. The relatively similar distribution of leukoaraiosis regardless of the distribution of vascular pathology suggests a conserved vulnerability to white matter injury across various vascular diseases, possibly related to resting patterns of blood flow. More insights into the pathophysiology of leukoaraiosis are sorely needed to reduce the burden of disability associated with this common condition.
Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) syndrome is the most common monogenic inherited form of small vessel disease, characterized by frequent migraine attacks with aura, recurrent strokes and progressive white matter degeneration. Early vascular cognitive impairment progresses into frank dementia of subcortical type later in life. Linked to mutations in the NOTCH3 gene, CADASIL vasculopathy is associated with accumulation of granular osmiophilic material and NOTCH3 extracellular domain around small caliber arteries and arterioles, and eventual loss of vascular smooth muscle cells. Cerebral blood flow dysregulation has been hypothesized as a major mechanism, largely based on evidence from hemodynamic studies in CADASIL patients. Although animal models expressing CADASIL mutations reproduced the pathology and cerebrovascular dysfunction, the phenotypic spectrum has been quite heterogeneous, possibly due to the choice of genetic constructs and obvious species differences between mouse and man. Nevertheless, these experimental models provide new opportunities to explore the molecular and physiological mechanisms of CADASIL, and address the fundamental question of whether CADASIL phenotype represents loss of NOTCH3 function or gain of a novel and pathological function. Here, I provide an overview of existing animal models of CADASIL and the pathophysiological insights gained from these models.




The burning question surrounding the use of Brain-Machine Interface (BMI) devices is not merely whether they should be used, but how widely they should be used, especially in view of some ethical implications that arise concerning the social and legal aspects of human life. As technology advances, it can be exploited to affect the quality of life. Since the effects of BMIs can be both positive and negative, it is imperative to address the issue of the ethics surrounding them. This paper presents the ways in which BMIs can be used and focuses on the ethical concerns to which neuroscience is thus exposed. The argument put forward supports the use of BMIs solely for purposes of medical treatment, and invites the legal framing of this.
Beta-amyloid accumulation is associated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). AZD2184, a new radioligand for high-contrast positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of Abeta-deposits, has recently been developed and characterized in vitro and in rodents ex vivo. The objective of this study was to label AZD2184 with carbon-11, to perform in vivo characterization of [(11)C]AZD2184 ([(11)C]5) in the cynomolgus monkey brain as well as whole-body dosimetry, and to examine the metabolism of the labeled radioligand. [(11)C]5 was prepared by a two-step radiosynthesis starting with the reaction of 5-(6-(tert-butyldimethylsilyloxy)benzo[d]thiazol-2-yl)pyridin-2-amine with [(11)C]methyl iodide followed by deprotection using water. Four brain PET measurements in two cynomolgus monkeys and one whole-body PET measurement were performed with [(11)C]5. There was a high and rapid brain uptake (2.2-3.4% of injected dose at 2 min). The distribution of brain radioactivity was fairly uniform, with early to late-brain concentration ratios (peak vs. 60 min) higher for [(11)C]5 than ratios previously reported for [(11)C]PIB (8.2 and 4.6, respectively). Based on the whole-body data, it was estimated that an effective dose in an adult male would be 6.2 muSv/MBq and thus would be safe from a radiation point of view for multiple scans within the same year. [(11)C]5 shows binding characteristics, suggesting low levels of white-matter retention, and may thus provide improved contrast when compared with currently used PET radioligands for visualization of Abeta-deposits. On the basis of the labeling chemistry and the results of the biological evaluation, we conclude that [(11)C]5 should be useful for routine clinical studies.
Occupational lead poisoning is a health problem in Iran. Renal and neuropsychiatric complications of occupational lead poisoning are the main concerns for the workers and their employers. It was thus aimed to investigate the renal and neurotoxic effects of lead poisoning in the workers of two traditional-tile-factories. Researchers visited the workers in the factories and collected data by taking direct history and physical examinations in summer of 2005. Data were recorded in previously designed forms. Blood and urine lead concentrations were measured by an atomic absorption technique. A neurologist examined all workers and electrophysiological investigations were undertaken as clinically indicated. Data were analyzed by SPSS software and chi-square, student t test and Pearson correlation tests were used accordingly. The numerical data were expressed as mean  standard deviation and p &lt; 0.05 was considered as the significant level. Overall, 108 male subjects aged 37  7.8 years were studied. Duration of lead exposure was 9.8  6 years. Lead concentration in 2005 was 361.5  176.9 g/L. The main objective clinical findings were lead line (64.8%), peripheral neuropathy of upper limb (37%), suppression of deep tendon reflexes (DTR) in upper limbs (25.7%), tremor (23.3%), peripheral neuropathy of lower limbs (17%) and abdominal tenderness (15.1%). The subjective findings were mainly on the central nervous system, such as loss of memory (57%), moodiness (56.1%), agitation (47.7%), drowsiness (36.4%), and headache (29.9%). There was no significant correlation between blood lead concentration and glomerular filtration rate (GFR). But there were significant correlations between the blood lead concentrations and urine lead concentration (p &lt; 0.001). This study showed that lead had toxic effects on the teeth (bone), central and peripheral nervous system, more than renal function. Prophylactic and treatment measures were performed.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophin essential for neuronal survival and differentiation. We examined the concentration of BDNF in cord serum from newborns exposed to methylmercury (MeHg) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) in utero by maternal consumption of whale meat. The cohort consisted of 395 singleton births (206 boys and 189 girls), gestational age ranging from 38 to 42 weeks. Serum BDNF was measured by sandwich ELISA. Maternal smoking habits and other relevant factors were obtained by interviewing the mothers. The exposure to MeHg was estimated from Hg concentrations in cord blood, whereas exposure to PCB was estimated based on maternal serum concentrations. Only MeHg exposure affected the serum BDNF, which decreased in a concentration-dependent manner in girls born to nonsmoking mothers. Maternal smoking significantly increased BNDF in girls but not in boys. For further statistical analyses, we used the serum BDNF concentration as a continuous outcome variable in supervised regression models. Serum BDNF concentration increased with gestational age, increased by maternal smoking, decreased slightly with MeHg exposure, and maternal smoking enhanced the decrease in serum BDNF induced by MeHg exposure. Cord blood BDNF has been reported to increase in association with perinatal brain injuries and has been proposed as a possible predictive marker of neurodevelopmental outcomes. The negative effect that MeHg seems to exert on cord blood BDNF concentration could endanger compensatory responses to an adverse impact and therefore deserves attention.

As any new parent knows, having a baby provides opportunities for enrichment, learning and stress - experiences known to change the adult brain. Yet surprisingly little is known about the effects of maternal experience, and even less about the effects of paternal experience, on neural circuitry not directly involved in parenting. Here we discuss how caregiving and the accompanying experiential and hormonal changes influence the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, brain regions involved in cognition and mood regulation. A better understanding of how parenting impacts the brain is likely to help in devising strategies for treating parental depression, a condition that can have serious cognitive and mental health consequences for children.
Like human children, most young mammals devote a significant amount of time and energy playing together, and social play is fun. Although social play is very pleasurable, it is more than just a frivolous activity: it is crucial for the development of behavioral flexibility, the acquisition of social and cognitive competence, and the maintenance of group cohesion. Social play is a natural reinforcer, and the neurotransmitter systems intimately implicated in the motivational, pleasurable and cognitive aspects of natural and drug rewards, such as opioids, endocannabinoids, dopamine and norepinephrine, play an important modulatory role in the performance of social play. In this review, we address the notion that social play is rewarding, and discuss recent developments in the neuropharmacology of this behavior. This provides a framework to understand how the brain processes social emotions, to make young individuals enjoy social play.
Using longitudinal cross-lagged analysis to infer causal directions of reciprocal effects is one of the most important tools in the developmental armamentarium. The strength of these analyses can be enhanced by analyzing the genetic and environmental aetiology underlying cross-lagged relationships, for which we present a novel approach here. Our approach is based on standard Cholesky decomposition. Standardized path coefficients are employed to assess genetic and environmental contributions to cross-lagged associations. We indicate how our model differs importantly from another approach that does not in fact analyze genetic and environmental contributions to cross-lagged associations. As an illustration, we apply our approach to the analysis of the cross-lagged relationships between self-perceived abilities and school achievement from age 9 to age 12. Self-perceived abilities of 3852 pairs of twins from the UK Twins Early Development Study were assessed using a self-report scale. School achievement was assessed by teachers based on UK National Curriculum criteria. The key cross-lagged association between self-perceived abilities at age 9 and school achievement at age 12 was mediated by genetic influences (28%) as well as shared (55%) and non-shared (16%) environment. The reverse cross-lagged association from school achievement at 9 to self-perceived abilities at 12 was primarily genetically mediated (73%). Unlike the approach to cross-lagged genetic analysis used in recent research, our approach assesses genetic and environmental contributions to cross-lagged associations per se. We discuss implications of finding that genetic factors contribute to the cross-lag between self-perceived abilities at age 9 and school achievement at age 12.
Varicella-Zoster virus (VZV) is a human herpes virus that reactivates from a latent state in human trigeminal and dorsal root ganglia to cause herpes zoster (shingles) which is a painful vesicular dermatomal skin eruption. The major complication of herpes zoster is post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) which is a serious condition occurring especially in individuals over 50 years. PHN is extremely painful, may be permanent, and is frequently very refractory to all treatment. The ability to identify those patients with herpes zoster who are likely to develop PHN would be highly beneficial as it would allow pre-emptive anti-viral therapy. We have assessed the potential of using long oligonucleotide VZV microarrays to determine whether MeWo cells infected with VZV isolates obtained from 13 patients with zoster who had subsequently developed PHN showed significant transcriptomal differences from MeWo cells infected with viruses isolated from ten zoster patients who had not developed PHN. We found that viral gene expression from sample to sample within a group (PHN patients or non-PHN patients) varied as much, or more, than the viral gene expression between those groups. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction studies carried out on 11 open reading frames on four representative viral infected MeWo cell lines (two from each group) confirmed the transcriptomal heterogeneity between the two groups. Growth curve analyses of ten representative infected cell lines (five from each group) showed that PHN and non-PHN-associated viruses replicated equally efficiently. Taken together, these findings suggest that viral microarray-based transcriptomal measurements are unlikely to prove of clinical utility in predicting the incidence of PHN.


In this article, we review the brain and cognitive processes underlying the development of arithmetic skills. This review focuses primarily on the development of arithmetic skills in children, but it also summarizes relevant findings from adults for which a larger body of research currently exists. We integrate relevant findings and theories from experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. We describe the functional neuroanatomy of cognitive processes that influence and facilitate arithmetic skill development, including calculation, retrieval, strategy use, decision making, as well as working memory and attention. Building on recent findings from functional brain imaging studies, we describe the role of distributed brain regions in the development of mathematical skills. We highlight neurodevelopmental models that go beyond the parietal cortex role in basic number processing, in favor of multiple neural systems and pathways involved in mathematical information processing. From this viewpoint, we outline areas for future study that may help to bridge the gap between the cognitive neuroscience of arithmetic skill development and educational practice.
The aims of this study were to find out whether Postprandial hypotension (PPH) occurs more frequently in patients admitted to a geriatric ward than in healthy elderly individuals, what the optimal interval between blood pressure measurements is in order to diagnose PPH and how often it is associated with symptoms.The result of this study indicates that PPH is present in a high number of frail elderly, but also in a few healthy older persons. Measuring blood pressure at least every 10 minutes for 60 minutes after breakfast will adequately diagnose PPH, defined as &gt;20mmHg systolic fall, in most patients. However with definition of PPH as &gt;30mmHg systolic fall, measuring blood pressure every 10 minutes will miss PPH in one of three patients. With the latter definition of PPH the presence of postprandial complaints is not associated with the existence of PPH.
Simultaneous recording of behavioral and functional data is crucial in capturing the neural mechanisms underpinning human motor actions. We describe a non-magnetic equipment (NME) to record finger kinematics, in particular the absolute amplitude of finger oscillation, during bimanual coordination paradigms performed in functional studies. NME monitors finger movements with optic fiber signals that are post-processed off-line to quantify finger kinematics. A phantom experiment demonstrated no mutual interference between NME and fMRI, hence the usability of NME in environments sensitive to electro-magnetic fields. The spatial and temporal resolutions of NME data (1 mm and 1 ms), its reliability and feasibility when studying human subjects were verified with two comparative experiments performed with NME and a validated infrared camera (IRC) system. Results showed that the restrictions of NME (reduction of degrees of freedom of the coordinated system and potential haptic feedback) do not interfere with the correct reconstruction of finger kinematics. We also demonstrated that the recorded behavioral information can be used to detect neural activity associated with specific features of coordinated behavior. Therefore, we believe that the use of NME for the combined analysis of behavioral and functional data may help assessing an adequate interpretation of the cortical activity associated with specific tasks. This approach might as well help to explore the role of specific brain areas in motor processes, with a potential great impact in the diagnosis and subsequent intervention in brain injured patients, or in children affected by developmental coordination disorders.
The 7-methylguanosine cap structure at the 5' end of eukaryotic messenger RNAs is a critical determinant of their stability and translational efficiency. It is generally believed that 5'-end capping is a constitutive process that occurs during mRNA maturation and lacks the need for a quality-control mechanism to ensure its fidelity. We recently reported that the yeast Rai1 protein has pyrophosphohydrolase activity towards mRNAs lacking a 5'-end cap. Here we show that, in vitro as well as in yeast cells, Rai1 possesses a novel decapping endonuclease activity that can also remove the entire cap structure dinucleotide from an mRNA. This activity is targeted preferentially towards mRNAs with unmethylated caps in contrast to the canonical decapping enzyme, Dcp2, which targets mRNAs with a methylated cap. Capped but unmethylated mRNAs generated in yeast cells with a defect in the methyltransferase gene are more stable in a rai1-gene-disrupted background. Moreover, rai1 yeast cells with wild-type capping enzymes show significant accumulation of mRNAs with 5'-end capping defects under nutritional stress conditions of glucose starvation or amino acid starvation. These findings provide evidence that 5'-end capping is not a constitutive process that necessarily always proceeds to completion and demonstrates that Rai1 has an essential role in clearing mRNAs with aberrant 5'-end caps. We propose that Rai1 is involved in an as yet uncharacterized quality control process that ensures mRNA 5'-end integrity by an aberrant-cap-mediated mRNA decay mechanism.
Fast-spiking (FS) cells in the neocortex are interconnected both by inhibitory chemical synapses and by electrical synapses, or gap-junctions. Synchronized firing of FS neurons is important in the generation of gamma oscillations, at frequencies between 30 and 80 Hz. To understand how these synaptic interactions control synchronization, artificial synaptic conductances were injected in FS cells, and the synaptic phase-resetting function (SPRF), describing how the compound synaptic input perturbs the phase of gamma-frequency spiking as a function of the phase at which it is applied, was measured. GABAergic and gap junctional conductances made distinct contributions to the SPRF, which had a surprisingly simple piecewise linear form, with a sharp midcycle break between phase delay and advance. Analysis of the SPRF showed how the intrinsic biophysical properties of FS neurons and their interconnections allow entrainment of firing over a wide gamma frequency band, whose upper and lower frequency limits are controlled by electrical synapses and GABAergic inhibition respectively.
Epsilon toxin (ET) produced by C. perfringens types B and D is a highly potent pore-forming toxin. ET-intoxicated animals express severe neurological disorders that are thought to result from the formation of vasogenic brain edemas and indirect neuronal excitotoxicity. The cerebellum is a predilection site for ET damage. ET has been proposed to bind to glial cells such as astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. However, the possibility that ET binds and attacks the neurons remains an open question. Using specific anti-ET mouse polyclonal antibodies and mouse brain slices preincubated with ET, we found that several brain structures were labeled, the cerebellum being a prominent one. In cerebellar slices, we analyzed the co-staining of ET with specific cell markers, and found that ET binds to the cell body of granule cells, oligodendrocytes, but not astrocytes or nerve endings. Identification of granule cells as neuronal ET targets was confirmed by the observation that ET induced intracellular Ca(2+) rises and glutamate release in primary cultures of granule cells. In cultured cerebellar slices, whole cell patch-clamp recordings of synaptic currents in Purkinje cells revealed that ET greatly stimulates both spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory activities. However, pharmacological dissection of these effects indicated that they were only a result of an increased granule cell firing activity and did not involve a direct action of the toxin on glutamatergic nerve terminals or inhibitory interneurons. Patch-clamp recordings of granule cell somata showed that ET causes a decrease in neuronal membrane resistance associated with pore-opening and depolarization of the neuronal membrane, which subsequently lead to the firing of the neuronal network and stimulation of glutamate release. This work demonstrates that a subset of neurons can be directly targeted by ET, suggesting that part of ET-induced neuronal damage observed in neuronal tissue is due to a direct effect of ET on neurons.
Although amygdala and frontal lobe functional abnormalities have been reported in patients with mood disorders, the literature regarding major depressive disorder (MDD) is inconsistent. Likely confounds include heterogeneity of patient samples, medication status, and analytic approach. This study evaluated the amygdala and frontal lobe activation in unmedicated MDD patients. Fifteen MDD patients and 15 matched healthy controls were scanned using fMRI during the performance of an emotional face task known to robustly activate the amygdala and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Whole-brain and region of interest analyses were performed, and correlations between clinical features and activation were examined. Significant amygdala and lateral PFC activation were seen within patient and control groups. In a between-group comparison, patients showed significantly reduced activation in the insula, temporal and occipital cortices. In MDD, the presence of anxiety symptoms was associated with decreased orbitofrontal activation. We found robust activation in both the MDD and control groups in fronto-limbic regions with no significant between-group differences using either analytic approach. The current study replicates previous research on unmedicated subjects showing no significant differences in amygdala function in depressed vs. control subjects with respect to simple tasks involving emotion observation.
It is poorly understood how stressors modulate neurobiological mechanisms that may contribute to the heterogeneity of major depressive disorder (MDD). Unmedicated patients diagnosed with MDD (n=15) and individually matched healthy controls (n=15) completed stress questionnaires and were studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging while viewing emotional words. Significant effects of recent negative life stressors, but not early life stress/trauma, were observed on regional blood oxygen level dependent activity during presentation of negative words in patients with MDD. No significant effects of stress on brain activation to negative words were found in controls. In MDD patients, positive correlations were found bilaterally in orbitofrontal areas 11 l/47/12m, which are involved in representing negatively valenced stimuli. Negative correlations were also found in the right ventrolateral prefrontal area 45, subgenual cingulate area 25, and nucleus accumbens, all of which are implicated in the pathophysiology of MDD. Negative memory bias was additionally positively associated with recent negative life stress and negatively associated with subgenual cingulate activation, suggesting a mechanism by which stress may contribute to these abnormalities. The severity of recent negative life stressors is an important modifier of neurobiological and cognitive function in MDD and may help explain heterogeneity in the disorder.

Family accommodation is the term used to indicate the process whereby family members of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) assist or participate in the patients' rituals. Family accommodation is a relatively under-researched phenomenon in OCD but an important one because it may be predictive of poor treatment outcome. This study systematically examined several socio-demographic and clinical variables that are associated with family accommodation in a well-characterized sample of adult patients and their healthy family members. Experienced clinicians administered the Family Accommodation Scale (FAS) to 141 psychopathology-free family members cohabiting with 97 patients with OCD. The items of the FAS were first subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) and the resulting domains of family accommodation (Participation, Modification, and Distress and Consequences) introduced as dependent variables in a series of multiple regression models assessing the relationship between family accommodation domains and a wide range of clinical variables, including Axis I and II psychopathology and symptom dimensions derived from the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) Symptom Checklist. The results showed that family accommodation was common, with the provision of reassurance, participation in rituals and assisting the patient in avoidance being the most frequent practices (occurring on a daily basis in 47%, 35%, and 43% of family members, respectively). The PCA of the YBOCS Symptom Checklist yielded four symptom dimensions, which were identical to those previously identified in the international literature. Multiple linear regression analyses showed that a higher score on the contamination/washing symptom dimension and a positive family history for an anxiety disorder other than OCD (referring to a family member other than the participant in this study) predicted greater scores on several domains of family accommodation. Our study confirms that family accommodation is frequent and distressing in psychopathology-free family members cohabiting with adult OCD patients. Family accommodation is particularly frequent and distressing when the patient has prominent contamination/washing symptoms and/or when another family member has a history of an anxiety disorder. Such families may be more likely to benefit from family-based interventions but this remains to be tested in controlled trials.
Methylmercury (MeHg), an environmental toxicant primarily found in fish and seafood poses a dilemma to both consumers and regulatory authorities given the nutritional benefits of fish consumption vs. possible adverse neurological damage caused by MeHg. The present study addresses whether supplementation with 6-hydroxy-2,5,7,8-tetramethylchromane-2-carboxylic acid (Trolox), alters the neuro-oxidative effects of MeHg in C6-glioma and B35-neuronal cell lines. As indicators of cytotoxicity, reduced glutathione (GSH), reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial activity (MTT) were measured. The cellular mercury (Hg) content was measured with high resolution-inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (HR-ICPMS). The amount of MeHg-induced ROS was significantly reduced (p&lt;0.05) after treatment with 50muM Trolox in C6 glial cell line. However, treatment with Trolox did not induce any significant increase in GSH levels or MTT activity in either of the cell lines. In addition, treatment with Trolox did not induce any significant changes in intracellular MeHg levels. The MeHg and Trolox treated C6 glial cell line differed significantly (p&lt;0.05) from the B35 cell line for MTT, ROS and GSH activity. These findings provide experimental evidence that preincubation with Trolox prevents MeHg-induced ROS generation in C6 glial cell line by quenching of free radicals and not by changes in intracellular GSH or MeHg content.
Cocaine and heroin are frequently co-abused by humans, in a combination known as speedball. Recently, chemical interactions between heroin (Her) or its metabolite morphine (Mor) and cocaine (Coc) were described, resulting in the formation of strong adducts. In this work, we evaluated whether combinations of Coc and Her affect the neurotoxicity of these drugs, using rat cortical neurons incubated with Coc, Her, Her followed by Coc (Her+Coc) and Her plus Coc (Her:Coc, 1:1). Neurons exposed to Her, Her+Coc and Her:Coc exhibited a decrease in cell viability, which was more pronounced in neurons exposed to Her and Her+Coc, in comparison with neurons exposed to the mixture (Her:Coc). Cells exposed to the mixture showed increased intracellular calcium and mitochondrial dysfunction, as determined by a decrease in intracellular ATP levels and in mitochondrial membrane potential, displaying both apoptotic and necrotic characteristics. Conversely, a major increase in cytochrome c release, caspase 3-dependent apoptosis, and decreased metabolic neuronal viability were observed upon sequential exposure to Her and Coc. The data show that drug combinations potentiate cortical neurotoxicity and that the mode of co-exposure changes cellular death pathways activated by the drugs, strongly suggesting that chemical interactions occurring in Her:Coc, such as adduct formation, shift cell death mechanisms towards necrosis. Since impairment of the prefrontal cortex is involved in the loss of impulse control observed in drug addicts, the data presented here may contribute to explain the increase in treatment failure observed in speedball abusers.

To ensure their survival, animals exhibit a number of reward-directed behaviors, such as foraging for food or searching for mates. This suggests that a core set of brain regions may be shared by many species to process different types of rewards. Conversely, many new brain areas have emerged over the course of evolution, suggesting potential specialization of specific brain regions in the processing of more recent rewards such as money. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans, we identified the common and distinct brain systems processing the value of erotic stimuli and monetary gains. First, we provide evidence that a set of neural structures, including the ventral striatum, anterior insula, anterior cingulate cortex, and midbrain, encodes the subjective value of rewards regardless of their type, consistent with a general hedonic representation. More importantly, our results reveal reward-specific representations in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC): whereas the anterior lateral OFC, a phylogenetically recent structure, processes monetary gains, the posterior lateral OFC, phylogenetically and ontogenetically older, processes more basic erotic stimuli. This dissociation between OFC representations of primary and secondary rewards parallels current views on lateral prefrontal cortex organization in cognitive control, suggesting an increasing trend in complexity along a postero-anterior axis according to more abstract representations. Together, our results support a modular view of reward value coding in the brain and propose that a unifying principle of postero-anterior organization can be applied to the OFC.
The molecular mechanisms that sort migrating neural crest cells (NCCs) along a shared pathway into two functionally discrete structures, the dorsal root ganglia and sympathetic ganglia (SGs), are unknown. We report here that this patterning is attributable in part to differential expression of the chemokine receptor, CXCR4. We show that (1) a distinct subset of ventrally migrating NCCs express CXCR4 and this subset is destined to form the neural core of the sympathetic ganglia, and (2) the CXCR4 ligand, SDF-1, is a chemoattractant for NCCs in vivo and is expressed adjacent to the future SGs. Reduction of CXCR4 expression in NCCs disrupts their migration toward the future SGs, whereas overexpression of CXCR4 in non-SG-destined NCCs induces them to migrate aberrantly toward the SGs. These data are the first to demonstrate a major role for chemotaxis in the patterning of NCC migration and demonstrate the neural crest is composed of molecularly heterogeneous cell populations.
CREB binding protein (CBP) is a transcriptional coactivator with histone acetyltransferase activity. Our prior study suggested that CBP might be a key target of presenilins in the regulation of memory formation and neuronal survival. To elucidate the role of CBP in the adult brain, we generated conditional knock-out (cKO) mice in which CBP is completely inactivated in excitatory neurons of the postnatal forebrain. Histological analysis revealed normal neuronal morphology and absence of age-dependent neuronal degeneration in the CBP cKO cerebral cortex. CBP cKO mice exhibited robust impairment in the formation of spatial, associative, and object-recognition memory. In addition to impaired long-term memory, CBP cKO mice also displayed deficits in short-term associative and object-recognition memory. Administration of a histone deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A, rescued the reduction of acetylated histones in the CBP cKO cortex but failed to rescue either short- or long-term memory deficits, suggesting that the memory impairment may not be caused by general reduction of histone acetyltransferase activity in CBP cKO mice. Further microarray and Western analysis showed decreased expression of calcium-calmodulin-dependent kinase isoforms and NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits in the cerebral cortex of CBP cKO mice. Collectively, these findings suggest a crucial role for CBP in the formation of both short- and long-term memory.
The rewiring of neural networks is a fundamental step in recovering behavioral functions after brain injury. However, there is limited potential for axonal plasticity in the adult CNS. The myelin-associated proteins Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), and oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) are known to inhibit axonal plasticity, and thus targeting the inhibitory pathways they participate in is a potential means of promoting plasticity and functional recovery. Each of Nogo, MAG, and OMgp interacts with both the Nogo receptor (NgR) and paired immunoglobulin-like receptor B (PirB). Here, we determined whether blocking PirB activity enhances axonal reorganization and functional recovery after cortical injury. We found that axons of the contralesional corticospinal tract sprouted into the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord after unilateral injury of the motor cortex. The extent to which this axonal reorganization occurred was far greater in mice lesioned during early postnatal days than in mice lesioned at an age when myelin had begun to form. This suggests that myelin-associated proteins might limit axonal remodeling in vivo. However, the number of sprouting fibers within either the corticospinal or corticorubral tract was not enhanced in PirB(-/-) mice. Blocking PirB signaling also failed to enhance functional recovery with three motor tests. Our results suggest that blocking the function of PirB is not sufficient to promote axonal reorganization or functional recovery after cortical injury.
The control of sequenced behaviors, including human speech, requires that the brain coordinate the production of discrete motor elements with their concatenation into complex patterns. In birdsong, another sequential vocal behavior, the acoustic structure (phonology) of individual song elements, or &quot;syllables,&quot; must be coordinated with the sequencing of syllables into a song. However, it is unknown whether syllable phonology is independent of the sequence in which a syllable is produced. We quantified interactions between phonology and sequence in Bengalese finch song by examining both convergent syllables, which can be preceded by at least two different syllables and divergent syllables, which can be followed by at least two different syllables. Phonology differed significantly based on the identity of the preceding syllable for 97% of convergent syllables and differed significantly with the identity of the upcoming syllable for 92% of divergent syllables. Furthermore, sequence-dependent phonological differences extended at least two syllables away from the convergent or divergent syllable. To determine whether these phenomena reflect differences in central control, we analyzed premotor neural activity in the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA). Activity associated with a syllable varied significantly depending on the sequence in which the syllable was produced, suggesting that sequence-dependent variations in premotor activity contribute to sequence-dependent differences in phonology. Moreover, these data indicate that RA activity could contribute to the sequencing of syllables. Together, these results suggest that, rather than being controlled independently, the sequence and phonology of birdsong are intimately related, as is the case for human speech.
Chemotaxis during sinusoidal locomotion in nematodes captures in simplified form the general problem of how dynamical interactions between the nervous system, body, and environment are exploited in the generation of adaptive behavior. We used an evolutionary algorithm to generate neural networks that exhibit klinotaxis, a common form of chemotaxis in which the direction of locomotion in a chemical gradient closely follows the line of steepest ascent. Sensory inputs and motor outputs of the model networks were constrained to match the inputs and outputs of the Caenorhabditis elegans klinotaxis network. We found that a minimalistic neural network, comprised of an ON-OFF pair of chemosensory neurons and a pair of neck muscle motor neurons, is sufficient to generate realistic klinotaxis behavior. Importantly, emergent properties of model networks reproduced two key experimental observations that they were not designed to fit, suggesting that the model may be operating according to principles similar to those of the biological network. A dynamical systems analysis of 77 evolved networks revealed a novel neural mechanism for spatial orientation behavior. This mechanism provides a testable hypothesis that is likely to accelerate the discovery and analysis of the biological circuitry for chemotaxis in C. elegans.
The neurosphere culture system is useful for expanding neural stem cells (NSCs) without affecting self-renewal potential and multipotency. However, the extrinsic signals that affect the formation or dissociation of neurospheres are poorly understood. Here, we found that bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4) induced the attachment of neurospheres, astrocytic differentiation, and migration of neurosphere NSCs. These outcomes were accompanied by Akt activation and upregulation of the adhesion molecule, N-cadherin. A phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3 kinase) inhibitor (LY294002) blocked attachment of neurosphere, astrocytic differentiation, migration, and N-cadherin upregulation of neurosphre NSCs. The PI3 kinase-Akt pathway appeared to selectively mediate the effects of BMP4, as neurosphere attachment was unaffected by MEK inhibitors (PD98059 and U0126). Importantly, a neutralizing N-cadherin antibody inhibited BMP4-induced neurosphere attachment, astrocytic differentiation, and migration of neurosphere NSCs. Together, these findings show that BMP4-induced attachment of neurospheres is related to the astrocytic differentiation of these cells and that these effects are attributable, at least in part, to PI3 kinase-Akt pathway-dependent induction of N-cadherin.
The present study investigated the neurophysiological correlates of categorical perception of Chinese lexical tones in Mandarin Chinese. Relative to standard stimuli, both within- and across-category deviants elicited mismatch negativity (MMN) in bilateral frontal-central recording sites. The MMN elicited in the right sites was marginally larger than in the left sites, which reflects the role of the right hemisphere in acoustic processing. At the same time, relative to within-category deviants, the across-category deviants elicited larger MMN in the left recording sites, reflecting the long-term phonemic traces of lexical tones. These results provide strong neurophysiological evidence in support of categorical perception of lexical tones in Chinese. More important, they demonstrate that acoustic and phonological information is processed in parallel within the MMN time window for the perception of lexical tones. Finally, homologous nonspeech stimuli elicited similar MMN patterns, indicating that lexical tone knowledge influences the perception of nonspeech signals.
Stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP/Izm) develop severe hypertension, and more than 95% of them die of cerebral stroke. Hypoxic stimulation followed by oxygen reperfusion induces neuronal damage in both normotensive Wistar Kyoto/Izm (WKY/Izm) and SHRSP/Izm rats, and the percentage of neurons that undergo apoptosis during hypoxia-reperfusion is markedly higher in SHRSP/Izm rats than in WKY/Izm rats. The biochemical characteristics of the SHRSP/Izm rats, unlike those of WKY/Izm rats, might act as a factor in the stroke proneness of SHRSP/Izm rats. In the hippocampus, the formation of hydroxyl radicals and the cerebral blood flow-independent formation of nitric oxide (NO) were strongly increased after reperfusion in SHRSP/Izm rats, and the neuronal expression of the thioredoxin and Bcl-2 genes was significantly decreased in the SHRSP/Izm rats compared with the WKY/Izm rats. On the other hand, the effects of antioxidants against neuronal death associated with cerebral ischemia-reperfusion were stronger in the SHRSP/Izm rats, in which the addition of vitamin E or ebselen almost completely inhibited neuronal death. Namely, the addition of 100 microg/ml of vitamin E under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions completely inhibited WKY and SHRSP/Izm neuronal death. Vitamin E exerts a marked inhibitory effect against neuronal damage via its incorporation into mitochondrial membranes, where it captures reactive oxygen and free radicals. The susceptibility of neurons to apoptosis in SHRSP/Izm rats is partly due to an insufficiency of mitochondrial redox regulation and apoptosis-inhibitory proteins. In this review, we describe the neuronal vulnerability of SHRSP/Izm rats induced by cerebral ischemia and the effects of antioxidants such as vitamin E.
At the initiation of radial growth, neurofilaments are likely to consist primarily of neurofilament light and medium as neurofilament heavy expression is developmentally delayed. To better understand the role of neurofilament heavy in structuring axons, axonal diameter and neurofilament organization were measured in proximal and distal segments of the sciatic nerve and along the entire length of the phrenic nerve. Deletion of neurofilament heavy reduced axonal diameters and neurofilament number in proximal nerve segments. However, neurofilament spacing was greater in proximal versus distal phrenic nerve segments. Taken together, these results suggest that loss of neurofilament heavy reduces radial growth in proximal axonal segments by reducing the accumulation of neurofilaments. As neurofilament heavy expression is developmentally delayed, these results suggest that without neurofilament heavy, the neurofilament network is established in a distal to proximal gradient perhaps to allow distal axonal segments to develop prior to proximal segments.
We and others have identified that inhibition of cyclooxygenase might not be the optimal approach to limiting brain damage after stroke. Now we are investigating the unique properties of the various prostaglandin receptors to determine whether blocking those that mediate toxicity or stimulating those that reduce toxicity will improve neurological outcomes. Here, we determined the respective contribution of the prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)) receptor in transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion (tMCAO) and permanent MCAO (pMCAO) preclinical stroke models by using male wildtype (WT) and IP receptor knockout (IP(-/-)) C57Bl/6 mice. In addition, we investigated the putative preventive and therapeutic effects of the IP receptor agonist beraprost. The infarct volumes and neurological deficit scores (NDS) were significantly greater in IP(-/-) than in WT mice after both tMCAO and pMCAO. Interestingly, beraprost pretreatment (50 or 100 microg/kg p.o.) 30 min before tMCAO and post-treatment (100 microg/kg p.o.) at 2 or 4.5 h of reperfusion significantly reduced the neurological deficit score and infarct volume in WT mice. Post-treatment with beraprost (100 microg/kg p.o.) 4.5 h after pMCAO also significantly decreased neurological deficits and infarct volume in WT mice. Together, these novel findings suggest for the first time that PGI(2) IP receptor activation can attenuate anatomical and functional damage following ischemic stroke.
The alcohol-preferring (P) rat is a valid animal model of alcoholism. However, the effect of alcohol on sleep in P or alcohol non-preferring (NP) rats is unknown. Since alcohol consumption has tremendous impact on sleep, the present study compared the effects of binge alcohol administration on sleep-wakefulness in P and NP rats. Using standard surgical procedures, the P and NP rats were bilaterally implanted with sleep recording electrodes. Following post-operative recovery and habituation, pre-ethanol (baseline) sleep-wakefulness was electrographically recorded for 48 h. Subsequently, ethanol was administered beginning with a priming dose of 5 g/Kg followed by two doses of 2 g/Kg every 8 h on the first day and three doses of 3 g/Kg/8 h on the second day. On the following day (post-ethanol), undisturbed sleep-wakefulness was electrographically recorded for 24 h. Our initial results suggest that, during baseline conditions, the time spent in each of the three behavioral states: wakefulness, non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and REM sleep, was comparable between P and NP rats. However, the P rats were more susceptible to changes in sleep-wakefulness following 2 days of binge ethanol treatment. As compared to NP rats, the P rats displayed insomnia like symptoms including a significant reduction in the amount of time spent in NREM sleep coupled with a significant increase in wakefulness on post-ethanol day. Subsequent analysis revealed that binge ethanol induced increased wakefulness and reduced NREM sleep in P rats occurred mainly in the dark period. This is the first study that: (1) demonstrates spontaneous sleep-wake profile in P and NP rats, and (2) compares the effects of binge ethanol treatment on sleep in P and NP rats. Our results suggest that, as compared to NP rats, the P rats were more susceptible to sleep disruptions after binge ethanol treatment. In addition, the P rats exhibited insomnia-like symptoms observed during abstinence from alcohol in human subjects.
Recent data support the involvement of the endocannabinoid signaling in early brain development, as well as a key role of cannabinoid receptors (CBR) in pathological conditions associated with unbalanced neuronal excitability and inflammation. Using immunocytochemistry, we explored the expression and cellular pattern of CBR 1 and 2 (CB1 and CB2) during prenatal human cortical development, as well as in focal malformations of cortical development associated with intractable epilepsy (focal cortical dysplasia; cortical tubers in patients with the tuberous sclerosis complex and glioneuronal tumors). Strong CB1 immunoreactivity was detected in the cortical plate in developing human brain from the earliest stages tested (gestational week 9) and it persisted throughout prenatal development. Both cannabinoid receptors were not detected in neural progenitor cells located in the ventricular zone. Only CB1 was expressed in the subventricular zone and in Cajal-Retzius cells in the molecular zone of the developing neocortex. CB2 was detected in cells of the microglia/macrophage lineage during development. In malformations of cortical development, prominent CB1 expression was demonstrated in dysplastic neurons. Both CBR were detected in balloon/giant cells, but CB2 appeared to be more frequently expressed than CB1 in these cell types. Reactive astrocytes were mainly stained with CB1, whereas cells of the microglia/macrophage lineage were stained with CB2. These findings confirm the early expression pattern of cannabinoid receptors in the developing human brain, suggesting a function for CB1 in the early stages of corticogenesis. The expression patterns in malformations of cortical development highlight the role of cannabinoid receptors as mediators of the endocannabinoid signaling and as potential pharmacological targets to modulate neuronal and glial cell function in epileptogenic developmental pathologies.
Walking onto a stationary sled previously experienced as moving induces locomotor aftereffects (LAE, or &quot;broken escalator phenomenon&quot;). This particular form of aftereffect can develop after a single adaptation trial and occurs despite subjects being fully aware that the sled will not move. Here, we investigate whether such strong LAE expression may relate to arousal or fear related to instability during the gait adaptation process. Forty healthy subjects were allocated to three sled velocity groups; SLOW (0.6 m/s), MEDIUM (1.3 m/s), or FAST (2.0 m/s). Subjects walked onto the stationary sled for five trials (BEFORE), then onto the moving sled for 15 trials (adaptation or MOVING trials) and, finally, again onto the stationary sled for five trials (AFTER). Explicit warning regarding sled status was given. Trunk position, foot-sled contact timing, autonomic markers (electrodermal activity [EDA], ECG, respiratory movements) in addition to self-reported task-related confidence and state/trait anxiety were recorded. Trunk sway, EDA, and R-R interval shortening were greatest during the first MOVING trial (MOVING_1), progressively attenuating during subsequent MOVING trials. A LAE, recorded as increased gait velocity and trunk sway during AFTER_1, occurred in both MEDIUM and FAST sled velocity groups. The amplitude of forward trunk sway in AFTER_1 (an indicator of aftereffect magnitude) was related to EDA during the final adaptation trial (MOVING_15). AFTER_1 gait velocity (also an indicator of aftereffect magnitude) was related to MOVING_1 trunk sway. Hence, gait velocity and trunk sway components of the LAE are differentially related to kinematic and autonomic parameters during the early and late adaptation phase. The finding that EDA is a predictor of LAE expression indicates that autonomic arousal or fear-based mechanisms can promote locomotor learning. This could in turn explain some unusual characteristics of this LAE, namely its resistance to explicit knowledge and its generation with just a single adaptation trial.
Pleiotrophin (PTN) is a neurotrophic factor with important effects in survival and differentiation of dopaminergic neurons that has been suggested to play important roles in drug of abuse-induced neurotoxicity. To test this hypothesis, we have studied the effects of amphetamine (10 mg/kg, four times, every 2 h) on the nigrostriatal pathway of PTN genetically deficient (PTN-/-) mice. We found that amphetamine causes a significantly enhanced loss of dopaminergic terminals in the striatum of PTN-/- mice compared to wild type (WT+/+) mice. In addition, we found a significant decrease ( approximately 20%) of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons only in the substantia nigra of amphetamine-treated PTN-/- mice, whereas this area of WT+/+ animals remained unaffected after amphetamine treatment. This effect was accompanied by enhanced amphetamine-induced astrocytosis in the substantia nigra of PTN-/- mice. Interestingly, we found a significant decrease in the phosphorylation levels of p42 extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK2) in both saline- and amphetamine-treated PTN-/- mice, whereas phosphorylation of p44 ERK (ERK1) was almost abolished in the striatum of PTN-/- mice compared to WT+/+ mice, suggesting that basal deficiencies in the phosphorylation levels of ERK1/2 could underlie the higher vulnerability of PTN-/- mice to amphetamine-induced neurotoxic effects. The data suggest an important role of PTN in the protection of nigrostriatal pathways against amphetamine insult.
Melanopsin (OPN4) is a photoreceptive molecule regulating circadian systems in mammals. Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that co-localized dopamine-melatonin (DA-MEL) neurons in the hypothalamic premammillary nucleus (PMM) are putatively photosensitive and exhibit circadian rhythms in DAergic and MELergic activities. This study investigates turkey OPN4x (tOPN4x) mRNA distribution in the hypothalamus and brainstem, and characterizes its expression in PMM DA-MEL neurons, using in situ hybridization (ISH), immunocytochemistry (ICC), double-label ISH/ICC, and real time-PCR. The mRNA encoding tOPN4x was found in anatomically discrete areas in or near the hypothalamus and the brainstem, including nucleus preopticus medialis (POM), nucleus septalis lateralis (SL), PMM and the pineal gland. Double ICC, using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, the rate limiting enzyme in DA synthesis)-and OPN4x antibodies, confirmed the existence of OPN4x protein in DA-MEL neurons. Also, tOPN4x mRNA expression was verified with double ISH/ICC using tOPN4x mRNA and TH immunoreactivity. PMM and pineal gland tOPN4x mRNA expression levels were diurnally high during the night and low during the day. A light pulse provided to short day photosensitive hens during the photosensitive phase at night significantly down-regulated tOPN4x expression. The expression level of tOPN4x mRNA in PMM DA-MEL neurons of photorefractory hens was significantly lower as compared with that of short or long day photosensitive hens. The results implicate tOPN4x in hypothalamic PMM DA-MEL neurons as an important component of the photoreceptive system regulating reproductive activity in temperate zone birds.
Orexins are neuropeptides produced in the lateral hypothalamus and implicated in regulation of sleep-wake cycle. Selective loss of orexin neurons is found in the brain of patients with narcolepsy, but the mechanisms of this pathological change are unclear. A previous study showed that excessive stimulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by quinolinic acid (QA) caused selective loss of orexin neurons in rat hypothalamic slice culture. Here we examined QA toxicity on orexin neurons and melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) neurons in vivo. Contrary to the expectation, injection of QA (60 and 120 nmol) into the lateral hypothalamus of male C57BL/6 mice caused selective loss of MCH neurons rather than orexin neurons, and this toxicity of QA was attenuated by MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist. Selective loss of MCH neurons with preserved orexin neurons was observed even when GABA(A) receptor antagonists such as bicuculline and picrotoxin were injected with QA. A significant decrease in the number of orexin neurons was induced when QA injection was performed in the dark phase of diurnal cycle, but the degree of the decrease was still lower than that in the number of MCH neurons. Finally, QA (60 nmol) induced selective loss of MCH neurons also in young rats at 3-4 weeks of age. These results do not support the hypothesis that acute excitotoxicity mediated by NMDA receptors is responsible for the pathogenesis of narcolepsy.
The ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 3 (NTPDase3), an enzyme involved in degradation of extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP), is expressed on nerve fibers in different brain regions, including cortex. Here we studied the expression and role of this enzyme after unilateral cortical stab injury in rats. In cortical sections of control rats, NTPDase3 immunoreactivity was associated with two types of fibers: thin processes, occasionally with small mushroom-like protrusions and slightly thicker fibers with more pronounced and more frequent varicosities, whereas immunopositive neuronal perycaria were never observed. Although NTPDase3-positive thin processes and thicker fibers, by general appearance, size and shape, could be dendrites and axons, respectively, they were never immunopositive for microtubule associated protein-2 or neurofilament H subunit. Cortical stab injury induced rapid (within 4 hours) focal varicose swelling that evolved over time to prominent beading of NTPDase3-positive fibers. The NTPDase3-positive fibers in all experimental groups also abundantly express NTPDase1, ecto-5'-nucleotidase and P2X2 receptor channels. Because the brain injury causes a massive ATP release, it is reasonable to conclude that purinoreceptors and ectonucleotidases play an important role in the process of neuritic beading.
The prelimbic (PL) subregion of medial prefrontal cortex has been implicated in anxiety regulation. It is unknown, however, whether PL cortex also serves to fine-tuning the level of anxiety-related behavior exhibited on the next exposure to the same potentially threatening situation. To address this, we infused cobalt (1.0 mM) to temporarily inactivate the PL cortex during testing, post-testing or retesting in the elevated plus-maze (EPM). This protocol was chosen because it allowed us to concurrently investigate anxiety and the process of aversive learning and memory. PL cortex inactivation during the EPM testing increased the exploration of open-arms, substantiating its role in anxiety. PL cortex inactivation during the EPM retesting counteracted the further avoidance to open-arms exhibited by rats. Interestingly, as evidenced by min-by-min analysis, the cobalt-treated group behaved on EPM retesting as did the vehicle-treated group on EPM testing. This result may imply that activity in PL cortex is necessary for retrieving previously learned information that adjusts the anxiety response level on EPM retesting. Alternatively, a simple reduction in anxiety could explain the cobalt-induced increase in retest open-arms exploration. Neither test nor post-test PL cortex inactivation affected the further avoidance to open-arms observed on EPM retesting. To extend the investigation of PL cortex role in the regulation of open-arms avoidance, we infused other drugs prior to testing or retesting in the EPM. Antagonism of PL cortex adrenergic beta-1 receptors with atenolol (10 nmol), cholinergic muscarinic receptors with scopolamine (20 nmol) or glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors with AP5 (6.0 nmol) interfered with the level of open-arms exploration on testing, but not on retesting.
We have characterized the currents that flow during the interspike interval in mouse locus coeruleus (LC) neurons, by application of depolarizing ramps and pulses, and compared our results with information available for rats. A tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive current was the only inward conductance active during the interspike interval; no TTX-insensitive Na(+) or oscillatory currents were detected. Ca(2+)-free and Ba(2+)-containing solutions failed to demonstrate a Ca(2+) current during the interspike interval, although a Ca(2+) current was activated at membrane potentials positive to -40 mV. A high- tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) (15 mM) sensitive current accounted for almost all the K(+) conductance during the interspike interval. Ca(2+)-activated K(+), inward rectifier and low-TEA (10 muM) sensitive currents were not detected within the interspike interval. Comparison of these findings to those reported for neonatal rat LC neurons indicates that the pacemaker currents are similar, but not identical, in the two species with mice lacking a persistent Ca(2+) current during the interspike interval. The net pacemaking current determined by differentiating the interspike interval from averaged action potential recordings closely matched the net ramp-induced currents obtained either under voltage clamp or after reconstructing this current from pharmacologically isolated currents. In summary, our results suggest the interspike interval pacemaker mechanism in mouse LC neurons involves a combination of a TTX-sensitive Na(+) current and a high TEA-sensitive K(+) current. In contrast with rats, a persistent Ca(2+) current is not involved.
Accumulating evidence indicate that the neuropeptide urotensin II and urotensin II receptors are expressed in subsets of mammal spinal motoneurons. In fact, a role for the peptide in the regulation of motoneuron function at neuromuscular junction has been suggested, while roles for urotensin II at central synapses in spinal cord have never been addressed. We found that urotensin II receptors were closely associated with cholinergic terminals apposed to a subset of motoneuron and non-motoneuron cell bodies in the ventral horn of the adult mouse cervical spinal cord; urotensin II receptor was also expressed on non-cholinergic nerve terminals. In particular, urotensin II receptor appeared associated with both large cholinergic C-boutons and standard cholinergic terminals contacting some motoneuron perikarya. Cholinergic nerve terminals from mouse cervical spinal cord were equipped with functional presynaptic urotensin II receptors linked to excitation of acetylcholine release. In fact, functional experiments conducted on cervical spinal synaptosomes demonstrated a urotensin II evoked calcium-dependent increase in [(3)H]acetylcholine release pharmacologically verified as consistent with activation of urotensin II receptors. In spinal cord these actions would facilitate cholinergic transmission. These data indicate that, in addition to its role at the neuromuscular junction, urotensin II may control motor function through the modulation of motoneuron activity within the spinal cord.
Latent inhibition (LI) refers to the reduction in conditioning to a stimulus that has received repeated non-reinforced pre-exposure. Investigations into the neural substrates of LI have focused on the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and its inputs from the hippocampal formation and adjacent cortical areas. Previous work has suggested that lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), another major source of input to the NAc, do not disrupt LI. However, a failure to observe disrupted LI does not preclude the possibility that a particular brain region is involved in the expression of LI. Moreover, the mPFC is a heterogeneous structure and there has been no investigation of a possible role of different regions within the mPFC in regulating LI under conditions that prevent LI in controls. Here, we tested whether 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesions of dopamine (DA) terminals within the prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) mPFC would lead to the emergence of LI under conditions that do produce LI in controls (weak pre-exposure). LI was measured in a thirst motivated conditioned emotional response procedure with 10 pre-exposures to a noise conditioned stimulus (CS) and two conditioning trials. Sham-operated and IL-lesioned animals did not show LI and conditioned to the pre-exposed CS at comparable levels to the non-pre-exposed controls. 6-OHDA lesions to the PL, however, produced potentiation of LI. These results provide the first demonstration that the PL mPFC is a component of the neural circuitry underpinning LI.
The hippocampus is a multifaceted, complex brain structure considered to be the learning center. The use of primary hippocampal cell cultures has uncovered important cellular mechanisms involved in overall physiological function. Yet, the use of primary culture is inherently difficult, and the lack of immortalized cell lines from the murine hippocampus for mechanistic studies at the molecular level is evident. We have immortalized cell lines from embryonic (E18) and adult-derived hippocampal primary cell culture using retroviral infection of SV40 T-antigen. Four clonal embryonic lines, mHippoE-2, mHippoE-5, mHippoE-14, mHippoE-18, and one mixed adult line, mHippoA-mix, exhibited neuronal morphologies with neurite extensions and expression of neuronal markers, with unique gene expression profiles. We used these cell models to study the neuroprotective effects of 17beta-estradiol (E2) on glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. The cell lines express a relevant array of genes and receptors suggested to play a role in neuroprotection, including estrogen receptors ERalpha, ERbeta, and GPR30. We find that pretreatment with E2 (10 or 100 nM) for 24 h significantly reduced cell death induced by glutamate mHippoE-14 and mHippoE-18 cells, but not the mHippoA-mix. Using 24 h pretreatment with the specific estrogen receptor (ER) agonists, 4,4',4''-(4-propyl-[1H]-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)trisphenol (PPT) and diarylpropionitrile, 2,3-bis(4-Hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile (DPN), we linked the E2-mediated neuroprotection to ERalpha, but only in the mHippoE-18 cells. Since E2 activated both PI3K/Akt and STAT3 signaling pathways, we also tested whether the membrane-bound E2 receptor GPR30 was involved in its neuroprotective action. Pretreatment with the GPR30 agonist G-1 (10 and 100 nM) for 1 h, but not 24 h, significantly attenuated cell death in both mHippoE-14 and mHippoE-18 cells. The use of specific ER antagonist ICI 182780 and GPR30 antagonist G-15 linked these effects to both ER and GPR30 receptors. This is the first evidence that GPR30 may play a role in the protective effects of estrogen in hippocampal neurons.
Post-learning rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation has often been shown to impair hippocampal functioning, which results in deficit in retrieval of some types of memory. However, it remains to be determined whether post-learning alteration of hippocampal functioning affects, in turn, REM sleep. Recent studies have shown that both post-extinction REM sleep deprivation and post-extinction application of hippocampal low-frequency stimulation (LFS) impair memory of fear extinction, indicating possible bidirectional interactions between hippocampal functioning and REM sleep. To analyze the potential effect of post-extinction alteration of hippocampal functioning on REM sleep, rats were implanted with stimulating electrodes in the dorsal hippocampus for post-extinction LFS. Sleep was recorded before (two sessions, 1 day apart) and after conditioning (five tone and eyelid-shock pairings), and following extinction training (25 tone-alone presentations) for 6 h per session. Fear conditioning reduced time spent in REM sleep, which was restored with fear extinction. Hippocampal LFS, applied immediately following extinction training, abolished the restorative effect of fear extinction on REM sleep and impaired extinction retrieval. These data extend previous findings and suggest bidirectional interactions between hippocampal functioning and REM sleep for successful extinction retrieval.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is critically involved in brain-state transitions that promote neocortical activation. In addition, the PPN is involved in the control of several behavioral processes including locomotion, motivation and reward, but the neuronal substrates that underlie such an array of functions remain elusive. Here we analyzed the physiological properties of non-cholinergic PPN neurons in vivo across distinct brain states, and correlated these with their morphological properties after juxtacellular labeling. We show that non-cholinergic neurons in the PPN whose firing is not strongly correlated to neocortical activity are highly heterogeneous and are composed of at least three different subtypes: (1) &quot;quiescent&quot; neurons, which are nearly silent during slow-wave activity (SWA) but respond robustly to neocortical activation; (2) &quot;tonic firing&quot; neurons, which have a stationary firing rate that is independent of neocortical activity across different brain states; and (3) &quot;irregular firing&quot; neurons, which exhibit a variable level of correlation with neocortical activity. The majority of non-cholinergic neurons have an ascending axonal trajectory, with the exception of some irregular firing neurons that have descending axons. Furthermore, we observed asymmetric synaptic contacts within the PPN arising from the axon collaterals of labeled neurons, suggesting that excitatory, non-cholinergic neurons can shape the activity of neighboring cells. Our results provide the first evidence of distinct firing properties associated with non-cholinergic neuronal subtypes in the PPN, suggesting a functional heterogeneity, and support the notion of a local network assembled by projection neurons, the properties of which are likely to determine the output of the PPN in diverse behavioral contexts.
A variety of neurological diseases are characterized by disturbances of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and its transporters. We recently introduced fibroblast growth factor treated cortical organotypic slice cultures of mice as a model for in vitro studies of the blood-brain barrier and have now further characterized the maintenance and function of transport-proteins typically expressed in the endothelium of cerebral blood vessels. The glucose transporter GLUT-1 is present in blood vessels of slice cultures derived from postnatal day 4 to 21 mice after 3 days in vitro. The endothelial multidrug resistance P-glycoprotein (P-gp) which is involved in the control of pharmacological substance transport across the blood-brain barrier is also maintained in blood vessels, most prominently in slice cultures derived from postnatal day 14 and 21 mice. To assess P-gp function, we tested rhodamine 123 transport in presence or absence of the P-gp inhibitor verapamil. Rhodamine 123-fluorescence accumulated rapidly in the vascular lumen both in acute slices and in slices cultured for 3 days in vitro. Our results provide evidence that endothelial transporters and their functional properties can be maintained in organotypic cortical slices cultures, thus making it an attractive model system for the study of the blood-brain barrier.
Prior to developing an understanding of another person's mental state, an ability termed &quot;theory of mind&quot; (ToM), a perception of that person's appearance and actions is required. However the relationship between this &quot;person perception&quot; and ToM is unclear. To investigate the time course of ToM and person perception, event-related potentials (ERP) were recorded while 17 normal adults received three kinds of visual stimuli: cartoons involving people (person perception cartoons), cartoons involving people and also requiring ToM for comprehension (ToM cartoons), and scene cartoons. We hypothesized that the respective patterns of brain activation would be different under these three stimuli, at different stages in time. Our findings supported this proposal: the peak amplitudes of P200 for scene cartoons were significantly lower than for person perception or ToM cartoons, while there were no significant differences between the latter two for P200. During the 1000-1300 ms epoch, the mean amplitudes of the late positive components (LPC) for person perception were more positive than for scene representation, while the mean amplitudes of the LPC for ToM were more positive than for person perception. The present study provides preliminary evidence of the neural dynamic that underlies the dissociation between person perception and ToM.
Mesolimbic dopamine (DA) is a critical component of the brain circuitry regulating behavioral activation and effort-related processes. Rats with impaired DA transmission reallocate their instrumental behavior away from food-reinforced tasks with high response requirements, and instead select less effortful food-seeking behaviors. Previous work showed that adenosine A(2A) antagonists can reverse the effects of DA D(2) antagonists on effort-related choice. However, less is known about the effects of adenosine A(1) antagonists. Despite anatomical data showing that A(1) and D(1) receptors are co-localized on the same striatal neurons, it is uncertain if A(1) antagonists can reverse the effects DA D(1) antagonists. The present work systematically compared the ability of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonists to reverse the effects of DA D(1) and D(2) antagonists on a concurrent lever pressing/feeding choice task. With this procedure, rats can choose between responding on a fixed ratio 5 lever-pressing schedule for a highly preferred food (i.e. high carbohydrate pellets) vs. approaching and consuming a less preferred rodent chow. The D(1) antagonist ecopipam (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) and the D(2) antagonist eticlopride (0.08 mg/kg i.p.) altered choice behavior, reducing lever pressing and increasing lab chow intake. Co-administration of the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonists 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX; 0.375, 0.75, and 1.5 mg/kg i.p.), and 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (CPT; 3.0, 6.0, 12.0 mg/kg i.p.) failed to reverse the effects of either the D(1) or D(2) antagonist. In contrast, the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW-6002 (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) was able to produce a robust reversal of the effects of eticlopride, as well as a mild partial reversal of the effects of ecopipam. Adenosine A(2A) and DA D(2) receptors interact to regulate effort-related choice behavior, which may have implications for the treatment of psychiatric symptoms such as psychomotor slowing, fatigue or anergia that can be observed in depression and other disorders.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the progression of changes in retinal ganglion cells and optic nerve glia in neurofibromatosis-1 (NF1) genetically-engineered mice with optic glioma. Optic glioma tumors were generated in Nf1+/- mice lacking Nf1 expression in GFAP+ cells (astrocytes). Standard immunohistochemistry methods were employed to identify astrocytes (GFAP, S100beta), proliferating progenitor cells (sox2, nestin), microglia (Iba1), endothelial cells (CD31) and retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons (Neurofilament 68k) in Nf1+/-, Nf1(GFAP)CKO (wild-type mice with Nf1 loss in glial cells), and Nf1+/-(GFAP)CKO (Nf1+/- mice with Nf1 loss in glial cells) mice. Ultrastructural changes in the optic chiasm and nerve were assessed by electron microscopy (EM). RGC were counted in whole retina preparations using high-resolution, mosaic confocal microscopy following their delineation by retrograde FluoroGold labeling. We found that only Nf1+/-(GFAP)CKO mice exhibited gross pre-chiasmatic optic nerve and chiasm enlargements containing aggregated GFAP+/nestin+ and S100beta+/sox2+ cells (neoplastic glia) as well as increased numbers of blood vessels and microglia. Optic gliomas in Nf1+/-(GFAP)CKO mice contained axon fiber irregularities and multilamellar bodies of degenerated myelin. EM and EM tomographic analyses showed increased glial disorganization, disoriented axonal projections, profiles of degenerating myelin and structural alterations at nodes of Ranvier. Lastly, we found reduced RGC numbers in Nf1+/-(GFAP)CKO mice, supporting a model in which the combination of optic nerve Nf1 heterozygosity and glial cell Nf1 loss results in disrupted axonal-glial relationships, subsequently culminating in the degeneration of optic nerve axons and loss of their parent RGC neurons.
Sleep fragmentation (SF) is prevalent in human sleep-related disorders. In rats, sustained SF has a potent suppressive effect on adult hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) neurogenesis. Adult-generated DG neurons progressively mature over several weeks, and participate in certain hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions. We predicted that suppression of neurogenesis by sustained SF would affect hippocampal-dependent cognitive functions in the time window when new neurons would reach functional maturity. Sprague-Dawley rats were surgically-prepared with electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG) electrodes for sleep state detection. We induced sleep-dependent SF for 12 days, and compared SF animals to yoked sleep fragmentation controls (SFC), treadmill controls (TC) and cage controls (CC). Rats were injected with bromodeoxyuridine on treatment days 4 and 5. Rats were returned to home cages for 14 days. Cognitive performance was assessed in a Barnes maze with 5 days at a constant escape position followed by 2 days at a rotated position. After Barnes maze testing rats were perfused and DG sections were immunolabeled for BrdU and neuronal nuclear antigen (NeuN), a marker of mature neurons.SF reduced BrdU-labeled cell counts by 32% compared to SFC and TC groups. SF reduced sleep epoch duration, but amounts of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep did not differ between SF and SFC rats, and non-rapid eye movement (NREM) was reduced only transiently. In the Barnes maze, SF rats exhibited a progressive decrease in escape time, but were slower than controls. SF animals used different search strategies. The use of a random, non-spatial search strategy was significantly elevated in SF compared to the SFC, TC and CC groups. The use of random search strategies was negatively correlated with NREM sleep bout length during SF. Sustained sleep fragmentation reduced DG neurogenesis and induced use of a non-spatial search strategy, which could be seen 2 weeks after terminating the SF treatment. The reduction in neurogenesis induced by sleep fragmentation is likely to underlie the delayed changes in cognitive function.
Spontaneous activity in medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons is modulated by synaptic inputs. These inputs are crucial for maintaining gaze and posture and contribute to vestibular compensation after lesions of peripheral vestibular organs. We investigated how chronically attenuated glycinergic input affects excitability of MVN neurons. To this end we used three mouse strains (spastic, spasmodic, and oscillator), with well-characterized naturally occurring mutations in the inhibitory glycine receptor (GlyR). First, using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we demonstrated that the amplitude of the response to rapidly applied glycine was dramatically reduced by 25 to 90% in MVN neurons from mutant mice. We next determined how reduced GlyR function affected MVN neuron output. Neurons were classified using two schemas: (1) the shape of their action potential afterhyperpolarization (AHP); and (2) responses to hyperpolarizing current injection. In the first schema, neurons were classified as types A, B and C. The prevalence of type C neurons in the mutant strains was significantly increased. In the second schema, the proportion of neurons lacking post inhibitory rebound firing (PRF-deficient) was increased. In both schemas an increase in AHP amplitude was a common feature of the augmented neuron group (type C, PRF-deficient) in the mutant strains. We suggest increased AHP amplitude reduces overall excitability in the MVN and thus maintains network function in an environment of reduced glycinergic input.
Modelling entorhinal function or evaluating the consequences of neuronal losses which accompany neurodegenerative disorders requires detailed information on the quantitative cellular composition of the normal entorhinal cortex. Using design-based stereological methods, we estimated the numbers, proportions, densities and sectional areas of layer II cells in the medial entorhinal area (MEA), and its constituent caudal entorhinal (CE) and medial entorhinal (ME) fields, in the rat and mouse. We estimated layer II of the MEA to contain approximately 58,000 neurons in the rat and approximately 24,000 neurons in the mouse. Field CE accounted for more than three-quarters of the total neuron population in both species. In the rat, layer II of the MEA is comprised of 38% ovoid stellate cells, 29% polygonal stellate cells and 17% pyramidal cells. The remainder is comprised of much smaller populations of horizontal bipolar, tripolar, oblique pyramidal and small round cells. In the mouse, MEA layer II is comprised of 52% ovoid stellate cells, 22% polygonal stellate cells and 14% pyramidal cells. Significant species differences in the proportions of ovoid and polygonal stellate cells suggest differences in physiological and functional properties. The majority of MEA layer II cells contribute to the entorhinal-hippocampal pathways. The degree of divergence from MEA layer II cells to the dentate granule cells was similar in the rat and mouse. In both rat and mouse, the only dorsoventral difference we observed is a gradient in polygonal stellate cell sectional area, which may relate to the dorsoventral increase in the size and spacing of individual neuronal firing fields. In summary, we found species-specific cellular compositions of MEA layer II, while, within a species, quantitative parameters other than cell size are stable along the dorsoventral and mediolateral axis of the MEA.
Previous studies have demonstrated that merlin acts as a tumor suppressor by blocking Ras-mediated signaling. However, the mechanism by which merlin controls cell proliferation has remained obscure. Here we show that merlin deficient tumors exhibited loss of p21, concomitant with elevated CDKs/cyclin D1 levels in sporadic vestibular schwannomas (VS) from clinic patients. Likewise, silencing of merlin gene expression in the cell lines resulted in down-regulation of p21. Furthermore, we find that merlin-enhanced p21 protein stability, rather than increased RNA accumulation, was responsible for the elevated p21 levels. Interestingly, p21 was required to maintain merlin levels and the inhibitory effect of merlin on Ras signaling was partially overridden by knockdown of p21. Consistent with the observation that over-expression of merlin arrested cell growth at G1-phase, the current study indicates that merlin exerts its antiproliferative effect, at least in part, by maintaining p21 expression, and loss of p21 is a prominent feature of merlin deficient schwannomas.
Control over an aversive experience can greatly impact the organism's response to subsequent stressors. We compared the effects of escapable (ES) and yoked inescapable (IS) electric tail shocks on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis hormonal (corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)), neural (c-fos mRNA) and behavioral (struggling) response to subsequent restraint. We found that although the HPA axis response during restraint of both previously stressed groups were higher than stress-nave rats and not different from each other, lack of control over the tailshock experience led to an increase in restraint-induced struggling behavior of the IS rats compared to both stress-nave and ES rats. Additionally, c-fos expression in the basolateral amygdala was increased selectively in the IS group, and relative c-fos mRNA expression in the basolateral amygdala positively correlated with struggling behavior. Restraint-induced c-fos expression in the medial prefrontal cortex, a brain area critical for mediating some of the differential neurochemical and behavioral effects of ES and IS, was surprisingly similar in both ES and IS groups, lower than that of stress-nave rats, and did not correlate with struggling behavior. Our findings indicate that basolateral amygdala activity may be connected with the differential effects of ES and IS on subsequent behavioral responses to restraint, without contributing to the concurrent HPA axis hormone response.
Functional recovery following facial nerve injury is poor. Neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) are &quot;bridged&quot; by terminal Schwann cells and numerous regenerating axonal sprouts. We have shown that this poly-innervation of NMJs can be reduced by manual stimulation (MS) with restoration of whisking function. In addition, we have recently reported that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is required to mediate the beneficial effects of MS. Here we extend our findings to brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We then examined the effect of MS after facial-facial anastomosis (FFA) in heterozygous mice deficient in BDNF (BDNF(+/-)) or in its receptor TrkB (TrkB(+/-)). We quantified vibrissal motor performance and the percentage of NMJ bridged by S100-positive terminal Schwann cells. In intact BDNF(+/-) or TrkB(+/-) mice and their wild type (WT) littermates, there were no differences in vibrissal whisking nor in the percentage of bridged NMJ (0% in each genotype). After FFA and handling alone (i.e. no MS) in WT animals, vibrissal whisking amplitude was reduced (60% lower than intact) and the percentage of bridged NMJ increased (27% more than intact). MS improved both the amplitude of vibrissal whisking (not significantly different from intact) and the percentage of bridged NMJ (11% more than intact). After FFA and handling in BDNF(+/-) or TrkB(+/-) mice, whisking amplitude was again reduced (53% and 60% lower than intact) and proportion of bridged NMJ increased (24% and 29% more than intact). However, MS failed to improve outcome in both heterozygous strains (whisking amplitude 55% and 58% lower than intact; proportion of bridged NMJ 27% and 18% more than intact). We conclude that BDNF and TRkB are required to mediate the effects of MS on target muscle reinnervation and recovery of whisking function.
Plasticity of residual cortical tissue has been identified as an important mediator of functional post-stroke recovery. Many studies have been directed toward describing biochemical, electrophysiological, and cytoarchitectural changes in residual cortex and correlating them with functional changes. Additionally, after neonatal stroke the thickness of residual tissue can change, the tissue can move, and tissue can fill in the stroke core. The purpose of the present study was to systematically investigate and document possible gross morphological changes in peri-infarct tissue after forelimb motor cortex stroke in the adult rat. Rats received a unilateral forelimb motor cortex stroke of equivalent size by pial strip devascularization or photothrombotic occlusion and were then examined using histology or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 1 h, 1, 3, 7, 14, or 31 days post-stroke. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was used as a control stroke procedure. Decreases in cortical thickness, volume, and neural density were found to extend far beyond the stroke infarct and included most of the sensorimotor regions of the stroke and intact hemispheres. Movement of residual tissue towards the infarct was observed and confirmed using anatomical markers placed in intact cortical tissue at the time of stroke induction. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that extensive time-dependent morphological changes that occur in residual tissue must be considered when evaluating plasticity-related cortical changes associated with post-stroke recovery of function.
Early loss of CB1 receptors is a hallmark of human Huntington's disease. Data from rodent studies suggest that preservation and activation of CB1 receptors may be protective against disease progression. R6/1 transgenic mice are considered to be a model of early pathogenic changes in Huntington's disease. We have shown previously that levels of CB1 in R6/1 mice prior to the onset of motor symptoms (12 weeks of age) remain high enough to justify commencement of cannabinoid drug treatment. Eight weeks of daily treatment with the cannabinoid agonists HU210 (0.01 mg/kg) and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, 10.00 mg/kg), or the inhibitor of endocannabinoid metabolism URB597 (0.30 mg/kg), did not alter the progressive deterioration of performance observed in motor behavioural testing. HU210-treated R6/1 mice experienced a significant increase in seizure events suggesting that this therapy may lower the seizure threshold and cautioning against highly efficacious agonists as potential therapy in this disease. Molecular characterisation of brains at the end of the study showed that there were no significant effects of HU210 or THC treatment on the ligand binding of cannabinoid CB1, dopamine D1, D2, serotonin 5HT2A or GABA(A) receptors, nor CB1 or fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) mRNA expression in R6/1 mice. Intriguingly, a significant increase in the number of ubiquitinated aggregates was observed in the striatum with HU210 treatment, indicating an influence of CB1 on the disease process. Chronic URB597 treatment preserved CB1 receptors in the R6/1 striatum, suggesting that the manipulation of endocannabinoid levels warrants further exploration.
The identification of biomarkers represents a fundamental medical advance that can lead to an improved understanding of disease pathogenesis, and holds the potential to define surrogate diagnostic and prognostic endpoints. Because of the inherent difficulties in assessing brain function in patients and objectively identifying neurological and cognitive/emotional symptoms, future application of biomarkers to neurological and psychiatric disorders is extremely desirable. This article discusses the biomarker potential of the granin family, a group of acidic proteins present in the secretory granules of a wide variety of endocrine, neuronal and neuroendocrine cells: chromogranin A (CgA), CgB, Secretogranin II (SgII), SgIII, HISL-19 antigen, 7B2, NESP55, VGF and ProSAAS. Their relative abundance, functional significance, and secretion into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), saliva, and the general circulation have made granins tractable targets as biomarkers for many diseases of neuronal and endocrine origin, recently impacting diagnosis of a number of neurological and psychiatric disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and schizophrenia. Although research has not yet validated the clinical utility of granins as surrogate endpoints for the progression or treatment of neurological or psychiatric disease, a growing body of experimental evidence indicates that the use of granins as biomarkers might be of great potential clinical interest. Advances that further elucidate the mechanism(s) of action of granins, coupled with improvements in biomarker technology and direct clinical application, should increase the translational effectiveness of this family of proteins in disease diagnosis and drug discovery.
We studied the possible activation of a neuropeptide FF2 receptor (NPFF2R) by kisspeptins, neuropeptides derived from the mouse and human metastin or Kiss-1 precursor. The hypothesis was that the human kisspeptins, which share the C-terminal dipeptide RF-NH(2) with NPFF, might activate the NPFF2R, as has previously been shown for two related peptides, prolactin-releasing peptide and RF-amide-related peptide. Using two-electrode voltage clamp of Xenopus oocytes, we found that 100 nM NPFF strongly activated the human NPFF2R expressed together with rat GIRK1/4 inward rectifier potassium channels, and that 100 nM hKisspeptin-13 and hKisspeptin-8 had about 25% relative efficacy to that of NPFF. The current response induced by hKisspeptin-13 was proportional to its concentration (1-500 nM). The corresponding mouse peptides resulted in low activation only. When hNPFF2R was expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, NPFF and its stable analog (1DMe)Y8Fa induced guanosine 5'-(gamma-[(35)S]thio)-triphosphate (GTP-gamma-[(35)S]) binding with EC(50) values of 13+/-4 and 16+/-4 nM, respectively. hKisspeptin-13 induced the binding with an EC(50) value of 110+/-50 nM, whereas mKisspeptin-13 induced very modestly activation with an EC(50) value&gt;2 microM. The results suggest that, besides regulation of reproduction, kisspeptins have a potential to mediate physiological effects on, for example autonomic regulation and nociception in man via the NPFF2R pathways.
To assess the relative roles of insulinopenia, hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia in pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy, we compared plasma insulin, glucose and lipid metabolism and peripheral nerve function in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced overt and moderate insulinopenia (hyperglycemic, STZ-HG; random glucose&gt;11 mM and normoglycemic, STZ-NG rats). While being slightly insulinopenic, STZ-NG rats are metabolically not different from control, naive animals, by having normal glucose tolerance and normal levels of plasma glucose, glycated HbA1c, cholesterol and triglycerides. Two weeks following injection of STZ, STZ-HG but not STZ-NG rats had suppressed motor nerve conduction velocity, F-wave prevalence, withdrawal responses to heat and von Frey filament stimuli. In apparent correlation with plasma insulin level, both STZ-HG and -NG rats manifested exaggerated responses in paw pressure and colorectal distension tests. These data suggest that insulinopenia may play a leading role in the diabetic impairment of deep muscle and visceral afferent pathways while hyperglycemia/dyslipidemia may represent a key requirement for the onset and progression of electrophysiological nerve impairment and loss of superficial heat and tactile perception. STZ-NG rats offer a convenient model for the investigation of the short-term effects of insulinopenia on peripheral nerve function.
Any change or novelty in the auditory environment is potentially important for survival. The cortex has been implicated in the detection of auditory change whereas the hippocampus has been associated with the detection of auditory novelty. Local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded from the CA1 area of the hippocampus in waking rabbits. In the oddball condition, a rare tone of one frequency (deviant) randomly replaced a repeated tone of another frequency (standard). In the equal-probability condition, the standard was replaced by a set of tones of nine different frequencies in order to remove the repetitive auditory background of the deviant (now labelled as control-deviant) while preserving its temporal probability. In the oddball condition, evoked potentials at 36-80 ms post-stimulus were found to have greater amplitude towards negative polarity for the deviant relative to the standard. No significant differences in response amplitudes were observed between the control-deviant and the standard. These findings suggest that the hippocampus plays a role in auditory change detection.
Aversive olfactory learning was established in young rats after odor exposure paired with foot shock through a classical conditioning paradigm. Using behavioral pharmacology and Western blotting, we previously reported that plasticity in the main olfactory bulb (MOB) underlies aversive olfactory learning. Since long-term potentiation (LTP) observed in the hippocampus is believed to be a cellular substrate for aspects of memory, we attempted to induce LTP in the MOB. Using brain slices containing the MOB, we found that five tetani of the lateral olfactory tract evoked LTP that was blocked by the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist AP5. Although three tetani induced no significant changes in control slices, with noradrenaline (NA) application they produced clear LTP (NA-mediated LTP), which was not dependent on NMDA receptors. NA's facilitating effect on LTP induction was blocked by the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist timolol but not by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine, and was mimicked by the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol. The l-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine completely blocked LTP as well as NA-mediated LTP. In addition, we found that aversive olfactory learning was impaired by beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, timolol but not by alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine, and only odor training established olfactory learning by isoproterenol infusion. Moreover, we found that nifedipine but not AP5 prevented olfactory learning formation. These common properties provided evidence for neural correlates between NA-mediated LTP aversive olfactory learning in young rats.
Non-clustered protocadherins (PCDHs) are calcium-dependent adhesion molecules which have attracted attention for their possible roles in the neuronal circuit formation during development and their implications in the neurological disorders such as autism and mental retardation. Previously, we found that a subset of the non-clustered PCDHs exhibited circuit-dependent expression patterns in thalamo-cortical connections in early postnatal rat brain, but such patterns disappeared in adulthood. In this study, we identified that the non-clustered PCDHs showed differential expression patterns along the septotemporal axis in the subregions of adult hippocampus and dentate gyrus with topographical preferences. The expressions of PCDH1, PCDH9, PCDH10 and PCDH20 showed septal preferences, whereas the expressions of PCDH8, PCDH11, PCDH17 and PCDH19 showed temporal preferences, suggesting that they play roles in the formation/maintenance of intrahippocampal circuits. PCDHs also exhibited the region-specific expression patterns in the areas connected to hippocampal formation such as entorhinal cortex, lateral septum, and basolateral amygdaloid complex. Furthermore, the expression levels of three PCDHs (PCDH8, PCDH19 and PCDH20) were regulated by the electroconvulsive shock stimulation of the brain in the adult hippocampus and dentate gyrus. These results suggest that non-clustered PCDHs are involved in the maintenance and plasticity of adult hippocampal circuitry.
Electrocortical activity is increasingly being used to study emotion regulation and the impact of cognitive control on neural response to visual stimuli. In the current study, we used direct epidural cortical stimulation (EpCS) to examine regional specificity of PFC stimulation on the parietally-maximal late positive potential (LPP), an event-related potential (ERP) biomarker of visual attention to salient stimuli. Five patients with treatment-resistant mood disorders were stereotactically implanted with stimulating paddles over frontopolar (FP) and dorsolateral (DL) prefrontal cortex bilaterally. On their first day of activation, patients underwent sham-controlled EpCS coupled with 64-channel electroencephalograph (EEG) recordings and passive viewing of aversive and neutral images. In addition to sham, patients had either FP or DL prefrontal cortex stimulated at 2 or 4 V while they viewed neutral and aversive pictures. As expected during the sham condition, LPP was larger for aversive compared to neutral stimuli (F(1,4)=232.07, P&lt;.001). Stimulation of DL compared to FP prefrontal cortex resulted in a reduction of the LPP (F(1,4)=8.15, P=.048). These data provide additional and unique support to the role of the DL prefrontal cortex in regulating measures of neural activity that have been linked to emotional arousal and attention. Future studies with EpCS can help directly map out various prefrontal functions in treatment-resistant mood disorder.
Self-recognition in front of a mirror is used as an indicator of self-awareness. Along with humans, some chimpanzees and orangutans have been shown to be self-aware using the mark test. Monkeys are conspicuously absent from this list because they fail the mark test and show persistent signs of social responses to mirrors despite prolonged exposure, which has been interpreted as evidence of a cognitive divide between hominoids and other species. In stark contrast with those reports, the rhesus monkeys in this study, who had been prepared for electrophysiological recordings with a head implant, showed consistent self-directed behaviors in front of the mirror and showed social responses that subsided quickly during the first experimental session. The self-directed behaviors, which were performed in front of the mirror and did not take place in its absence, included extensive observation of the implant and genital areas that cannot be observed directly without a mirror. We hypothesize that the head implant, a most salient mark, prompted the monkeys to overcome gaze aversion inhibition or lack of interest in order to look and examine themselves in front of the mirror. The results of this study demonstrate that rhesus monkeys do recognize themselves in the mirror and, therefore, have some form of self-awareness. Accordingly, instead of a cognitive divide, they support the notion of an evolutionary continuity of mental functions.


Two recent studies have described how the coupling of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to neurons in the auditory cortex changes during development. This process is driven by experience and, once complete, may limit the plasticity of the cortex in later life.
It is clear that male and female animals behave differently, but how do those differences arise? New studies show that there are extensive, sex-specific differences in the anatomy of neurons that underlie reproductive behaviors in Drosophila.
When visual input has conflicting interpretations, conscious perception can alternate spontaneously between competing interpretations [1]. There is a large amount of unexplained variability between individuals in the rate of such spontaneous alternations in perception [2-5]. We hypothesized that variability in perceptual rivalry might be reflected in individual differences in brain structure, because brain structure can exhibit systematic relationships with an individual's cognitive experiences and skills [6-9]. To test this notion, we examined in a large group of individuals how cortical thickness, local gray-matter density, and local white-matter integrity correlate with individuals' alternation rate for a bistable, rotating structure-from-motion stimulus [10]. All of these macroscopic measures of brain structure consistently revealed that the structure of bilateral superior parietal lobes (SPL) could account for interindividual variability in perceptual alternation rate. Furthermore, we examined whether the bilateral SPL regions play a causal role in the rate of perceptual alternations by using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and found that transient disruption of these areas indeed decreases the rate of perceptual alternations. These findings demonstrate a direct relationship between structure of SPL and individuals' perceptual switch rate.

Modern computational neuroscience employs diverse software tools and multidisciplinary expertise to analyze heterogeneous brain data. The classical problems of gathering meaningful data, fitting specific models, and discovering appropriate analysis and visualization tools give way to a new class of computational challenges--management of large and incongruous data, integration and interoperability of computational resources, and data provenance. We designed, implemented and validated a new paradigm for addressing these challenges in the neuroimaging field. Our solution is based on the LONI Pipeline environment [3], [4], a graphical workflow environment for constructing and executing complex data processing protocols. We developed study-design, database and visual language programming functionalities within the LONI Pipeline that enable the construction of complete, elaborate and robust graphical workflows for analyzing neuroimaging and other data. These workflows facilitate open sharing and communication of data and metadata, concrete processing protocols, result validation, and study replication among different investigators and research groups. The LONI Pipeline features include distributed grid-enabled infrastructure, virtualized execution environment, efficient integration, data provenance, validation and distribution of new computational tools, automated data format conversion, and an intuitive graphical user interface. We demonstrate the new LONI Pipeline features using large scale neuroimaging studies based on data from the International Consortium for Brain Mapping [5] and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative [6]. User guides, forums, instructions and downloads of the LONI Pipeline environment are available at http://pipeline.loni.ucla.edu.
Immune molecules have been discovered recently to play critical roles in the development, function, and plasticity of the cerebral cortex. MHC class I (MHCI) molecules are expressed in the central nervous system and regulate activity-dependent refinement of visual projections during late postnatal development. They have also been implicated in neurodevelopmental diseases such as schizophrenia and autism. Despite the excitement generated by these unique roles for immune proteins in the brain, little is known about how these molecules regulate cortical connections. The first step toward elucidating the mechanism is to identify the spatial and temporal distribution of MHCI proteins throughout development. Using a pan-specific antibody that recognizes many MHCI variants for biochemistry and immunohistochemistry, we found that MHCI proteins are expressed in the rat visual cortex at all ages examined-during the peak of synaptogenesis, the critical period of synaptic refinement, and adulthood. Their abundance in the cortex peaked during early postnatal development, declining during periods of plasticity and adulthood. In contrast to current assumptions, pre- and postembedding immunogold electron microscopy (EM) revealed that MHCI proteins were present both pre- and postsynaptically at all ages examined. They were often found in the postsynaptic density and were closely associated with synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic terminal. These results suggest a previously undescribed model in which MHCI molecules function on both sides of the synapse to regulate connectivity in the mammalian visual cortex before, during, and after the establishment of connections.
Human adults can go beyond the limits of individual sensory systems' resolutions by integrating multiple estimates (e.g., vision and touch) to reduce uncertainty. Little is known about how this ability develops. Although some multisensory abilities are present from early infancy, it is not until age 8 y that children use multiple modalities to reduce sensory uncertainty. Here we show that uncertainty reduction by sensory integration does not emerge until 12 y even within the single modality of vision, in judgments of surface slant based on stereoscopic and texture information. However, adults' integration of sensory information comes at a cost of losing access to the individual estimates that feed into the integrated percept (&quot;sensory fusion&quot;). By contrast, 6-y-olds do not experience fusion, but are able to keep stereo and texture information separate. This ability enables them to outperform adults when discriminating stimuli in which these information sources conflict. Further, unlike adults, 6-y-olds show speed gains consistent with following the fastest-available single cue. Therefore, whereas the mature visual system is optimized for reducing sensory uncertainty, the developing visual system may be optimized for speed and for detecting sensory conflicts. Such conflicts could provide the error signals needed to learn the relationships between sensory information sources and to recalibrate them while the body is growing.
Determining how the visual system locates moving stimuli continues to be an experimental and theoretical challenge. By making a moving visual stimulus equiluminant with its background, and immersing it in luminance noise, the spatial lead it normal enjoys over a flashed stimulus (the flash-lag illusion) was completely eliminated (the illusion was actually reversed for 6 out of 11 participants). As this manipulation is typically used to reduce Magnocellular (M) visual pathway processing, this is strong evidence that processing in this pathway advances the moving stimulus' perceived position. However, when the flashed stimulus was also made equiluminant in luminance noise, the illusion reappeared, indicating that M pathway processing contributed to its perception too. The presence of the illusion when both stimuli were equiluminant in luminance noise indicates that the illusion can be generated in the absence of M cell activation. To explicate the result with moving stimuli, we displayed two adjacent moving stimuli, one luminance-modulated, and the other equiluminant in noise. The latter was perceived to significantly lag the former (an 'M-P-Hess' illusion), and 39% of the difference in flash-lag illusions, with comparable moving stimulus contrasts, could be accounted for by this illusion.
Humans with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are deficient at extinguishing conditioned fear responses. A study of identical twins concluded that this extinction deficit does not predate trauma but develops as a result of trauma. The present study tested whether the Lewis rat model of PTSD reproduces these features of the human syndrome. Lewis rats were subjected to classical auditory fear conditioning before or after exposure to a predatory threat that mimics a type of traumatic stress that leads to PTSD in humans. Exploratory behavior on the elevated plus maze 1 wk after predatory threat exposure was used to distinguish resilient vs. PTSD-like rats. Properties of extinction varied depending on whether fear conditioning and extinction occurred before or after predatory threat. When fear conditioning was carried out after predatory threat, PTSD-like rats showed a marked extinction deficit compared with resilient rats. In contrast, no differences were seen between resilient and PTSD-like rats when fear conditioning and extinction occurred prior to predatory threat. These findings in Lewis rats closely match the results seen in humans with PTSD, thereby suggesting that studies comparing neuronal interactions in resilient vs. at-risk Lewis rats might shed light on the causes and pathophysiology of human PTSD.
People with better skills in mental rotation require less time to decide about the identity of rotated images. In the present study, alphanumeric characters rotated in the frontal plane were employed to assess the relationship between rotation ability and EEG oscillatory activity. Response latency, a single valid index of performance in this task, was significantly associated with the amplitude of induced oscillations in the alpha (8-13 Hz) and the low beta band (14-20 Hz). In accordance with the neural efficiency hypothesis, less event-related desynchronization (ERD) was related to better (i.e. faster) task performance. The association between response time and ERD was observed earlier (approximately 600-400 ms before the response) over the parietal cortex and later (approximately 400-200 ms before the response) over the frontal cortex. Linear mixed-effect regression analysis confirmed that both early parietal and late frontal alpha/beta power provided significant contribution to prediction of response latency. The result indicates that two distinct serially engaged neurocognitive processes comparably contribute to mental rotation ability. In addition, we found that mental rotation-related negativity, a slow event-related potential recorded over the posterior cortex, was unrelated to the asymmetry of alpha amplitude modulation.
Models of face processing suggest that facial familiarity and expression processes involve independent visual systems. But under some conditions, the two processes interact, as when selective attention is solicited, and/or when a link is established between consecutive stimuli. To assess these assumptions during perceptual face processing, event-related potentials (ERPs) were used while subjects discriminated either familiarity or expression in a task-switching paradigm. Switched trials were designed with competitor priming, the unattended dimension being previously attended. The results indicate interactions appearing in the right hemisphere during the perceptual encoding stage (N170) when subjects processed either familiarity or expression during switched trials. These interactions gain both hemispheres during memory retrieval (P2) and in terms of accuracy. Altogether, these results confirm the critical role of the right hemisphere in perceiving faces and their expressions. Moreover, they suggest that familiarity and expression can interact in both directions.

Microglia are commonly described as existing in resting or active states based on morphology or level of cytokine production. Extracellular ATP is a physiologically-relevant activator of microglia, which express a number of purinergic receptors. As P2Y(12) has been linked to chemotaxis, we used a panel of purinergic compounds to understand the role of ATP receptors in morphological transformation and correlate this with TNFalpha production. We quantified activation of cultured microglia with LPS or purinergic receptor agonists by using automated image analysis of cell morphology and CD11b expression and correlated this with TNFalpha release measured by ELISA. Treatment with both ATP and the P2Y(12) receptor agonist, 2-methylthio adenosine diphosphate (2MeSADP), caused a transient increase in CD11b expression (EC(50)=1.2 microM and 187 nM, respectively) and a reduction in process count that reversed within 90 min later. These changes were not accompanied by the release of TNFalpha. Forskolin, IBMX, and pertussis toxin inhibited these changes, but the PLC inhibitor, U73122, did not. 2MeSAMP blocked the ATP response, while AP4A blocked the 2MeSADP response, implicating P2Y(12/13). Microglia activation by LPS also caused an increase in CD11b expression and a reduction in process count; however, in contrast to activation by ATP, morphological transformation was accompanied by a concentration-dependent increase in TNFalpha secretion These data demonstrate that morphological transformation and TNFalpha release are separable events mediated by different, or non-convergent pathways and that although ATP can initiate morphological changes, additional factors are required to maintain activation over sustained periods.
Diabetes and stress stimulate hippocampal 5-HT synthesis, metabolism and release. The present study was carried out to find the effects of insulin, Aegle marmelose alone and in combination with pyridoxine on the hippocampal 5-HT, 5-HT(2A) receptor subtype, gene expression studies on 5-HT(2A), 5-HTT, INSR, immunohistochemical studies and elevated plus maze in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. 5-HT content showed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.001) and a significant increase (p &lt; 0.001) in 5-HIAA in hippocampus of diabetic rats compared to control. 5-HT receptor binding parameters B(max) and Kd showed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.001) whereas 5-HT(2A) receptor binding parameters Bmax showed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.001) with a significant increase (p &lt; 0.05) in Kd in hippocampus of diabetic rats compared to control. Gene expression studies of 5-HT(2A), 5-HTT and INSR in hippocampus showed a significant down regulation (p &lt; 0.001) in diabetic rats compared to control. Pyridoxine treated in combination with insulin and A. marmelose to diabetic rats reversed the 5-HT content, B(max), Kd of 5-HT, 5-HT(2A) and gene expression of 5-HT(2A), 5-HTT and INSR in hippocampus to near control. The gene expression of 5-HT(2A) and 5-HTT were confirmed by immunohistochemical studies. Behavioural studies using elevated plus maze showed that serotonin through its transporter significantly increased (p &lt; 0.001) anxiety-related traits in diabetic rats which were corrected by combination therapy. Our results suggest that pyridoxine treated in combination with insulin and A. marmelose has a role in the regulation of insulin synthesis and release, normalising diabetic related stress and anxiety through hippocampal serotonergic function. This has clinical significance in the management of diabetes.
Clinical observations suggest that depressed patients were less sensitive to experimental pain than healthy subjects. However, few animal studies are reported concerning the association of depression and pain. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of unpredictable chronic mild stress (UCMS) induced depression on the perceived intensity of painful stimulation in rats. We measured the thermal and mechanical paw withdrawal thresholds (PWT) of normal and spinal nerve ligated (SNL) rats using hot plate test and von Frey test, respectively. The results showed that rats exposed to UCMS exhibited significantly higher thermal and mechanical pain thresholds in comparison to the non-depressed controls. In particular, the PWT of the SNL group was restored to nearly normal level after three weeks of UCMS, and even comparable to that of the control group. These results strongly suggest that the depressed subjects have decreased sensitivity to externally applied noxious stimulation, which is consistent with our previous findings.
Organotypic slice cultures obtained from immature brain tissue represent a well-established model system for neuroscience research. Current culture methods, however, do not allow long-term culture of mature brain slices. Slice cultures from mature animals would provide an in vitro experimental environment suitable for investigation of neuropathologies, which in human, predominate in aged individuals. We hypothesized that damage, incurred by slicing of the brain, is propagated through intercellular connexin43 (Cx43) gap junction channels and that this damage is not easily repaired in mature central nervous system (CNS) tissue that lacks the pluripotency of immature tissue. We investigated the role of Cx43 gap junctions in long-term survival of mature brain tissue using antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (AsODN) technology. The application of Cx43 AsODN immediately after slicing of the mature brain led to a significant but transient knockdown of Cx43 protein. This treatment was associated with the long-term survival of hippocampal neurons with normal morphology within whole brain slices taken from 14 and 40-day-old adult rats.
The neurotransmitter histamine has been suggested to be involved in cognitive functioning. Generally, studies in animals have shown a decrease in performance after decreasing histamine neurotransmission and improved performance after increasing histamine neurotransmission. It is unclear, however, what role histamine plays in cognition in humans. Up until now, most data are derived from studies and reviews that aimed to assess the sedative potential of H(1)-antagonists and not the effects on cognition in particular. The objective of this paper is specifically to review which cognitive domains are affected by H(1)-antagonists. Taken together, 90 experimental studies on the performance effects of sedative H(1)-antagonists published between 1973 and 2009 were reviewed. Results showed that psychomotor skills and attention are most frequently impaired and memory the least. Tasks assessing memory that were affected usually required rapid responses. It was concluded that both the complexity of the task as well as the demand for information processing speed determines the sensitivity to the effects of central H(1)-antagonism. The importance of the sensitive cognitive domains to histaminergic dysfunction, as well as the relation between histamine related decrease in arousal and task performance deserve further research.
1,4-Dihydroxy-2-naphthoyl coenzyme A (DHNA-CoA) synthase is a typical crotonase-fold protein catalyzing an intramolecular Claisen condensation in the menaquinone biosynthetic pathway. We have characterized this enzyme from Escherichia coli and found that it is activated by bicarbonate in a concentration-dependent manner. The bicarbonate binding site has been identified in the crystal structure of a virtually identical ortholog (96.8% sequence identity) from Salmonella typhimurium through comparison with a bicarbonate-insensitive orthologue. Kinetic properties of the enzyme and its site-directed mutants of the bicarbonate binding site indicate that the exogenous bicarbonate anion is essential to the enzyme activity. With this essential catalytic role, the simple bicarbonate anion is an enzyme cofactor, which is usually a small organic molecule derived from vitamins, a metal ion, or a metal-containing polyatomic anionic complex. This finding leads to classification of the DHNA-CoA synthases into two evolutionarily conserved subfamilies: type I enzymes that are bicarbonate-dependent and contain a conserved glycine at the bicarbonate binding site; and type II enzymes that are bicarbonate-independent and contain a conserved aspartate at the position similar to the enzyme-bound bicarbonate. In addition, the unique location of the enzyme-bound bicarbonate allows it to be proposed as a catalytic base responsible for abstraction of the -proton of the thioester substrate in the enzymatic reaction, suggesting a unified catalytic mechanism for all DHNA-CoA synthases.

The detection and discrimination of temporal sequences is fundamental to brain function and underlies perception, cognition, and motor output. By applying patterned, two-photon glutamate uncaging, we found that single dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons exhibit sensitivity to the sequence of synaptic activation. This sensitivity is encoded by both local dendritic calcium signals and somatic depolarization, leading to sequence-selective spike output. The mechanism involves dendritic impedance gradients and nonlinear synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation and is generalizable to dendrites in different neuronal types. This enables discrimination of patterns delivered to a single dendrite, as well as patterns distributed randomly across the dendritic tree. Pyramidal cell dendrites can thus act as processing compartments for the detection of synaptic sequences, thereby implementing a fundamental cortical computation.
The gist of a visual scene is perceived in a fraction of a second but in change detection tasks subjects typically need several seconds to find the changing object in a visual scene. Here, we report influences of scene context on change detection performance. Scene context manipulations consisted of scene inversion, scene jumbling, where the images were cut into 24 pieces and randomly recombined, and scene configuration scrambling, where the arrangement of the objects in the scene was randomized. Reaction times, where significantly lower in images with normal scene context. We conclude that scene context structures scene perception.

Local interneurons in the Drosophila antennal lobe are thought to play important roles in shaping odor responses. However, the physiological properties of excitatory local interneurons (eLNs) and their connectivity in the antennal lobe remain unclear. We first characterized the firing patterns of krasavietz-Gal4-labeled eLNs (krasavietz eLNs) in response to depolarizing currents. Paired recordings of krasavietz eLNs and PNs showed reciprocal excitatory connections mediated by dendrodendritic cholinergic synapses and gap junctions. Reciprocal connections were also found between two krasavietz eLNs but were rare between krasavietz eLNs and inhibitory LNs. Analysis of response onset latencies showed that krasavietz eLNs received monosynaptic inputs from ORNs. Furthermore, each eLN responded with distinct patterns to different odors, and each odor elicited distinct responses in different eLNs, with specific temporal patterns of spiking, indicating that eLNs serve specific coding functions in addition to global excitation in Drosophila olfactory processing.
Glutamine tract expansion triggers nine neurodegenerative diseases by conferring toxic properties to the mutant protein. In SCA1, phosphorylation of ATXN1 at Ser776 is thought to be key for pathogenesis. Here, we show that replacing Ser776 with a phosphomimicking Asp converted ATXN1 with a wild-type glutamine tract into a pathogenic protein. ATXN1[30Q]-D776-induced disease in Purkinje cells shared most features with disease caused by ATXN1[82Q] having an expanded polyglutamine tract. However, in contrast to disease induced by ATXN1[82Q] that progresses to cell death, ATXN1[30Q]-D776 failed to induce cell death. These results support a model where pathogenesis involves changes in regions of the protein in addition to the polyglutamine tract. Moreover, disease initiation and progression to neuronal dysfunction are distinct from induction of cell death. Ser776 is critical for the pathway to neuronal dysfunction, while an expanded polyglutamine tract is essential for neuronal death.
Aberrant posttranslational modifications of proteins can impair synaptic plasticity and may render neurons vulnerable to degeneration during aging. In this issue of Neuron, Min etal. show that acetylation of the amino acid lysine in the microtubule-associated protein tau prevents its ubiquitin-mediated degradation, resulting in &quot;tau tangles&quot; similar to those of dementias. Other recent studies suggest that lysine hyperacetylation contributes to the accumulation of amyloid -peptide in Alzheimer's disease and to impaired cognitive function resulting from a trophic factor deficit.

The discovery of a family of membrane water channel proteins called aquaporins, and the finding that aquaporin 1 was located in the choroid plexus, has prompted interest in the role of aquaporins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production and consequently hydrocephalus. While the role of aquaporin 1 in choroidal CSF production has been demonstrated, the relevance of aquaporin 1 to the pathophysiology of hydrocephalus remains debated. This has been further hampered by the lack of a non-toxic specific pharmacological blocking agent for aquaporin 1. In recent times aquaporin 4, the most abundant aquaporin within the brain itself, which has also been shown to have a role in brain water physiology and relevance to brain oedema in trauma and tumours, has become an alternative focus of attention for hydrocephalus research. This review summarises current knowledge and concepts in relation to aquaporins, specifically aquaporin 1 and 4, and hydrocephalus. It also examines the relevance of aquaporins as potential therapeutic targets in hydrocephalus and other CSF circulation disorders.

Perceptual skills can be improved even in adulthood, but this learning seldom occurs by stimulus exposure alone. Instead, it requires considerable practice performing a perceptual task with relevant stimuli. It is thought that task performance permits the stimuli to drive learning. A corresponding assumption is that the same stimuli do not contribute to improvement when encountered separately from relevant task performance because of the absence of this permissive signal. However, these ideas are based on only two types of studies, in which the task was either always performed or not performed at all. Here we demonstrate enhanced perceptual learning on an auditory frequency-discrimination task in human listeners when practice on that target task was combined with additional stimulation. Learning was enhanced regardless of whether the periods of additional stimulation were interleaved with or provided exclusively before or after target-task performance, and even though that stimulation occurred during the performance of an irrelevant (auditory or written) task. The additional exposures were only beneficial when they shared the same frequency with, though they did not need to be identical to, those used during target-task performance. Their effectiveness also was diminished when they were presented 15 min after practice on the target task and was eliminated when that separation was increased to 4 h. These data show that exposure to an acoustic stimulus can facilitate learning when encountered outside of the time of practice on a perceptual task. By properly using additional stimulation one may markedly improve the efficiency of perceptual training regimens.
The 2 subunits of voltage-gated calcium channels are important modulatory subunits that enhance calcium currents and may also have other roles in synaptogenesis. The antiepileptic and antiallodynic drug gabapentin (GBP) binds to the 2-1 and 2-2 isoforms of this protein, and its binding may disrupt the binding of an endogenous ligand, required for their correct function. We have shown previously that GBP produces a chronic inhibitory effect on calcium currents by causing a reduction in the total number of 2 and 1 subunits at the cell surface. This action of GBP is likely to be attributable to a disruption of the trafficking of 2 subunits, either to or from the plasma membrane. We studied the effect of GBP on the internalization of, and insertion into the plasma membrane of 2-2 using an -bungarotoxin binding site-tagged 2-2 subunit, and a fluorescent derivative of -bungarotoxin. We found that GBP specifically disrupts the insertion of 2-2 from post-Golgi compartments to the plasma membrane, and this effect was prevented by a mutation of 2-2 that abolishes its binding to GBP. The coexpression of the GDP-bound Rab11 S25N mutant prevented the GBP-induced decrease in 2-2 cell surface levels, both in cell lines and in primary neurons, and the GBP-induced reduction in calcium channel currents. In contrast, the internalization of 2-2 was unaffected by GBP. We conclude that GBP acts by preventing the recycling of 2-2 from Rab11-positive recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane.
Blind individuals have to rely on nonvisual information to a greater extent than sighted to efficiently interact with the environment, and consequently exhibit superior skills in their spared modalities. These performance advantages are often paralleled by responses in the occipital cortex, which have been suggested to be essential for nonvisual processing in the blind. However, it is currently unclear through which pathways (i.e., thalamocortical or corticocortical connections) nonvisual information reaches the occipital cortex of the blind. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study blind and matched sighted humans with an auditory discrimination paradigm and used dynamic causal modeling to investigate the effective connectivity underlying auditory activations in the primary visual cortex of blind volunteers. Model comparison revealed that a model connecting the medial geniculate nucleus (MGN), primary auditory cortex (A1), and primary visual cortex (V1) in a bidirectional manner outperformed all other models in both groups. Regarding inference on model parameters, we observed that basic auditory mechanisms (i.e., sensory input to MGN and connections from MGN to A1) did not differ significantly between the two groups. In contrast, we found clear evidence for stronger corticocortical connections from A1 to V1 in the blind, whereas results with regard to thalamocortical enhancement (from MGN to V1 and, in a control analysis, from the lateral geniculate nucleus to V1) were not consistent. These results suggest that plastic changes especially in corticocortical connectivity allow auditory information to evoke responses in the primary visual cortex of blind individuals.
In the visual world, stimuli compete with each other for allocation of the brain's limited processing resources. Computational models routinely invoke wide-ranging mutually suppressive interactions in spatial priority maps to implement active competition for attentional and saccadic allocation, but such suppressive interactions have not been physiologically described, and their existence is controversial. Much evidence implicates the lateral intraparietal area as a candidate priority map in the macaque (Macaca mulatta). Here, we demonstrate that the responses of neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) to a task-irrelevant distractor are strongly suppressed when the monkey plans saccades to locations outside their receptive fields. Suppression can be evoked both by flashed visual stimuli and by a memorized saccade plan. The suppressive surrounds of LIP neurons are spatially tuned and wide ranging. Increasing the monkey's motivation enhances target-distractor discriminability by enhancing both distractor suppression and the saccade goal representation; these changes are accompanied by correlated improvements in behavioral performance.
Mutations in cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5), also known as serine/threonine kinase 9 (STK9), have been identified in patients with Rett syndrome (RTT) and X-linked infantile spasm. However, the function of CDKL5 in the brain remains unknown. Here, we report that CDKL5 is a critical regulator of neuronal morphogenesis. We identified a neuron-specific splicing variant of CDKL5 whose expression was markedly induced during postnatal development of the rat brain. Downregulating CDKL5 by RNA interference (RNAi) in cultured cortical neurons inhibited neurite growth and dendritic arborization, whereas overexpressing CDKL5 had opposite effects. Furthermore, knocking down CDKL5 in the rat brain by in utero electroporation resulted in delayed neuronal migration, and severely impaired dendritic arborization. In contrast to its proposed function in the nucleus, we found that CDKL5 regulated dendrite development through a cytoplasmic mechanism. In fibroblasts and in neurons, CDKL5 colocalized and formed a protein complex with Rac1, a critical regulator of actin remodeling and neuronal morphogenesis. Overexpression of Rac1 prevented the inhibition of dendrite growth caused by CDKL5 knockdown, and the growth-promoting effect of ectopically expressed CDKL5 on dendrites was abolished by coexpressing a dominant-negative form of Rac1. Moreover, CDKL5 was required for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-induced activation of Rac1. Together, these results demonstrate a critical role of CDKL5 in neuronal morphogenesis and identify a Rho GTPase signaling pathway which may contribute to CDKL5-related disorders.
In rat hippocampus, estrogen receptor- (ER-) can initiate nongenomic signaling mechanisms that modulate synaptic plasticity in response to either circulating or locally synthesized estradiol (E). Here we report quantitative electron microscopic data demonstrating that ER- is present within excitatory synapses in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) of young and aged ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys with and without E treatment. There were no treatment or age effects on the percentage of excitatory synapses containing ER-, nor were there any group differences in distribution of ER- within the synapse. However, the mean size of synapses containing ER- was larger than that of unlabeled excitatory synapses. All monkeys were tested on delayed response (DR), a cognitive test of working memory that requires dlPFC. In young ovariectomized monkeys without E treatment, presynaptic ER- correlated with DR accuracy across memory delays. In aged monkeys that received E treatment, ER- within the postsynaptic density (30-60 nm from the synaptic membrane) positively correlated with DR performance. Thus, although the lack of group effects suggests that ER- is primarily in synapses that are stable across age and treatment, synaptic abundance of ER- is correlated with individual performance in two key age/treatment groups. These data have important implications for individual differences in the cognitive outcome among menopausal women and promote a focus on cortical estrogen receptors for therapeutic efficacy with respect to cognition.
The perceptual salience and visibility of image elements is influenced by other elements in their vicinity. The perceptual effect of image elements on an adjacent target element depends on their relative orientation. Collinear flanking elements usually improve sensitivity for the target element, whereas orthogonal elements have a weaker effect. It is believed that the collinear flankers exert these effects through lateral interactions between neurons in the primary visual cortex (area V1), but the precise mechanisms underlying these contextual interactions remain unknown. Here, we directly examined this question by recording the effects of flankers on the responses of V1 neurons at parafoveal representations while monkeys performed a fixation task or a contrast detection task. We found, unexpectedly, that collinear flankers reduce the monkeys' perceptual sensitivity for a central target element. This behavioral effect was explained by a flanker-induced increase in the activity of V1 neurons in the absence of the central target stimulus, which reduced the amplitude of the target response. Our results indicate that the dominant effect of collinear flankers in parafoveal vision is suppression and suggest that these suppressive effects are caused by a decrease in the dynamic range of neurons coding the central target.
The visual system encodes the features of visual stimuli as well as their behavioral relevance. Stimuli with a high luminance contrast evoke more activity in the visual cortex than stimuli with a low contrast. At the same time, attended stimuli evoke more activity than nonattended stimuli. There is a debate about how visual features and attention jointly determine neuronal activity in the visual cortex. Some studies suggested that attention increases apparent contrast (Reynolds et al., 2000), others that attention amplifies responses by a constant factor (Williford and Maunsell, 2006), and yet others that attention and contrast have largely additive effects (Buracas and Boynton, 2007; Thiele et al., 2009). The influence of attention on contrast sensitivity differs between neurons, raising the possibility that attention and contrast could be coded conjointly in a population of neurons. Here we investigate this possibility by recording neuronal activity at multiple sites in the primary visual cortex of macaque monkeys using multielectrode recording techniques and support vector machines to decode attended stimuli as well as stimulus contrast. We find that many, but not all, V1 neurons are influenced by attention and that the effects of attention and contrast are additive on average. Stimulus contrast can be decoded from neuronal responses not strongly modulated by attention, whereas the attended stimulus can be decoded as the difference in activity of cells that are influenced by attention and cells that are not. The success of the approach suggests that visual attention and stimulus contrast are represented by largely separable codes.
Current models of brain organization include multisensory interactions at early processing stages and within low-level, including primary, cortices. Embracing this model with regard to auditory-visual (AV) interactions in humans remains problematic. Controversy surrounds the application of an additive model to the analysis of event-related potentials (ERPs), and conventional ERP analysis methods have yielded discordant latencies of effects and permitted limited neurophysiologic interpretability. While hemodynamic imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies provide general support for the above model, the precise timing, superadditive/subadditive directionality, topographic stability, and sources remain unresolved. We recorded ERPs in humans to attended, but task-irrelevant stimuli that did not require an overt motor response, thereby circumventing paradigmatic caveats. We applied novel ERP signal analysis methods to provide details concerning the likely bases of AV interactions. First, nonlinear interactions occur at 60-95 ms after stimulus and are the consequence of topographic, rather than pure strength, modulations in the ERP. AV stimuli engage distinct configurations of intracranial generators, rather than simply modulating the amplitude of unisensory responses. Second, source estimations (and statistical analyses thereof) identified primary visual, primary auditory, and posterior superior temporal regions as mediating these effects. Finally, scalar values of current densities in all of these regions exhibited functionally coupled, subadditive nonlinear effects, a pattern increasingly consistent with the mounting evidence in nonhuman primates. In these ways, we demonstrate how neurophysiologic bases of multisensory interactions can be noninvasively identified in humans, allowing for a synthesis across imaging methods on the one hand and species on the other.
Recent evidence supports the idea that early aggregates, protein, and lipoprotein oligomers but not large aggregates like fibrils that are formed at late stages of the aggregation process are responsible for cytotoxicity. Oligomers can interact with the cellular plasma membrane affecting its structure and/or dynamics or may be taken up by the cells. In either case, disparate cascades of molecular interactions are activated in the attempt to counteract the disturbance induced by the oligomers. If unsuccessful, cell death follows. Here, we study the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying PC12 cell death caused by ELOA oligomers. ELOA, a lipoprotein complex formed by equine lysozyme (EL) and oleic acid (OA), induces cell death in all tested cell lines, but the actual mechanism of its action is not known. We have used methods with single-molecule sensitivity, fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy (FCCS), and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) imaging by avalanche photodiodes (APD), so-called APD imaging, to study ELOA interactions with the plasma membrane in live PC12 cells. We detected ELOA accumulation in the cell surroundings, observed ELOA interactions with the plasma membrane, and local changes in plasma membrane lipid dynamics in the vicinity of ELOA complexes. These interactions resulted in plasma membrane rupture, followed by rapid influx and distribution of ELOA inside the already dead cell. In order to probe the ELOA-plasma membrane interaction sites at the molecular and atomic levels, the ELOA complexes were further studied by photochemically induced dynamic nuclear polarization (photo-CIDNP) spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). We observed a novel mechanism of oligomer toxicity-cell death induced by continuous disturbance of the plasma membrane, eventually causing permanent plasma membrane damage and identified the sites in ELOA that are potentially involved in the interactions with the plasma membrane.
There is a considerable contrast between the various functions assigned to Broca's region and its relatively simple subdivision into two cytoarchitectonic areas (44 and 45). Since the regional distribution of transmitter receptors in the cerebral cortex has been proven a powerful indicator of functional diversity, the subdivision of Broca's region was analyzed here using a multireceptor approach. The distribution patterns of six receptor types using in vitro receptor autoradiography revealed previously unknown areas: a ventral precentral transitional cortex 6r1, dorsal and ventral areas 44d and 44v, anterior and posterior areas 45a and 45p, and areas op8 and op9 in the frontal operculum. A significant lateralization of receptors was demonstrated with respect to the cholinergic M(2) receptor, particularly in area 44v+d. We propose a new concept of the anterior language region, which elucidates the relation between premotor cortex, prefrontal cortex, and Broca's region. It offers human brain homologues to the recently described subdivision of area 45, and the segregation of the ventral premotor cortex in macaque brains. The results provide a novel structural basis of the organization of language regions in the brain.
Modification of the number of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) clustered at inhibitory synapses can regulate inhibitory synapse strength with important implications for information processing and nervous system plasticity and pathology. Currently, however, the mechanisms that regulate the number of GABA(A)Rs at synapses remain poorly understood. By imaging superecliptic pHluorin tagged GABA(A)R subunits we show that synaptic GABA(A)R clusters are normally stable, but that increased neuronal activity upon glutamate receptor (GluR) activation results in their rapid and reversible dispersal. This dispersal correlates with increases in the mobility of single GABA(A)Rs within the clusters as determined using single-particle tracking of GABA(A)Rs labeled with quantum dots. GluR-dependent dispersal of GABA(A)R clusters requires Ca(2+) influx via NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and activation of the phosphatase calcineurin. Moreover, the dispersal of GABA(A)R clusters and increased mobility of individual GABA(A)Rs are dependent on serine 327 within the intracellular loop of the GABA(A)R 2 subunit. Thus, NMDAR signaling, via calcineurin and a key GABA(A)R phosphorylation site, controls the stability of synaptic GABA(A)Rs, with important implications for activity-dependent control of synaptic inhibition and neuronal plasticity.
Whether grocery shopping or choosing words to express a thought, selecting between options can be challenging, especially for people with anxiety. We investigate the neural mechanisms supporting selection during language processing and its breakdown in anxiety. Our neural network simulations demonstrate a critical role for competitive, inhibitory dynamics supported by GABAergic interneurons. As predicted by our model, we find that anxiety (associated with reduced neural inhibition) impairs selection among options and associated prefrontal cortical activity, even in a simple, nonaffective verb-generation task, and the GABA agonist midazolam (which increases neural inhibition) improves selection, whereas retrieval from semantic memory is unaffected when selection demands are low. Neural inhibition is key to choosing our words.
It is well established that acute administration of adrenocortical hormones enhances the consolidation of memories of emotional experiences and, concurrently, impairs working memory. These different glucocorticoid effects on these two memory functions have generally been considered to be independently regulated processes. Here we report that a glucocorticoid receptor agonist administered into the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of male Sprague-Dawley rats both enhances memory consolidation and impairs working memory. Both memory effects are mediated by activation of a membrane-bound steroid receptor and depend on noradrenergic activity within the mPFC to increase levels of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. These findings provide direct evidence that glucocorticoid effects on both memory consolidation and working memory share a common neural influence within the mPFC.
Sex differences in clinical and experimental stroke are now well recognized. Adenosine monophosphate activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an important energy sensor that is activated in times of energy demand. Increasing AMPK is deleterious in experimental cerebral ischemia, at least in males. Interestingly, studies in peripheral tissues have suggested that there are sex differences in the regulation of AMPK in muscle after exercise. PolyADP ribose polymerase (PARP), a key mediator of ischemic cell death, stimulates AMPK activation, yet activation of PARP appears to be selectively detrimental in male brain. As interference with sex specific cell death pathways can determine the efficacy of experimental neuroprotective agents, and AMPK inhibition is a novel neuroprotective target, we examined the effect of AMPK inhibition in male and female mice. In this study, AMPK alpha2 gene expression (mRNA) and pAMPK protein levels were examined and found to be comparable between both sexes after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Treatment with the AMPK inhibitor Compound C at stroke onset significantly reduced infarct size and neurological deficits 24h after stroke in ovariectomized female mice. Finally, genetic deletion of AMPK alpha2 in ovariectomized females was neuroprotective as assessed by smaller infarct volumes and improved neurological deficits when compared to wild type littermates. This work demonstrates that AMPK activation is deleterious in experimental stroke, and this effect is independent of sex.

Traditionally in neuroscience, in vivo two photon imaging of the murine central nervous system has either involved the use of open-skull or thinned-skull preparations. While the open-skull technique is very versatile, it is not optimal for studying microglia because it is invasive and can cause microglial activation. Even though the thinned-skull approach is minimally invasive, the repeated re-thinning of skull required for chronic imaging increases the risks of tissue injury and microglial activation and allows for a limited number of imaging sessions. Here we present a chronic thin-skull window method for monitoring murine microglia in vivo over an extended period of time using two-photon microscopy. We demonstrate how to prepare a stable, accessible, thinned-skull cortical window (TSCW) with an apposed glass coverslip that remains translucent over the course of three weeks of intermittent observation. This TSCW preparation is far more immunologically inert with respect to microglial activation than open craniotomy or repeated skull thinning and allows an arbitrary number of imaging sessions during a time period of weeks. We prepare TSCW in CXCR GFP/+ mice to visualize microglia with enhanced green fluorescent protein to 150 m beneath the pial surface. We also show that this preparation can be used in conjunction with stereotactic brain injections of the HIV-1 neurotoxic protein Tat, adjacent to the TSCW, which is capable of inducing durable microgliosis. Therefore, this method is extremely useful for examining changes in microglial morphology and motility over time in the living brain in models of HIV Associated Neurocognitive Disorder (HAND) and other neurodegenerative diseases with a neuroinflammatory component.


Interactions between cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmitter systems influence synaptic transmission and plasticity. While previous studies have examined cross-talk between acetylcholine (ACh) and NMDA or AMPA receptors, little is known about the effect of ACh on kainate receptors (KARs). We show that stimulation of m1 or m3 muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs) for 2min potentiates recombinant KAR currents in a long lasting fashion. Muscarinic AChR activation potentiates heteromeric GluK2/GluK4 and GluK2/GluK5 receptors, but not homomeric GluK2 receptors. In hippocampal slices kainate potentiates mossy fiber axon excitability. Transient mAChR activation enhances this action of kainate, suggesting a novel mechanism through which acetylcholine could modulate synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. KAR over-activation has been implicated in excitotoxic cell death. To establish the functional significance of the interaction between mAChRs and KARs we examined the effect of mAChR activation on KAR-mediated excitotoxicity. We find that during pharmacological blockade of NMDA and AMPA receptors, KAR activation with AMPA produces significant cell death in primary cortical culture. Concanavalin A (Con A), which selectively blocks KAR desensitization, markedly increases this KAR-mediated neurotoxicity. Brief activation of mAChRs with pilocarpine significantly enhances KAR-mediated excitotoxicity both in the presence and absence of Con A. We conclude that KARs are modulated in a subunit dependent manner by mAChRs. We suggest that ACh may induce long lasting alterations in neuronal excitability and enhance excitotoxicity in part by potentiating KAR function.
Protein arginine N-methyltransferase 3 (PRMT3) is a cytoplasmic enzyme that utilizes S-adenosyl-L-methionine (AdoMet) to methylate specific proteins, most of which contain GAR (glycine-arginine rich) motifs. PRMT3 has been shown to play a role in the proper maturation of the 80S ribosome by binding to and catalyzing the methylation of rpS2, a component of the 40S ribosomal subunit. However, the other roles of PRMT3 are fairly unclear, particularly in the brain, which is abundant in methylated proteins. In this study, we perturbed PRMT3 expression in cultured rat hippocampal neurons by transiently introducing siRNA oligonucleotides that were designed to hybridize with PRMT3 mRNA and then we examined the morphological and functional effects of neuronal PRMT3 depletion. PRMT3-defective neurons showed deformed spines without any change in spine number; less BDNF-induced protein translation of alphaCaMKII; and diminished rpS2 protein stability. Furthermore, overexpression of a methylation-resistant rpS2, whose methylated arginine residues were deleted, produced phenotypes that were similar to those associated with PRMT3 downregulation. These findings demonstrated that PRMT3 possibly plays a pivotal role in neuronal translation by interaction with rpS2 and that it contributes to activity-dependent changes in the dendritic spines.
The mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, which governs components of reward and goal-directed behaviors, undergoes final maturation during adolescence. Adolescent social stress contributes to adult behavioral dysfunction and is linked to adult psychiatric and addiction disorders. Here, behavioral, corticosterone and limbic dopamine responses to amphetamine were examined in adult male rats previously exposed to repeated social defeat stress during mid-adolescence. Amphetamine (2.5mg/kg, ip) was administered after a novel environment test, with behavior observed in the same context for 90min thereafter. Adult rats that had been defeated in adolescence showed increased locomotion in the novel environment but reduced amphetamine-induced locomotion relative to non-defeated age matched controls. Monoamine and corticosterone responses to amphetamine were examined following a second amphetamine injection 3 days later. In previously defeated rats, corticosterone and medial prefrontal cortex dopamine responses to amphetamine were blunted while dopamine responses in the nucleus accumbens core were elevated. Our results suggest that experience of social defeat stress during adolescent development can contribute to altered behavioral and endocrine responses to amphetamine in adulthood. Furthermore, these effects are paralleled by changes in amphetamine-induced dopamine responses in corticolimbic systems implicated in addiction disorders.
Detailed organization of interlaminar relations in neuronal activity underlying recent and remote memory recall is unknown but essential for deciphering interlaminar connections involved in systems-level memory consolidation and permanent information storage. We mapped Arc/Arg3.1 (Arc) mRNA expression, a neuronal activity marker, at multiple rostro-caudal levels of the brain in Wistar rats following a platform search in a water-maze task. Strength of interlaminar correlations in Arc expression and modulation of the strength by memory recall in sensory, motor and association cortical areas were measured at 24h and 1 month in memory retention. In order to estimate the extent of modular organization in neocortical function underlying memory recall, we studied multiple profiles of interlaminar coupling. At the level of cortical areas, we captured two robust stereotypical laminar patterns for distribution of strong and weak interlaminar correlations. These patterns emerged during both control swimming and navigation, at both retention delays. Within limits of these patterns, we established task-, time- and area-dependent modulations of the Arc correlations. Relative to swimming control, during memory recall, changes in strength of analogous interlaminar relations occurred largely in parallel but recent and remote recall modulated mostly distinct correlations. An effective remote memory recall was accompanied by fewer strengthened correlations as compared to recent recall. Thus, a behavioral experience is accompanied by a well-ordered or stereotypical spatial organization of interlaminar relations in neuronal activity distribution. Interlaminar correlations in Arc expression modulated by recent and remote memory recall could guide future inactivation and detection studies necessary to decipher interlaminar connections involved in systems-level consolidation and to reveal mnemonic plasticity specific to spatial memory.
Cells possess internal 24 hr or circadian clocks that synchronize physiological processes with daily cycles of light and nutrient availability. In this issue, Asher et al. (2010) find that PARP-1 (poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1) modifies components of the clock machinery in response to feeding, providing a mechanism for how metabolic rhythms coordinate with circadian rhythms.
Corpus callosum agenesis is a relatively common brain malformation. It can be isolated or included in a complex alteration of brain (or sometimes even whole body) morphology. It has been associated with a number of neuropsychiatric disorders, from subtle neuropsychological deficits to Pervasive Developmental Disorders.Etiology and pathogenetic mechanisms have been better understood in recent years, due to the availability of more adequate animal models and the relevant progresses in developmental neurosciences. These recent findings are reviewed (through a MedLine search including papers published in the last 5 years and most relevant previously published papers) in view of the potential impact on children's global functioning and on the possible rehabilitative treatment, with an emphasis on the possibility to exploit brain plasticity and on the use of the ICF-CY framework.
Although mutations in the parkin gene are frequently associated with familial Parkinsonism, emerging evidence suggests that parkin also plays a role in cancers as a putative tumor suppressor. Supporting this, we show here that parkin expression is dramatically reduced in several breast cancer-derived cell lines as well as in primary breast cancer tissues. Importantly, we found that ectopic parkin expression in parkin-deficient breast cancer cells mitigates their proliferation rate both in vitro and in vivo, as well as reduces the capacity of these cells to migrate. Cell cycle analysis revealed the arrestment of a significant percentage of parkin-expressing breast cancer cells at the G1-phase. However, we did not observe significant changes in the levels of the G1-associated cyclin D1 and E. On the other hand, the level of cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) is dramatically and selectively elevated in parkin-expressing breast cancer cells, the extent of which correlates well with the expression of parkin. Interestingly, a recent study demonstrated that CDK6 restrains the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Taken together, our results support a negative role for parkin in tumorigenesis and provide a potential mechanism by which parkin exerts its suppressing effects on breast cancer cell proliferation.

Creation of transgenic animals is a standard approach in studying functions of a gene of interest in vivo. However, many knockout or transgenic animals are not viable in those cases where the modified gene is expressed or deleted in the whole organism. Moreover, a variety of compensatory mechanisms often make it difficult to interpret the results. The compensatory effects can be alleviated by either timing the gene expression or limiting the amount of transfected cells. The method of postnatal non-ventricular microinjection and in vivo electroporation allows targeted delivery of genes, siRNA or dye molecules directly to a small region of interest in the newborn rodent brain. In contrast to conventional ventricular injection technique, this method allows transfection of non-migratory cell types. Animals transfected by means of the method described here can be used, for example, for two-photon in vivo imaging or in electrophysiological experiments on acute brain slices.
The BACE1 gene encodes the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 and has been associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). BACE1 is the most important -secretase responsible for the generation of Alzheimer-associated amyloid -proteins (A) and may play a role in the amyloidogenic process in AD. We hypothesized that BACE1 gene variants might influence BACE1 activity or other markers for APP metabolism in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and thereby contribute to the development of AD. We genotyped a Swedish sample of 269 AD patients for the rs638405 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the BACE1 gene and correlated genotype data to a broad range of amyloid-related biomarkers in CSF, including BACE1 activity, levels of A40, A42, - and -cleaved soluble APP (-sAPP and -sAPP), as well as markers for Alzheimer-type axonal degeneration, i.e., total-tau and phospho-tau181. Gene variants of BACE1 were neither associated with amyloid-related biomarkers, nor with markers for axonal degeneration in AD.





Specialized cellular microenvironments, or 'niches', modulate stem cell properties, including cell number, self-renewal and fate decisions. In the adult brain, niches that maintain a source of neural stem cells (NSCs) and neural progenitor cells (NPCs) are the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. The size of the NSC population of the SVZ at any time is the result of several ongoing processes, including self-renewal, cell differentiation, and cell death. Maintaining the balance between NSCs and NPCs in the SVZ niche is critical to supply the brain with specific neural populations, both under normal conditions or after injury. A fundamental question relevant to both normal development and to cell-based repair strategies in the central nervous system is how the balance of different NSC and NPC populations is maintained in the niche. EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) and Notch signalling pathways have fundamental roles during development of multicellular organisms. In Drosophila and in Caenorhabditis elegans these pathways may have either cooperative or antagonistic functions. In the SVZ, Notch regulates NSC identity and self-renewal, whereas EGFR specifically affects NPC proliferation and migration. This suggests that interplay of these two pathways may maintain the balance between NSC and NPC numbers. Here we show that functional cell-cell interaction between NPCs and NSCs through EGFR and Notch signalling has a crucial role in maintaining the balance between these cell populations in the SVZ. Enhanced EGFR signalling in vivo results in the expansion of the NPC pool, and reduces NSC number and self-renewal. This occurs through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism involving EGFR-mediated regulation of Notch signalling. Our findings define a novel interaction between EGFR and Notch pathways in the adult SVZ, and thus provide a mechanism for NSC and NPC pool maintenance.
In recent experimental work it has been shown that neuronal interactions are modulated by neuronal synchronization and that this modulation depends on phase shifts in neuronal oscillations. This result suggests that connections in a network can be shaped through synchronization. Here, we test and expand this hypothesis using a model network. We use transfer entropy, an information theoretical measure, to quantify the exchanged information. We show that transferred information depends on the phase relation of the signal, that the amount of exchanged information increases as a function of oscillations in the signal and that the speed of the information transfer increases as a function of synchronization. This implies that synchronization makes information transport more efficient. In summary, our results reinforce the hypothesis that synchronization modulates neuronal interactions and provide further evidence that gamma band synchronization has behavioral relevance.

Dimebon (latrepirdine) is an antihistamine drug that has been used clinically in Russia since the early 1980s and is being studied jointly by Pfizer and Medivation for patients with Alzheimer's disease. The results from a pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial (CONNECTION) showed that Dimebon (latrepirdine) failed to meet its coprimary or secondary efficacy end points.



Guanine deaminase (GDA; cypin) is an important metalloenzyme that processes the first step in purine catabolism, converting guanine to xanthine by hydrolytic deamination. In higher eukaryotes, GDA also plays an important role in the development of neuronal morphology by regulating dendritic arborization. In addition to its role in the maturing brain, GDA is thought to be involved in proper liver function since increased levels of GDA activity have been correlated with liver disease and transplant rejection. Although mammalian GDA is an attractive and potential drug target for treatment of both liver diseases and cognitive disorders, prospective novel inhibitors and/or activators of this enzyme have not been actively pursued. In this study, we employed the combination of protein structure analysis and experimental kinetic studies to seek novel potential ligands for human guanine deaminase. Using virtual screening and biochemical analysis, we identified common small molecule compounds that demonstrate a higher binding affinity to GDA than does guanine. In vitro analysis demonstrates that these compounds inhibit guanine deamination, and more surprisingly, affect GDA (cypin)-mediated microtubule assembly. The results in this study provide evidence that an in silico drug discovery strategy coupled with in vitro validation assays can be successfully implemented to discover compounds that may possess therapeutic value for the treatment of diseases and disorders where GDA activity is abnormal.
A new class of azabicyclo[3.1.0]benzenesulfonamides is presented as selective dopamine D3 antagonists together with SAR and selectivity data.
The quantal release of oxidizable molecules can be successfully monitored by means of polarized carbon fiber microelectrodes (CFEs) positioned in close proximity to the cell membrane. To partially overcome certain CFE limitations, mainly related to their low spatial resolution and lack of optical transparency, we developed a planar boron-doped nanocrystalline diamond (NCD) prototype, grown on a transparent sapphire wafer. Responsiveness to applied catecholamines as well as the electrochemical and optical properties of the NCD-based device were first characterized by cyclic voltammetry and optical transmittance measurements. By stimulating chromaffin cells positioned on the device with external KCl, well-resolved quantal exocytotic events could be detected either from one NCD microelectrode, or simultaneously from an array of four microelectrodes, indicating that the chip is able to monitor secretory events (amperometric spikes) from a number of isolated chromaffin cells. Spikes detected by the planar NCD device had comparable amplitudes, kinetics and vesicle diameter distributions as those measured by conventional CFEs from the same chromaffin cell.


Metastasis to distant tissues is the chief driver of breast cancer-related mortality, but little is known about the systemic physiologic dynamics that regulate this process. To investigate the role of neuroendocrine activation in cancer progression, we used in vivo bioluminescence imaging to track the development of metastasis in an orthotopic mouse model of breast cancer. Stress-induced neuroendocrine activation had a negligible effect on growth of the primary tumor but induced a 30-fold increase in metastasis to distant tissues including the lymph nodes and lung. These effects were mediated by -adrenergic signaling, which increased the infiltration of CD11b(+)F4/80(+) macrophages into primary tumor parenchyma and thereby induced a prometastatic gene expression signature accompanied by indications of M2 macrophage differentiation. Pharmacologic activation of -adrenergic signaling induced similar effects, and treatment of stressed animals with the -antagonist propranolol reversed the stress-induced macrophage infiltration and inhibited tumor spread to distant tissues. The effects of stress on distant metastasis were also inhibited by in vivo macrophage suppression using the CSF-1 receptor kinase inhibitor GW2580. These findings identify activation of the sympathetic nervous system as a novel neural regulator of breast cancer metastasis and suggest new strategies for antimetastatic therapies that target the -adrenergic induction of prometastatic gene expression in primary breast cancers.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease characterized by inflammatory demyelination and a strong neurodegenerative component. Axonal damage is characteristically detected in MS brains, although the pathogenic mechanisms are not clearly understood. Here, we discuss the importance of HDAC1 localization as one of the potential mechanisms initiating damage in demyelinating conditions. We suggest the occurrence of a two-stage mechanism of damage. The first event is a calcium-dependent HDAC1 nuclear export in a CRM1-dependent manner and the second event is the interruption of mitochondrial transport resulting from the cytoplasmic localization of HDAC1. In the cytosol of neurons challenged by cytokines and excitatory aminoacids, HDAC1 formed complexes with motor-protein and microtubules and this resulted in blockade of axonal transport and release of cargo from motor proteins. We suggest that these findings might be the framework for future studies and for the development of novel therapeutic targets for axonal damage in demyelinating conditions.
Infection with HIV-1 induces a variety of biological alterations to the host that are beneficial to the life cycle of the virus but may have adverse effects on the host cell. Here we demonstrate that expression of Rad51, a major component of the homologous recombination-directed DNA repair (HRR) pathway, is induced upon HIV-1 infection of microglial cells. Activation of Rad51 expression positively impacts on HIV-1 LTR transcription through a region of the viral promoter known for binding the inducible transcription factor NFB. Rad51 showed the ability to form a complex with the p65 subunit of NFB and regulate the level of p65 interaction with LTR DNA encompassing the B motif. This study provides evidence for reciprocal interaction of HIV-1 and a host DNA repair protein that impacts on expression of the viral genome. These results also point to the ability of HIV-1 to recruit proteins involved in DNA repair that are necessary for retroviral DNA integration, efficient replication and prevention of viral-induced cell death.
The BK channel, a voltage- and Ca(2+)-gated large-conductance potassium channel with many important functions, is often localized at specific subcellular domains. Although proper subcellular localization is likely a prerequisite for the channel to perform its physiological functions, little is known about the molecular basis of localization. Here, we show that CTN-1, a homologue of mammalian -catulin, is required for subcellular localization of SLO-1, the Caenorhabditis elegans BK channel -subunit, in body-wall muscle cells. CTN-1 was identified in a genetic screen for mutants that suppressed a lethargic phenotype caused by expressing a gain-of-function (gf) isoform of SLO-1. In body-wall muscle cells, CTN-1 coclusters with SLO-1 at regions of dense bodies, which are Z-disk analogs of mammalian skeletal muscle. In ctn-1 loss-of-function (lf) mutants, SLO-1 was mislocalized in body-wall muscle but its transcription and protein level were unchanged. Targeted rescue of ctn-1(lf) in muscle was sufficient to reinstate the lethargic phenotype in slo-1(gf);ctn-1(lf). These results suggest that CTN-1 plays an important role in BK channel function by mediating channel subcellular localization.
Cadherin-23 is a component of early transient lateral links of the auditory sensory cells' hair bundle, the mechanoreceptive structure to sound. This protein also makes up the upper part of the tip links that control gating of the mechanoelectrical transduction channels. We addressed the issue of the molecular complex that anchors these links to the hair bundle F-actin core. By using surface plasmon resonance assays, we show that the cytoplasmic regions of the two cadherin-23 isoforms that do or do not contain the exon68-encoded peptide directly interact with harmonin, a submembrane PDZ (post-synaptic density, disc large, zonula occludens) domain-containing protein, with unusually high affinity. This interaction involves the harmonin Nter-PDZ1 supramodule, but not the C-terminal PDZ-binding motif of cadherin-23. We establish that cadherin-23 directly binds to the tail of myosin VIIa. Moreover, cadherin-23, harmonin and myosin VIIa can form a ternary complex, which suggests that myosin VIIa applies tension forces on hair bundle links. We also show that the cadherin-23 cytoplasmic region, harmonin and myosin VIIa interact with phospholipids on synthetic liposomes. Harmonin and the cytoplasmic region of cadherin-23, both independently and as a binary complex, can bind specifically to phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)), which may account for the role of this phospholipid in the adaptation of mechanoelectrical transduction in the hair bundle. The distributions of cadherin-23, harmonin, myosin VIIa and PI(4,5)P(2) in the growing and mature auditory hair bundles as well as the abnormal locations of harmonin and myosin VIIa in cadherin-23 null mutant mice strongly support the functional relevance of these interactions.
The fibrotic scar containing type IV collagen (Col IV) formed in a lesion site is considered as an obstacle to axonal regeneration, because intracerebral injection of 2,2'-dipyridyl (DPY), an inhibitor of Col IV triple-helix formation, suppresses fibrotic scar formation in the lesion site and promotes axonal regeneration. To determine the role of the fibrotic scar on the healing process of injured central nervous system (CNS), the restoration of blood-brain barrier (BBB) and withdrawal of inflammatory leukocytes were examined in mice subjected to unilateral transection of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway and intracerebral DPY injection. At 5 days after injury, destruction of BBB represented by leakage of Evans blue (EB) and widespread infiltration of CD45-immunoreactive leukocytes was observed around the lesion site, whereas reactive astrocytes increased surrounding the BBB-destroyed area. By 2 weeks after injury, the region of EB leakage and the diffusion of leukocytes were restricted to the inside of the fibrotic scar, and reactive astrocytes gathered around the fibrotic scar. In the DPY-treated lesion site, formation of the fibrotic scar was suppressed (84% decrease in Col IV-deposited area), reactive astrocytes occupied the lesion center, and areas of both EB leakage and leukocyte infiltration decreased by 86%. DPY treatment increased the number of regenerated dopaminergic axons by 2.53-fold. These results indicate that suppression of fibrotic scar formation does not disturb the healing process in damaged CNS, and suggest that this strategy is a reliable tool to promote axonal regeneration after traumatic injury in the CNS.
Clathrin-coated vesicles are known to play diverse and pivotal roles in cells. The proper formation of clathrin-coated vesicles is dependent on, and highly regulated by, a large number of clathrin assembly proteins. These assembly proteins likely determine the functional specificity of clathrin-coated vesicles, and together they control a multitude of intracellular trafficking pathways, including those involved in embryonic development. In this study, we focus on two closely related clathrin assembly proteins, AP180 and CALM (clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid leukemia protein), in the developing embryonic rat brain. We find that AP180 begins to be expressed at embryonic day 14 (E14), but only in postmitotic cells that have acquired a neuronal fate. CALM, on the other hand, is expressed as early as E12, by both neural stem cells and postmitotic neurons. In vitro loss-of-function studies using RNA interference (RNAi) indicate that AP180 and CALM are dispensable for some aspects of embryonic neurogenesis but are required for the growth of postmitotic neurons. These results identify the developmental stage of AP180 and CALM expression and suggest that each protein has distinct functions in neural development.

We were interested in comparing the characteristics of polarization sensitivity in Atlantic salmon to those in Pacific salmon. Here we show that the common ancestor to the clade containing Salmo salar, Oncorhynchus mykiss, O. nerka, O. clarkii and Salvelinus fontinalis has the trait of ultraviolet polarization sensitivity. We examined spectral and polarization sensitivity of juvenile Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) using both optic nerve compound action potential (CAP) and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings. Our experiments employed photic manipulation to adjust the sensitivity of the four cone mechanisms of Atlantic salmon. A spectrally broad background was used to ensure a contribution of all cone mechanisms to both spectral and polarization sensitivity. Chromatic adaptation was used to isolate the sensitivity of each of the four cone mechanisms for both spectral and polarization sensitivity. Under spectrally broad conditions, UV sensitive (UVS), mid wavelength sensitive (MWS) and long wavelength sensitive (LWS) cone mechanisms contributed to polarization sensitivity. CAP recordings produced the typical 'W' shaped polarization sensitivity curve reflecting two active polarization detectors with peaks at e-vector orientations of 0 deg, 90 deg and 180 deg, and troughs at 30 deg and 150 deg. ERG recordings produced a four-peaked polarization sensitivity curve reflecting two active polarization detectors and negative feedback activity, with peaks at e-vectors 0 deg, 45 deg, 90 deg, 135 deg and 180 deg, and troughs at 30 deg, 60 deg, 120 deg and 150 deg. Polarization-sensitivity measurements of isolated cone mechanisms revealed two orthogonal polarization detector mechanisms in Atlantic salmon, identical to that found in rainbow trout and other Pacific salmonid fishes. Moreover, under spectrally broad background conditions, CAP and ERG polarization sensitivity of Atlantic salmon did not differ significantly from that reported in Pacific salmonids.


Marburg variant multiple sclerosis (MS) is an acute, fulminant and monophasic variant of MS that usually leads to death within weeks to months. No consistently successful treatment is known. We describe a 26-year-old woman who developed acute and progressive motor and sensory deficits. Demyelinating disease was suspected based on brain and spinal MRI and cerebrospinal fluid results. Multiple treatments including corticosteroids, plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin could not halt her clinical and radiological deterioration. She became near quadriplegic and developed motor aphasia. A diagnosis of Marburg variant MS was considered and she was given high dose cyclophosphamide (HiCy) at 50mg/kg/day for four consecutive days, followed by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor six days after the completion of the cyclophosphamide treatment. HiCy successfully induced neutropenia. She started to show a steady neurological improvement from day 17 of HiCy treatment. MR studies two months after HiCy treatment showed significant decrease in the size and enhancement of the lesions. Five months later she had minimal residual right-sided weakness and was able to ambulate without assistance. The great outcome seen in our case suggests that HiCy should be considered as a potential treatment for patients with Marburg variant MS who fail to respond to standard therapy.
Adrenomedullin (AM) belongs to calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family and is a pronociceptive mediator. This study investigated whether AM plays a role in the development of tolerance to morphine-induced analgesia. Repetitive intrathecal injection of morphine increased the expression of AM-like immunoreactivity (AM-IR) in the spinal dorsal horn and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Ganglion explant culture study showed that this upregulation of AM-IR was -opioid receptor dependent through the use of another agonist, fentanyl, and a selective antagonist, CTAP (D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)). The coadministration of the selective AM receptor antagonist AM(22-52) markedly attenuated the development of morphine tolerance, associated thermal hyperalgesia, and increase in AM-IR. A likely autocrine mechanism is supported by the finding that AM-IR is colocalized with AM receptor components in DRG neurons. Furthermore, opiate-induced increase in AM content was blocked by protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors, whereas a PKC activator increased AM synthesis and release. A treatment with AM(22-52) also inhibited increases in the expression of CGRP-IR in the spinal cord and DRGs as well as in culture ganglion explants, whereas exposure to CGRP failed to alter AM content. Together, these results reveal that a sustained opiate treatment induces an upregulation of AM through the activation of -opioid receptors and the PKC signaling pathway. This phenomenon contributes to the development of tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of opiates at least partially via the upregulation of CGRP. Targeting AM and its receptors should be considered as a novel approach to preserve the analgesic potency of opiates during their chronic use.
Phox2b-expressing neurons of the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN), located in the ventrolateral brainstem, are sensitive to changes in PCO(2)/pH, have excitatory projections to the central respiratory rhythm/pattern generator, and their activation enhances central respiratory drive. Using in vivo (conscious and anesthetized rats) and in situ (arterially perfused rat brainstem-spinal cord preparations) models, we evaluated the functional significance of this neuronal population for both resting respiratory activity and the CO(2)-evoked respiratory responses by reversibly inhibiting these neurons using the insect peptide allatostatin following transduction with a lentiviral construct to express the G-protein-coupled Drosophila allatostatin receptor. Selective inhibition of the Phox2b-expressing neurons in the ventrolateral brainstem, including the RTN, using allatostatin was without effect on resting respiratory activity in conscious rats, but decreased the amplitude of the phrenic nerve discharge in anesthetized rats and the in situ rat preparations. Postinspiratory activity was also reduced in situ. In the absence or presence of the peripheral chemoreceptor input, inhibiting the Phox2b-expressing neurons during hypercapnia abolished the CO(2)-evoked abdominal expiratory activity in anesthetized rats and in situ preparations. Inspiratory responses evoked by rising levels of CO(2) in the breathing air were also reduced in anesthetized rats with denervated carotid bodies and conscious rats with peripheral chemoreceptors intact (by 28% and 60%, respectively). These data indicate a crucial dependence of central expiratory drive upon Phox2b-expressing neurons of the ventrolateral brainstem and support the hypothesis that these neurons contribute in a significant manner to CO(2)-evoked increases of inspiratory activity.
Hearing depends on reliable and temporally precise neurotransmission by cochlear hair cells. The wide dynamic range and high sensitivity with which these cells encode acoustic stimuli are associated with a presynaptic specialization termed the presynaptic dense body or synaptic ribbon. Apposed to the presynaptic density, this spherical or flattened structure tethers a layer of synaptic vesicles and is thought to facilitate their exocytotic fusion. Although defining the molecular constituents of the hair cell's synaptic ribbon should contribute to our understanding of neurotransmitter release at this synapse, accomplishing this task has been slowed by the difficulty of obtaining sufficient amounts of starting material for protein analysis from hair cells. We isolated synaptic material from chicken cochleas, purified synaptic ribbons with specific immunological reagents, and identified the associated proteins by tandem mass spectrometry. Purification of the ribbons revealed a predominant composition of C-terminal-binding proteins, especially ribeye, in association with the small GTPase Rab3, which is possibly involved in attaching vesicles to the ribbon. In comparison with the components of conventional synapses and of retinal ribbon synapses, we observed that certain regulatory proteins are excluded from the hair cell's synapse. Using antisera against several of the novel proteins and membrane-trafficking components that we had identified, we documented their localization in isolated hair cells. Our results indicate that the ribbon synapses of hair cells display modifications to the presynaptic machinery that are associated with the high-fidelity transmission of acoustic signals to the brain.
Maintaining appropriate beliefs about variables needed for effective decision making can be difficult in a dynamic environment. One key issue is the amount of influence that unexpected outcomes should have on existing beliefs. In general, outcomes that are unexpected because of a fundamental change in the environment should carry more influence than outcomes that are unexpected because of persistent environmental stochasticity. Here we use a novel task to characterize how well human subjects follow these principles under a range of conditions. We show that the influence of an outcome depends on both the error made in predicting that outcome and the number of similar outcomes experienced previously. We also show that the exact nature of these tendencies varies considerably across subjects. Finally, we show that these patterns of behavior are consistent with a computationally simple reduction of an ideal-observer model. The model adjusts the influence of newly experienced outcomes according to ongoing estimates of uncertainty and the probability of a fundamental change in the process by which outcomes are generated. A prior that quantifies the expected frequency of such environmental changes accounts for individual variability, including a positive relationship between subjective certainty and the degree to which new information influences existing beliefs. The results suggest that the brain adaptively regulates the influence of decision outcomes on existing beliefs using straightforward updating rules that take into account both recent outcomes and prior expectations about higher-order environmental structure.
Visual perceptual learning models, as constrained by orientation and location specificities, propose that learning either reflects changes in V1 neuronal tuning or reweighting specific V1 inputs in either the visual cortex or higher areas. Here we demonstrate that, with a training-plus-exposure procedure, in which observers are trained at one orientation and either simultaneously or subsequently passively exposed to a second transfer orientation, perceptual learning can completely transfer to the second orientation in tasks known to be orientation-specific. However, transfer fails if exposure precedes the training. These results challenge the existing specific perceptual learning models by suggesting a more general perceptual learning process. We propose a rule-based learning model to explain perceptual learning and its specificity and transfer. In this model, a decision unit in high-level brain areas learns the rules of reweighting the V1 inputs through training. However, these rules cannot be applied to a new orientation/location because the decision unit cannot functionally connect to the new V1 inputs that are unattended or even suppressed after training at a different orientation/location, which leads to specificity. Repeated orientation exposure or location training reactivates these inputs to establish the functional connections and enable the transfer of learning.
Here, we present mechanisms for the inhibition of oligodendendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) differentiation, a biological function of neural extracellular matrix (ECM). The differentiation of oligodendrocytes is orchestrated by a complex set of stimuli. In the present study, we investigated the signaling pathway elicited by the ECM glycoprotein tenascin C (Tnc). Tnc substrates inhibit myelin basic protein (MBP) expression of cultured rat oligodendrocytes, and, conversely, we found that the emergence of MBP expression is accelerated in forebrains of Tnc-deficient mice. Mechanistically, Tnc interfered with phosphorylation of Akt, which in turn reduced MBP expression. At the cell surface, Tnc associates with lipid rafts in oligodendrocyte membranes, together with the cell adhesion molecule contactin (Cntn1) and the Src family kinase (SFK) Fyn. Depletion of Cntn1 in OPCs by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) abolished the Tnc-dependent inhibition of oligodendrocyte differentiation, while Tnc exposure impeded the activation of the tyrosine kinase Fyn by Cntn1. Concomitant with oligodendrocyte differentiation, Tnc antagonized the expression of the signaling adaptor and RNA-binding molecule Sam68. siRNA-mediated knockdown or overexpression of Sam68 delayed or accelerated oligodendrocyte differentiation, respectively. Inhibition of oligodendrocyte differentiation with the SFK inhibitor PP2 could be rescued by Sam68 overexpression, which may indicate a regulatory role for Sam68 downstream of Fyn. Our study therefore uncovers the first signaling pathways that underlie Tnc-induced, ECM-dependent maintenance of the immature state of OPCs.
Intracellular signaling mechanisms within the pedunculopontine tegmental (PPT) nucleus for the regulation of recovery rapid eye movement (REM) sleep following REM sleep deprivation remain unknown. This study was designed to determine the role of PPT intracellular cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (cAMP-PKA) in the regulation of recovery REM sleep in freely moving rats. The results show that a brief period (3 h) of selective REM sleep deprivation caused REM sleep rebound associated with increased PKA activity and expression of the PKA catalytic subunit protein (PKA-CU) in the PPT. Local application of a cAMP-PKA-activation-selective inhibitor, RpCAMPS (0.55, 1.1, and 2.2 nmol/100 nl; n = 8 rats/group), bilaterally into the PPT, reduced PKA activity and PKA-CU expression in the PPT, and suppressed the recovery REM sleep, in a dose-dependent manner. Regression analyses revealed significant positive relationships between: PPT levels of PKA activity and the total percentages of REM sleep recovery (Rsqr = 0.944; n = 40 rats); PPT levels of PKA-CU expression and the total percentages of REM sleep recovery (Rsqr = 0.937; n = 40 rats); PPT levels of PKA-CU expression and PKA activity (Rsqr = 0.945; n = 40 rats). Collectively, these results provide evidence that activation of intracellular PKA in the PPT contributes to REM sleep recovery following REM sleep deprivation.
During aging and in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), synaptic plasticity and neuronal integrity are disturbed. In addition to the alterations in plasticity in mature neurons, the neurodegenerative process in AD has been shown to be accompanied by alterations in neurogenesis. Members of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family of growth factors have been implicated as important regulators of neurogenesis and neuronal cell fate determination during development; however, their role in adult neurogenesis and in AD is less clear. We show here by qRT-PCR analysis that BMP6 mRNA levels were significantly increased in the hippocampus of human patients with AD and in APP transgenic mice compared to controls. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed that BMP6 protein levels were increased in human AD brains and APP transgenic mouse brains compared to controls and accumulated around hippocampal plaques. The increased levels of BMP6 were accompanied by defects in hippocampal neurogenesis in AD patients and APP transgenic mice. In support of a role for BMP6 in defective neurogenesis in AD, we show in an in vitro model of adult neurogenesis that treatment with amyloid-(1-42) protein (A) resulted in increased expression of BMP6, and that exposure to recombinant BMP6 resulted in reduced proliferation with no toxic effects. Together, these results suggest that A-associated increases in BMP6 expression in AD may have deleterious effects on neurogenesis in the hippocampus, and therapeutic approaches could focus on normalization of BMP6 levels to protect against AD-related neurogenic deficits.
Costello syndrome (CS) is a rare multiple congenital anomaly disorder which is caused by germline mutations in the v-Ha-ras Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homologue (HRAS) proto-oncogene. Experimental data suggest perturbing effects of the mutated protein on the functional and structural organization of networks of cerebral cortex and on the activity-dependent strengthening of synaptic transmission known as long term potentiation (LTP). In five patients with molecularly proven diagnosis of CS and in a group of 13 age-matched control subjects we investigated activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. To this end, we used a paired associative stimulation (PAS) protocol, in which left ulnar nerve stimuli were followed by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) pulses to right cortical hand area, and recorded motor evoked potentials (MEPs) by single pulse TMS from left first dorsal interosseus (FDI) muscle before and after PAS. In 4 out of 5 CS patients and in a subgroup of nine control subjects we also evaluated the time course and the topographical specificity of PAS after-effects. In these two subgroups, MEPs were measured before, immediately after and 30 min after PAS in the left FDI and left abductor pollicis brevis (APB). While the PAS protocol led to a 65% increase of the FDI MEP amplitude in controls, the LTP-like phenomenon was significantly more pronounced in CS patients, with motor responses increased by 230%. In addition, CS patients showed a similar MEP increase in both muscles while control subjects showed a slight increase in APB and only immediately after PAS. We hypothesize that the extremely enhanced PAS after-effects could be due to the influence of HRAS activity on the susceptibility of synapses to undergo LTP.
NMDA receptors have been shown to contribute to glutamate-evoked currents in oligodendrocytes. Activation of these receptors damages myelin in ischaemia, in part because they are more weakly blocked by Mg(2+) than are most neuronal NMDA receptors. This weak Mg(2+) block was suggested to reflect an unusual subunit composition including the NR2C and NR3A subunits. Here we expressed NR1/NR2C and triplet NR1/NR2C/NR3A recombinant receptors in HEK cells and compared their currents with those of NMDA-evoked currents in rat cerebellar oligodendrocytes. NR1/NR2C/3A receptors were less blocked by 2 mM Mg(2+) than were NR1/NR2C receptors (the remaining current was 30% and 18%, respectively, of that seen without added Mg(2+)) and showed less channel noise, suggesting a smaller single channel conductance. NMDA-evoked currents in oligodendrocytes showed a Mg(2+) block (to 32%) similar to that observed for NR1/NR2C/NR3A and significantly different from that for NR1/NR2C receptors. Co-immunoprecipitation revealed interactions between NR1, NR2C and NR3A subunits in a purified myelin preparation from rat brain. These data are consistent with NMDA-evoked currents in oligodendrocytes reflecting the activation of receptors containing NR1, NR2C and NR3A subunits.
The capacity of cells to correct their volume in response to hyposmotic stress via the efflux of inorganic and organic osmolytes is well documented. However, the ability of cell-surface receptors, in particular G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), to regulate this homeostatic mechanism has received much less attention. Mechanisms that underlie the regulation of cell volume are of particular importance to cells in the central nervous system because of the physical restrictions of the skull and the adverse impact that even small increases in cell volume can have on their function. Increases in brain volume are seen in hyponatraemia, which can arise from a variety of aetiologies and is the most frequently diagnosed electrolyte disorder in clinical practice. In this review we summarize recent evidence that the activation of GPCRs facilitates the volume-dependent efflux of osmolytes from neural cells and permits them to more efficiently respond to small, physiologically relevant, reductions in osmolarity. The characteristics of receptor-regulated osmolyte efflux, the signalling pathways involved and the physiological significance of receptor activation are discussed. In addition, we propose that GPCRs may also regulate the re-uptake of osmolytes into neural cells, but that the influx of organic and inorganic osmolytes is differentially regulated. The ability of neural cells to closely regulate osmolyte homeostasis through receptor-mediated alterations in both efflux and influx mechanisms may explain, in part at least, why the brain selectively retains its complement of inorganic osmolytes during chronic hyponatraemia, whereas its organic osmolytes are depleted.


A disease-modifying therapy that slows or stops disease progression is one of the major unmet needs in the management of Parkinson's disease. To date, no therapy has been approved for disease modification despite promising laboratory data and positive results in clinical trials. This is because confounding symptomatic or pharmacologic effects cannot be excluded. The delayed start study provides an opportunity to define therapies that provide benefit that cannot be explained by an early symptomatic effect alone. However, this trial design does not necessarily provide a meaningful measure of the effect of the intervention on cumulative disability. In contrast, the long-term simple study provides a measure of the effect of the drug on cumulative disability but does not address mechanism of action. Together these two trials provide a road map for defining a disease modifying drug and determining the long term cumulative effect of the drug on the disease.
Seven autosomal recessive genes associated with juvenile and young-onset Levodopa-responsive parkinsonism have been identified. Mutations in PRKN, DJ-1, and PINK1 are associated with a rather pure parkinsonian phenotype, and have a more benign course with sustained treatment response and absence of dementia. On the other hand, Kufor-Rakeb syndrome has additional signs, which distinguish it clearly from Parkinson's disease including supranuclear vertical gaze palsy, myoclonic jerks, pyramidal signs, and cognitive impairment. Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation type I (Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome) due to mutations in PANK2 gene may share similar features with Kufor-Rakeb syndrome. Mutations in three other genes, PLA2G6 (PARK14), FBXO7 (PARK15), and Spatacsin (SPG11) also produce clinical similar phenotypes in that they presented with rapidly progressive parkinsonism, initially responsive to Levodopa treatment but later, developed additional features including cognitive decline and loss of Levodopa responsiveness. Here, using homozygosity mapping and sequence analysis in families with complex parkinsonisms, we identified genetic defects in the ATP13A2 (1 family), PLA2G6 (1 family) FBXO7 (2 families), and SPG11 (1 family). The genetic heterogeneity was surprising given their initially common clinical features. On careful review, we found the FBXO7 cases to have a phenotype more similar to PRKN gene associated parkinsonism. The ATP13A2 and PLA2G6 cases were more seriously disabled with additional swallowing problems, dystonic features, severe in some, and usually pyramidal involvement including pyramidal weakness. These data suggest that these four genes account for many cases of Levodopa responsive parkinsonism with pyramidal signs cases formerly categorized clinically as pallido-pyramidal syndrome.
We evaluated the effect of low-frequency rTMS on motor signs in Parkinson's disease (PD), under a double-blind placebo-controlled trial design. PD patients were randomly assigned to received either real (n = 9) or sham (n = 9) rTMS for 10 days. Each session comprises two trains of 50 stimuli each delivered at 1 Hz and at 90% of daily rest motor threshold using a large circular coil over the vertex. The effect of the stimulation, delivered during the ON-period, was evaluated during both ON and OFF periods. Tests were carried out before and after the stimulation period, and again 1 week after. The effect of the stimulation was evaluated through several gait variables (cadence, step amplitude, velocity, the CV(stride-time), and the turn time), hand dexterity, and also the total and motor sections of the UPDRS. Only the total and motor section of the UPDRS and the turn time during gait were affected by the stimulation, the effect appearing during either ON or OFF evaluation, and most importantly, equally displayed in both real and sham group. The rest of the variables were not influenced. We conclude the protocol of stimulation used, different from most protocols that apply larger amount of stimuli, but very similar to some previously reported to have excellent results, has no therapeutic value and should be abandoned. This contrasts with the positive reported effects using higher frequency and focal coils. Our work also reinforces the need for sham stimulation when evaluating the therapeutic effect of rTMS.
The global impact of LRRK2 mutations is yet to be realized with a lack of studies in specific ethnic groups, including those of Asian and African descent. Herein, we investigated the frequency of common LRRK2 variants by complete exon sequencing in a series of publicly available African American Parkinson's disease patients. Our study identified three novel synonymous exonic variants and 13 known coding variations; however, there did not appear to be any frequent (&gt;5%) pathogenic mutations. Given the ethnic-specific LRRK2 variation previously identified in PD further studies in under-represented populations are warranted.
Melevodopa hydrochloride plus carbidopa in effervescent tablets (M/C) is a readily soluble antiparkinsonian tablet formulation. A total of 221 patients with Parkinson's disease and motor fluctuations entered a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, controlled parallel group study, which compared the effectiveness of oral M/C effervescent tablets with standard oral formulation levodopa/carbidopa tablets (L/C; Sinemet) in reducing total daily OFF time. The difference of total daily OFF time (intention-to-treat population) between the two groups was not statistically significant (P = 0.07): -39.4 minutes (95%CI: -67.08 to -11.73) in M/C group vs. +3.5 minutes (95%CI: -36.19 to +43.26) in the L/C group. In the intragroup analysis, M/C significantly reduced the baseline daily OFF, which remained unchanged in the L/C group. There were no unexpected adverse events in either treatment arms, and discontinuation rates due to adverse events did not differ between the two groups [M/C: 2 patients (1.3%); L/C: 1 patient (1.4%)]. This study failed to meet the primary endpoint (P = 0.07); however, there was a trend in favour of the M/C preparation, which deserves further attention.
In patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) alterations of motor cortex (M1) excitability at rest have been evidenced. In contrast, there has so far been little research into changes of motor cortical reactivity during the time course of voluntary movements in GTS patients. The present study investigates neuromagnetic event-related desynchronization (ERD) and event-related synchronization (ERS) of bilateral M1 in 11 GTS patients and 11 healthy control subjects. ERD represents motor cortical activation, whereas ERS most likely indicates its inhibition. Subjects performed a self-paced finger movement task while magnetoencephalography was used to record neuromagnetic activity. In GTS patients, ERD at beta frequency was significantly increased in the contralateral hemisphere before and during movements, whereas ERS following movement termination was increased in M1 ipsilateral. Ipsilateral ERS was inversely correlated with tic severity as determined by the Yale Global Tic Severity Rating Scale. The data of the present study support the hypothesis that during voluntary movements, motor cortical reactivity is pathologically altered in GTS patients. The observed pattern of increased activation (ERD) prior to and during movement execution followed by increased inhibition (ERS) after movement termination at beta frequency suggests abnormally increased motor cortical activation, possibly driving stronger inhibition. The stronger this inhibition is, the better symptoms appear to be controlled.
A 13-year old girl presented with slowly progressive rest tremor of the hands, bradykinesia, and rigidity. The symptoms improved with dopaminergic medications, but severe drug-induced dyskinesias developed early. She subsequently developed cognitive slowing and difficulty initiating saccadic eye movements. She went on to have deep brain stimulation surgery. Experts discuss the syndromal diagnosis and predict the underlying pathology. The pathological diagnosis is given and clinical learning points are considered.
Using two in vivo methods, microdialysis and rapid in situ electrochemistry, this study examined the modulation of extracellular glutamate levels by endogenously produced kynurenic acid (KYNA) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of awake rats. Measured by microdialysis, i.p. administration of KYNA's bioprecursor L-kynurenine dose-dependently elevated extracellular KYNA and reduced extracellular glutamate (nadir after 50 mg/kg kynurenine: 60% decrease from baseline values). This dose-dependent decrease in glutamate levels was also seen using a glutamate-sensitive microelectrode array (MEA) (31% decrease following 50 mg/kg kynurenine). The kynurenine-induced reduction in glutamate was blocked (microdialysis) or attenuated (MEA) by co-administration of galantamine (3 mg/kg i.p.), a drug that competes with KYNA at an allosteric potentiating site of the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. In separate experiments, extracellular glutamate levels were measured by MEA following the local perfusion (45 min) of the PFC with kynurenine (2.5 microM) or the selective KYNA biosynthesis inhibitor S-ethylsulfonylbenzoylalanine (S-ESBA; 5 mM). In agreement with previous microdialysis studies, local kynurenine application produced a reversible reduction in glutamate (nadir: -29%), whereas perfusion with S-ESBA increased glutamate levels reversibly (maximum: +38%). Collectively, these results demonstrate that fluctuations in the biosynthesis of KYNA in the PFC bi-directionally modulate extracellular glutamate levels, and that qualitatively very similar data are obtained by microdialysis and MEA. Since KYNA levels are elevated in the PFC of individuals with schizophrenia, and since prefrontal glutamatergic and nicotinic transmission mediate cognitive flexibility, normalization of KYNA levels in the PFC may constitute an effective treatment strategy for alleviating cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
N-stearoyltyrosine (NsTyr), an anandamide (AEA) analogue is similar to AEA not only structurally but also in terms of biological activity. Since A beta-induced neuronal injury triggers the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways and the induction or activation of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins, in the present study we aimed to assess the protective effect of NsTyr against A beta induced neuronal apoptosis. Cell viability and neuronal injury were respectively measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay. Hoechst staining and flow cytometric assessment were used to evaluate cell apoptosis. The anti-apoptotic mechanism involved MAPK phosphorylation and Bcl-2/Bax expression was investigated. The best neuroprotective effect on A beta 25-35-induced neuronal apoptosis was observed in the presence of NsTyr (1 microM). NsTyr exerted anti-apoptotic effect at least partly via activating p-ERK-Bcl-2 but suppressing p-p38-Bax pathways. Moreover a dynamic balance between p-ERK and p-p38 MAPK pathways in NsTyr-induced neuronal protection suggested an interaction between them. Our results indicated the neuroprotective effect of NsTyr on A beta 25-35-induced neuronal injury was at least partly due to anti-apoptosis and raised the possibility that NsTyr might reduce neurodegenerative disorders.
Phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor-2 alpha (eIF2 alpha) is increased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and this protein can be phosphorylated by several kinases, including double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR), PKR-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), amino acids-regulated eIF2 alpha kinase (GCN2) and heme-regulated eIF2 alpha kinase (HRI). PKR and PERK especially are activated in the AD brain, and GCN2 is reported to increase presenilin-1 (PS1) activity. Okadaic acid (OA), a protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A) inhibitor, is known to increase tau phosphorylation, beta-amyloid (A beta) deposition and neuronal death, which are the pathological characteristics of AD. Here, we show that the phosphorylation of eIF2 alpha is increased and its kinases, PKR, PERK and GCN2 are activated in rat neurons by OA. Activating transcription factor (ATF4) which induces apoptosis in response to eIF2 alpha phosphorylation was increased and translocated to nuclei in OA-treated neurons. These results suggest that the successive events of activation of eIF2 alpha kinases and eIF2 alpha phosphorylation leading to ATF4 nuclear translocation may contribute to neuronal death. However, PKR inhibitors did not reduce eIF2 alpha phosphorylation or neuronal toxicity despite inhibiting PKR activity. These results suggest that PKR might not be the most responsible kinase for eIF2 alpha phosphorylation or cell death in PP2A-inhibited conditions such as AD.
Various missense mutations were identified in TAR DNA-binding protein-43 (TDP-43) in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To explore the toxic effect of mutant TDP-43, we generated stable transfection of wild-type and mutant TDP-43 in motor neuron-like cell line. We found that mutant TDP-43 induced mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative damage and nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Nrf2 is an indicator and modulator of oxidative stress and is known to promote the expression of phase || detoxification enzyme including heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). However, HO-1 was down regulated in cells expressing the mutant TDP-43, and could not be restored by sulforaphane which is a known stimulator of Nrf2 and phase || detoxification enzyme, including HO-1. Nevertheless, sulforaphane reduced the level of lactate dehydrogenase and lipoperoxidation products in cells expressing TDP-43 mutant. However, sulforaphane could upregulate the expression of HO-1 and NAD(P)H/quinone oxidoreductase-1 (NQO-1) in cells transfected with the empty vector and the wild-type TDP-43. Thus, sulforaphane protected cells against mutant TDP-43 independent of Nrf2-antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway. How mutant TDP-43 reduces expression of HO-1 and prevents sulforaphane from activating Nrf2 signaling remains to be investigated.
We have shown that cortical acetylcholine modulates the balance between excitation and inhibition evoked in layer 5 pyramidal neurons of rat visual cortex [Lucas-Meunier E, Monier C, Amar M, Baux G, Frgnac Y, Fossier P (2009) Cereb Cortex 19:2411-2427]. Our aim is now to establish a functional basis for the role of the different types of muscarinic receptors (MRs) on glutamate fibers and on GABAergic interneurons and to analyse their contribution to the modulation of excitation-inhibition balance in the rat visual cortex. To ascertain that there was a basis for our functional study, we first checked for the presence of the various MR subtypes by single cell RT-PCR and immunolabeling experiments. Then, recording the composite responses in layer 5 pyramidal neurons to layer 1-2 stimulation (which also recruits cholinergic fibers) in the presence of specific antagonists of the different types of MR allowed us to determine their modulatory role. We show that the specific blockade of the widely distributed M1R (with the mamba toxin, MT7) induced a significant increase in the excitatory conductance without modifying the inhibitory conductance, pointing to a localization of M1R on glutamatergic neurons where their activation would decrease the release of glutamate. From our functional results, M2/M4Rs appear to be located on glutamatergic neurons afferent to the recorded layer 5 pyramidal neuron and they decrease glutamate release. The extended distribution of M4Rs in the cortex compared to the restricted distribution of M2R (layers 3-5) is in favour of a major role as a modulator of M4R. The selective antagonist of M3Rs, 4-DAMP, decreased the inhibitory conductance, showing that activated M3Rs increase the release of GABA and thus are located on GABAergic interneurons. The activation of the different types of MRs located either on glutamatergic neurons or on GABAergic interneurons converges to reinforce the dominance of inhibitory inputs thus decreasing the excitability of layer 5 pyramidal neurons.
Sulforhodamine 101 (SR101) has been extensively used for investigation as a specific marker for astroglia in vivo and activity-dependent dye for monitoring regulated exocytosis. Here, we report that SR101 has bioactive effects on neuronal activity. Perfusion of slices with SR101 (1 microM) for 10 min induced long-term potentiation of intrinsic neuronal excitability (LTP-IE) and a long-lasting increase in evoked EPSCs (eEPSCs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices. The increase in intrinsic neuronal excitability was a result of negative shifts in the action potential (AP) threshold. The N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, AP-5 (50 microM), blocked SR101-induced LTP-IE, but glutamate receptor blockers, AP-5 (50 microM), MCPG (200 microM), and MSOP (100 microM), only partially blocked SR101-induced potentiation of eEPSCs. SR101 induced an enhancement of evoked synaptic NMDAR currents, suggesting that SR101 enhances activation of synaptic NMDARs. SR101-induced LTP-IE and potentiation of synaptic transmission triggered spontaneous neuronal firing in slices and in vivo epileptic seizures. Our results suggest that SR101 is an epileptogenic agent that long-lastingly lowers the AP threshold to increase intrinsic neuronal excitability and enhances the synaptic efficacy to increase synaptic inputs. As such, SR101 can be used as an experimental tool to induce epileptic seizures.
Diabetes has been associated with cognitive and memory impairments, and with alterations in color and contrast perception, suggesting that hippocampus and retina are particularly affected by this disease. A few studies have shown that diabetes differentially affects neurotransmitter release in different brain regions and in retina, and induces structural and molecular changes in nerve terminals in both hippocampus and retina. We now detailed the impact over time of diabetes (2, 4 and 8 weeks of diabetes) on a large array of exocytotic proteins in hippocampus and retina.The exocytotic proteins density was evaluated by immunoblotting in purified synaptosomes and in total extracts of hippocampus and retina from streptozotocin-induced diabetic and age-matched control animals. Diabetes affected differentially the content of synaptic proteins (VAMP-2, SNAP-25, syntaxin-1, synapsin-1 and synaptophysin) in hippocampal and retinal nerve terminals. Changes were more pronounced and persistent in hippocampal nerve terminals. In general, the alterations in retina occurred earlier, but were transitory, with the exception of synapsin-1, since its content decreased at all time points studied. The content of synaptotagmin-1 and rabphilin 3a in nerve terminals of both tissues was not affected. In total extracts, no changes were detected in the retina, whereas in hippocampus SNAP-25 and syntaxin-1 content was decreased, particularly when more drastic changes were also detected in nerve terminals. These results show that diabetes affects the content of several exocytotic proteins in hippocampus and retina, mainly at the presynaptic level, but hippocampus appears to be more severely affected. These changes might influence neurotransmission in both tissues and may underlie, at least partially, previously detected physiological changes in diabetic humans and animal models. Since diabetes differentially affects exocytotic proteins, according to tissue and insult duration, functional studies will be required to assess the physiological impairment induced by diabetes on the exocytosis in central synapses.
Ferulic acid (FA) is a phenolic compound whose neuroprotective activity was extensively studied in vitro. In this study, we provided functional in vivo evidence that FA limits noise-induced hearing loss. Guinea-pigs exposed to acoustic trauma for 1 h exhibited a significant impairment in auditory function; this injury was evident as early as 1 day from noise exposure and persisted over 21 days. Ferulic acid (150 mg/kg i.p. for 4 days) counteracted noise-induced hearing loss at days 1, 3, 7 and 21 from noise exposure. The improvement of auditory function by FA was paralleled by a significant reduction in oxidative stress, apoptosis and increase in hair cell viability in the organ of Corti. Interestingly in the guinea-pig cochleae, the neuroprotective effect of FA was functionally related not only to its scavenging ability in the peri-traumatic period but also to the up-regulation of the cytoprotective enzyme heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1); in fact, FA-induced improvement of auditory function was counteracted by the HO inhibitor zinc-protoporphyrin-IX and paralleled the time-course of HO-1 induction over 3-7 days. These results confirm the antioxidant properties of FA as free-radical scavenger and suggest a role of HO-1 as an additional mediator against noise-induced ototoxicity.
Several lines of evidence suggest a dysfunctional glutamate system in major depressive disorder (MDD). Recently, we reported reduced levels of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) in postmortem brains in MDD, however the neurobiological mechanisms that induce these abnormalities are unclear. In the present study, we examined the effect of chronic corticosterone (CORT) administration on the expression of mGluR5 protein and mRNA in the rat frontal cortex and hippocampus. Rats were injected with CORT (40 mg/kg s.c.) or vehicled once daily for 21 days. The expression of mGluR5 protein and mRNA was assessed by Western blotting and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). In addition, mGluR1 protein was measured in the same animals. The results revealed that while there was a significant reduction (-27%, P=0.0006) in mGluR5 protein expression in the hippocampus from CORT treated rats, mRNA levels were unchanged. Also unchanged were mGluR5 mRNA and protein levels in the frontal cortex and mGluR1 protein levels in both brain regions. Our findings provide the first evidence that chronic CORT exposure regulates the expression of mGluR5 and are in line with previous postmortem and imaging studies showing reduced mGluR5 in MDD. Our findings suggest that elevated levels of glucocorticoids may contribute to impairments in glutamate neurotransmission in MDD.
Numerous studies showed enhanced sensitivity of females to emotional stimuli relative to males using multiple tasks. However, in the present study, two event-related potential (ERP) experiments targeting the impact of gender on rare stimulus processing both showed enhanced sensitivity of females to rare stimulus that is neutral, irrelevant to emotion. Subjects were required to press different keys for standard and rare pictures in Experiment 1, and to do nothing but to passively view the pictures in Experiment 2. Rare pictures elicited more intense pop-out effects in females, at both neuroelectrical (multiple levels of ERP analyses) and behavioral (response latencies and pop-out assessment) levels across experiments. Thus, females are equipped with enhanced sensitivity to rare, emotion-irrelevant stimuli relative to males, probably as a result of evolutionary adaptation. This effect is ought to be considered in studies that use an oddball paradigm.
The D1 family of dopamine receptors (D1R) play a critical role in modulating reward in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). A better understanding of how D1Rs modulate NAc function must take into account the contributions of the two D1R subtypes, D(1) and D(5). In order to determine how these two subtypes contribute to dopamine's actions in the NAc, we utilized subtype specific antibodies and immunoelectron microscopy to quantitatively determine the localization of D(1) and D(5) in the neuropil of the primate NAc. We found that D(1) was more commonly found in dendritic shafts and spines, while D(5) was more commonly found in axon terminals, preterminal axons and glial processes. However, D(5) is well positioned to play an important role in postsynaptic modulation of inputs onto NAc medium spiny neurons. Approximately one third of spines contained D(1) and one quarter contained D(5), and as we have previously observed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala, these receptors overlapped extensively in dendritic spines. Similarly, we found overlap of the two D1R in axon terminals in the NAc; however, here D(5) labeled the larger population of terminals and D(1) was found in a subpopulation of D(5) containing terminals. Given the higher affinity of D(5) for dopamine, this suggest that presynaptic modulation of inputs by dopamine may be more easily evoked than in PFC where D(1) is the dominate presynaptic receptor. Finally, we investigated differences between the NAc and the dorsal striatum. We found that in the caudate half of dendritic spines contain D(1), significantly more than in the NAc. This suggests differences in how receptor is translated and distributed in D(1) mRNA expressing medium spiny neurons in the NAc and caudate.
The presence of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (BK) channels, which are considered to play an important role in the excitability of neurons, in the highly-excitable lateral globus pallidus (LGP) neurons has yet to be confirmed. In this study, we confirmed the functional expression of BK channels in mouse LGP neurons and investigated the characteristics of their single-channel currents using inside-out patch-clamp recordings. These BK channels had a conductance of 276 pS, were activated by the elevation of both the transmembrane potential and intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), and were completely blocked by the BK channel-specific blocker paxilline (100 nM). In addition, the channel currents were sensitive to high-energy phosphate compounds and low internal pH. The cellular function of these BK channels was then investigated by nystatin-perforated whole-cell recording. Paxilline (100 nM) had no effect on the frequency and half-width of the action potential (AP) in LGP neurons under control conditions, but significantly attenuated the hyperpolarization that was caused by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), an inhibitor of ATP synthesis. In addition, the pancreatic beta-cell type ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP) channel) blocker tolbutamide (0.25 mM) also attenuated the hyperpolarization, in a manner similar to paxilline. The voltage-dependent potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA, 2 mM) significantly decreased the frequency and increased the half-width of the AP in LGP neurons under control conditions, and attenuated CCCP-induced hyperpolarization to an extent close to that of paxilline. The results presented here suggest that functional BK channels are present in LGP neurons, and may behave as partners of K(ATP) channels in the regulation of neuronal activity under metabolic stress conditions.
Axon-dendrite polarity of neurons is essential for information processing in the nervous system. Here we studied the functions of chondroitin sulfate (CS) and heparan sulfate (HS) in neuronal polarization using cultured dissociated hippocampal neurons. Immunohistochemical analyses of early cultured neurons indicated the distribution of these glycosaminoglycans to be quite different. While CS epitopes were accumulated in the focal contacts present in axons and cell bodies, those of HS were detected ubiquitously on the cell surface including on dendrites and axons. Treatment with chondroitinase (CHase) ABC, which degrades CS, and knockdown of a CS sulfotransferase, N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfate 6-O-sulfotransferase (4,6-ST), which is involved in the biosynthesis of oversulfated structures, induced the formation of multiple axons in hippocampal neurons. Time-lapse recordings revealed the multiple axons of CHase ABC-treated neurons to be highly unstable, extending and retracting, repeatedly. CHase ABC-treatments suggested that CS is involved in the formation of phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase-positive focal contacts. Thus, CS may enhance integrin signaling in the nascent axons, supporting axon specification. On the other hand, when neurons were treated with heparitinases that specifically degrade HS, neurons with a single axon increased. The axons of HSase-treated neurons extended steadily and showed almost no retraction. These results suggest that CS stabilizes and HS destabilizes the growth of axons in an opposing manner, contributing to early neuronal polarization.
We previously reported that treatment of prepubertal male rats with low, injected or oral, doses of methylphenidate stimulated cfos, fosB and arc expression in many areas of the developing brain. In the present study our objective was to determine whether the widely prescribed psychostimulant Adderall XR (ADD) exerted similar effects in infantile and prepubertal rat brain. We report here, for the first time, that low threshold doses of oral ADD, an extended-release mixture of amphetamine salts, now routinely used for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), also increased cfos expression in infantile (postnatal day 10; PD10) and prepubertal (PD24) rat brain. These threshold doses were correlated with blood levels of amphetamine determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Moreover, we observed that chronic treatment with oral ADD (1.6 mg/kg; x 14 days) not only significantly down-regulated cfos expression following a final challenge dose of ADD in prepubertal (PD24) rat striatum and cortex, quantified in terms of FOS immunoreactivity (FOS-ir), but did so at a daily dose that was without effect with methylphenidate (MPH); that is a much higher oral dose of MPH (7.5 mg/kg; x 14 days) failed to induce down-regulation of cfos expression. Similar experiments in infantile rats (PD10), but using a threshold injected dose of ADD (1.25 mg/kg sc) also significantly reduced striatal and cingulate cortical FOS-ir. An additional finding in the prepubertal rats was that oral ADD-induced FOS-ir was observed in the cerebral cortex following doses lower than the threshold dose necessary to increase FOS-ir in the striatum. This was not the case in the PD10 rats. In conclusion, our efforts to calibrate biological responses, such as immediate early gene expression, to clinically relevant blood levels of stimulants confirmed that expression of cfos is very sensitive to repeated low doses of Adderall XR. It is now feasible to examine whether other genes are also affected in these young rats and if the changes we report are reversible. The implications of such studies should be relevant to the putative effects of psychostimulant treatment of very young children.
In rats under continuous stress (CS) there is decreased hypothalamic dopaminergic innervation to the intermediate lobe (IL) of the pituitary gland, which causes hyperactivation and subsequent degeneration of melanotrophs in the IL. In this study, we investigated the molecular basis for the changes that occur in melanotrophs during CS. Using microarray analysis, we identified several genes differentially expressed in the IL under CS conditions. Among the genes up-regulated under CS conditions, we focused on the inhibitor of DNA binding/differentiation (Id) family of dominant negative basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors. RT-PCR, Western blotting and in situ hybridization confirmed the significant inductions of Id1, Id2 and Id3 in the IL of CS rats. Administration of the dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine prevented the inductions of Id1-3 in the IL of CS rats, whereas application of the dopamine D2 antagonist sulpiride induced significant expressions of Id1-3 in the IL of normal rats. Moreover, an in vitro study using primary cultured melanotrophs demonstrated a direct effect on Id1-3 inductions by dopamine suppression. These results suggest that the decreased dopamine levels in the IL during CS induce Id1-3 expressions in melanotrophs. Because Id family members inhibit various bHLH transcription factors, it is conceivable that the induced Id1-3 would cooperatively modulate gene expressions in melanotrophs under CS conditions to induce hormone secretion.
Little is known about projections from the cerebral cortex to the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus (Vmes) which contains the cell bodies of primary sensory afferents innervating masticatory muscle spindles and periodontal ligaments of the teeth. To address this issue, we employed retrograde (Fluorogold, FG) and anterograde (biotinylated dextranamine, BDA) tracing techniques in the rat. After injections of FG into the Vmes, a large number of neurons were retrogradely labeled in the prefrontal cortex including the medial agranular cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, prelimbic cortex, infralimbic cortex, deep peduncular cortex and insular cortex; the labeling was bilateral, but with an ipsilateral predominance to the injection site. Almost no FG-labeled neurons were found in the somatic sensorimotor cortex. After BDA injections into the prefrontal cortex, anterogradely labeled axon fibers and boutons were distributed bilaterally in a topographic pattern within the Vmes, but with an ipsilateral predominance to the injection site. The rostral Vmes received more preferential projections from the medial agranular cortex, while the deep peduncular cortex and insular cortex projected more preferentially to the caudal Vmes. Several BDA-labeled axonal boutons made close associations (possible synaptic contacts) with the cell bodies of Vmes neurons. The present results have revealed the direct projections from the prefrontal cortex to the primary sensory neurons in the Vmes and their unique features, suggesting that deep sensory inputs conveyed by the Vmes neurons from masticatory muscle spindles and periodontal ligaments are regulated with specific biological significance in terms of the descending control by the cerebral cortex.
Activity-dependent regulation of synaptic efficacy is believed to underlie learning and memory formation. Here we show that protein degradation by the proteasome is required for the induction of the protein synthesis-dependent late-phase of long-term potentiation (late-LTP) but not for its maintenance. Proteasome activity was also key to the polarity of heterosynaptic interactions between synapses expressing synaptic plasticity and newly activated synapses. In fact, proteasome activity was required for the consolidation of an otherwise transient potentiation (early-LTP) into late-LTP by strong tetanization of a separate afferent pathway both in the &quot;weak-before-strong&quot; and in the &quot;strong-before-weak&quot; two-pathway paradigms [Frey and Morris (1997) Nature 385:533-536; Frey and Morris (1998) Neuropharmacology 37:545-552], suggesting that proteasome activity plays a role in the synaptic tagging and capture of plasticity-related proteins at stimulated synapses. Additionally, proteasome inhibition abrogated immunity against heterosynaptic depotentiation of an established late-LTP when applied during weak tetanic stimulation in the &quot;strong-before-weak&quot; two-pathway paradigm. Such a heterosynaptic destabilizing effect of proteasome inhibition was abolished by concomitant inhibition of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, suggesting that it is an active process. Together, these results indicate that the proteasome plays important roles in the establishment of late-LTP and in the preservation of potentiated synapses when a subsequent synaptic plasticity is induced within the same neuronal population.
Temporally correlated spike discharges are proposed to be important for the coding of olfactory stimuli. In the olfactory bulb, correlated spiking is known in two classes of output neurons, the mitral cells and external tufted cells. We studied a third major class of bulb output neurons, the middle tufted cells, analyzing their bursting and spike timing correlations, and their relation to mitral cells. Using patch-clamp and fluorescent tracing, we recorded spontaneous spiking from tufted-tufted or mitral-tufted cell pairs with visualized dendritic projections in mouse olfactory bulb slices. We found peaks in spike cross-correlograms indicating correlated activity on both fast (peak width 1-50 ms) and slow (peak width&gt;50 ms) time scales, only in pairs with convergent glomerular projections. Coupling appeared tighter in tufted-tufted pairs, which showed correlated firing patterns and smaller mean width and lag of narrow peaks. Some narrow peaks resolved into 2-3 sub-peaks (width 1-12 ms), indicating multiple modes of fast correlation. Slow correlations were related to bursting activity, while fast correlations were independent of slow correlations, occurring in both bursting and non-bursting cells. The AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX (20 microM) failed to abolish broad or narrow peaks in either tufted-tufted or mitral-tufted pairs, and changes of peak height and width in NBQX were not significantly different from spontaneous drift. Thus, AMPA-receptors are not required for fast and slow spike correlations. Electrical coupling was observed in all convergent tufted-tufted and mitral-tufted pairs tested, suggesting a potential role for gap junctions in concerted firing. Glomerulus-specific correlation of spiking offers a useful mechanism for binding the output signals of diverse neurons processing and transmitting different sensory information encoded by common olfactory receptors.
Experimental evidence suggests the involvement of the brain dopaminergic system in learning and memory processes, although the associated molecular mechanism has yet to be fully characterized. Memory formation occurs via a number of signaling pathways associated with activation of many synaptic plasticity-related proteins, including the N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor, Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and the cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB). To evaluate the roles of dopamine D(1) and D(3) receptors in spatial learning and memory and underlying molecular events, we have used genetically modified mice carrying either the D(1) or D(3) receptor gene mutations to explore the intracellular signaling pathways using Morris water maze (MWM) tasks. We show that D(1) receptor mutant mice do not acquire spatial memory and do not show hippocampal activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) compared to wild-type mice. D(3) receptor mutant mice exhibit apparent normal learning abilities in the MWM test and normal activation of MAPK signaling. Furthermore, activation of the NMDA receptor R1 subunit (NR1), CaMKII and CREB in the hippocampus is also significantly lower in D(1) receptor mutant mice compared to wild-type and D(3) receptor mutant mice. These results suggest that dopamine D(1) but not D(3) receptor is critical for spatial learning. D(1) receptor-mediated signaling, associated with activation of NR1, CaMKII, ERK and CREB, is highly involved in the encoding of spatial learning and memory.
Traumatic events during early life may affect the neural systems associated with memory function, including extinction, and lead to altered sensitivity to stress later in life. We recently reported that changes in prefrontal synaptic efficacy in response to extinction trials did not occur in adult rats exposed to early postnatal stress (i.e. footshock [FS] stress during postnatal day 21-25 [3W-FS group]). However, identifying neurocircuitry and neural mechanisms responsible for extinction retrieval after extinction training have not been precisely determined. The present study explored whether synaptic transmission in the hippocampal-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neural pathway is altered by extinction retrieval on the day after extinction trials using electrophysiological approaches combined with behavioral analysis. We also elucidated the effects of early postnatal stress on the synaptic response in this neural circuit underlying extinction retrieval. Evoked potential in the mPFC was enhanced following extinction retrieval, accompanied by reduced freezing behavior. This synaptic facilitation (i.e. a long-term potentiation [LTP]-like response) did not occur; rather synaptic inhibition was observed in the 3W-FS group, accompanied by sustained freezing. The behavioral deficit and synaptic inhibition observed in the 3W-FS group were time-dependently ameliorated by the partial N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist D-cycloserine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). These findings suggest that the LTP-like response in the hippocampal-mPFC pathway is associated with extinction retrieval of context-dependent fear memory. Early postnatal stress appears to induce neurodevelopmental dysfunction of this neural circuit and lead to impaired fear extinction later in life. The present data indicate that psychotherapy accompanied by pharmacological interventions that accelerate and strengthen extinction, such as d-cycloserine treatment, may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of anxiety disorders, including posttraumatic stress disorder.
We recently adapted the conditioned suppression of operant responding method to study fear incubation. We found that food-restricted rats show low fear 2 days after extended (10 d; 100 30-s tone-shock pairings) fear training and high fear after 1-2 months. Here, we studied a potential mechanism of fear incubation: extended food-restriction stress. We also studied whether fear incubation is observed after fear training with a prolonged-duration (6-min) tone conditioned stimulus (CS), and whether conditioned freezing incubates after extended training in rats with or without a concurrent operant task. Conditioned fear was assessed 2 days and 1 month after training. In the conditioned suppression method, fear incubation was reliably observed in rats under moderate food-restriction conditions (18-20 g food/day) that allowed for weight gain, and after extended (10 d), but not limited (1 d), fear training with the 6-min CS. Incubation of conditioned freezing was observed after extended fear training in rats lever-pressing for food and, to a lesser degree, in rats not performing an operant task. Results indicate that prolonged hunger-related stress does not account for fear incubation in the conditioned suppression method, and that fear incubation occurs to a longer-duration (6-min) fear CS. Extended training also leads to robust fear incubation of conditioned freezing in rats performing an operant task and weaker fear incubation in rats not performing an operant task.
Cone photoreceptor breakdown underlies functional vision loss in many blinding diseases. Cone loss is often secondary to that of rods, but little experimental data are available on the relationship between the two populations. Because of its high cone numbers, we used the diurnal rodent Arvicanthis ansorgei to explore changes in rod and cone survival and function during chemically-induced retinal degeneration. Adult animals received intraperitoneal injections of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), and changes in retinal fundus appearance, histology, phenotype, apoptosis (TUNEL staining) and functionality (scotopic and photopic electroretinography) were monitored as a function of post-treatment time and retinal topography. Relative to control animals injected with vehicle only, MNU-injected animals showed time-, region- and population-specific changes as measured by morphological and immunochemical criteria. Histological (gradual thinning of photoreceptor layer) and phenotypical (reduced immunostaining of rhodopsin and rod transducin, and mid wavelength cone opsin and cone arrestin) modifications were first observed in superior central retina at 11 days post-injection. These degenerative changes spread into the superior peripheral and inferior hemisphere during the following 10 days. Rod loss preceded that of cones as visualized by differential immunolabelling and presence of apoptotic cells in rod but not cone cells. By 3 months post-injection, degeneration of the photoreceptor layer was complete in the superior hemisphere, but only partial in the inferior hemisphere. Despite the persistence of cone photoreceptors, scotopic and photopic electroretinography performed at 90 days post-treatment showed that both rod and cone function were severely compromised. In conclusion, MNU-induced retinal degeneration in Arvicanthis follows a predictable spatial and temporal pattern allowing clear separation of rod- and cone-specific pathogenic mechanisms. Compared to other rodents in which MNU has been used, Arvicanthis ansorgei demonstrates pronounced resistance to photoreceptor cell loss.
About 50% of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) survivors have cognitive or neurobehavioral dysfunction. The mechanisms are not known. This study characterized behavioral deficits in a rat SAH model, and correlated these changes with histological alterations. SAH was induced by injection of 0.3 ml blood into the prechiasmatic cistern. Cognitive and memory changes were investigated in the Morris water maze. Neuronal cell death was evaluated by fluoro-jade and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. Vasospasm was assessed on cross-sections of middle and anterior cerebral arteries. Microthromboemboli were quantified by fibrinogen staining. Escape latency and swimming distance were significantly increased in rats with SAH as compared to controls (P&lt;0.05-0.001). SAH rats tended to do poorly on accuracy in spatial and working memory tests. SAH rats had a significantly higher number of fluoro-jade and TUNEL positive neurons in CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and Purkinje cells in the cerebellum (P&lt;0.05-0.001). The number of microthromboemboli in the cortex and cerebellum were significantly higher after SAH than in controls (P&lt;0.05-0.001). Cognitive deficits were induced by SAH in rats. There was a significant increase in apoptotic neurons in all regions of brain examined. However, cell death in the hippocampus was not sufficient to cause the neurobehavioral deficits observed in the Morris water maze. This suggests that other factors such as dysfunction of neurotransmission or plasticity in hippocampal pathways might contribute to the impairments.
Antibiotics containing a beta-lactam ring (e.g. ceftriaxone) display anti-glutamate effects that underlie their efficacy in animal models of central nervous system (CNS) diseases [Rothstein JD, Patel S, Regan MR, Haenggeli C, Huang YH, Bergles DE, Jin L, Dykes Hoberg M, Vidensky S, Chung DS, Toan SV, Bruijn LI, Su ZZ, Gupta P, Fisher PB (2005) Nature 433:73-77]. We hypothesized that the structurally related beta-lactamase inhibitors (clavulanic acid, tazobactam)--which also contain a beta-lactam ring--will mimic ceftriaxone efficacy in an invertebrate (planarian) assay designed to screen for anti-seizure activity [Rawls SM, Thomas T, Adeola M, Patil T, Raymondi N, Poles A, Loo M, Raffa RB (2009) Pharmacol Biochem Behav 93:363-367]. Glutamate or cocaine administration produced planarian seizure-like activity (pSLA). Glutamate- or cocaine-induced pSLA was inhibited by ceftriaxone, clavulanic acid, or tazobactam, but not by the non-beta-lactam antibiotic vancomyocin. The present findings indicate beta-lactamase inhibitors display efficacy, and mimic ceftriaxone activity, in an invertebrate anti-seizure screen. These results suggest beta-lactamase inhibitors--particularly ones such as clavulanic acid that display enhanced brain penetrability, oral bioavailability, and negligible anti-bacterial activity--might offer an attractive alternative to direct antibiotic therapy for managing CNS diseases caused by increased glutamate transmission and provide a solution to the growing concern that ceftriaxone will be of only limited utility as a CNS-active therapeutic because of its intolerable side effects.
Glutamatergic synapses form onto both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons. These two types of glutamatergic synapses differ in their electrical responses to high-frequency stimulation and postsynaptic density protein composition. However, it is not known whether they differ in the actin cytoskeleton composition. In the present study, we used hippocampal neuronal cultures prepared from glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67)-GFP knock-in mice and analyzed the differences in the actin cytoskeleton at glutamatergic synapses contacting GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons. Drebrin-binding actin filaments enriched in dendritic spines are known to play a pivotal role in spine formation. Immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated that drebrin accumulated at glutamatergic synapses on GABAergic neurons as well as at those on glutamatergic neurons. However, the density of drebrin clusters along dendrites in GABAergic neurons was significantly lower than those of glutamatergic neurons. Furthermore, the level of drebrin accumulating at glutamatergic synapses was lower on GABAergic neurons than on glutamatergic neurons. In neurons overexpressing drebrin, drebrin cluster density and accumulation levels in GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons were similar, suggesting that the low drebrin levels in the glutamatergic postsynaptic sites on GABAergic neurons may be because GABAergic neurons express low levels of drebrin. On the other hand, pharmacological analysis demonstrated that the postsynaptic localization of drebrin depended on actin cytoskeleton organization in both GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons. Together these results indicated that, although GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons share common regulatory systems affecting drebrin localization, the density of drebrin-positive glutamatergic synapses formed on GABAergic neurons is lower than those on glutamatergic neurons. This is probably due to the low expression of drebrin in GABAergic neurons.
Studies show a change in sodium channel (NaCh) expression after inflammatory lesions, and this change is implicated in the generation of pain states. We are using the extracted human tooth to study NaCh expression and here examine the expression of the major NaCh isoform located at nodes of Ranvier, Na(v)1.6, in normal and painful samples. Pulpal sections were double-labeled with human-specific Na(v)1.6 antibody and caspr antibody (paranodal protein to identify nodes). Confocal microscopy was used to obtain a z-series of optically-sectioned images of axon bundles surrounded by inflammatory cells in painful samples and of similar regions within the coronal pulp of normal samples. Nodes contained within these images were classified as typical or atypical as based on caspr staining relationships, and NIH ImageJ software was used to quantify the size and immunofluorescence staining intensity of Na(v)1.6 accumulations at these nodal sites. Results show no significant difference in the size or immunofluorescence staining intensity of Na(v)1.6 nodal accumulations located at either typical or atypical nodal sites (heminodes and split nodes) within axons in normal samples when compared to painful samples (n=9/each group). In contrast, there was a highly significant decrease in the proportion of typical nodal sites and an increase in atypical nodal sites in painful samples when compared to normal samples. The unchanged expression of Na(v)1.6 contrasts to our previous finding that showed an increased expression of Na(v)1.7 at both typical and atypical nodal sites within painful samples. Together, these findings suggest there is not a simple replacement of one isoform with another, but rather an increased co-expression of multiple isoforms at both intact and remodeling/demyelinating (atypical) nodal sites within the painful dental pulp. The resultant heterogeneous population of isoforms may produce unique axonal excitability properties that could contribute to spontaneous pain sensations that are common in toothache.
Exposing Sprague-Dawley rat pups to very low, sub-convulsant doses of domoic acid (DOM) during perinatal development has been previously shown to result in seizure-like activity in adulthood similar to partial complex epilepsy in humans, and to produce cellular and molecular changes in the dentate gyrus and area CA-3 of the hippocampus. To further these investigations we recorded electroencephalographical and behavioural activity in DOM and control rats following a normally sub-convulsant dose (25 mg/kg) of pentylenetetrazol. During this exposure, 50% of DOM-treated rats experienced a Stage V (tonic-clonic) seizure (X(2)((1))=5.33, P=0.021), indicating a lowering of generalized seizure threshold in these animals. In a separate experiment we explored focal seizure (afterdischarge) threshold as well as seizure propagation rates in treated rats, using a 25 consecutive day standard amygdala kindling paradigm. We report that the afterdischarge threshold for DOM-treated rats was significantly lower than controls (F((1,27))=7.117, P=0.013). No difference between groups was found in seizure progression as measured by afterdischarge duration, latency to first Stage V seizure, or latency to reach a fully kindled state (defined as five consecutive Stage V seizures). Timm staining to assess mossy fibre sprouting (MFS) in the hippocampus revealed a significant MFS increase relative to sham at the ventral level in both left and right inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus for all DOM-treated animals, as well as in the dorsal stratum oriens of CA3 contralateral to electrode placement, and these increases were further enhanced by the kindling procedure. We conclude that perinatal exposure to subconvulsive doses of DOM results in permanent changes in neuronal excitability in the adult rat, as demonstrated by a lowering of both generalized seizure and focal afterdischarge threshold, and produces increased MFS following kindling.
Rats were trained to fear an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) by pairing it with a mild electric shock (the unconditioned stimulus, or US) delivered to one eyelid. After training, the CS elicited two different conditioned fear responses from rats: a passive freezing response, and an active turning response. The balance between these two modes of conditioned responding depended upon the rat's recent history of encounters with the US. If rats had not recently encountered the US, then they responded to the CS by freezing. But after recently encountering the US, rats exhibited CS-evoked turning responses that were always directed away from the trained eyelid, even if the US had recently been delivered to the opposite (untrained) eyelid. This post-encounter turning behavior was not observed in rats that had been trained with unpaired presentations of the CS and US, indicating that even though CS-evoked turning was selectively expressed after recent encounters with the US, it was nonetheless a conditioned Pavlovian fear response that depended upon a learned association between the CS and US. Further supporting this conclusion, pharmacological inactivation experiments showed that expression of both freezing and turning behaviors depended upon lateralized circuits in the amygdala and periaqueductal gray (PAG) that are known to support expression of Pavlovian fear responses. These findings indicate that even though the ability of a CS to elicit Pavlovian fear responses depend upon the long-term history of CS-US pairings, the mode of conditioned responding (freezing versus turning in the present experiments) can be modulated by short-term factors, such as the recent history of US encounters. We discuss neural mechanisms that might mediate such short-term transitions between different modes of defensive responding, and consider how dysregulation of such mechanisms might contribute to clinical anxiety disorders.
The mesolimbic dopamine system is critically involved in modulating reward-seeking behavior and is transiently activated upon presentation of reward-predictive cues. It has previously been shown, using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in behaving rats, that cues predicting a variety of reinforcers including food/water, cocaine or intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) elicit time-locked transient fluctuations in dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell. These dopamine transients have been found to correlate with reward-related learning and are believed to promote reward-seeking behavior. Here, we investigated the effects of varying reinforcer magnitude (intracranial stimulation parameters) on cue-evoked dopamine release in the NAc shell in rats performing ICSS. We found that the amplitude of cue-evoked dopamine is adaptable, tracks reinforcer magnitude and is significantly correlated with ICSS seeking behavior. Specifically, the concentration of cue-associated dopamine transients increased significantly with increasing reinforcer magnitude, while, at the same time, the latency to lever press decreased with reinforcer magnitude. These data support the proposed role of NAc dopamine in the facilitation of reward-seeking and provide unique insight into factors influencing the plasticity of dopaminergic signaling during behavior.
The present study investigated the precise relationship between brain biogenic amine (dopamine, noradrenaline, and serotonin) tones and nociception. Nociceptive sensitivities to multimodal (muscle pressure, tactile, cold, and heat) stimuli were assessed in acute phase (up to 24 h after reserpine or tetrabenazine injection) and chronic phase (on day 2 or later) in rats. A single injection of reserpine (3 mg/kg s.c.) significantly decreased biogenic amines in the spinal cord (SC), thalamus (THA), and prefrontal cortex (PFC) in both acute and chronic phases, but significantly increased a dopamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the SC and a serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the SC and THA in acute phase. The content of all biogenic amine metabolites was at low level in chronic phase. Animals exhibited hypersensitivities to tactile and heat stimuli and hyposensitivity to muscle pressure stimulus in acute phase. In chronic phase, they manifested hypersensitivities to all modes of stimuli. Tetrabenazine (20 mg/kg i.p.) significantly decreased brain biogenic amines for a short time, although it did not significantly affect the nociceptive sensitivities. In conclusion, a single injection of reserpine causes a biphasic alteration of nociceptive sensitivities, which is in conjunction with the dynamic change of brain biogenic amine tones, in rats. Cold and heat hypersensitivities in addition to mechanical ones are induced by the reserpine treatment. Sustained modification of brain biogenic amine tones would be critical to induce a robust change in nociceptive sensitivities based on the different effects between reserpine and tetrabenazine.
