Rabies, an acute progressive, fatal encephalomyelitis, transmitted most commonly through the bite of a rabid animal, is responsible for an estimated 61,000 human deaths worldwide. The true disease burden and public health impact due to rabies remain underestimated due to lack of sensitive laboratory diagnostic methods. Rapid diagnosis of rabies can help initiate prompt infection control and public health measures, obviate the need for unnecessary treatment/medical tests, and assist in timely administration of pre- or postexposure prophylactic vaccination to family members and medical staff. Antemortem diagnosis of human rabies provides an impetus for clinicians to attempt experimental therapeutic approaches in some patients, especially after the reported survival of a few cases of human rabies. Traditional methods for antemortem and postmortem rabies diagnosis have several limitations. Recent advances in technology have led to the improvement or development of several diagnostic assays which include methods for rabies viral antigen and antibody detection and assays for viral nucleic acid detection and identification of specific biomarkers. These assays which complement traditional methods have the potential to revolutionize rabies diagnosis in future.




In the context of injury to the corticospinal tract (CST), brainstem-origin circuits may provide an alternative system of descending motor influence. However, subcortical circuits are largely under subconscious control. To improve volitional control over spared fibers after CST injury, we hypothesized that a combination of physical exercises simultaneously stimulating cortical and brainstem pathways above the injury would strengthen corticobulbar connections through Hebbian-like mechanisms. We sought to test this hypothesis in mice with unilateral CST lesions. Ten days after pyramidotomy, mice were randomized to four training groups: (1) postural exercises designed to stimulate brainstem pathways (BS); (2) distal limb-grip exercises preferentially stimulating CST pathways (CST); (3) simultaneous multimodal exercises (BS+CST); or (4) no training (NT). Behavioral and anatomical outcomes were assessed after 20 training sessions over 4 weeks. Mice in the BS+CST training group showed a trend toward greater improvements in skilled limb performance than mice in the other groups. There were no consistent differences between training groups in gait kinematics. Anatomically, multimodal BS+CST training neither increased corticobulbar fiber density of the lesioned CST rostral to the lesion nor collateral sprouting of the unlesioned CST caudal to the lesion. Further studies should incorporate electrophysiological assessment to gauge changes in synaptic strength of direct and indirect pathways between the cortex and spinal cord in response to multimodal exercises.
Intrinsic homeostasis enables neuronal circuits to maintain activity levels within an appropriate range by modulating neuronal voltage-gated conductances, but the signalling pathways involved in this process are largely unknown. We characterized the process of intrinsic homeostasis induced by sustained electrical activity in cultured hippocampal neurons based on the activation of the Repressor Element-1 Silencing Transcription Factor/Neuron-Restrictive Silencer Factor (REST/NRSF). We showed that 4-aminopyridine-induced hyperactivity enhances the expression of REST/NRSF, which in turn, reduces the expression of voltage-gated Na(+) channels, thereby decreasing the neuronal Na(+) current density. This mechanism plays an important role in the downregulation of the firing activity at the single-cell level, re-establishing a physiological spiking activity in the entire neuronal network. Conversely, interfering with REST/NRSF expression impaired this homeostatic response. Our results identify REST/NRSF as a critical factor linking neuronal activity to the activation of intrinsic homeostasis and restoring a physiological level of activity in the entire neuronal network.



Cannabinoid receptors are functionally operant at both glutamate and GABA synapses on hypothalamic magnocellular neuroendocrine cells; however, retrograde endocannabinoid actions are evoked at only glutamate synapses. We tested whether the functional targeting of evoked retrograde endocannabinoid actions to glutamate, and not GABA, synapses on magnocellular neurons is the result of the spatial restriction of extracellular endocannabinoids by astrocytes. Whole-cell GABA synaptic currents were recorded in magnocellular neurons in rat hypothalamic slices following manipulations to reduce glial buffering of extracellular signals. Depolarization- and glucocorticoid-evoked retrograde endocannabinoid suppression of synaptic GABA release was not detected under normal conditions, but occurred in both oxytocin and vasopressin neurons under conditions of attenuated glial coverage and depressed glial metabolic function, suggesting an emergent endocannabinoid modulation of GABA synapses with the loss of astrocyte function. Tonic endocannabinoid suppression of GABA release was insensitive to glial manipulation. Blocking cannabinoid transport mimicked, and increasing the extracellular viscosity reversed, the effect of suppressed glial buffering on the endocannabinoid modulation of GABA release. Evoked, but not tonic, endocannabinoid modulation of GABA synapses was mediated by 2-arachidonoylglycerol. Therefore, depolarization- and glucocorticoid-evoked 2-arachidonoylglycerol release from magnocellular neurons is spatially restricted to glutamate synapses by astrocytes, but spills over onto GABA synapses under conditions of reduced astrocyte buffering; tonic endocannabinoid modulation of GABA release, in contrast, is likely mediated by anandamide and is insensitive to astrocytic buffering. Astrocytes, therefore, provide dynamic control of stimulus-evoked 2-arachidonoylglycerol, but not tonic anandamide, regulation of GABA synaptic inputs to magnocellular neuroendocrine cells under different physiological conditions.
Some forms of idiopathic epilepsy in animals and humans are associated with deficiency of synapsin, a phosphoprotein that reversibly associates with synaptic vesicles. We have previously shown that the epileptic phenotype seen in synapsin II knock-out mice (SynII(-)) can be rescued by the genetic deletion of the Rab3a protein. Here we have examined the cellular basis for this rescue using whole-cell recordings from CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells in brain slices. We find that SynII(-) neurons have increased spontaneous activity and a reduced threshold for the induction of epileptiform activity by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). Using selective recordings of glutamatergic and GABAergic activity we show that in wild-type neurons low concentrations of 4-AP facilitate glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission in a balanced way, whereas in SynII(-) neurons this balance is shifted toward excitation. This imbalance reflects a deficit in inhibitory synaptic transmission that appears to be secondary to reduced Ca(2+) sensitivity in SynII(-) neurons. This suggestion is supported by our finding that synaptic and epileptiform activity at SynII(-) and wild-type synapses is similar when GABAergic transmission is blocked. Deletion of Rab3a results in glutamatergic synapses that have a compromised responsiveness to either low 4-AP concentrations or elevated extracellular Ca(2+). These changes mitigate the overexcitable phenotype observed in SynII(-) neurons. Thus, Rab3a deletion appears to restore the excitatory/inhibitory imbalance observed in SynII(-) hippocampal slices indirectly, not by correcting the deficit in GABAergic synaptic transmission but rather by impairing excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission.
Despite tremendous advances in neuroscience research, it is still unclear how neuronal representations of sensory information give rise to the contents of our perception. One of the first and also the most compelling pieces of evidence for direct involvement of cortical signals in perception comes from electrical stimulation experiments addressing the middle temporal (MT) area and the medial superior temporal (MST) area: two neighboring extrastriate cortical areas of the monkey brain housing direction-sensitive neurons. Here we have combined fMRI with electrical stimulation in a patient undergoing awake brain surgery, to separately probe the functional significance of the human homologs, i.e., area hMT and hMST, on motion perception. Both the stimulation of hMT and hMST made it impossible for the patient to perceive the global visual motion of moving random dot patterns. Although visual motion blindness was predominantly observed in the contralateral visual field, stimulation of hMST also affected the ipsilateral hemifield. These results suggest that early visual cortex up to the stage of MT is not sufficient for the perception of global visual motion. Rather, visual motion information must be mediated to higher-tier cortical areas, including hMST, to gain access to conscious perception.
The encoding of sensory information by populations of cortical neurons forms the basis for perception but remains poorly understood. To understand the constraints of cortical population coding we analyzed neural responses to natural sounds recorded in auditory cortex of primates (Macaca mulatta). We estimated stimulus information while varying the composition and size of the considered population. Consistent with previous reports we found that when choosing subpopulations randomly from the recorded ensemble, the average population information increases steadily with population size. This scaling was explained by a model assuming that each neuron carried equal amounts of information, and that any overlap between the information carried by each neuron arises purely from random sampling within the stimulus space. However, when studying subpopulations selected to optimize information for each given population size, the scaling of information was strikingly different: a small fraction of temporally precise cells carried the vast majority of information. This scaling could be explained by an extended model, assuming that the amount of information carried by individual neurons was highly nonuniform, with few neurons carrying large amounts of information. Importantly, these optimal populations can be determined by a single biophysical marker-the neuron's encoding time scale-allowing their detection and readout within biologically realistic circuits. These results show that extrapolations of population information based on random ensembles may overestimate the population size required for stimulus encoding, and that sensory cortical circuits may process information using small but highly informative ensembles.
Previous imaging studies of congenital blindness have studied individuals with heterogeneous causes of blindness, which may influence the nature and extent of cross-modal plasticity. Here, we scanned a homogeneous group of blind people with bilateral congenital anophthalmia, a condition in which both eyes fail to develop, and, as a result, the visual pathway is not stimulated by either light or retinal waves. This model of congenital blindness presents an opportunity to investigate the effects of very early visual deafferentation on the functional organization of the brain. In anophthalmic animals, the occipital cortex receives direct subcortical auditory input. We hypothesized that this pattern of subcortical reorganization ought to result in a topographic mapping of auditory frequency information in the occipital cortex of anophthalmic people. Using functional MRI, we examined auditory-evoked activity to pure tones of high, medium, and low frequencies. Activity in the superior temporal cortex was significantly reduced in anophthalmic compared with sighted participants. In the occipital cortex, a region corresponding to the cytoarchitectural area V5/MT+ was activated in the anophthalmic participants but not in sighted controls. Whereas previous studies in the blind indicate that this cortical area is activated to auditory motion, our data show it is also active for trains of pure tone stimuli and in some anophthalmic participants shows a topographic mapping (tonotopy). Therefore, this region appears to be performing early sensory processing, possibly served by direct subcortical input from the pulvinar to V5/MT+.
In addicts, associative memories related to the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse can evoke powerful craving and drug seeking urges, but effective treatment to suppress these memories is not available. Detailed insight into the neural circuitry that mediates expression of drug-associated memory is therefore of crucial importance. Substantial evidence from rodent models of addictive behavior points to the involvement of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) in conditioned drug seeking, but specific knowledge of the temporal role of vmPFC pyramidal cells is lacking. To this end, we used an optogenetics approach to probe the involvement of vmPFC pyramidal cells in expression of a recent and remote conditioned cocaine memory. In mice, we expressed Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) or Halorhodopsin (eNpHR3.0) in pyramidal cells of the vmPFC and studied the effect of activation or inhibition of these cells during expression of a cocaine-contextual memory on days 1-2 (recent) and 3 weeks (remote) after conditioning. Whereas optical activation of pyramidal cells facilitated extinction of remote memory, without affecting recent memory, inhibition of pyramidal cells acutely impaired recall of recent cocaine memory, without affecting recall of remote memory. In addition, we found that silencing pyramidal cells blocked extinction learning at the remote memory time-point. We provide causal evidence of a critical time-dependent switch in the contribution of vmPFC pyramidal cells to recall and extinction of cocaine-associated memory, indicating that the circuitry that controls expression of cocaine memories reorganizes over time.
Classic studies have proposed that genetically encoded programs and spontaneous activity play complementary but independent roles in the development of neural circuits. Recent evidence, however, suggests that these two mechanisms could interact extensively, with spontaneous activity affecting the expression and function of guidance molecules at early developmental stages. Here, using the developing chick spinal cord and the mouse visual system to ectopically express the inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir2.1 in individual embryonic neurons, we demonstrate that cell-intrinsic blockade of spontaneous activity in vivo does not affect neuronal identity specification, axon pathfinding, or EphA/ephrinA signaling during the development of topographic maps. However, intrinsic spontaneous activity is critical for axon branching and pruning once axonal growth cones reach their correct topographic position in the target tissues. Our experiments argue for the dissociation of spontaneous activity from hard-wired developmental programs in early phases of neural circuit formation.
In many common situations such as driving an automobile it is advantageous to attend concurrently to events at different locations (e.g., the car in front, the pedestrian to the side). While spatial attention can be divided effectively between separate locations, studies investigating attention to nonspatial features have often reported a &quot;global effect&quot;, whereby items having the attended feature may be preferentially processed throughout the entire visual field. These findings suggest that spatial and feature-based attention may at times act in direct opposition: spatially divided foci of attention cannot be truly independent if feature attention is spatially global and thereby affects all foci equally. In two experiments, human observers attended concurrently to one of two overlapping fields of dots of different colors presented in both the left and right visual fields. When the same color or two different colors were attended on the two sides, deviant targets were detected accurately, and visual-cortical potentials elicited by attended dots were enhanced. However, when the attended color on one side matched the ignored color on the opposite side, attentional modulation of cortical potentials was abolished. This loss of feature selectivity could be attributed to enhanced processing of unattended items that shared the color of the attended items in the opposite field. Thus, while it is possible to attend to two different colors at the same time, this ability is fundamentally constrained by spatially global feature enhancement in early visual-cortical areas, which is obligatory and persists even when it explicitly conflicts with task demands.
Intracellular tau aggregates are the neuropathological hallmark of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, and cases of frontotemporal dementia, but the link between these aggregates and neurodegeneration remains unclear. Neuronal models recapitulating the main features of tau pathology are necessary to investigate the molecular mechanisms of tau malfunction, but current models show little and inconsistent spontaneous tau aggregation. We show that dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in transgenic mice expressing human P301S tau (P301S-htau) develop tau pathology similar to that found in brain and spinal cord and a significant reduction in mechanosensation occurs before detectable fibrillar tau formation. DRG neuronal cultures established from adult P301S-htau mice at different ages retained the pattern of aberrant tau found in vivo. Moreover, htau became progressively hyperphosphorylated over 2 months in vitro beginning with nonsymptomatic neurons, while hyperphosphorylated P301S-htau-positive neurons from 5-month-old mice cultured for 2 months died preferentially. P301S-htau-positive neurons grew aberrant axons, including spheroids, typically found in human tauopathies. Neurons cultured at advanced stages of tau pathology showed a 60% decrease in the fraction of moving mitochondria. SEG28019, a novel O-GlcNAcase inhibitor, reduced steady-state pSer396/pSer404 phosphorylation over 7 weeks in a significant proportion of DRG neurons showing for the first time the possible beneficial effect of prolonged dosing of O-GlcNAcase inhibitor in vitro. Our system is unique in that fibrillar tau forms without external manipulation and provides an important new tool for understanding the mechanisms of tau dysfunction and for screening of compounds for treatment of tauopathies.
Several studies have reported the coupling of dopamine signaling to phospholipase C  (PLC) both in vitro and in vivo. However, the precise physiological relevance of this signaling pathway in mediating dopamine behaviors is still unclear. Here we report that stimulation of dopamine receptor signaling in vivo with systemic administration of apomorphine, amphetamine, and cocaine leads to increased production of inositol triphosphate (IP3) in the mouse striatum. Using selective antagonists and dopamine D1 and D2 receptor knock-out animals, we show that the production of IP3 is mediated by the D1 receptor, but not the D2 receptor. A selective blocker of PLC, U73122, was used to assess the physiological relevance of D1-mediated IP3 production. We show that U73122 inhibits the locomotor-stimulating effects of apomorphine, amphetamine, cocaine, and SKF81297. Furthermore, U73122 also suppresses the spontaneous hyperactivity exhibited by dopamine transporter knock-out mice. Importantly, the effects of U73122 are selective to dopamine-mediated hyperactivity, as this compound does not affect hyperactivity induced by the glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist MK801. Finally, we present evidence showing that an imbalance of D1- and D2-mediated signaling following U73122 treatment modifies the locomotor output of animals from horizontal locomotor activity to vertical activity, further highlighting the importance of the PLC pathway in the regulation of forward locomotion via dopamine receptors.
Commitment to survival or apoptosis within expanding progenitor populations poses distinct risks and benefits to the organism. We investigated whether specialized mechanisms regulate apoptosis in mouse neural progenitors and in the progenitor-derived brain tumor medulloblastoma. Here, we identified constitutive activation of proapoptotic Bax, maintained in check by Bcl-xL, as a mechanism for rapid cell death, common to postnatal neural progenitors and medulloblastoma. We found that tonic activation of Bax in cerebellar progenitors, along with sensitivity to DNA damage, was linked to differentiation state. In cerebellar progenitors, active Bax localized to mitochondria, where it was bound to Bcl-xL. Disruption of Bax:Bcl-xL binding by BH3-mimetic ABT 737 caused rapid apoptosis of cerebellar progenitors and primary murine medulloblastoma cells. Conditional deletion of Mcl-1, in contrast, did not cause death of cerebellar progenitors. Our findings identify a mechanism for the sensitivity of brain progenitors to typical anticancer therapies and reveal that this mechanism persists in medulloblastoma, a malignant brain tumor markedly sensitive to radiation and chemotherapy.
Different modulatory inputs commonly elicit distinct rhythmic motor patterns from a central pattern generator (CPG), but they can instead elicit the same pattern. We are determining the rhythm-generating mechanisms in this latter situation, using the gastric mill (chewing) CPG in the crab (Cancer borealis) stomatogastric ganglion, where stimulating the projection neuron MCN1 (modulatory commissural neuron 1) or bath applying CabPK (C. borealis pyrokinin) peptide elicits the same gastric mill motor pattern, despite configuring different gastric mill circuits. In both cases, the core rhythm generator includes the same reciprocally inhibitory neurons LG (lateral gastric) and Int1 (interneuron 1), but the pyloric (food-filtering) circuit pacemaker neuron AB (anterior burster) is additionally necessary only for CabPK rhythm generation. MCN1 drives this rhythm generator by activating in the LG neuron the modulator-activated inward current (IMI), which waxes and wanes periodically due to phasic feedback inhibition of MCN1 transmitter release. Each buildup of IMI enables the LG neuron to generate a self-terminating burst and thereby alternate with Int1 activity. Here we establish that CabPK drives gastric mill rhythm generation by activating in the LG neuron IMI plus a slowly activating transient, low-threshold inward current (ITrans-LTS) that is voltage, time, and Ca(2+) dependent. Unlike MCN1, CabPK maintains a steady IMI activation, causing a subthreshold depolarization in LG that facilitates a periodic postinhibitory rebound burst caused by the regular buildup and decay of the availability of ITrans-LTS. Thus, different modulatory inputs can use different rhythm-generating mechanisms to drive the same neuronal rhythm. Additionally, the same ionic current (IMI) can play different roles under these different conditions, while different currents (IMI, ITrans-LTS) can play the same role.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a leading genetic cause of autism. The TSC proteins Tsc1 and Tsc2 control the mTORC1 signaling pathway in diverse cells, but how the mTORC1 pathway is specifically regulated in neurons remains to be elucidated. Here, using an interaction proteomics approach in neural cells including neurons, we uncover the brain-enriched protein huntingtin-associated protein 1 (Hap1) as a novel functional partner of Tsc1. Knockdown of Hap1 promotes specification of supernumerary axons in primary hippocampal neurons and profoundly impairs the positioning of pyramidal neurons in the mouse hippocampus in vivo. The Hap1 knockdown-induced phenotypes in primary neurons and in vivo recapitulate the phenotypes induced by Tsc1 knockdown. We also find that Hap1 knockdown in hippocampal neurons induces the downregulation of Tsc1 and stimulates the activity of mTORC1, as reflected by phosphorylation of the ribosomal protein S6. Inhibition of mTORC1 activity suppresses the Hap1 knockdown-induced polarity phenotype in hippocampal neurons. Collectively, these findings define a novel link between Hap1 and Tsc1 that regulates neuronal mTORC1 signaling and neuronal morphogenesis, with implications for our understanding of developmental disorders of cognition.


Calcium-binding proteins (CBPs) are important components in calcium-mediated cellular signal transduction. Among the many CBPs, at least three EF-hand CBPs, calbindin-D28K (CB), calretinin (CR), and parvalbumin (PV), have been extensively studied in the retina. In the present study, we investigated the expression patterns of these three CBPs in cholinergic starburst amacrine cells (SACs), which are the most important element for direction selectivity in the rabbit retina. Double-label immunocytochemical analysis of vibratome sections and single-cell injection after immunocytochemical analysis on whole mounts were carried out in rabbit retinas. We found that all SACs in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer contained PV. However, none of the SACs in the inner nuclear layer or ganglion cell layer contained either CB or CR. These results suggest that PV, but not CR or CB, may act as a calcium-buffering protein in the SACs of the rabbit retina.
The body inversion effect is the finding that inverted body posture pictures are more difficult to recognize than upright body posture pictures are. The present study reinvestigated the body inversion effect in human observers using behavioral and eye movement measures to explore whether the body inversion effect correlates with specific eye movement features. Results showed that body postures elicited a robust and stable body inversion effect in reaction time throughout the experimental sessions. Eye-tracking data showed that the body inversion effect was robust only in the first fixation duration, but not in the second fixation duration. The analysis of the regions of interest showed that most fixations were located in the upper body for both the upright and the inverted body postures. Compared with inverted body postures, the upright postures led to a shorter reaction time and a shorter first fixation duration, but a larger portion of time to fixate on the head region, suggesting that participants tended to use head as a reference point to process upright body postures. For both the behavioral and the eye movement measures, the body inversion effect was robust for biomechanically possible body postures. However, for biomechanically impossible body postures (with angular manipulation of two joints), the effect was mixed. Although the error rate failed to show the body inversion effect, the reaction time measure and most eye movement measures, however, showed a body inversion effect. Overall, these results suggested that upright body postures are processed in expertise recognition and are processed configurally by human observers.
Administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) to rat pups at postnatal day (PND) 7, 9, and 11 [neonatal PCP (neoPCP) model] induces cognitive deficits similar to those observed in schizophrenia. Expression of presynaptic SNARE protein, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (Snap25), has been shown to be downregulated in postmortem brains from patients with schizophrenia. The present study was designed to investigate the long-term effects of neoPCP administration on expression of presynaptic markers altered in schizophrenia. Using radioactive in-situ hybridization, the expression of Snap25 was measured in the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal formation (CA1, CA3, CA4, and dentate gyrus) at PND 29 and 80 in neoPCP and control rats. As a secondary presynaptic marker, the expressional level of synaptophysin was also measured in the same areas. Stereological estimation of the number of neurons and volume was used to exclude potential bias in cell numbers. A significant reduction in the expression of Snap25 in the hippocampal CA4 region was observed in adult neoPCP rats (PND 80, P&lt;0.01), but not in preadolescent rats (PND 29), indicating a late developmental manifestation of a presynaptic pathology. The number of neurons and volume of the CA4 region showed no change in PCP rats compared with the controls. Furthermore, expression of another presynaptic marker, synaptophysin, remained unaffected by the PCP treatment. These findings indicate that perinatal PCP injections induce a delayed presynaptic impact on the vesicle fusion machinery in a brain region important for cognitive processes.
Whereas facial emotion recognition protocols have shown that each discrete emotion has a specific time course of brain activation, there is no electrophysiological evidence to support these findings for emotional induction by complex pictures. Our objective was to specify the differences between the time courses of brain activation elicited by feelings of happiness and, with unpleasant pictures, by feelings of disgust and sadness. We compared event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by the watching of high-arousing pictures from the International Affective Picture System, selected to induce specific emotions. In addition to a classical arousal effect on late positive components, we found specific ERP patterns for each emotion in early temporal windows (&lt;200 ms). Disgust was the first emotion to be associated with different brain processing after 140 ms, whereas happiness and sadness differed in ERPs elicited at the frontal and central sites after 160 ms. Our findings highlight the limits of the classical averaging of ERPs elicited by different emotions inside the same valence and suggest that each emotion could elicit a specific temporal pattern of brain activation, similar to those observed with emotional face recognition.
We present, to our knowledge, the first quantitative evidence that music and genes may have coevolved by demonstrating significant correlations between traditional group-level folk songs and mitochondrial DNA variation among nine indigenous populations of Taiwan. These correlations were of comparable magnitude to those between language and genes for the same populations, although music and language were not significantly correlated with one another. An examination of population structure for genetics showed stronger parallels to music than to language. Overall, the results suggest that music might have a sufficient time-depth to retrace ancient population movements and, additionally, that it might be capturing different aspects of population history than language. Music may therefore have the potential to serve as a novel marker of human migrations to complement genes, language and other markers.
Neuropeptide Y and peptide YY receptor type 2 (Y2) is involved in appetite regulation and several other physiological processes. We have investigated the structure of the human Y2 receptor. Computational modeling of receptor-agonist interactions was used as a guide to design a series of receptor mutants, followed by binding assays using full-length and truncated peptide agonists and the Y2-specific antagonist BIIE0246. Our model suggested a hydrogen bond network among highly conserved residues Thr2.61, Gln3.32, and His7.39, which could play roles in ligand binding and/or receptor structure. In addition, the C-terminus of the peptide could make contact with residues Tyr5.38 and Leu6.51. Mutagenesis of all these positions, followed by binding assays, provides experimental support for our computational model: most of the mutants for the residues forming the proposed hydrogen bond network displayed reduced peptide agonist affinities as well as reduced hPYY3-36 potency in a functional assay. The Ala and Leu mutants of Gln3.32 and His7.39 disrupted membrane expression of the receptor. Combined with the modeling, the experimental results support roles for these hydrogen bond network residues in peptide binding as well as receptor architecture. The reduced agonist affinity for mutants of Tyr5.38 and Leu6.51 supports their role in a binding pocket surrounding the invariant tyrosine at position 36 of the peptide ligands. The results for antagonist BIIE0246 suggest several differences in interactions compared to those of the peptides. Our results lead to a new structural model for NPY family receptors and peptide binding.



Arm-amputation involves two powerful drivers for brain plasticity-sensory deprivation and altered use. However, research has largely focused on sensory deprivation and maladaptive change. Here we show that adaptive patterns of limb usage after amputation drive cortical plasticity. We report that individuals with congenital or acquired limb-absence vary in whether they preferentially use their intact hand or residual arm in daily activities. Using fMRI, we show that the deprived sensorimotor cortex is employed by whichever limb individuals are over-using. Individuals from either group that rely more on their intact hands (and report less frequent residual arm usage) showed increased intact hand representation in the deprived cortex, and increased white matter fractional anisotropy underlying the deprived cortex, irrespective of the age at which deprivation occurred. Our results demonstrate how experience-driven plasticity in the human brain can transcend boundaries that have been thought to limit reorganisation after sensory deprivation in adults. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01273.001.
Calcium phosphate precipitation is a convenient and economical method for transfection of cultured cells. With optimization, it is possible to use this method on hard-to-transfect cells like primary neurons. Here we describe our detailed protocol for calcium phosphate transfection of hippocampal neurons cocultured with astroglial cells.


Neurophysiology studies in a 50-year-old man with slowly progressive weakness of the left upper limb revealed conduction block in the ulnar nerve above the elbow. His weakness remained stable with regular subcutaneous immunoglobulin, but he noted gradual hemibody hair depigmentation. Examination also revealed unilateral left hand leukonychia (figure). MRI of the brain and cervical spine was normal.
Since the first report of amyloid imaging with Pittsburgh compound B (PiB), special attention has been given to the individuals who, though cognitively normal by testing, have substantial amounts of fibrillar amyloid- (A) pathology in their brain.(1) This state, previously predicted by several postmortem studies,(2) is also the focus of research criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD).(3) With these criteria, the pathophysiologic spectrum of AD was stretched past the earliest clinically detectable stages such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI)(4) to include cognitively normal individuals who show evidence of brain amyloid deposition by CSF analysis or amyloid PET. This concept of preclinical AD currently forms the foundation of a trial aimed at preventing the emergence of AD in amyloid-positive individuals-the Anti-Amyloid Treatment of Asymptomatic Alzheimer's Disease (A4) trial.(5) Clearly, it is important to understand this state of asymptomatic -amyloidosis as fully as possible.
This paper on Rita Levi-Montalcini (1909-2012), who received in 1986 the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of nerve growth factor, focuses on aspects of her advocacy and her commitment to education in which she has been especially active in the last part of her long life. With passionate confidence on the capabilities of the aging brain (together with severe admonition against the pursuit of immortality), she encouraged contributions of senior citizens to the society. Always projected into the future, with enduring faith in the potential of young individuals, in education as a key to development, in the capabilities of women, in the importance of gender equality, Rita established in 2001 the Rita Levi-Montalcini Foundation for the education of African women. Her legacy on engagement for a better 'global village' should not be forgotten by the neuroscience community.

Pain has sensory-discriminative and emotional-affective dimensions. Recent studies show that the affective component can be assessed with a conditioned place avoidance (CPA) test. We hypothesized that systemic morphine before a post-conditioning test would more potently attenuate the affective aspect compared to the sensory component and that [d-Ala2-N-Me-Phe4, Gly-ol5]-enkephalin (DAMGO), a -selective opioid receptor agonist, injected into the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) would reduce established CPA. A rat model of inflammatory pain, produced by a complete Freund adjuvant (CFA) injection into the hind paw, was combined with a CPA test. Three experiments were performed on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Systemic morphine (0.5 or 1.0mg/kg) in Experiment 1, intrathecal (i.t.) morphine (2.5 g/rat) in Experiment 2, and intra-CeA DAMGO (7.7-15.4 ng/0.4 l) in Experiment 3 were given to CFA-injected rats (n=6-8/group) prior to a post-conditioning test. Saline-injected rats were used as control. Time spent in a pain-paired compartment was recorded twice, before conditioning and after a post-conditioning test. Paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to a noxious thermal stimulus was measured before experiment at day-1 and after the post-conditioning test; hyperalgesia was defined as a decrease in PWL. The data showed that CFA-injected rats had significantly negative CPA compared to those of saline-injected rats (P&lt;0.05). Low-dosage systemic morphine significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced CFA-induced CPA but had no effect on PWL. I.t. morphine did not inhibit the display of CPA but significantly increased PWL, suppressing hyperalgesia (P&lt;0.05). Intra-CeA DAMGO significantly inhibited the display of CPA compared to saline (P&lt;0.05) but had no effect on PWL. The data demonstrate that morphine attenuates the affective component more powerfully than it does the sensory and suggests that the sensory and the emotional-affective dimensions are underpinned by different mechanisms.
This study examined which brain regions are influenced by an inhibitory lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) mechanism that affects water intake. Controls and rats with bilateral LPBN lesions were administered angiotensin II (AngII) (0.5mg/kg subcutaneous - SC), drinking responses measured, and brains processed for Fos-immunohistochemistry. A separate group of LPBN-lesioned and non-lesioned animals were denied water for 90 min prior to perfusion to remove any confounding factor of water intake. LPBN-lesioned rats drank a cumulative volume of 9 mL compared with &lt;4 mL by controls (p&lt;0.01). Compared with sham-lesioned animals, Fos expression was attenuated in overdrinking LPBN-lesioned rats in the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), supraoptic nucleus (SON) (p&lt;0.001), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central nucleus of the amygdala (p&lt;0.01). In LPBN-lesioned rats that did not drink, greater numbers of activated neurons were detected in the PVN (p&lt;0.001), SON (p&lt;0.01), MnPO, nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and area postrema (p&lt;0.05) in response to SC AngII, compared with non-lesioned rats. These data suggest that the direct effects of LPBN lesions caused an increase in AngII-induced water intake and in rats that did not drink an increase in Fos expression, while indirect secondary effects of LPBN lesions caused a reduction in Fos expression possibly related to excessive ingestion of water. An inhibitory mechanism, likely related to arterial baroreceptor stimulation, relayed by neurons located in the LPBN influences the responses of the MnPO, PVN and SON to increases in peripheral AngII.
The role of 5-HT receptors in fluoxetine-induced nociception and antinociception in rats was assessed. Formalin produced a typical pattern of flinching and licking/lifting behaviors. Local peripheral ipsilateral, but not contralateral, pre-treatment with fluoxetine (0.3-3 nmol/paw) increased in a dose-dependent fashion 0.5% formalin-induced nociception. In contrast, intrathecal pretreatment with fluoxetine (0.3-3 nmol/rat) prevented nociception induced by formalin. The peripheral pronociceptive effect of fluoxetine was prevented by the 5-HT2A (ketanserin, 3-10 pmol/paw), 5-HT2B (3-(2-[4-(4-fluorobenzoyl)-1-piperidinyl]ethyl)-2,4(1H,3H)-quinazolinedione(+) tartrate, RS-127445, 3-10 pmol/paw), 5-HT2C (8-[5-(2,4-dimethoxy-5-(4-trifluoromethylphenylsulphonamido) phenyl-5-oxopentyl]1,3,8-triazaspiro[4.5] decane-2,4-dione hydrochloride, RS-102221, 3-10 pmol/paw), 5-HT3 (ondansetron, 3-10 nmol/paw), 5-HT4 ([1-[2-methylsulphonylamino ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]methyl 1-methyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylate, GR-113808, 3-100 fmol/paw), 5-HT6 (4-iodo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)phenyl]benzene-sulfonamide hydrochloride, SB-258585, 3-10 pmol/paw) and 5-HT7 ((R)-3-(2-(2-(4-methylpiperidin-1-yl) ethyl) pyrrolidine-1-sulfonyl) phenol hydrochloride, SB-269970, 0.3-1 nmol/paw), but not by the 5-HT1A (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate, WAY-100635, 0.3-1 nmol/paw), 5-HT1B/1D (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,1'-biphenyl-4-carboxamide hydrochloride hydrate, GR-127935, 0.3-1 nmol/paw), 5-HT1B (1'-methyl-5-[[2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]carbonyl]-2,3,6,7-tetrahydrospiro[furo[2,3-f]indole-3,4'-piperidine hydrochloride, SB-224289, 0.3-1 nmol/paw), 5-HT1D (4-(3-chlorophenyl)--(diphenylmethyl)-1-piperazineethanol hydrochloride, BRL-15572, 0.3-1nmol/paw) nor 5-HT5A ((N-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-N-[[4'-[[(2-phenylethyl)amino]methyl][1,1'-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]cyclopentanepropanamide dihydrochloride, SB-699551, 1-3 nmol/paw), receptor antagonists. In marked contrast, the spinal antinociceptive effect of fluoxetine was prevented by the 5-HT1A (WAY-100635, 0.3-1 nmol/rat), 5-HT1B/1D (GR-127935, 0.3-1 nmol/rat), 5-HT1B (SB-224289, 0.3-1 nmol/rat), 5-HT1D (BRL-15572, 0.3-1 nmol/rat) and 5-HT5A (SB-699551, 1-3 nmol/rat), but not by the 5-HT2A (ketanserin, 3-10 pmol/rat), 5-HT2B (RS-127445, 3-10 pmol/rat), 5-HT2C (RS-102221, 3-10 pmol/rat), 5-HT3 (ondansetron, 3-10 nmol/rat), 5-HT4 (GR-113808, 3-100 fmol/rat), 5-HT6 (SB-258585, 3-10 pmol/rat) nor 5-HT7 (SB-269970, 0.3-1 nmol/rat), receptor antagonists. These results suggest that fluoxetine produces nociception at the periphery by activating peripheral 5-HT2A/2B/2C/3/4/6/7 receptors. In addition, intrathecal fluoxetine produces antinociception by activation of spinal 5-HT1A/1B/1D/5A receptors.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments in social interaction, deficits in verbal and non-verbal communication, and repetitive behavior and restricted interests. Emerging evidence suggests that aberrant neuroimmune responses may contribute to phenotypic deficits and could be appropriate targets for pharmacologic intervention. Interleukin (IL)-6, one of the most important neuroimmune factors, has been shown to be involved in physiological brain development and in several neurological disorders. For instance, findings from postmortem and animal studies suggest that brain IL-6 is an important mediator of autism-like behaviors. In this review, a possible pathological mechanism behind autism is proposed, which suggests that IL-6 elevation in the brain, caused by the activated glia and/or maternal immune activation, could be an important inflammatory cytokine response involved in the mediation of autism-like behaviors through impairments of neuroanatomical structures and neuronal plasticity. Further studies to investigate whether IL-6 could be used for therapeutic interventions in autism would be of great significance.
The aim of this study was to analyze the effects of chronic oxidative stress on mitochondrial function and its relationship to progressive neurodegeneration in the hippocampus of rats chronically exposed to ozone. Animals were exposed to 0.25 ppm ozone for 7, 15, 30, or 60 days. Each group was tested for (1) protein oxidation and, manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity using spectrophotometric techniques, (2) oxygen consumption, (3) cytochrome c, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  Co-activator 1 (PGC-1), B-cell lymphoma (Bcl-2), and Bax expression using Western blotting, (4) histology using hematoxylin and eosin staining, and (5) mitochondrial structure using electron microscopy. Our results showed increased levels of carbonyl protein and Mn-SOD activity after 30 days of ozone exposure and decreased GPx activity. The SDH activity decreased from 7 to 60 days of exposure. The oxygen consumption decreased at 60 days. Western blotting showed an increase in cytochrome c at 60 days of ozone exposure and an increase in iNOS up to 60 days of ozone exposure. The expression of PGC-1 was decreased after 15, 30, and 60 days compared to the earlier time Bcl-2 was increased at 60 days compared to earlier time points, and Bax was increased after 30 and 60 days of exposure compared to earlier time points. We observed cellular damage, and mitochondrial swelling with a loss of mitochondrial cristae after 60 days of exposure. These changes suggest that low doses of ozone caused mitochondrial abnormalities that may lead to cell damage.
The rat retrosplenial granular cortex (RSG) receives cholinergic input from the medial septum-diagonal band (MS-DB) of the cholinergic basal forebrain (CBF), with projections terminating in layers I-III of RSG. The modulatory effects of acetylcholine (ACh) on cortical GABAergic interneurons in these layers are mediated by 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (7nAChRs). 7nAChRs are most abundant in the cerebral cortex and are largely localized to GABAergic interneurons. However, the CBF projection to the RSG has not been studied in detail, and the cellular or subcellular distribution of 7nAChRs in the rat RSG remains unclear. The main objective of this study was to test that 7nAChRs reside on GABAergic interneurons in CBF terminal fields of the rat RSG. First, we set out to define the characteristics of CBF projections from the MS-DB to layers of the RSG using anterograde neural tracing and immunohistochemical labeling with cholinergic markers. These results revealed that the pattern of axon terminal labeling in layer Ia, as well as layer II/III of the RSG is remarkably similar to the pattern of cholinergic axons in the RSG. Next, we investigated the relationship between 7nAChRs, labeled using either -bungarotoxin or 7nAChR antibody, and the local neurochemical environment by labeling surrounding cells with antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), parvalbumin (PV) and reelin (a marker of the ionotropic serotonin receptor-expressing GABAergic interneurons). 7nAChRs were found to be localized on both somatodendritic and neuronal elements within subpopulations of GABAergic PV-, reelin-stained and non PV-stained neurons in layers I-III of the RSG. Finally, electron microscopy revealed that 7nAChRs are GAD- and PV-positive cytoplasmic and neuronal elements. These results strongly suggest that ACh released from CBF afferents is transmitted via 7nAChR to GAD-, PV-, and reelin-positive GABAergic interneurons in layers I-III of the RSG.
Leptin and somatostatin (SRIF) have opposite effects on food seeking and ingestive behaviors, functions partially regulated by the frontoparietal cortex and hippocampus. Although it is known that the acute suppression of food intake mediated by leptin decreases with time, the counter-regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Our aims were to analyze the effect of acute central leptin infusion on the SRIF receptor-effector system in these areas and the implication of related intracellular signaling mechanisms in this response. We studied 20 adult male Wister rats including controls and those treated intracerebroventricularly with a single dose of 5 g of leptin and sacrificed 1 or 6h later. Density of SRIF receptors was unchanged at 1h, whereas leptin increased the density of SRIF receptors at 6h, which was correlated with an elevated capacity of SRIF to inhibit forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in both areas. The functional capacity of SRIF receptors was unaltered as cell membrane levels of i1 and i2 subunits of G inhibitory proteins were unaffected in both brain areas. The increased density of SRIF receptors was due to enhanced SRIF receptor subtype 2 (sst2) protein levels that correlated with higher mRNA levels for this receptor. These changes in sst2 mRNA levels were concomitant with increased activation of the insulin signaling, c-Jun and cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB); however, activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 was reduced in the cortex and unchanged in the hippocampus and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 remained unchanged in these areas. In addition, the leptin antagonist L39A/D40A/F41A blocked the leptin-induced changes in SRIF receptors, leptin signaling and CREB activation. In conclusion, increased activation of insulin signaling after leptin infusion is related to acute up-regulation of the SRIF receptor-effector system that may antagonize short-term leptin actions in the rat brain.
In recent years, both major depression and antidepressant therapy have been linked to adult hippocampal neurogenesis. The hippocampus is not a homogeneous brain area, and a converging body of evidence indicates a functional dissociation along its septo-temporal axis, the dorsal part being involved more in learning/memory and spatial navigation, while the ventral sub-region is linked more to emotional behavior and regulation of the neuroendocrine stress axis. Research has therefore been conducted in an attempt to relate effects of models of depression and of antidepressant therapies to adult neurogenesis along the septo-temporal axis of the hippocampus. The present paper reviews the current literature addressing this question and discusses the possible mechanisms involved and the functional significance of such regional effects. This review shows that animal models of depression elicit an effect restricted to the ventral hippocampus more frequently than a dorsal-specific effect. However, this is also stage specific, and concerns neurogenesis, rather than cell proliferation or survival. Surprisingly, the same does not apply regarding the effects of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors that act in a more uniform way on dorsal and ventral adult neurogenesis in most studies. Some recently introduced clinical compounds (e.g., agomelatine) or putative antidepressants have a specific action on the ventral sub-region, indicating that an action restricted to this part of the brain may be sufficient to achieve remission. Finally, non-pharmacological manipulations that are also endowed with antidepressant effects, such as environmental enrichment or physical exercise, also act on both subdivisions, although some studies pointed to specificity of dorsal neurogenesis. The different treatments, acting either on the dorsal or on the ventral sub-regions, could promote recovery by improving either ventral- or dorsal-related functions, both contributing in a different way to treatment efficacy.
Regular exercise promotes brain function via a wide range of adaptive responses, including the increased expression of antioxidant and oxidative DNA damage-repairing systems. Accumulation of oxidized DNA base lesions and strand breaks is etiologically linked to for example aging processes and age-associated diseases. Here we tested whether exercise training has an impact on brain function, extent of neurogenesis, and expression of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-1 (Ogg1) and SIRT1 (silent mating-type information regulation 2 homolog). To do so, we utilized strains of rats with low- and high-running capacity (LCR and HCR) and examined learning and memory, DNA synthesis, expression, and post-translational modification of Ogg1 hippocampal cells. Our results showed that rats with higher aerobic/running capacity had better spatial memory, and expressed less Ogg1, when compared to LCR rats. Furthermore, exercise increased SIRT1 expression and decreased acetylated Ogg1 (AcOgg1) levels, a post-translational modification important for efficient repair of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8-oxoG). Our data on cell cultures revealed that nicotinamide, a SIRT1-specific inhibitor, caused the greatest increase in the acetylation of Ogg1, a finding further supported by our other observations that silencing SIRT1 also markedly increased the levels of AcOgg1. These findings imply that high-running capacity is associated with increased hippocampal function, and SIRT1 level/activity and inversely correlates with AcOgg1 levels and thereby the repair of genomic 8-oxoG.
Experience-dependent plasticity is an ongoing process that can be observed and measured at multiple levels. The first goal of this study was to examine the effects of prenatal nicotine on the performance of rats in three behavioral tasks (elevated plus maze (EPM), Morris water task (MWT), and Whishaw tray reaching). The second goal of this experiment sought to examine changes in dendritic organization following exposure to the behavioral training paradigm and/or low doses of prenatal nicotine. Female Long-Evans rats were administered daily injections of nicotine for the duration of pregnancy and their pups underwent a regimen of behavioral training in early adulthood (EPM, MWT, and Whishaw tray reaching). All offspring exposed to nicotine prenatally exhibited substantial increases in anxiety. Male offspring also showed increased efficiency in the Whishaw tray-reaching task and performed differently than the other groups in the probe trial of the MWT. Using Golgi-Cox staining we examined the dendritic organization of the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex as well as the nucleus accumbens. Participation in the behavioral training paradigm was associated with dramatic reorganization of dendritic morphology and spine density in all brain regions examined. Although both treatments (behavior training and prenatal nicotine exposure) markedly altered dendritic organization, the effects of the behavioral experience were much larger than those of the prenatal drug exposure, and in some cases interacted with the drug effects.
Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) is reported to protect neurons from apoptosis induced by various stresses including hypoxia-ischemia (HI). However, the mechanisms by which TERT exerts its anti-apoptotic role in neurons with HI injury remain unclear. In this study, we examined the protective role and explored the possible mechanisms of TERT in neurons with HI injury in vitro. Primary cultured neurons were exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) for 3h followed by reperfusion to mimic HI injury in vivo. Plasmids containing TERT antisense, sense nucleotides, or mock were transduced into neurons at 48h before OGD. Expression and distribution of TERT were measured by immunofluorescence labeling and western blot. The expression of cleaved caspase 3 (CC3), Bcl-2 and Bax were detected by western blot. Neuronal apoptosis was measured with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL). The mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) were measured by MitoSOX Red staining. Fluorescent probe JC-1 was used to measure the mitochondrial membrane potential (m). We found that TERT expression increased at 8h and peaked at 24h in neurons after OGD. CC3 expression and neuronal apoptosis were induced and peaked at 24h after OGD. TERT inhibition significantly increased CC3 expression and neuronal apoptosis after OGD treatment. Additionally, TERT inhibition decreased the expression ratio of Bcl-2/Bax, and enhanced ROS production and m dissipation after OGD. These data suggest that TERT plays a neuroprotective role via anti-apoptosis in neurons after OGD. The underlying mechanisms may be associated with regulating Bcl-2/Bax expression ratio, attenuating ROS generation, and increasing mitochondrial membrane potential.
Temporary neuronal inactivation of the ventral hippocampus with the GABAA agonist muscimol suppresses unconditioned fear behavior (anxiety) but inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus does not. On the other hand, inactivating the dorsal hippocampus disrupts fear memory, while inactivating the ventral hippocampus does not. Here we investigate the roles of hippocampal GABAA receptor sub-units in mediating these anxiolytic and amnesic effects of GABAA receptor agonists. We microinfused TPA023 (2 agonist) or TB-21007 (inverse 5 agonist) into the dorsal or ventral hippocampus prior to testing rats in two animal models of anxiety: the elevated plus-maze and shock-probe burying test. Twenty-four hours later rats were re-tested in the shock-probe chamber with a non-electrified probe to assess their memory of the initial shock-probe experience (i.e., fear memory). We found that TPA023 was anxiolytic in the plus-maze and shock-probe burying tests when microinfused into the ventral hippocampus. However, TPA023 did not affect anxiety-related behavior when infused into the dorsal hippocampus. Conversely, we found that the 5 sub-unit inverse agonist TB-21007 impaired rats' memory of the initial shock-probe experience when infused into the dorsal hippocampus, but not when infused into the ventral hippocampus. This double dissociation suggests that 2 GABAA receptor sub-units in the ventral hippocampus mediate unconditioned fear or anxiety, while 5 GABAA receptor sub-units in the dorsal hippocampus mediate conditioned fear memory.
Activation of glutamate receptors within the ventral tegmental area (VTA) stimulates extrasynaptic (basal) dopamine release in terminal regions, including the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Hindbrain inputs from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) are critical for elicitation of phasic VTA dopamine cell activity and consequent transient dopamine release. This study investigated the role of VTA ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) stimulation on both basal and LDT electrical stimulation-evoked dopamine efflux in the NAc using in vivo chronoamperometry and fixed potential amperometry in combination with stearate-graphite paste and carbon fiber electrodes, respectively. Intra-VTA infusion of the iGluR agonists ()--amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA; 1 g/l) or N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA; 2 g/l) enhanced basal NAc dopamine efflux. This iGluR-mediated potentiation of basal dopamine efflux was paralleled by an attenuation of LDT-evoked transient NAc dopamine efflux, suggesting that excitation of basal activity effectively inhibited the capacity of hindbrain afferents to elicit transient dopamine efflux. In line with this, post-NMDA infusion of the dopamine D2 autoreceptor (D2R) agonist quinpirole (1 g/l; intra-VTA) partially recovered NMDA-mediated attenuation of LDT-evoked NAc dopamine, while concurrently attenuating NMDA-mediated potentiation of basal dopamine efflux. Post-NMDA infusion of quinpirole (1 g/l) alone attenuated basal and LDT-evoked dopamine efflux. Taken together, these data reveal that hyperstimulation of basal dopamine transmission can stunt hindbrain burst-like stimulation-evoked dopamine efflux. Inhibitory autoreceptor mechanisms within the VTA help to partially recover the magnitude of phasic dopamine efflux, highlighting the importance of both iGluRs and D2 autoreceptors in maintaining the functional balance of tonic and phasic dopamine neurotransmission. Dysregulation of this balance may have important implications for disorders of dopamine dysregulation such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
Organic cation transporters (OCTs) are expressed mainly in the kidney and liver. OCTs transport intrinsic organic cations, including monoamine, dopamine, serotonine and choline, across the plasma membrane. Here, we demonstrate that OCT2 (SLC22A2) is expressed in cholinergic neurons, motoneurons in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, and is implicated in acetylcholine (Ach) recycling in presynaptic terminals. Application of rabbit anti-peptide antibody revealed that OCT2 was expressed in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. Double immunostaining of muscle sections with anti-OCT2 and alpha-bungarotoxin (BTX) revealed that OCT2 was localized in the neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that OCT2 was localized both in synaptic vesicles (SVs) in presynaptic terminals around the motoneurons (C-terminals) and in SVs in nerve terminals in NMJs. The similarity in the distribution of OCT2 in cholinergic neurons and that of vesicular acetyl choline transporter (VAchT), and the fact that OCT2 can transport choline suggest that OCT2 could work as a low-affinity and high-capacity choline transporter at presynaptic terminals in cholinergic neurons in a firing-dependent manner.
Neurons at higher stations of each sensory system are responsive to feature combinations not present at lower levels. As a result, the activity of these neurons becomes less redundant than lower levels. We recorded responses to speech sounds from the inferior colliculus and the primary auditory cortex neurons of rats, and tested the hypothesis that primary auditory cortex neurons are more sensitive to combinations of multiple acoustic parameters compared to inferior colliculus neurons. We independently eliminated periodicity information, spectral information and temporal information in each consonant and vowel sound using a noise vocoder. This technique made it possible to test several key hypotheses about speech sound processing. Our results demonstrate that inferior colliculus responses are spatially arranged and primarily determined by the spectral energy and the fundamental frequency of speech, whereas primary auditory cortex neurons generate widely distributed responses to multiple acoustic parameters, and are not strongly influenced by the fundamental frequency of speech. We found no evidence that inferior colliculus or primary auditory cortex was specialized for speech features such as voice onset time or formants. The greater diversity of responses in primary auditory cortex compared to inferior colliculus may help explain how the auditory system can identify a wide range of speech sounds across a wide range of conditions without relying on any single acoustic cue.
Early blindness results in occipital cortex neurons responding to a wide range of auditory and tactile stimuli. These changes in tuning properties are accompanied by an extensive reorganization of the occipital cortex that includes alterations in anatomical structure, neurochemical and metabolic pathways. Although it has been established in animal models that neurochemical pathways are heavily affected by early visual deprivation, the effects of blindness on these pathways in humans is still not well characterized. Here, using (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy in nine early blind and normally sighted subjects, we find that early blindness is associated with higher levels of creatine, choline and myo-Inositol and indications of lower levels of GABA within the occipital cortex. These results suggest that the cross-modal responses associated with early blindness may, at least in part, be driven by changes within occipital biochemical pathways.
Alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (7nAChRs) mediate nicotine-induced burst-firing of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a limbic brain region critically involved in reward and in dopamine D2 receptor (D2R)-related cortical dysfunctions associated with psychosis. The known presence of 7nAChRs and Gi-coupled D2Rs in dopamine neurons of the VTA suggests that these receptors are targeted to at least some of the same neurons in this brain region. To test this hypothesis, we used electron microscopic immunolabeling of antisera against peptide sequences of 7nACh and D2 receptors in the mouse VTA. Dual D2R and 7nAChR labeling was seen in many of the same somata (co-localization over 97%) and dendrites (co-localization over 49%), where immunoreactivity for each of the receptors was localized to endomembranes as well as to non-synaptic or synaptic plasma membranes often near excitatory-type synapses. In comparison with somata and dendrites, many more small axons and axon terminals were separately labeled for each of the receptors. Thus, single-labeled axon terminals were predominant for both 7nAChR (57.9%) and D2R (89.0%). The majority of the immunolabeled axonal profiles contained D2R-immunoreactivity (81.6%) and formed either symmetric or asymmetric synapses consistent with involvement in the release of both inhibitory and excitatory transmitters. Of 160 D2R-labeled terminals, 81.2% were presynaptic to dendrites that expressed 7nAChR alone or together with the D2R. Numerous glial processes inclusive of those enveloping either excitatory- or inhibitory-type synapses also contained single labeling for D2R (n=152) and 7nAChR (n=561). These results suggest that classic antipsychotic drugs, all of which block the D2R, may facilitate 7nAChR-mediated burst-firing by elimination of D2R-dependent inhibition in neurons expressing both receptors as well as by indirect pre-synaptic and glial mechanisms.
The regenerative capacity of the peripheral nervous system is largely related to Schwann cells undergoing proliferation and migration after injury and forming growth-supporting substrates for severed axons. Novel data show that fibroblasts to a certain extent regulate the pro-regenerative behavior of Schwann cells. In the setting of peripheral nerve injury, the fibroblasts that form the epineurium come into close contact with both Schwann cells and peripheral axons, but the potential influence on these latter two cell types has not been studied yet. In the present study we explored whether culture media, conditioned by epineurial fibroblasts can influence Schwann cells and/or neurite outgrowth from dorsal root ganglia neurons in vitro. Our data indicate that epineurial fibroblast-conditioned culture media substantially increase Schwann cell migration and the outgrowth of neurites. Schwann cell proliferation remained largely unaffected. These same read-out parameters were assayed in a condition where epineurial fibroblasts were subjected to stretch-cell-stress, a mechanical stressor that plays an important role in traumatic peripheral nerve injuries. Stretch-cell-stress of epineurial fibroblasts did not further change the positive effects of conditioned media on Schwann cell migration and neurite outgrowth. From these data we conclude that an as yet unknown pro-regenerative role can be attributed to epineurial fibroblasts, implying that such cells may affect the outcome of severe peripheral nerve injury.
Aquaporin-1 (AQP1) is the principle water channel in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and is specifically localized to Schwann cells in the PNS. However, the pathophysiological role of AQP1 in peripheral nerves is poorly understood. Here, we utilized RNA interference by lentiviral transduction to specifically down-regulate AQP1 expression and a lentiviral overexpression protocol to up-regulate AQP1 expression, in primary Schwann cell cultures. AQP1 gene silencing resulted in a cell shrinkage phenotype, while AQP1 gene overexpression caused a cell swelling phenotype, as validated by cell volume determinations. Secondly, we utilized an in vitro hypoxia model in Schwann cells to mimic in vivo facial nerve injury. We demonstrated that AQP1 expression was induced within 8h following hypoxia injury in vitro, and that AQP1 knockdown (KD) caused the cells to resist edema following hypoxia. Finally, we investigated the hypoxic regulation of the AQP1 gene, as well as the involvement of Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) in AQP1 modulation and we found that KD of HIF-1 decreased hypoxia-dependent induction of endogenous AQP1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. Taken together, these results indicate that (1) AQP1 is an important factor responsible for the fast water transport of cultured Schwann cells and is involved in cell plasticity; (2) AQP1 alterations may be a primary factor in hypoxia-induced peripheral nerve edema; (3) HIF-1 participates in the hypoxic induction of the AQP1 gene; (4) AQP1 inhibition might provide a new therapeutic alternative for the treatment of some forms of peripheral nerve edema.
Niemann-Pick Type C1 (NPC1) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by the accumulation of cholesterol and glycosphingolipids. Combination-treatment utilizing cyclodextrin, allopregnanolone and miglustat (CYCLO/ALLO/miglustat) can ameliorate NPC1 disease in a mutant mouse model. The present study was designed to add behavioral analysis in NPC1 mutant mice upon CYCLO/ALLO/miglustat therapy. NPC1 mutant (BALB/cJ NPC1NIH) and control mice were used. For the combination treatment mice were injected with CYCLO/ALLO weekly, starting at P7. The miglustat injection was performed daily from P10 till P23. Starting at P23, miglustat was added to the powdered chow. For the sham treatment of control and mutant mice the same schedule was used with 0.9% NaCl injection. Locomotor activity was assessed in open field, elevated plus maze and accelerod tests. For assessment of spatial learning and memory the Morris water maze test was conducted. Electron microscopy has been performed to support the behavioral data. The sham-treated mutant mice exhibited motor impairments in all performed tests. In the water maze the sham-treated mutants exhibited impairment in remembering the location of the hidden platform. CYCLO/ALLO/miglustat treatment positively influenced motor dysfunction: total distance and number of visits significantly increased, and accelerod performance improved. The spatial learning, however, did not benefit from therapy. At the morphological level, an excessive accumulation of electron-dense material was seen in the cerebellar Purkinje cells of mutant mice. A regression of these autophagosomal inclusions was seen upon therapy. CYCLO/ALLO/miglustat therapy ameliorates motor but not cognitive deficits in NPC1 mutant mice, suggesting unequal vulnerability of different brain areas to the treatment.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the metabolism of l-arginine, a metabolically versatile amino acid, is critically involved in the aging process. The present study compared the activity and protein expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and arginase, and the levels of l-arginine and its eight down-stream metabolites in the brain stem (pons and medulla) and the cervical spinal cord in 3- (young) and 22- (aged) month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats. Total NOS activity was significantly reduced with age in the spinal cord (but not brain stem), and there were no age-related changes in arginase activity in both regions. Western blot revealed decreased protein expression of endothelial NOS, but not neuronal NOS, with age in both regions. Furthermore, there were significantly decreased l-arginine, glutamate, GABA and spermine levels and increased putrescine and spermidine levels with age in both regions. Although the absolute concentrations of l-arginine and six metabolites were significantly different between the brain stem and spinal cord in both age groups, there were similar clusters between l-arginine and its three main metabolites (l-citrulline, l-ornithine and agmatine) in both regions, which changed as a function of age. These findings, for the first time, demonstrate the regional variations and age-related changes in arginine metabolism in the rat brain stem and spinal cord. Future research is required to understand the functional significance of these changes and the underlying mechanisms.
The goal of the present study was to establish the behavioral role of the nucleus accumbens (Nacc) core in the feed-forward spiraling striato-nigro-striatal circuitry that transmits information from the Nacc shell toward the dorsal subregion of the neostriatum (DS) in freely moving rats. Unilateral injection of -opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO; 1 and 2 g), but not the  1-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2,5)]-enkephalin (4 g) or the 2-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),Glu(4)]-deltorphin (2 g), into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) produced contraversive circling in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of DAMGO was -opioid receptor-specific, because the -opioid receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Phe-Thr-NH2 (0.1 and 1 g), which alone did not elicit any turning behavior, dose-dependently inhibited the effect of DAMGO. Injection of the dopamine D1/D2 receptor antagonist cis-(Z)-flupentixol (1 and 10 g) into the Nacc shell ipsilaterally to the VTA significantly inhibited DAMGO (2 g)-induced circling. Similar injections of cis-(Z)-flupentixol into the Nacc core inhibited DAMGO-induced circling, but, in addition, replaced circling by pivoting, namely turning behavior during which the rat rotates around its disfunctioning hindlimb. The present findings show that unilateral stimulation of -, but not -, opioid receptors in the VTA elicits contraversive circling that requires a relatively hyperdopaminergic activity in both the shell and the core of the Nacc at the opioid-stimulated side of the brain. The Nacc core plays an essential role in the transmission of information directing the display of pivoting that is elicited by an increased dopaminergic activity in the Nacc shell. It is concluded that the Nacc core is an essential link in the feed-forward spiraling striato-nigro-striatal circuitry that transmits information from the Nacc shell toward the DS in freely moving rats.
It has been shown that the X-chromosome-linked neural cell adhesion molecule L1 plays a beneficial role in regeneration after spinal cord injury (SCI) in young adult rodents when applied in various molecular and cellular forms. In an attempt to further characterize the multiple functions of L1 after severe SCI we analyzed locomotor functions and measured axonal regrowth/sprouting and sparing, glial scarring, and synaptic remodeling at 6 weeks after severe spinal cord compression injury at the T7-9 levels of L1-deficient mice (L1-/y) and their wild-type (L1+/y) littermates, as well as mice that overexpress L1 under the control of the neuron-specific Thy-1 promoter (L1tg) and their wild-type littermates (L1+/+). No differences were found in the locomotor scale score and single frame motion analysis between L1-/y and L1+/y mice during 6 weeks after SCI, most likely due to the very low expression of L1 in the adult spinal cord of wild-type mice. L1tg mice, however, showed better locomotor recovery than their L1+/+ littermates, being associated with enhanced numbers of catecholaminergic axons in the lumbar spinal cord, but not of cholinergic, GABAergic or glutamatergic terminals around motoneuron cell bodies in the lumbar spinal cord. Additionally, no difference between L1tg and L1+/+ mice was detectable in dieback of corticospinal tract axons. Neuronal L1 overexpression did not influence the size of the glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astrocytic scar 6 weeks after injury. We conclude that neuronal overexpression of L1 improves functional recovery from SCI by increasing catecholaminergic axonal regrowth/sprouting and/or sparing of severed axons without affecting the glial scar size.
Hypoxic insults during the perinatal period lead to motor and cognitive impairments that later appear during childhood. In the adult brain, hypoxic events often lead to necrotic neuronal death, depending on the region and intensity of the event. During development an active apoptotic cell death occurs and could be an important variable affecting the hypoxic insult outcome. In the present work we performed a comparative study, in a chick embryo model, of the phenotypes and molecular markers exhibited during developmental and hypoxic cell death (HxCD). Ultrastructural analysis of optic tectum cells of embryos subjected to hypoxia (8% O2, 60 min) revealed a clear apoptotic morphology that did not differ from the one exhibited during developmental cell death. Integrity of plasma membrane, condensation of chromatin in round well-defined bodies, and gradual shrinkage of the cell are all hallmarks of the apoptotic process and were present in both control and hypoxic cells. To elucidate if hypoxic and developmental cell deaths share a common mechanism we evaluated the activation of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. A basal cleavage of caspase-9 and cytochrome c release was observed by co-immunofluorescence in control embryos, but hypoxic insult significantly increased the incidence of this colocalization. Caspase-8 cleavage remained unchanged after the hypoxic insult, suggesting that the extrinsic pathway would not be involved in hypoxic death. We also observed a significant decrease of Akt activation immediately after hypoxia, possibly facilitating the later release of cytochrome c. In addition we analyzed the influence of retinal ganglion cells (RGC) in neuronal survival. Transection of RGC fibers at embryonic day (ED) 3 did not induce any change in developmental and HxCD at ED12. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that a hypoxic insult in the developing brain triggers the same apoptotic pathway as the active developmental death.
The medial perforant path (MPP) and lateral perforant path (LPP) inputs to the hippocampal dentate gyrus form two distinct laminar inputs onto the middle and distal aspects of granule cell dendrites. Previous evidence indicated that paired stimuli reliably produced paired-pulse depression (PPD) in the MPP and paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) in the LPP. Despite this, several years of practical experience in our laboratory questioned the utility of using paired-pulse administration to reliably differentiate the MPP and LPP in vitro. Using visualized field and whole-cell recordings in male Sprague-Dawley rats, we demonstrate that both pathways show net PPF of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) at 50-ms interpulse intervals. LPP afferents did reliably exhibit greater PPF than MPP afferents. Thus, the LPP reliably exhibits a greater paired-pulse ratio than the MPP. The magnitude of the paired-pulse ratio was reduced in both afferents by raising calcium levels or lowering the temperature of the recording chamber. PPD of MPP-evoked fEPSPs was only reliably detected at moderate to high stimulus intensities when population spike activity was evident. PPD was more evident in whole cell voltage clamp recordings but nonetheless was not completely diagnostic as PPD was occasionally observed with LPP stimulation as well. We found the MPP and LPP could be reliably identified using conventional microscopy with hippocampal slices, and that they could be distinguished through the analysis of evoked waveform kinetics. This work refines our knowledge of electrophysiological differences between MPP and LPP projections and will help to facilitate the selective activation of these pathways.
The rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (rNST) receives orosensory information from taste bud cells in the tongue and palate via cranial nerves VII and IX. These nerves enter the brainstem, form the solitary tract (ST) and synapse with neurons in the rNST, which then relay incoming sensory information to other brain areas to process external gustatory stimuli. Factors that direct or regulate the trajectory of the developing ST are largely unknown. We used 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) to identify ST projections originating from cells in the geniculate ganglia of embryonic rats from embryonic day 14 through 18 (E14-E18). After identifying the ST fibers, immunolabeling for and protein expression analysis of the axon guidance molecules neuropilin-1 (Npn-1) and neuropilin-2 (Npn-2) and their binding partners, semaphorin-3A (Sema-3A) and semaphorin-3F (Sema-3F) were performed. The results detail the formation of ST projections into the gustatory brainstem and their relationship to developing rNST neurons. DiI-labeled ST fibers were present in the brainstem as early as E14. Npn-1 was expressed in the ST and in the trigeminal tract at E14, but levels of the protein declined through E18. The expression levels of the binding partner of Npn-1, Sema-3A, increased from E14 to E18. Npn-2 was expressed in the ST and, additionally, in radially oriented, tuft-like structures within the brainstem at E14. Expression levels of Npn-2 also declined through E18, in contrast to the expression levels of its binding partner, Sema-3F, which increased during this time period. For the first time, the time course and particular molecular components involved in development of the ST have been identified. These results indicate that the neuropilin and semaphorin families of axon guidance molecules are potential molecular participants in ST formation.
Although the wake-promoting drug modafinil has been shown to bind quite exclusively to the dopamine transporter (DAT), its action in the brain has been thought to be partially independent from the facilitation of the dopaminergic signals. Here we used electrophysiological and amperometric techniques to investigate the effects of modafinil on the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and on the synaptic overflow of dopamine in the dorsal striatum from the sliced tissue of wild-type and cocaine-insensitive genetically modified mice (DAT-CI). Moreover, we examined the consequences of modafinil administration on the locomotor behavior of wild-type and DAT-CI mice. In in vitro experiments, modafinil inhibited the spontaneous firing discharge of the dopaminergic neurons. More consistently, it potentiated firing inhibition and the membrane responses caused by exogenously applied dopamine on these cells. Furthermore, it augmented the stimulus-evoked outflow of DA in the striatum. Noteworthy, modafinil caused locomotor activation in wild-type mice. On the other hand, neither the electrophysiological nor the behavioral effects of modafinil were detected in DAT-CI animals. These results demonstrate that modafinil potentiates brain dopaminergic signals via DAT inhibition by acting at the same binding site of cocaine. Therefore, this mechanism of action explains most of the pharmacological properties of this compound in the clinical setting.
In the present study, we investigated the possible role of the dorsal hippocampal (CA1) dopamine D1 receptors on scopolamine-induced amnesia as well as scopolamine state-dependent memory in adult male Wistar rats. Animals were bilaterally implanted with chronic cannulae in the CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus, trained in a step-through type inhibitory avoidance task, and tested 24h after training for their step-through latency. Results indicated that pre-training or pre-test intra-CA1 administration of scopolamine (1.5 and 3 g/rat) dose-dependently reduced the step-through latency, showing an amnestic response. The pre-training scopolamine-induced amnesia (3 g/rat) was reversed by the pre-test administration of scopolamine, indicating a state-dependent effect. Similarly, the pre-test administration of dopamine D1 receptor agonist, 1-phenyl-7,8-dihydroxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SKF38393; 1, 2 and 4 g/rat, intra-CA1), could significantly reverse the scopolamine-induced amnesia. Interestingly, administration of an ineffective dose of scopolamine (0.25 g/rat, intra-CA1) before different doses of SKF38393, blocked the reversal effect of SKF38393 on the pre-training scopolamine-induced amnesia. Moreover, while the pre-test intra-CA1 injection of the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390; 0.1 and 0.5 g/rat, intra-CA1), resulted in apparent memory impairment, microinjection of the same doses of this agent inhibited the scopolamine-induced state-dependent memory. These results indicate that the CA1 dopamine D1 receptors may potentially play an important role in scopolamine-induced amnesia as well as the scopolamine state-dependent memory. Furthermore, our results propose that dopamine D1 receptor agonist, SKF38393 reverses the scopolamine-induced amnesia via acetylcholine release and possibly through the activation of muscarinic receptors.
Obesity and major depressive disorder (MDD) are highly prevalent and often comorbid health conditions. Both are associated with differences in brain structure and are genetically influenced. Yet, little is known about how obesity, MDD, and known risk genotypes might interact in the brain. Subjects were 81 patients with MDD (mean age 48.6 years) and 69 matched healthy controls (mean age 51.2 years). Subjects underwent 1.5T magnetic resonance imaging, genotyping for the fat mass and obesity associated (FTO) gene rs3751812 polymorphism, and measurements for body mass index (BMI). We conducted a whole brain voxelwise analysis using tensor-based morphometry (TBM) to examine the main and interaction effects of diagnosis, BMI and FTO genotype. Significant effects of BMI were observed across widespread brain regions, indicating reductions in predominantly subcortical and white matter areas associated with increased BMI, but there was no influence of MDD or FTO rs3751812 genotype. There were no significant interaction effects. Within MDD patients, there was no effect of current depressive symptoms; however the use of antidepressant medication was associated with reductions in brain volume in the frontal lobe and cerebellum. Obesity affects brain structure in both healthy participants and MDD patients; this influence may account for some of the brain changes previously associated with MDD. BMI and the use of medication should ideally be measured and controlled for when conducting structural brain imaging research in MDD.
Reactive astrogliosis, a feature of neuro-inflammation is induced by a number of endogenous mediators including cytokines. Despite interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) stands out as the major inducer of this process, the underlying mechanism and its role on neuronal viability remain elusive. We investigated in human astrocytoma cells and the rat brain striatum, the role of the nuclear factor-kB (NF-kB) intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) calmodulin (CaM) and extracellular regulated mitogen-activated protein kinases (ERK1/2) in IL-1-induced expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and neuronal apoptosis associated to a brain trauma. Cell data showed that IL-1 (1 ng/ml) increased NF-kB, pERK1/2 and GFAP expression. Nevertheless, further increase in IL-1 levels reversed progressively these responses. Preventing ERK1/2 activation with 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis[2-aminophenylthiol]-butadiene antagonized IL-1-induced GFAP expression while inhibiting selectively nuclear translocation of NF-kB with caffeic-acid phenethyl-ester down-regulated both ERK1/2 and GFAP expression induced by IL-1. The GFAP response was also prevented by antagonizing selectively increase in [Ca(2+)]i, CaM activity or inducible nitric oxide synthase expression with respectively ryanodine plus 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl-borate, N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalensulfonamide hydrochloride and N-[(3-(aminomethyl)-phenyl]methyl]-ethanimidamide dihydrochloride. Data in vivo supported these findings and showed that GFAP expression induced by IL-1 (50 ng/ml) correlated with attenuated glial scar formation and reduced neuronal apoptosis. Our data identified the NF-kB/Ca(2+)-CaM/ERK signaling pathway as a novel in vivo key regulator of IL-1-induced astrogliosis which may represent a potential target in neurodegeneration.
Striatal dopaminergic denervation leads to a change in afferent activity within the basal ganglia. Coupled with the effect of local dopaminergic denervation in the subthalamic nucleus, this is likely to affect the responsiveness of subthalamic neurons to their hyperdirect inputs in Parkinson's disease. Therefore, in this report, we investigated subthalamic nucleus responses to visual stimuli relayed by one such input - the superior colliculus - in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats. We used a protocol where the superior colliculus was selectively unlocked from the inhibitory effect of anesthesia with an injection of bicuculline, attenuating GABAergic inhibition in the colliculus, which arises predominantly from the substantia nigra pars reticulata. We found that visual responses in the superior colliculus were facilitated by partial or total lesions of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta, once the colliculus was disinhibited by bicuculline. Responses were faster, larger in amplitude and lasted longer compared to those in control rats. In the subthalamic nucleus, visual responses were also increased in amplitude and magnitude in partial or total lesioned groups. A classic hypothesis in Parkinson's disease suggests that following dopaminergic denervation, the discharge of cells in the substantia nigra pars reticulata increases, thereby intensifying the inhibitory influence that this structure exerts on its targets in the thalamus and brainstem. Our results suggest that neuroadaptations may have taken place within the superior colliculus in order to maintain normal function in the face of increased inhibitory tone coming from the substantia nigra pars reticulata, which once reduced, gave rise to facilitated responding. This facilitated responding in the superior colliculus then appears to lead to facilitated responding in the subthalamic nucleus.
Understanding the endogenous survival pathways induced by ischemic tolerance may yield targets for neuroprotection from stroke. One well-studied pathway reported to be evoked by preconditioning stimuli is the transcription factor HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor). However, whether HIF induction by ischemic insults is neuroprotective or toxic is still unclear. We examined the ability of three prolyl-hydroxylase inhibitors, which induce HIF, to protect hippocampal cultures from oxygen-glucose deprivation. Hippocampal cultures were exposed to ischemic preconditioning or various concentrations of cobalt chloride, deferoxamine (DFO) or dimethyloxylalyglycine (DMOG), prior to lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Cell survival of neurons and astrocytes was determined with dual-label immunocytochemistry. The induction of HIF targets was assessed in mixed as well as astrocyte-enriched cultures. Ischemic preconditioning, as well as low concentrations of cobalt and DFO, enhanced the survival of neurons following OGD. However, DMOG exacerbates OGD-induced neuronal death. At low concentrations, all three prolyl-hydroxylase (PHD) inhibitors increased the survival of astrocytes. Neuroprotective concentrations of cobalt induced the transcription of the cytokine erythropoietin (EPO) in astrocyte cultures. In addition, pretreatment with recombinant human erythropoietin (rH-EPO) also protected neurons from OGD. Our data suggest that HIF-induced EPO, released from astrocytes, protects neurons from OGD. However, the three PHD inhibitors each exhibited different neuroprotective profiles at low concentrations, suggesting that not all PHD inhibitors are created equal. The protective effects at low doses is reminiscent of HIF involvement in ischemic tolerance, in which sub-lethal insults induce HIF pathways resulting in neuroprotection, whereas the high-dose toxicity suggests that over-activation of HIF is not always protective. Therefore, the choice of inhibitor and dose may determine the clinical utility of these compounds. Deferoxamine exhibited little toxicity even at higher doses, and therefore appears a promising candidate for clinical use.
Axon terminals forming mixed chemical/electrical synapses in the lateral vestibular nucleus of rat were described over 40 years ago. Because gap junctions formed by connexins are the morphological correlate of electrical synapses, and with demonstrations of widespread expression of the gap junction protein connexin36 (Cx36) in neurons, we investigated the distribution and cellular localization of electrical synapses in the adult and developing rodent vestibular nuclear complex, using immunofluorescence detection of Cx36 as a marker for these synapses. In addition, we examined Cx36 localization in relation to that of the nerve terminal marker vesicular glutamate transporter-1 (vglut-1). An abundance of immunolabeling for Cx36 in the form of Cx36-puncta was found in each of the four major vestibular nuclei of adult rat and mouse. Immunolabeling was associated with somata and initial dendrites of medium and large neurons, and was absent in vestibular nuclei of Cx36 knockout mice. Cx36-puncta were seen either dispersed or aggregated into clusters on the surface of neurons, and were never found to occur intracellularly. Nearly all Cx36-puncta were localized to large nerve terminals immunolabeled for vglut-1. These terminals and their associated Cx36-puncta were substantially depleted after labyrinthectomy. Developmentally, labeling for Cx36 was already present in the vestibular nuclei at postnatal day 5, where it was only partially co-localized with vglut-1, and did not become fully associated with vglut-1-positive terminals until postnatal day 20-25. The results show that vglut-1-positive primary afferent nerve terminals form mixed synapses throughout the vestibular nuclear complex, that the gap junction component of these synapses contains Cx36, that multiple Cx36-containing gap junctions are associated with individual vglut-1 terminals and that the development of these mixed synapses is protracted over several postnatal weeks.
High levels of homocysteine (Hcy), known as hyperhomocysteinemia are associated with neurovascular diseases. H2S, a metabolite of Hcy, has potent anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities; however, the effect of H2S has not been explored in Hcy (IC)-induced neurodegeneration and neurovascular dysfunction in mice. Therefore, the present study was designed to explore the neuroprotective role of H2S on Hcy-induced neurodegeneration and neurovascular dysfunction. To test this hypothesis we employed wild-type (WT) males ages 8-10 weeks, WT+artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF), WT+Hcy (0.5 mol/l) intracerebral injection (IC, one time only prior to NaHS treatment), WT+Hcy+NaHS (sodium hydrogen sulfide, precursor of H2S, 30 mol/kg, body weight). NaHS was injected i.p. once daily for the period of 7 days after the Hcy (IC) injection. Hcy treatment significantly increased malondialdehyde, nitrite level, acetylcholinestrase activity, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1 beta, glial fibrillary acidic protein, inducible nitric oxide synthase, endothelial nitric oxide synthase and decreased glutathione level indicating oxidative-nitrosative stress and neuroinflammation as compared to control and aCSF-treated groups. Further, increased expression of neuron-specific enolase, S100B and decreased expression of (post-synaptic density-95, synaptosome-associated protein-97) synaptic protein indicated neurodegeneration. Brain sections of Hcy-treated mice showed damage in the cortical area and periventricular cells. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated, dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells and Fluro Jade-C staining indicated apoptosis and neurodegeneration. The increased expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) MMP9, MMP2 and decreased expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP) TIMP-1, TIMP-2, tight junction proteins (zonula occulden 1) in Hcy-treated group indicate neurovascular remodeling. Interestingly, NaHS treatment significantly attenuated Hcy-induced oxidative stress, memory deficit, neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation and cerebrovascular remodeling. The results indicate that H2S is effective in providing protection against neurodegeneration and neurovascular dysfunction.
Distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSP) with associated neuropathic pain is the most common neurological disorder affecting patients with human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). Viral protein R (Vpr) is a neurotoxic protein encoded by HIV-1 and secreted by infected macrophages. Vpr reduces neuronal viability, increases cytosolic calcium and membrane excitability of cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons, and is associated with mechanical allodynia in vivo. A clinical trial with HIV/AIDS patients demonstrated that nerve growth factor (NGF) reduced the severity of DSP-associated neuropathic pain, a problem linked to damage to small diameter, potentially NGF-responsive fibers. Herein, the actions of NGF were investigated in our Vpr model of DSP and we demonstrated that NGF significantly protected sensory neurons from the effects of Vpr. Footpads of immunodeficient Vpr transgenic (vpr/RAG1(-/-)) mice displayed allodynia (p&lt;0.05), diminished epidermalinnervation (p&lt;0.01) and reduced NGF mRNA expression (p&lt;0.001) compared to immunodeficient (wildtype/RAG1(-/-)) littermate control mice. Compartmented cultures confirmed recombinant Vpr exposure to the DRG neuronal perikarya decreased distal neurite extension (p&lt;0.01), whereas NGF exposure at these distal axons protected the DRG neurons from the Vpr-induced effect on their cell bodies. NGF prevented Vpr-induced attenuation of the phosphorylated glycogen synthase-3 axon extension pathway and tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA) receptor expression in DRG neurons (p&lt;0.05) and it directly counteracted the cytosolic calcium burst caused by Vpr exposure to DRG neurons (p&lt;0.01). TrkA receptor agonist indicated that NGFacted through the TrkA receptor to block the Vpr-mediated decrease in axon outgrowth in neonatal and adult rat and fetal human DRG neurons (p&lt;0.05). Similarly, inhibiting the lower affinity NGF receptor, p75, blocked Vpr's effect on DRG neurons. Overall, NGF/TrkA signaling or p75 receptor inhibition protects somatic sensory neurons exposed to Vpr, thus laying the groundwork for potential therapeutic options for HIV/AIDS patients suffering from DSP.
Hemorrhagic stroke, including intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), is a devastating subtype of stroke; yet, effective clinical treatment is very limited. Accumulating evidence has shown that mild to moderate hypothermia is a promising intervention for ischemic stroke and ICH. Current physical cooling methods, however, are less efficient and often impractical for acute ICH patients. The present investigation tested pharmacologically induced hypothermia (PIH) using the second-generation neurotensin receptor (NTR) agonist HPI-201 (formerly known as ABS-201) in an adult mouse model with ICH. Acute or delayed administrations of HPI-201 (2mg/kg bolus injection followed by 2 injections of 1mg/kg, i.p.) were initiated at 1 or 24h after ICH. HPI-201 induced mild hypothermia within 30 min and body and brain temperatures were maintained at 32.7  0.4C for at least 6h without causing observable shivering. With the 1-h delayed treatment, HPI-201-induced PIH significantly reduced ICH-induced cell death and brain edema compared to saline-treated ICH animals. When HPI-201-induced hypothermia was initiated 24h after the onset of ICH, it still significantly attenuated brain edema, cell death and blood-brain barrier breakdown. HPI-201 significantly decreased the expression of matrix metallopeptidase-9 (MMP-9), reduced caspase-3 activation, and increased Bcl-2 expression in the ICH brain. Moreover, ICH mice received 1-h delayed HPI-201 treatment performed significantly better in the neurological behavior test 48 h after ICH. All together, these data suggest that systemic injection of HPI-201 is an effective hypothermic strategy that protects the brain from ICH injury with a wide therapeutic window. The protective effect of this PIH therapy is partially mediated through the alleviation of apoptosis and neurovascular damage. We suggest that pharmacological hypothermia using the newly developed neurotensin analogs is a promising therapeutic treatment for ICH.
A clear link exists between iron deficiency (ID) and nigrostriatal dopamine malfunction. This link appears to play an important role in at least restless legs syndrome (RLS) if not several other neurological diseases. Yet, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. The effects of ID on gene expression in the brain have not been studied extensively. Here, to better understand how exactly ID alters dopamine functioning, we investigated the effects of ID on gene expression in the brain, seeking to identify any potential transcription-based mechanisms. We used six strains of recombinant inbred mice (BXD type) known to differ in susceptibility to ID in the brain. Upon weaning, we subjected mice from each strain to either an iron-deficient or iron-adequate diet. After 100 days of dietary treatment, we measured the effects of ID on gene expression in the ventral midbrain, a region containing the substantia nigra. The substantia nigra is the base of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway and a region particularly affected by iron loss in RLS. We screened for ID-induced changes in expression, including changes in that of both iron-regulating and dopamine-related genes. Results revealed a number of expression changes occurring in ID, with large strain-dependent differences in the genes involved and number of expression changes occurring. In terms of dopamine-related genes, results revealed ID-induced expression changes in three genes with direct ties to nigrostriatal dopamine functioning, two of which have never before been implicated in an iron-dopamine pathway. These were stromal cell-derived factor 1 (Cxcl12, or SDF-1), a ferritin regulator and potent dopamine neuromodulator, and hemoglobin, beta adult chain 1 (Hbb-b1), a gene recently shown to play a functional role in dopaminergic neurons. The extent of up-regulation of these genes varied by strain. This work not only demonstrates a wide genetic variation in the transcriptional response to ID in the brain, but also reveals two novel biochemical pathways by which iron may potentially alter dopamine function.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) may affect the excitability of brain circuits by inhibiting neurotransmitter release at central synapses. There is evidence that local delivery of BoNT serotypes A and E, which target SNAP-25, a component of the release machinery specific to excitatory synapses, can inhibit seizure generation. BoNT serotype B (BoNT/B) targets VAMP2, which is expressed in both excitatory and inhibitory terminals. Here we assessed the effects of unilateral intrahippocampal infusion of BoNT/B in the rat on intravenous pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) seizure thresholds, and on the expression of spontaneous behavioral and electrographic seizures. Infusion of BoNT/B (500 and 1,000 unit) by convection-enhanced delivery caused a reduction in myoclonic twitch and clonic seizure thresholds in response to intravenous PTZ beginning about 6 days after the infusion. Handling-evoked and spontaneous convulsive seizures were observed in many BoNT/B-treated animals but not in vehicle-treated controls. Spontaneous electrographic seizure discharges were recorded in the dentate gyrus of animals that received local BoNT/B infusion. In addition, there was an increased frequency of interictal epileptiform spikes and sharp waves at the same recording site. BoNT/B-treated animals also exhibited tactile hyperresponsivity in comparison with vehicle-treated controls. This is the first demonstration that BoNT/B causes a delayed proconvulsant action when infused into the hippocampus. Local infusion of BoNT/B could be useful as a focal epilepsy model.
The voluntary control of respiration is used as a common means to regulate pain and emotions and is fundamental to various relaxation and meditation techniques. The aim of the present study was to examine how breathing frequency and phase affect pain perception, spinal nociceptive activity (RIII-reflex) and brain activity (scalp somatosensory-evoked potentials - SEP's). In 20 healthy volunteers, painful electric shocks individually adjusted to 120% of the RIII-reflex threshold were delivered to the sural nerve near the end of inspiration or expiration phases, during three cued-breathing conditions: (1) slow breathing (0.1 Hz) with slow (4s) inspiration (0.1Hz-SlowIns), (2) slow breathing (0.1 Hz) with fast (2s) inspiration (0.1 Hz-FastIns), and (3) normal breathing (0.2 Hz) with fast (2s) inspiration (0.2 Hz). Pain ratings were not affected by breathing patterns (p=0.3), but were significantly lower during inspiration compared with expiration (p=0.02). This phase effect was also observed on the N100 component of SEP's, but only in the 0.1-Hz-FastIns condition (p=0.03). In contrast, RIII-reflex amplitude was greater during inspiration compared with expiration (p=0.02). It was also decreased in the 0.1-Hz-SlowIns compared with the 0.2-Hz condition (p=0.01). Slow breathing also increased the amplitude of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), although these changes were not significantly associated with changes in pain responses. In conclusion, this study shows that pain and pain-related brain activity may be reduced during inspiration but these changes are dissociated from spinal nociceptive transmission. The small amplitude of these effects suggests that factors other than respiration contribute to the analgesic effects of relaxation and meditation techniques.
Although hippocampal sclerosis is frequently identified as a possible epileptic focus in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, neuronal loss has also been observed in additional structures, including areas outside the temporal lobe. The claim from several researchers using animal models of acquired epilepsy that the immature brain can develop epilepsy without evidence of hippocampal neuronal death raises the possibility that neuronal death in some of these other regions may also be important for epileptogenesis. The present study used the lithium pilocarpine model of acquired epilepsy in immature animals to assess which structures outside the hippocampus are injured acutely after status epilepticus. Sprague-Dawley rat pups were implanted with surface EEG electrodes, and status epilepticus was induced at 20 days of age with lithium pilocarpine. After 72 h, brain tissue from 12 animals was examined with Fluoro-Jade B, a histochemical marker for degenerating neurons. All animals that had confirmed status epilepticus demonstrated Fluoro-Jade B staining in areas outside the hippocampus. The most prominent staining was seen in the thalamus (mediodorsal, paratenial, reuniens, and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei), amygdala (ventral lateral, posteromedial, and basomedial nuclei), ventral premammillary nuclei of hypothalamus, and paralimbic cortices (perirhinal, entorhinal, and piriform) as well as parasubiculum and dorsal endopiriform nuclei. These results demonstrate that lithium pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in the immature rat brain consistently results in neuronal injury in several distinct areas outside of the hippocampus. Many of these regions are similar to areas damaged in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, thus suggesting a possible role in epileptogenesis.
We previously reported that the novel antidepressant-like effect of tipepidine may be produced at least partly through the activation of mesolimbic dopamine (DA) neurons via inhibiting G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. In this study, we investigated the action of tipepidine on DA D2 receptor-mediated GIRK currents (IDA(GIRK)) and membrane excitability in DA neurons using the voltage clamp and current clamp modes of the patch-clamp techniques, respectively. DA neurons were acutely dissociated from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in rats and identified by the presence of the hyperpolarization-activated currents. Tipepidine reversibly inhibited IDA(GIRK) with IC50 7.0 M and also abolished IDA(GIRK) irreversibly activated in the presence of intracellular GTPS. Then tipepidine depolarized membrane potential and generated action potentials in the neurons current-clamped. Furthermore, the drug at 40 mg/kg, i.p. increased the number of cells immunopositive both for c-Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the VTA. These results suggest that tipepidine may activate DA neurons in VTA through the inhibition of GIRK channel-activated currents.
Focal malformations of cortical development (FMCD) are highly associated with several neurological disorders including intractable epilepsy and neurocognitive disabilities. Over the past decade, several FMCD subtypes have been linked to hyperactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling cascade. In view of the roles that mTOR plays in cell proliferation, size, motility, and stem cell phenotype, many of the features of FMCD such as cytomegaly, disorganized lamination, and expression of stem cell markers can be explained by enhanced mTOR signaling. FMCD result from several distinct and fascinating molecular mechanisms including biallelic gene inactivation, somatic mutation, and potentially, viral infection. These mechanisms have been directly linked to mTOR activation. Perhaps most compelling, pharmacological inhibition of mTOR has been implemented successfully in clinical trials for select FMCD and provides a new vista for treatment.
Familial dysautonomia (FD) is a devastating developmental and progressive peripheral neuropathy caused by a mutation in the gene inhibitor of kappa B kinase complex-associated protein (IKBKAP). To identify the cellular and molecular mechanisms that cause FD, we generated mice in which Ikbkap expression is ablated in the peripheral nervous system and identify the steps in peripheral nervous system development that are Ikbkap-dependent. We show that Ikbkap is not required for trunk neural crest migration or pathfinding, nor for the formation of dorsal root or sympathetic ganglia, or the adrenal medulla. Instead, Ikbkap is essential for the second wave of neurogenesis during which the majority of tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA(+)) nociceptors and thermoreceptors arise. In its absence, approximately half the normal complement of TrkA(+) neurons are lost, which we show is partly due to p53-mediated premature differentiation and death of mitotically-active progenitors that express the paired-box gene Pax3 and give rise to the majority of TrkA(+) neurons. By the end of sensory development, the number of TrkC neurons is significantly increased, which may result from an increase in Runx3(+) cells. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that TrkA(+) (but not TrkC(+)) sensory and sympathetic neurons undergo exacerbated Caspase 3-mediated programmed cell death in the absence of Ikbkap and that this death is not due to a reduction in nerve growth factor synthesis. In summary, these data suggest that FD does not result from a failure in trunk neural crest migration, but rather from a critical function for Ikbkap in TrkA progenitors and TrkA(+) neurons.
Accumulating evidence from mice expressing ALS-causing mutations in superoxide dismutase (SOD1) has implicated pathological immune responses in motor neuron degeneration. This includes microglial activation, lymphocyte infiltration, and the induction of C1q, the initiating component of the classic complement system that is the protein-based arm of the innate immune response, in motor neurons of multiple ALS mouse models expressing dismutase active or inactive SOD1 mutants. Robust induction early in disease course is now identified for multiple complement components (including C1q, C4, and C3) in spinal cords of SOD1 mutant-expressing mice, consistent with initial intraneuronal C1q induction, followed by global activation of the complement pathway. We now test if this activation is a mechanistic contributor to disease. Deletion of the C1q gene in mice expressing an ALS-causing mutant in SOD1 to eliminate C1q induction, and complement cascade activation that follows from it, is demonstrated to produce changes in microglial morphology accompanied by enhanced loss, not retention, of synaptic densities during disease. C1q-dependent synaptic loss is shown to be especially prominent for cholinergic C-bouton nerve terminal input onto motor neurons in affected C1q-deleted SOD1 mutant mice. Nevertheless, overall onset and progression of disease are unaffected in C1q- and C3-deleted ALS mice, thus establishing that C1q induction and classic or alternative complement pathway activation do not contribute significantly to SOD1 mutant-mediated ALS pathogenesis in mice.
Intravital microscopy is a key means of monitoring cellular function in live organisms, but surgical preparation of a live animal for microscopy often is time-consuming, requires considerable skill, and limits experimental throughput. Here we introduce a spatially precise (&lt;1-m edge precision), high-speed (&lt;1 s), largely automated, and economical protocol for microsurgical preparation of live animals for optical imaging. Using a 193-nm pulsed excimer laser and the fruit fly as a model, we created observation windows (12- to 350-m diameters) in the exoskeleton. Through these windows we used two-photon microscopy to image odor-evoked Ca(2+) signaling in projection neuron dendrites of the antennal lobe and Kenyon cells of the mushroom body. The impact of a laser-cut window on fly health appears to be substantially less than that of conventional manual dissection, for our imaging durations of up to 18 h were 5-20 times longer than prior in vivo microscopy studies of hand-dissected flies. This improvement will facilitate studies of numerous questions in neuroscience, such as those regarding neuronal plasticity or learning and memory. As a control, we used phototaxis as an exemplary complex behavior in flies and found that laser microsurgery is sufficiently gentle to leave it intact. To demonstrate that our techniques are applicable to other species, we created microsurgical openings in nematodes, ants, and the mouse cranium. In conjunction with emerging robotic methods for handling and mounting flies or other small organisms, our rapid, precisely controllable, and highly repeatable microsurgical techniques should enable automated, high-throughput preparation of live animals for optical experimentation.
Human minds often wander away from their immediate sensory environment. It remains unknown whether such mind wandering is unsystematic or whether it lawfully relates to an individual's tendency to attend to salient stimuli such as pain and their associated brain structure/function. Studies of pain-cognition interactions typically examine explicit manipulation of attention rather than spontaneous mind wandering. Here we sought to better represent natural fluctuations in pain in daily life, so we assessed behavioral and neural aspects of spontaneous disengagement of attention from pain. We found that an individual's tendency to attend to pain related to the disruptive effect of pain on his or her cognitive task performance. Next, we linked behavioral findings to neural networks with strikingly convergent evidence from functional magnetic resonance imaging during pain coupled with thought probes of mind wandering, dynamic resting state activity fluctuations, and diffusion MRI. We found that (i) pain-induced default mode network (DMN) deactivations were attenuated during mind wandering away from pain; (ii) functional connectivity fluctuations between the DMN and periaqueductal gray (PAG) dynamically tracked spontaneous attention away from pain; and (iii) across individuals, stronger PAG-DMN structural connectivity and more dynamic resting state PAG-DMN functional connectivity were associated with the tendency to mind wander away from pain. These data demonstrate that individual tendencies to mind wander away from pain, in the absence of explicit manipulation, are subserved by functional and structural connectivity within and between default mode and antinociceptive descending modulation networks.
Cryoelectron microscopy and X-ray crystallography have recently been used to generate structural models that likely represent the unliganded closed-channel conformation and the fully liganded open-channel conformation of different members of the nicotinic-receptor superfamily. To characterize the structure of the closed-channel conformation in its liganded state, we identified a number of positions in the loop between transmembrane segments 2 (M2) and 3 (M3) of a proton-gated ortholog from the bacterium Gloeobacter violaceus (GLIC) where mutations to alanine reduce the liganded-gating equilibrium constant, and solved the crystal structures of two such mutants (T25'A and Y27'A) at pH ~4.0. At the level of backbone atoms, the liganded closed-channel model presented here differs from the liganded open-channel structure of GLIC in the pre-M1 linker, the M3-M4 loop, and much more prominently, in the extracellular half of the pore lining, where the more pronounced tilt of the closed-channel M2 -helices toward the pore's long axis narrows the permeation pathway. On the other hand, no differences between the liganded closed-channel and open-channel models could be detected at the level of the extracellular domain, where conformational changes are expected to underlie the low-to-high proton-affinity switch that drives gating of proton-bound channels. Thus, the liganded closed-channel model is nearly indistinguishable from the recently described &quot;locally closed&quot; structure. However, because cross-linking strategies (which could have stabilized unstable conformations) and mutations involving ionizable side chains (which could have affected proton-gated channel activation) were purposely avoided, we favor the notion that this structure represents one of the end states of liganded gating rather than an unstable intermediate.
In the last decade there has been an exponential increase in knowledge about the genetic basis of complex human traits, including neuropsychiatric disorders. It is not clear, however, to what extent this knowledge can be used as a starting point for drug identification, one of the central hopes of the human genome project. The aim of the present study was to identify memory-modulating compounds through the use of human genetic information. We performed a multinational collaborative study, which included assessment of aversive memory--a trait central to posttraumatic stress disorder--and a gene-set analysis in healthy individuals. We identified 20 potential drug target genes in two genomewide-corrected gene sets: the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and the long-term depression gene set. In a subsequent double-blind, placebo-controlled study in healthy volunteers, we aimed at providing a proof of concept for the genome-guided identification of memory modulating compounds. Pharmacological intervention at the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction gene set led to significant reduction of aversive memory. The findings demonstrate that genome information, along with appropriate data mining methodology, can be used as a starting point for the identification of memory-modulating compounds.






The precise and remarkable subdivision of myelinated axons into molecularly and functionally distinct membrane domains depends on axoglial junctions that function as barriers. However, the molecular basis of these barriers remains poorly understood. Here, we report that genetic ablation and loss of axonal II spectrin eradicated the paranodal barrier that normally separates juxtaparanodal K(+) channel protein complexes located beneath the myelin sheath from Na(+) channels located at nodes of Ranvier. Surprisingly, the K(+) channels and their associated proteins redistributed into paranodes where they colocalized with intact Caspr-labeled axoglial junctions. Furthermore, electron microscopic analysis of the junctions showed intact paranodal septate-like junctions. Thus, the paranodal spectrin-based submembranous cytoskeleton comprises the paranodal barriers required for myelinated axon domain organization.
Glia serve many important functions in the mature nervous system. In addition, these diverse cells have emerged as essential participants in nearly all aspects of neural development. Improved techniques to study neurons in the absence of glia, and to visualize and manipulate glia in vivo, have greatly expanded our knowledge of glial biology and neuron-glia interactions during development. Exciting studies in the last decade have begun to identify the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which glia exert control over neuronal circuit formation. Recent findings illustrate the importance of glial cells in shaping the nervous system by controlling the number and connectivity of neurons.
The concept that target tissues determine the survival of neurons has inspired much of the thinking on neuronal development in vertebrates, not least because it is supported by decades of research on nerve growth factor (NGF) in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Recent discoveries now help to understand why only some developing neurons selectively depend on NGF. They also indicate that the survival of most neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) is not simply regulated by single growth factors like in the PNS. Additionally, components of the cell death machinery have begun to be recognized as regulators of selective axonal degeneration and synaptic function, thus playing a critical role in wiring up the nervous system.
The serine/threonine protein phosphatase protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is known to play an important role in learning and memory by mediating local and downstream aspects of synaptic signaling, but how PP1 activity is controlled in different forms of synaptic plasticity remains unknown. We find that synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor stimulation in neurons leads to activation of PP1 through a mechanism involving inhibitory phosphorylation at Thr320 by Cdk5. Synaptic stimulation led to proteasome-dependent degradation of the Cdk5 regulator p35, inactivation of Cdk5, and increased auto-dephosphorylation of Thr320 of PP1. We also found that neither inhibitor-1 nor calcineurin were involved in the control of PP1 activity in response to synaptic NMDA receptor stimulation. Rather, the PP1 regulatory protein, inhibitor-2, formed a complex with PP1 that was controlled by synaptic stimulation. Finally, we found that inhibitor-2 was critical for the induction of long-term depression in primary neurons. Our work fills a major gap regarding the regulation of PP1 in synaptic plasticity.



The repetition of experience is often necessary to establish long-lasting memory. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying this repetition-dependent consolidation of memory remain unclear. We previously observed in organotypic slice cultures of the rodent hippocampus that repeated inductions of long-term potentiation (LTP) led to a slowly developing long-lasting synaptic enhancement coupled with synaptogenesis. We also reported that repeated inductions of long-term depression (LTD) produced a long-lasting synaptic suppression coupled with synapse elimination. We proposed these phenomena as useful in vitro models for analyzing repetition-dependent consolidation. Here, we hypothesized that the enhancement and suppression are mediated by the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-TrkB signaling pathway and the proBDNF-p75(NTR) pathway, respectively. When we masked the respective pathways, reversals of the enhancement and suppression resulted. These results suggest the alternative activation of the p75(NTR) pathway by BDNF under TrkB-masking conditions and of the TrkB pathway by proBDNF under p75(NTR)-masking conditions, thus supporting the aforementioned hypothesis.











Neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) functions in neuronal migration, survival and differentiation as well as synaptogenesis during ontogenetic development and maintenance of synaptic functions in the adult mammalian brain. The neural adhesion molecule L1 (L1CAM) functions in similar overlapping, but also non-overlapping roles in the nervous system. In the present study, we therefore investigated some aspects of the functional relationship between Nrg1 and L1 in mammalian neural cells. Nrg1 regulates the expression of L1 in cultures of both human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells and mouse cortical and hippocampal neurons. To analyze the role of Nrg1 on L1 expression in vivo, young adult male mice received intraperitoneal injections of Nrg1 or PBS (vehicle control). The correlation between Nrg1 and L1 expression was tested by qPCR, Western blot analysis, and immunocytology. Our data indicate that neuregulin 1- (Nrg1) increases L1 expression in neurons of the cerebral cortex, and decreases expression in neurons of the hippocampus in vitro and in vivo. In addition, Nrg1 induces phosphorylation of its receptors, ErbB2 and ErbB4, the predominant ErbB receptors in the nervous system. These results show that Nrg1 affects expression of L1 in the central nervous system and in parallel activates the ErbB receptors for Nrg1, suggesting a crosstalk between molecules that are of prime importance for nervous system functions.



Most modern theories of spatial attention suggest that it is based on a maplike representation that prioritizes information in some spatial locations over others. However, movement through space changes the relationship between what is &quot;out there&quot; and a person's viewpoint. Does spatial attention move with the viewer, or does it stay in environmental locations? Several recent psychophysical and neuroscience studies have attempted to address this question by probing attention following saccadic eye movements. The alignment of the head and body to the external environment in these studies, however, makes it impossible to determine whether attention is based on the viewer's location in space or on the external environment. The current study therefore introduces a head and/or body tilt through the vertical plane to dissociate viewer-centered from environment-centered representations. Participants first acquired a long-lasting attentional bias to a region of the search display that was likely to contain a target. They then tilted their head or body, and the location of the spatial bias was evaluated. The results suggest that attention has both a viewer-centered component that rotates with the viewer's head and an environment-centered component that is tied to environmental locations.
Induced cell fate changes by reprogramming of somatic cells offers an efficient strategy to generate autologous pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from any adult cell type. The potential of iPS cells to differentiate into various cell types is well established, however the efficiency to produce functional neurons from iPS cells remains modest. Here, we generated panneural progenitor cells (pNPCs) from mouse iPS cells and investigated the effect of the neurotrophic growth factor erythropoietin (EPO) on their survival, proliferation and neurodifferentiation. Under neural differentiation conditions, iPS-derived pNPCs gave rise to microtubule-associated protein-2 positive neuronlike cells (34% to 43%) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor positive oligodendrocytelike cells (21% to 25%) while less than 1% of the cells expressed the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. Neuronlike cells generated action potentials and developed active presynaptic terminals. The pNPCs expressed EPO receptor (EPOR) mRNA and displayed functional EPOR signaling. In proliferating cultures, EPO (0.1-3 U/mL) slightly improved pNPC survival but reduced cell proliferation and neurosphere formation in a concentration-dependent manner. In differentiating cultures EPO facilitated neurodifferentiation as assessed by the increased number of -III-tubulin positive neurons. Our results show that EPO inhibits iPS pNPC self-renewal and promotes neurogenesis.

Cryptocaryon irritans is a parasitic ciliate and responsible for cryptocaryosis of ocean teleostean. In this paper, one gene homologous to 14-3-3 was isolated from cDNA library of C. irritans trophont/protomont stage and designated as Ci14-3-3. The full-length cDNA of the gene was 892bp with an open reading frame of 744bp, which encoded a polypeptide of 247 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 28.4kDa. After modification of the non-universal genetic codes, the open reading frame of Ci14-3-3 was inserted into plasmid pGEX-4T-1, transformed into Escherichia coli DH5 strain and then expressed as a glutathione S transferase fusion protein (rCi14-3-3). The result of western blot analysis showed that the rCi14-3-3 had antigenicity and the Ci14-3-3 gene in C. irritans was expressed at all stages of life cycle. The endogenous Ci14-3-3 not only distributed in cytoplasm, but also presented on the plasma membrane and the front end of cytostome in newly hatched theronts. However, when theronts were dying the protein appeared as dot-like aggregates around the nucleuses. The murine anti-rCi14-3-3 sera were capable of causing agglutination/immobilization of theronts, suggesting its potential for vaccine development.
Spinal muscular atrophies (SMAs) are a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders characterized by degeneration of anterior horn cells and progressive muscle weakness. In two unrelated families affected by a distinct form of autosomal-dominant distal SMA initially manifesting with calf weakness, we identified by genetic linkage analysis and exome sequencing a heterozygous missense mutation, c.616T&gt;C (p.Cys206Arg), in F-box protein 38 (FBXO38). FBXO38 is a known coactivator of the transcription factor Krppel-like factor 7 (KLF7), which regulates genes required for neuronal axon outgrowth and repair. The p.Cys206Arg substitution did not alter the subcellular localization of FBXO38 but did impair KLF7-mediated transactivation of a KLF7-responsive promoter construct and endogenous KLF7 target genes in both heterologously expressing human embryonic kidney 293T cells and fibroblasts derived from individuals with the FBXO38 missense mutation. This transcriptional dysregulation was associated with an impairment of neurite outgrowth in primarymotor neurons. Together, these results suggest that a transcriptional regulatory pathway that has a well-established role inaxonal development could also be critical for neuronal maintenance and highlight the importance of FBXO38 and KLF7 activity in motor neurons.

The Special Issue &quot;Treatment resistance in Eating Disorders&quot; gathers together the contributions provided by several experienced groups of researchers in the field of Eating Disorders (EDs). The main topic is addressed from multiple perspectives ranging from pathogenesis (including developmental and maintaining factors) to treatment. An explicative model of resistance in EDs is also proposed.


The physical effort required to seek out and extract a resource is an important consideration for a foraging animal. A second consideration is the variability or risk associated with resource delivery. An intriguing observation from ethological studies is that animals shift their preference from stable to variable food sources under conditions of increased physical effort or falling energetic reserves. Although theoretical models for this effect exist, no exploration into its biological basis has been pursued. Recent advances in understanding the neural basis of effort- and risk-guided decision making suggest that opportunities exist for determining how effort influences risk preference. In this review, we describe the intersection between the neural systems involved in effort- and risk-guided decision making and outline two mechanisms by which effort-induced changes in dopamine release may increase the preference for variable rewards.
In neuroscience, signal processing, memory and learning function are established in the brain by modifying ionic fluxes in neurons and synapses. Emulation of memory and learning behaviors of biological systems by nanoscale ionic/electronic devices is highly desirable for building neuromorphic systems or even artificial neural networks. Here, novel artificial synapses based on junctionless oxide-based protonic/electronic hybrid transistors gated by nanogranular phosphorus-doped SiO2-based proton-conducting films are fabricated on glass substrates by a room-temperature process. Short-term memory (STM) and long-term memory (LTM) are mimicked by tuning the pulse gate voltage amplitude. The LTM process in such an artificial synapse is due to the proton-related interfacial electrochemical reaction. Our results are highly desirable for building future neuromorphic systems or even artificial networks via electronic elements.




The sensory cortex contains a wide array of neuronal types, which are connected together into complex but partially stereotyped circuits. Sensory stimuli trigger cascades of electrical activity through these circuits, causing specific features of sensory scenes to be encoded in the firing patterns of cortical populations. Recent research is beginning to reveal how the connectivity of individual neurons relates to the sensory features they encode, how differences in the connectivity patterns of different cortical cell classes enable them to encode information using different strategies, and how feedback connections from higher-order cortex allow sensory information to be integrated with behavioural context.





Neuronal dendrites are electrically excitable: they can generate regenerative events such as dendritic spikes in response to sufficiently strong synaptic input. Although such events have been observed in many neuronal types, it is not well understood how active dendrites contribute to the tuning of neuronal output in vivo. Here we show that dendritic spikes increase the selectivity of neuronal responses to the orientation of a visual stimulus (orientation tuning). We performed direct patch-clamp recordings from the dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex of lightly anaesthetized and awake mice, during sensory processing. Visual stimulation triggered regenerative local dendritic spikes that were distinct from back-propagating action potentials. These events were orientation tuned and were suppressed by either hyperpolarization of membrane potential or intracellular blockade of NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) receptors. Both of these manipulations also decreased the selectivity of subthreshold orientation tuning measured at the soma, thus linking dendritic regenerative events to somatic orientation tuning. Together, our results suggest that dendritic spikes that are triggered by visual input contribute to a fundamental cortical computation: enhancing orientation selectivity in the visual cortex. Thus, dendritic excitability is an essential component of behaviourally relevant computations in neurons.



Motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease are commonly treated using l-DOPA although long-term treatment usually causes debilitating motor side effects including dyskinesias. A putative source of dyskinesia is abnormally high levels of phosphorylated extracellular-regulated kinase (pERK) within the striatum. In animal models, the serotonin 1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT reduces dyskinesia, suggesting it may exhibit efficacy through the pERK pathway. The present study investigated the effects of 8-OH-DPAT on pERK density in rats treated with l-DOPA or the D1 receptor agonist SKF81297. Rats were given a unilateral dopamine lesion with 6-hydroxydopamine and primed with a chronic regimen of l-DOPA, SKF81297 or their vehicles. On the final test day, rats were given two injections: first with 8-OH-DPAT, the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 or their vehicles, and second with l-DOPA, SKF81297 or their vehicles. Rats were then transcardially perfused for immunohistological analysis of pERK expression in the striatum and primary motor cortex. Rats showed greater dyskinesia in response to l-DOPA and SKF81297 after repeated injections. Although striatal pERK induction was similar between acute and chronic l-DOPA, SKF81297 caused the largest increase in striatal pERK after the first exposure. Neither compound alone affected motor cortex pERK. Surprisingly, in the ventromedial striatum, 8-OH-DPAT potentiated l-DOPA-induced pERK; in the motor cortex, 8-OH-DPAT potentiated pERK with l-DOPA or SKF81297. Our results support previous work that the striatal pERK pathway is dysregulated after dopamine depletion, but call into question the utility of pERK as a biomarker of dyskinesia expression.
Congenital amusia is a neuro-developmental disorder of music perception and production. Recent findings have demonstrated that this deficit is linked to an impaired short-term memory for tone sequences. As it has been shown before that non-musicians' implicit knowledge of musical regularities can improve short-term memory for tone information, the present study investigated if this type of implicit knowledge could also influence amusics' short-term memory performance. Congenital amusics and their matched controls, who were non-musicians, had to indicate whether sequences of five tones, presented in pairs, were the same or different; half of the pairs respected musical regularities (tonal sequences) and the other half did not (atonal sequences). As previously reported for non-musician participants, the control participants showed better performance (as measured with d') for tonal sequences than for atonal ones. While this improvement was not observed in amusics, both control and amusic participants showed faster response times for tonal sequences than for atonal sequences. These findings suggest that some implicit processing of tonal structures is potentially preserved in congenital amusia. This observation is encouraging as it strengthens the perspective to exploit implicit knowledge to help reducing pitch perception and memory deficits in amusia.
Melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R)-expressing neurons are widely distributed in the central nervous system and play a crucial role in a variety of physiological functions including energy and glucose/insulin homeostasis. However, their neural pathways remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we examined a possible pathway from MC4R-expressing neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMV) to the intrapancreatic ganglia using transgenic mice that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of the MC4R-promoter. Using immunofluorescence labeling, we demonstrated that GFP-immunoreactive (ir) nerve fibers were distributed in the intrapancreatic ganglia closely associated with the islets as well as among the acini. These GFP-ir fibers with bouton-like varicosities were frequently observed to surround ganglion cells immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, a marker for postganglionic parasympathetic neurons. Using the pre-embedding immunoperoxidase method, we clearly showed that GFP-ir terminals formed synapses predominantly with dendrites and additionally with somata of the ganglion cells. Moreover, bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy caused a marked loss of GFP immunoreactivity in the pancreas. Using a combination of retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry, we finally demonstrated that nearly half of the pancreas-projecting DMV neurons were immunoreactive for GFP. These results suggest that MC4R-expressing DMV neurons may participate in the regulation of glucose/insulin homeostasis through their projections to the intrapancreatic ganglia.
In humans, Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is characterized by enhanced fear, hyperactivity, social anxiety, and, in a subset of individuals, autism. Many of the emotional and social deficits point to defects in the amygdala. We have previously shown defects in inhibitory neuron drive onto excitatory projection neurons in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of juvenile Fmr1(-/y) knockout (KO) mice. Using pharmacological approaches, we have also previously revealed dynamic functional deficits in 1, 2, and 3 subunit-containing GABAA receptors (GABAARs 1, 2, and 3) during early postnatal development. In this study, we sought to determine whether these defects in GABAAR function are accompanied by changes in protein expression of GABAARs 1, 2, and 3 and the post-synaptic GABAAR-clustering protein gephyrin. Interestingly, we found that while the expression of these proteins did not significantly differ between wildtype (WT) and KO mice at each time point, the timing of developmental expression of GABAAR 1, 2, and gephyrin was altered. Collectively, these data reveal novel defects in inhibitory synapse protein expression during critical periods of early postnatal development that could contribute to observed inhibitory neurotransmission deficits in the KO mouse BLA.
In this study we investigated the functional connectivity in 23 Mild TBI (mTBI) patients with and without memory complaints using resting state fMRI in the sub-acute stage of injury as well as a group of control participants. Results indicate that mTBI patients with memory complaints performed significantly worse than patients without memory complaints on tests assessing memory from the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM). Altered functional connectivity was observed between the three groups between the default mode network (DMN) and the nodes of the task positive network (TPN). Altered functional connectivity was also observed between both the TPN and DMN and nodes associated with the Salience Network (SN). Following mTBI there is a reduction in anti-correlated networks for both those with and without memory complaints for the DMN, but only a reduction in the anti-correlated network in mTBI patients with memory complaints for the TPN. Furthermore, an increased functional connectivity between the TPN and SN appears to be associated with reduced performance on memory assessments. Overall the results suggest that a disruption in the segregation of the DMN and the TPN at rest may be mediated through both a direct pathway of increased FC between various nodes of the TPN and DMN, and through an indirect pathway that links the TPN and DMN through nodes of the SN. This disruption between networks may cause a detrimental impact on memory functioning following mTBI, supporting the Default Mode Interference Hypothesis in the context of mTBI related memory deficits.
In their natural environment, animals experience a complex and dynamic visual scenery. Under such natural stimulus conditions, neurons in the visual cortex employ a spatially and temporally sparse code. For the input scenario of natural still images, previous work demonstrated that unsupervised feature learning combined with the constraint of sparse coding can predict physiologically measured receptive fields of simple cells in the primary visual cortex. This convincingly indicated that the mammalian visual system is adapted to the natural spatial input statistics. Here, we extend this approach to the time domain in order to predict dynamic receptive fields that can account for both spatial and temporal sparse activation in biological neurons. We rely on temporal restricted Boltzmann machines and suggest a novel temporal autoencoding training procedure. When tested on a dynamic multi-variate benchmark dataset this method outperformed existing models of this class. Learning features on a large dataset of natural movies allowed us to model spatio-temporal receptive fields for single neurons. They resemble temporally smooth transformations of previously obtained static receptive fields and are thus consistent with existing theories. A neuronal spike response model demonstrates how the dynamic receptive field facilitates temporal and population sparseness. We discuss the potential mechanisms and benefits of a spatially and temporally sparse representation of natural visual input.
Insects have a remarkable ability to identify and track odour sources in multi-odour backgrounds. Recent behavioural experiments show that this ability relies on detecting millisecond stimulus asynchronies between odourants that originate from different sources. Honeybees, Apis mellifera, are able to distinguish mixtures where both odourants arrive at the same time (synchronous mixtures) from those where odourant onsets are staggered (asynchronous mixtures) down to an onset delay of only 6ms. In this paper we explore this surprising ability in a model of the insects' primary olfactory brain area, the antennal lobe. We hypothesize that a winner-take-all inhibitory network of local neurons in the antennal lobe has a symmetry-breaking effect, such that the response pattern in projection neurons to an asynchronous mixture is different from the response pattern to the corresponding synchronous mixture for an extended period of time beyond the initial odourant onset where the two mixture conditions actually differ. The prolonged difference between response patterns to synchronous and asynchronous mixtures could facilitate odoursegregation in downstream circuits of the olfactory pathway. We present a detailed data-driven model of the bee antennal lobe that reproduces a large data set of experimentally observed physiological odour responses, successfully implements the hypothesised symmetry-breaking mechanism and so demonstrates that this mechanism is consistent with our current knowledge of the olfactory circuits in the bee brain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Neural Coding 2012.
A major challenge in sensory neuroscience is to elucidate the coding and processing of stimulus representations in successive populations of neurons. Here we recorded the spiking activity of receptor neurons (RNs) and mitral/tufted cells (MCs) in the frog olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb respectively, in response to four odorants applied at precisely controlled concentrations. We compared how RN responses are translated in MCs. We examined the time course of the instantaneous firing frequency before and after stimulation in neuron ensembles and the dependency on odorant concentration of the number of action potentials fired in a preselected 5-s time window (dose-response curves) in both single neurons and neuron ensembles. In RNs and MCs, the dose-response curves typically increase then decrease and are well described by alpha functions. We established the main quantitative properties of these curves, including the distributions of concentrations at threshold and maximum responses. We showed that the main transformations occurring in the transition from RNs to MCs is the lowering of the firing threshold and a large decrease in the total number of spikes fired. We also found that the number of action potentials fired by recorded neurons and hence their energy consumption is independent of odorant concentration, and that this is a consequence of their time- and concentration-dependent activities. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Neural Coding 2012.
Different levels of cholinergic neuromodulatory tone have been hypothesized to set the state of cortical circuits either to one dominated by local cortical recurrent activity (low ACh) or to one dependent on thalamic input (high ACh). High ACh levels depress intracortical but facilitate thalamocortical synapses, whereas low levels potentiate intracortical synapses. Furthermore, recent work has implicated the thalamus in controlling cortical network state during waking and attention, when ACh levels are highest. To test this hypothesis, we used rat thalamocortical slices maintained in medium to generate spontaneous up- and down-states and applied different ACh concentrations to slices in which thalamocortical connections were either maintained or severed. The effects on spontaneous and evoked up-states were measured using voltage-sensitive dye imaging, intracellular recordings, local field potentials, and single/multiunit activity. We found that high ACh can increase the frequency of spontaneous up-states, but reduces their duration in slices with intact thalamocortical connections. Strikingly, when thalamic connections are severed, high ACh instead greatly reduces or abolishes spontaneous up-states. Furthermore, high ACh reduces the spatial propagation, velocity, and depolarization amplitude of evoked up-states. In contrast, low ACh dramatically increases up-state frequency regardless of the presence or absence of intact thalamocortical connections and does not reduce the duration, spatial propagation, or velocity of evoked up-states. Therefore, our data support the hypothesis that strong cholinergic modulation increases the influence, and thus the signal-to-noise ratio, of afferent input over local cortical activity and that lower cholinergic tone enhances recurrent cortical activity regardless of thalamic input.
Plastic changes in the efficacy of synapses are widely regarded to represent mechanisms underlying memory formation. So far, evidence for learning-dependent, new neuronal wiring is limited. In this study, we demonstrate that pavlovian eyeblink conditioning in adult mice can induce robust axonal growth and synapse formation in the cerebellar nuclei. This de novo wiring is both condition specific and region specific because it does not occur in pseudoconditioned animals and is particularly observed in those parts of the cerebellar nuclei that have been implicated to be involved in this form of motor learning. Moreover, the number of new mossy fiber varicosities in these parts of the cerebellar nuclei is positively correlated with the amplitude of conditioned eyelid responses. These results indicate that outgrowth of axons and concomitant occurrence of new terminals may, in addition to plasticity of synaptic efficacy, contribute to the formation of memory.
Nav1.8 is a tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel selectively expressed in primary sensory neurons. Peripheral inflammation and nerve injury induce Nav1.8 accumulation in peripheral nerves. However, the mechanisms and related significance of channel accumulation in nerves remains unclear. Here we report that KIF5B promotes the forward transport of Nav1.8 to the plasma membrane and axons in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of the rat. In peripheral inflammation induced through the intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant, increased KIF5 and Nav1.8 accumulation were observed in the sciatic nerve. The knock-down of KIF5B, a highly expressed member of the KIF5 family in DRGs, reduced the current density of Nav1.8 in both cultured DRG neurons and ND7-23 cells. Overexpression of KIF5B in ND7-23 cells increased the current density and surface expression of Nav1.8, which were abolished through brefeldin A treatment, whereas the increases were lost in KIF5B mutants defective in ATP hydrolysis or cargo binding. Overexpression of KIF5B also decreased the proteasome-associated degradation of Nav1.8. In addition, coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed interactions between the N terminus of Nav1.8 and the 511-620 aa sequence in the stalk domain of KIF5B. Furthermore, KIF5B increased Nav1.8 accumulation, Nav1.8 current, and neuronal excitability detected in the axons of cultured DRG neurons, which were completely abolished by the disruption of interactions between KIF5B and the N terminus of Nav1.8. Therefore, our results reveal that KIF5B is required for the forward transport and axonal function of Nav1.8, suggesting a mechanism for axonal accumulation of Nav1.8 in inflammatory pain.
The present study examined the consequences of eliminating horizontal cells from the outer retina during embryogenesis upon the organization and assembly of the outer plexiform layer (OPL). Retinal horizontal cells exhibit a migration defect in Lim1-conditional knock-out (Lim1-CKO) mice and become mispositioned in the inner retina before birth, redirecting their dendrites into the inner plexiform layer. The resultant (mature) OPL, developing in the absence of horizontal cells, shows a retraction of rod spherules into the outer nuclear layer and a sprouting of rod bipolar cell dendrites to reach ectopic ribbon-protein puncta. Cone pedicles and the dendrites of type 7 cone bipolar cells retain their characteristic stratification and colocalization within the collapsed OPL, although both are atrophic and the spatial distribution of the pedicles is disrupted. Developmental analysis of Lim1-CKO retina reveals that components of the rod and cone pathways initially co-assemble within their normal strata in the OPL, indicating that horizontal cells are not required for the correct targeting of photoreceptor terminals or bipolar cell dendrites. As the rod spherules begin to retract during the second postnatal week, rod bipolar cells initially show no signs of ectopic growth, sprouting only subsequently and continuing to do so well after the eighth postnatal week. These results demonstrate the critical yet distinctive roles for horizontal cells on the rod and cone pathways and highlight a unique and as-yet-unrecognized maintenance function of an inhibitory interneuron that is not required for the initial targeting and co-stratification of other components in the circuit.
Dopaminergic signaling profoundly impacts rewarding behaviors, movement, and executive function. The presynaptic dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) recaptures released DA, thereby limiting synaptic DA availability and maintaining dopaminergic tone. DAT constitutively internalizes and PKC activation rapidly accelerates DAT endocytosis, resulting in DAT surface loss. Longstanding evidence supports PKC-stimulated DAT trafficking in heterologous expression studies. However, PKC-stimulated DAT internalization is not readily observed in cultured dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, conflicting reports implicate both classic and nonclassic endocytic mechanisms mediating DAT trafficking. Prior DAT trafficking studies relied primarily upon chronic gene disruption and dominant-negative protein expression, or were performed in cell lines and cultured neurons, yielding results difficult to translate to adult dopaminergic neurons. Here, we use newly described dynamin inhibitors to test whether constitutive and PKC-stimulated DAT internalization are dynamin-dependent in adult dopaminergic neurons. Ex vivo biotinylation studies in mouse striatal slices demonstrate that acute PKC activation drives native DAT surface loss, and that surface DAT surprisingly partitions between endocytic-willing and endocytic-resistant populations. Acute dynamin inhibition reveals that constitutive DAT internalization is dynamin-independent, whereas PKC-stimulated DAT internalization is dynamin-dependent. Moreover, total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy experiments demonstrate that constitutive DAT internalization occurs equivalently from lipid raft and nonraft microdomains, whereas PKC-stimulated DAT internalization arises exclusively from lipid rafts. Finally, DAT endocytic recycling relies on a dynamin-dependent mechanism that acts in concert with the actin cytoskeleton. These studies are the first comprehensive investigation of native DAT trafficking in ex vivo adult neurons, and reveal that DAT surface dynamics are governed by complex multimodal mechanisms.
Recent findings have implicated thalamic alpha oscillations in the phasic modulation of cortical activity. However, the precise relationship between thalamic alpha oscillations and neocortical activity remains unclear. Here we show in a large sample of healthy human participants (n = 45) using spatial filtering techniques and measures of phase amplitude coupling that the amplitude of gamma-band activity in posterior medial parietal cortex is modulated by the phase of thalamic alpha oscillations during eyes-closed resting-state recordings. In addition, our findings show that gamma-band activity in visual cortex was not modulated by thalamic alpha oscillations but coupled to the phase of strong cortical alpha activity. To overcome the limitations of electromagnetic source localization we estimated conduction delays using transfer entropy and found nonspurious information transfer from thalamus to cortex. The present findings provide novel evidence for magneto-encephalography-measured phase coupling between cortical gamma-band activity and thalamic alpha oscillations, which highlight the role of phasic inhibition in the coordination of cortical activity.
The striatal-enriched phosphatase (STEP) is a component of the NMDA-receptor-mediated excitotoxic signaling pathway, which plays a key role in ischemic brain injury. Using neuronal cultures and a rat model of ischemic stroke, we show that STEP plays an initial role in neuroprotection, during the insult, by disrupting the p38 MAPK pathway. Degradation of active STEP during reperfusion precedes ischemic brain damage and is associated with secondary activation of p38 MAPK. Application of a cell-permeable STEP-derived peptide that is resistant to degradation and binds to p38 MAPK protects cultured neurons from hypoxia-reoxygenation injury and reduces ischemic brain damage when injected up to 6 h after the insult. Conversely, genetic deletion of STEP in mice leads to sustained p38 MAPK activation and exacerbates brain injury and neurological deficits after ischemia. Administration of the STEP-derived peptide at the onset of reperfusion not only prevents the sustained p38 MAPK activation but also reduces ischemic brain damage in STEP KO mice. The findings indicate a neuroprotective role of STEP and suggest a potential role of the STEP-derived peptide in stroke therapy.
When the head rotates, the image of the visual world slips across the retina. A dedicated set of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and brainstem visual nuclei termed the &quot;accessory optic system&quot; (AOS) generate slip-compensating eye movements that stabilize visual images on the retina and improve visual performance. Which types of RGCs project to each of the various AOS nuclei remain unresolved. Here we report a new transgenic mouse line, Hoxd10-GFP, in which the RGCs projecting to all the AOS nuclei are fluorescently labeled. Electrophysiological recordings of Hoxd10-GFP RGCs revealed that they include all three subtypes of On direction-selective RGCs (On-DSGCs), responding to upward, downward, or forward motion. Hoxd10-GFP RGCs also include one subtype of On-Off DSGCs tuned for forward motion. Retrograde circuit mapping with modified rabies viruses revealed that the On-DSGCs project to the brainstem centers involved in both horizontal and vertical retinal slip compensation. In contrast, the On-Off DSGCs labeled in Hoxd10-GFP mice projected to AOS nuclei controlling horizontal but not vertical image stabilization. Moreover, the forward tuned On-Off DSGCs appear physiologically and molecularly distinct from all previously genetically identified On-Off DSGCs. These data begin to clarify the cell types and circuits underlying image stabilization during self-motion, and they support an unexpected diversity of DSGC subtypes.
Visual circuits mature and are refined by sensory experience. However, significant gaps remain in our understanding how deprivation influences the development of visual acuity in mice. Here, we perform a longitudinal study assessing the effects of chronic deprivation on the development of the mouse subcortical and cortical visual circuits using a combination of behavioral optomotor testing, in vivo visual evoked responses (VEP) and single-unit cortical recordings. As previously reported, orientation tuning was degraded and onset of ocular dominance plasticity was delayed and remained open in chronically deprived mice. Surprisingly, we found that the development of optomotor threshold and VEP acuity can occur in an experience-independent manner, although at a significantly slower rate. Moreover, monocular deprivation elicited amblyopia only during a discrete period of development in the dark. The rate of recovery of optomotor threshold upon exposure of deprived mice to light confirmed a maturational transition regardless of visual input. Together our results revealed a dissociable developmental trajectory for visual receptive-field properties in dark-reared mice suggesting a differential role for spontaneous activity within thalamocortical and intracortical circuits.
The competitive processes that result in elimination/pruning of developing synapses are incompletely understood. Serial electron microscopy was used to image postnatal mouse neuromuscular junctions where elimination is well studied and events at every synaptic contact can be examined. Glial or Schwann cells (SCs) are shown to have two activities during elimination: their processes separate nerve terminals from each other and from the muscle fiber; they contact the plaque of acetylcholine receptors, apposing this surface as closely as the nerve, limiting the area where synaptic transmission occurs. SCs phagocytose nerve terminals contacting the muscle fiber. This phagocytosis involves all axons; SCs are not selecting the winner but rather driving turnover. Previous modeling of stochastic turnover and reoccupation of nerve contacts shows that single innervation of synaptic sites can result. Thus, our study shows roles of SCs in neuromuscular development beyond the previous demonstration of consumption of synaptic inputs after their elimination.
Many complex behaviors, such as human speech and birdsong, reflect a set of categorical actions that can be flexibly organized into variable sequences. However, little is known about how the brain encodes the probabilities of such sequences. Behavioral sequences are typically characterized by the probability of transitioning from a given action to any subsequent action (which we term &quot;divergence probability&quot;). In contrast, we hypothesized that neural circuits might encode the probability of transitioning to a given action from any preceding action (which we term &quot;convergence probability&quot;). The convergence probability of repeatedly experienced sequences could naturally become encoded by Hebbian plasticity operating on the patterns of neural activity associated with those sequences. To determine whether convergence probability is encoded in the nervous system, we investigated how auditory-motor neurons in vocal premotor nucleus HVC of songbirds encode different probabilistic characterizations of produced syllable sequences. We recorded responses to auditory playback of pseudorandomly sequenced syllables from the bird's repertoire, and found that variations in responses to a given syllable could be explained by a positive linear dependence on the convergence probability of preceding sequences. Furthermore, convergence probability accounted for more response variation than other probabilistic characterizations, including divergence probability. Finally, we found that responses integrated over &gt;7-10 syllables (700-1000 ms) with the sign, gain, and temporal extent of integration depending on convergence probability. Our results demonstrate that convergence probability is encoded in sensory-motor circuitry of the song-system, and suggest that encoding of convergence probability is a general feature of sensory-motor circuits.
The long-standing doctrine regarding the functional organization of the direct dorsal column (DDC) pathway is the &quot;somatotopic map&quot; model, which suggests that somatosensory afferents are primarily organized by receptive field instead of modality. Using modality-specific genetic tracing, here we show that ascending mechanosensory and proprioceptive axons, two main types of the DDC afferents, are largely segregated into a medial-lateral pattern in the mouse dorsal column and medulla. In addition, we found that this modality-based organization is likely to be conserved in other mammalian species, including human. Furthermore, we identified key morphological differences between these two types of afferents, which explains how modality segregation is formed and why a rough &quot;somatotopic map&quot; was previously detected. Collectively, our results establish a new functional organization model for the mammalian direct dorsal column pathway and provide insight into how somatotopic and modality-based organization coexist in the central somatosensory pathway.
Aging results in pervasive declines in nervous system function. In the auditory system, these declines include neural timing delays in response to fast-changing speech elements; this causes older adults to experience difficulty understanding speech, especially in challenging listening environments. These age-related declines are not inevitable, however: older adults with a lifetime of music training do not exhibit neural timing delays. Yet many people play an instrument for a few years without making a lifelong commitment. Here, we examined neural timing in a group of human older adults who had nominal amounts of music training early in life, but who had not played an instrument for decades. We found that a moderate amount (4-14 years) of music training early in life is associated with faster neural timing in response to speech later in life, long after training stopped (&gt;40 years). We suggest that early music training sets the stage for subsequent interactions with sound. These experiences may interact over time to sustain sharpened neural processing in central auditory nuclei well into older age.
The principle by which unmyelinated primary sensory neurons transducing thermal, itch and pain perception are specified in early development is unknown. These classes of sensory neurons diversify from a common population of late-born neurons, which initiate expression of Runt homology domain transcription factor RUNX1 and the nerve growth factor receptor TrkA. Here, we report that signals emanating from within the mouse dorsal root ganglion mediated partly by early-born neurons destined to a myelinated phenotype participate in fating late-born RUNX1(+)/TrkA(+) neurons. Inductive factors include FGFs via activation of FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1). Consistently, FGF2 is sufficient to induce expression of RUNX1, and Fgfr1 conditional mutant mice display deficits in fating of the common population of late-born RUNX1(+)/TrkA(+) neurons that develop into unmyelinated neurons. Thus, the distinct lineages of sensory neurons are acquired in response to increasing FGF levels provided by a rising number of born neurons.
The precise wiring of the nervous system relies on processes by which axons navigate in a complex environment and are guided by a concerted action of attractive and repulsive factors to reach their target. Investigating these guidance processes depends critically on our ability to control in space and time the microenvironment of neurons. The implementation of microfabrication techniques in cell biology now enables a precise control of the extracellular physical and chemical environment of cultured cells. However, microtechnology is only beginning to be applied in the field of axon guidance due to specific requirements of neuronal cultures. Here we review microdevices specifically designed to study axonal guidance and compare them with the conventional assays used to probe gradient sensing in cell biology. We also discuss how innovative microdevice-based approaches will enable the investigation of important systems-level questions on the gradient sensing properties of nerve cells, such as the sensitivity and robustness in the detection of directional signals or the combinatorial response to multiple cues.


Gambling is pertinent to neuroscience research for at least two reasons. First, gambling is a naturalistic and pervasive example of risky decision making, and thus gambling games can provide a paradigm for the investigation of human choice behavior and &quot;irrationality.&quot; Second, excessive gambling involvement (i.e., pathological gambling) is currently conceptualized as a behavioral addiction, and research on this condition may provide insights into addictive mechanisms in the absence of exogenous drug effects. This article is a summary of topics covered in a Society for Neuroscience minisymposium, focusing on recent advances in understanding the neural basis of gambling behavior, including translational findings in rodents and nonhuman primates, which have begun to delineate neural circuitry and neurochemistry involved.
Obesity is a growing public health problem. Although convenient, the notion that obesity is simply a problem of will power is increasingly antiquated. It is becoming clear that complex interactions of environment, neurohormonal systems, and transgenerational effects directly contribute to obesity. This review highlights data presented at the Society for Neuroscience Annual Meeting in San Diego, California in 2013; and although not meant as an exhaustive review of the area, this reivew will explore seemingly disparate areas of research that, when taken as a whole, illuminate the complex topography of the causes and consequences of obesity. We discuss how disruption of the biological clock, a consequence of modern society, can lead to changes in the brain and periphery that lead to obesity. We explore how obesity can actually cause pathological changes within the hypothalamus of the brain (a key regulator of food intake and metabolic homeostasis). How reward circuitry, particularly the ventral tegmental area, responds to insulin and how these effects modulate feeding and the salience of feeding cues are mechanistically described. We also investigate how nutrition may cross generational boundaries to affect the development and function of offspring, underscoring the long reach of metabolic effects. Finally, the role of the endocannabinoid system is emphasized as a critical node in the transduction of many of these effects. Together, this review should provide perspective into the neural causes and consequences of obesity, and hopefully lead to new areas of interdisciplinary research to tackle this important public health epidemic.
Understanding how neurons encode information in sequences of action potentials is of fundamental importance to neuroscience. The cerebellum is widely recognized for its involvement in the coordination of movements, which requires muscle activation patterns to be controlled with millisecond precision. Understanding how cerebellar neurons accomplish such high temporal precision is critical to understanding cerebellar function. Inhibitory Purkinje cells, the only output neurons of the cerebellar cortex, and their postsynaptic target neurons in the cerebellar nuclei, fire action potentials at high, sustained frequencies, suggesting spike rate modulation as a possible code. Yet, millisecond precise spatiotemporal spike activity patterns in Purkinje cells and inferior olivary neurons have also been observed. These results and ongoing studies suggest that the neuronal code used by cerebellar neurons may span a wide time scale from millisecond precision to slow rate modulations, likely depending on the behavioral context.
A central goal of neuroscience is to understand how populations of neurons build and manipulate representations of percepts that provide useful information about the environment. This symposium explores the fundamental properties of these representations and the perceptual spaces in which they are organized. Spanning the domains of color, visual texture, environmental sound, music, tactile quality, and odor, we show how the geometric structures of perceptual spaces can be determined experimentally and how these structures provide insights into the principles of neural coding and the neural mechanisms that generate the codes, and into the neural processing of complex sensory stimuli. The diversity of the neural architecture in these different sensory systems provides an opportunity to compare their different solutions to common problems: the need for dimensionality reduction, strategies for topographic or nontopographic mapping, the utility of the higher-order statistical structure inherent in natural sensory stimuli, and the constraints of neural hardware.
For decades, several axioms have prevailed with respect to the relationships between the CNS and circulating immune cells. Specifically, immune cell entry was largely considered to be pathological or to mark the beginning of pathology within the brain. Moreover, local inflammation associated with neurodegenerative diseases such Alzheimer's disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, were considered similar in their etiology to inflammatory diseases, such as remitting relapsing-multiple sclerosis. The ensuing confusion reflected a lack of awareness that the etiology of the disease as well as the origin of the immune cells determines the nature of the inflammatory response, and that inflammation resolution is an active cellular process. The last two decades have seen a revolution in these prevailing dogmas, with a significant contribution made by the authors. Microglia and infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages are now known to be functionally distinct and of separate origin. Innate and adaptive immune cells are now known to have protective/healing properties in the CNS, as long as their activity is regulated, and their recruitment is well controlled; their role is appreciated in maintenance of brain plasticity in health, aging, and chronic neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, it is now understood that the barriers of the brain are not uniform in their interactions with the circulating immune cells. The implications of these new findings to the basic understanding of CNS repair processes, brain aging, and a wide spectrum of CNS disorders, including acute injuries, Rett syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, and multiple sclerosis, will be discussed.
First discovered in maize by Barbara McClintock in the 1940s, transposable elements (TEs) are DNA sequences that in some cases have the ability to move along chromosomes or &quot;transpose&quot; in the genome. This revolutionary finding was initially met with resistance by the scientific community and viewed by some as heretical. A large body of knowledge has accumulated over the last 60 years on the biology of TEs. Indeed, it is now known that TEs can generate genomic instability and reconfigure gene expression networks both in the germline and somatic cells. This review highlights recent findings on the role of TEs in health and diseases of the CNS, which were presented at the 2013 Society for Neuroscience meeting. The work of the speakers in this symposium shows that TEs are expressed and active in the brain, challenging the dogma that neuronal genomes are static and revealing that they are susceptible to somatic genomic alterations. These new findings on TE expression and function in the CNS have major implications for understanding the neuroplasticity of the brain, which could hypothetically have a role in shaping individual behavior and contribute to vulnerability to disease.
The mesocorticolimbic system, consisting, at its core, of the ventral tegmental area, the nucleus accumbens, and medial prefrontal cortex, has historically been investigated primarily for its role in positively motivated behaviors and reinforcement learning, and its dysfunction in addiction, schizophrenia, depression, and other mood disorders. Recently, researchers have undertaken a more comprehensive analysis of this system, including its role in not only reward but also punishment, as well as in both positive and negative reinforcement. This focus has been facilitated by new anatomical, physiological, and behavioral approaches to delineate functional circuits underlying behaviors and to determine how this system flexibly encodes and responds to positive and negative states and events, beyond simple associative learning. This review is a summary of topics covered in a mini-symposium at the 2013 Society for Neuroscience annual meeting.
The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has been established as a premier experimental model system for neuroscience research. These organisms are genetically tractable, yet their nervous systems are sufficiently complex to study diverse processes that are conserved across metazoans, including neural cell fate determination and migration, axon guidance, synaptogenesis and function, behavioral neurogenetics, and responses to neuronal injury. For several decades, Drosophila neuroscientists have taken advantage of a vast toolkit of genetic and molecular techniques to reveal fundamental principles of neuroscience illuminating to all systems, including the first behavioral mutants from Seymour Benzer's pioneering work in the 1960s and 1970s, the cloning of the first potassium channel in the 1980s, and the identification of the core genes that orchestrate axon guidance and circadian rhythms in the 1990s. Over the past decade, new tools and innovations in genetic, imaging, and electrophysiological technologies have enabled the visualization, in vivo, of dynamic processes in synapses with unprecedented resolution. We will review some of the fresh insights into synaptic development, function, and plasticity that have recently emerged in Drosophila with an emphasis on the unique advantages of this model system.
Although universally recognized as the source of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), the choroid plexus (ChP) has been one of the most understudied tissues in neuroscience. The reasons for this are multiple and varied, including historical perceptions about passive and permissive roles for the ChP, experimental issues, and lack of clinical salience. However, recent work on the ChP and instructive signals in the CSF have sparked new hypotheses about how the ChP and CSF provide unexpected means for regulating nervous system structure and function in health and disease, as well as new ChP-based therapeutic approaches using pluripotent stem cell technology. This minisymposium combines new and established investigators to capture some of the newfound excitement surrounding the ChP-CSF system.

An important barrier to enduring behavioural change is the human tendency to discount the future. Drawing on evolutionary theories of life history and biophilia, this study investigates whether exposure to natural versus urban landscapes affects people's temporal discount rates. The results of three studies, two laboratory experiments and a field study reveal that individual discount rates are systematically lower after people have been exposed to scenes of natural environments as opposed to urban environments. Further, this effect is owing to people placing more value on the future after nature exposure. The finding that nature exposure reduces future discounting-as opposed to exposure to urban environments-conveys important implications for a range of personal and collective outcomes including healthy lifestyles, sustainable resource use and population growth.

Reporters secreted into the conditioned medium of cells in culture or into blood in vivo have shown to be useful tools for simple and noninvasive monitoring of biological processes in real-time. Here, we characterize the naturally secreted Vargula luciferase as a secreted blood reporter and show that this reporter can be multiplexed with the secreted Gaussia luciferase and alkaline phosphatase for simultaneous monitoring of three different cellular processes in the same biological system. We applied this system to monitor the response of three different subsets of glioma cells to a clinically relevant chemotherapeutic agent in the same well in culture or animal in vivo. This system could be extended to any field to detect multiple processes in the same biological system and is amenable for high-throughput screening to find drugs that affect multiple cellular populations/phenomena simultaneously.
Over the last several decades, fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) has proved to be a valuable analytical tool for the real-time measurement of neurotransmitter dynamics in vitro and in vivo. Indeed, FSCV has found application in a wide variety of disciplines including electrochemistry, neurobiology, and behavioral psychology. The maturation of FSCV as an in vivo technique led users to pose increasingly complex questions that require a more sophisticated experimental design. To accommodate recent and future advances in FSCV application, our lab has developed High Definition Cyclic Voltammetry (HDCV). HDCV is an electrochemical software suite that includes data acquisition and analysis programs. The data collection program delivers greater experimental flexibility and better user feedback through live displays. It supports experiments involving multiple electrodes with customized waveforms. It is compatible with transistor-transistor logic-based systems that are used for monitoring animal behavior, and it enables simultaneous recording of electrochemical and electrophysiological data. HDCV analysis streamlines data processing with superior filtering options, seamlessly manages behavioral events, and integrates chemometric processing. Furthermore, analysis is capable of handling single files collected over extended periods of time, allowing the user to consider biological events on both subsecond and multiminute time scales. Here we describe and demonstrate the utility of HDCV for in vivo experiments.
The causal link between disparate tropomyosin (Tm) functions and the structural instability in Tm is unknown. To test the hypothesis that the structural instability in the central region of Tm modulates the function of the overlapping ends of contiguous Tm dimers, we used transgenic mice (Tm(DM)) that expressed a mutant -Tm in the heart; S229E and H276N substitutions induce structural instability in the central region and the overlapping ends of Tm, respectively. In addition, two mouse cardiac troponin T mutants (TnT(1-44) and TnT(45-74)) that have a divergent effect on the overlapping ends of Tm were employed. The S229E-induced instability in the central region of Tm(DM) altered the overlapping ends of Tm(DM), thereby it negated the attenuating effect of H276N on Ca(2+)-activated maximal tension. The rate of cross-bridge detachment (g) decreased in Tm(DM)+TnT(WT) and Tm(H276N)+TnT(WT) fibers but increased in Tm(DM)+TnT(45-74) fibers; however, TnT(45-74) did not alter g, demonstrating that S229E in Tm(DM) had divergent effects on g. The S229E substitution in Tm(DM) ablated the H276N-induced desensitization of myofilament Ca(2+) sensitivity in Tm(DM)+TnT(1-44) fibers. To our knowledge, novel findings from this study show that the structural instability in the central region of Tm modifies cardiac contractile function via its effect on the overlapping ends of contiguous Tm.


Exercise produces many beneficial effects on brain health, in part by increasing hippocampal BDNF levels; however, the mechanism underlying BDNF gene regulation remains unknown. In this issue of Cell Metabolism, Wrann et al. (2013) show that exercise induces hippocampal Bdnf expression by stimulating expression of FNDC5, the precursor of irisin, via the transcriptional complex PGC-1/Err.
Stress causes the release of many transmitters and hormones, including corticosteroids. These molecules enter the brain and exert their effects through the mineralo- and glucocorticoid receptor. The former receptor plays an important role in neuronal stability. However, it also mediates rapid non-genomic corticosteroid effects that in synergy with other stress mediators activate limbic cells and promote behavioral choices allowing the organism to quickly respond to the imminent danger. Glucocorticoid receptors primarily mediate slow genomic effects, for instance in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, which are thought to contribute to contextual and higher cognitive aspects of behavioral performance several hours after stress. Rapid and slow effects interact and collectively contribute to successful behavioral adaptation. Long-term disturbances in the release pattern of corticosteroid hormones and in the responsiveness of their receptors give rise to structural and functional changes in neuronal properties which may contribute to the expression of psychopathology.
During brain development excitatory synapses exhibit significant changes in their postsynaptic receptors and activated signaling pathways. Calcium represents the most crucial signaling factor in synaptic transmission and plasticity. Therefore developmental changes in calcium-permeable channels on the membrane contribute significantly to the modulation of neurotransmission at excitatory synapses. The present review focuses on two types of &quot;non-canonical&quot; glutamate receptors in terms of calcium permeability: GluN3A-containing NMDA receptors (calcium-impermeable) and GluA2-lacking AMPA receptors (calcium permeable). The involvement of these receptors during development and their potential function in synaptic plasticity are discussed. The synaptic incorporation of these receptors would alter calcium permeability, and therefore the threshold/direction of further plastic changes. We believe that characterizing the dynamics of non-canonical glutamate receptors during development could provide insight into how these receptors are recruited or removed in pathological conditions.
One important pathological process in the brain of Parkinson disease (PD) patients is the degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, which leads to a decline in striatal dopamine levels and motor dysfunction. A major clinical problem is that this degenerative process currently cannot be stopped or reversed. Expectations from the restorative capacity of neural stem cells (NSCs) are high, as these cells can potentially replace the degenerating neurons. The discovery of the presence of NSCs in the adult human brain has instigated research into the potential of these cells as a resource to promote brain repair in neurodegenerative diseases. Neural stem and progenitor cells reside in the subventricular zone (SVZ), which is closely situated to the striatum, which is affected in PD. Therefore, restoring the dopamine levels in the striatum of PD patients through stimulating endogenous NSCs in the nearby SVZ to migrate into the striatum and differentiate into dopaminergic neurons might thus be an attractive future therapeutic approach. We will review the reported changes in NSCs in the SVZ of PD animal models and PD patients, which are due to a lack of striatal dopamine. Furthermore, we will summarise the reports that describe efforts to stimulate NSCs to replace dopaminergic cells in the SN and restore striatal dopamine levels. In our opinion, mobilizing the endogenous SVZ NSCs to replenish striatal dopamine is an attractive approach to alleviate the motor symptoms in PD patients, without the ethical and immunological challenges of transplantation of NSCs and foetal brain tissue.
The adult brain has long been viewed as a collection of neuronal networks that maintain a fixed configuration of synaptic connections. Brain plasticity and learning was thought to depend exclusively on changes in the gain and offset of these connections. Over the last 50 years, molecular and cellular studies of neuroplasticity have altered this view. Brain plasticity is now viewed as a continuum of structural changes that could vary from long-range axon growth to the twitching of dendritic spines and synaptic receptor composition dynamics. Plasticity proteins similar to those that drive neuronal development may underpin brain plasticity, and consequently could regulate adaptations to new experiences and learning. In vivo imaging has confirmed that neuronal plasticity in the adult brain involves subtle structural changes at synaptic connections, including synapse formation and pruning. Synaptic structural changes are associated with experience-dependent plasticity, learning, brain traumas and neurodegeneration. Owing to the expanding toolbox of in vivo imaging we have come to the brink of understanding the causal relationship between structural synaptic network dynamics and functional brain plasticity. This review summarizes the technical developments in the imaging of laboratory animals' brains in vivo and the insights they have provided into the mechanisms of brain plasticity and learning.
This paper appears in a special issue of the European Journal of Pharmacology that commemorates the retirement of Professor Willem Hendrik Gispen as distinguished professor of Utrecht University and as editor of the European Journal of Pharmacology. The paper provides an overview of a research line on the impact of diabetes on cognition that we started together 20 years ago, and that continues to this day. I will report how we more or less stumbled upon this topic, that was understudied, but proved to be of definite clinical relevance. I will discuss how we tried to establish animal models, how developments from clinical and experimental studies from around the world led us to reconsider our concepts, and how findings from research on diabetic neuropathy, insulin signaling in the brain, Alzheimer's disease and dementia, and vascular disease and stroke converged and helped to create new ideas and refute others. This voyage has not ended yet, because the ultimate goal is to offer patients with diabetes treatment that can protect them against accelerated cognitive decline. Although this could take another 20 years, the research from Willem Hendrik and his group brought us an important step in the right direction.
Intellectual disability syndromes have been found associated to numerous mutated genes that code for proteins functionally involved in synapse formation, the regulation of dendritic spine morphology, the regulation of the synaptic cytoskeleton or the synthesis and degradation of specific synapse proteins. These studies have strongly demonstrated that even mild alterations in synapse morphology and function give rise to mild or severe alteration in intellectual abilities. Interestingly, pharmacological agents that are able to counteract these morphological and functional synaptic anomalies can also improve the symptoms of some of these conditions. This review is summarizing recent discoveries on the functions of some of the genes responsible for intellectual disability syndromes connected with synapse dysfunctions.
The Neuropeptide Y and the melanocortin peptides are two well-described hypothalamic feeding peptides regulating energy balance. Predominantly expressed within the arcuate nucleus, these neurons project to different brain areas and modulate various aspects of feeding. Hedonic feeding, where one overindulges in palatable food consumption beyond one's nutritional necessities, is one such aspect regulated by NPY/melanocortin signaling. Research suggests that NPY/melanocortin regulate hedonic aspects of feeding through its projections to the brain reward circuitry (ventral tegmental area, lateral hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens etc.), however, exact target areas have not yet been identified. The current work explores literature to provide a mechanistic explanation for the effects of these peptides on food reward.
Autism is a disease of brain plasticity. Inspiring work of Willem Hendrik Gispen on neuronal plasticity has stimulated us to investigate gene defects in autism and the consequences for brain development. The central process in the pathogenesis of autism is local dendritic mRNA translation which is dependent on axodendritic communication. Hence, most autism-related gene products (i) are part of the protein synthesis machinery itself, (ii) are components of the mTOR signal transduction pathway, or (iii) shape synaptic activity and plasticity. Accordingly, prototype drugs have been recognized that interfere with these pathways. The contactin (CNTN) family of Ig cell adhesion molecules (IgCAMs) harbours at least three members that have genetically been implicated in autism: CNTN4, CNTN5, and CNTN6. In this chapter we review the genetic and neurobiological data underpinning their role in normal and abnormal development of brain systems, and the consequences for behavior. Although data on each of these CNTNs are far from complete, we tentatively conclude that these three contactins play roles in brain development in a critical phase of establishing brain systems and their plasticity. They modulate neuronal activities, such as neurite outgrowth, synaptogenesis, survival, guidance of projections and terminal branching of axons in forming neural circuits. Current research on these CNTNs concentrate on the neurobiological mechanism of their developmental functions. A future task will be to establish if proposed pharmacological strategies to counteract ASD-related symptomes can also be applied to reversal of phenotypes caused by genetic defects in these CNTN genes.
Peripheral nerve injury in humans often leads to incomplete functional recovery. In this review we discuss the potential for gene therapy to be used as a strategy alongside surgical repair techniques for the study of peripheral nerve regeneration in rodent models and with a view to its eventual use for the promotion of successful regeneration in the clinic. Gene therapy can be defined as the introduction of a foreign, therapeutic gene into living cells in order to treat a disease. The first attempts to express a foreign gene in peripheral neurons date back more than 25 years. The vectors used at that time were imperfect-mainly because they contained viral genes that were expressed in the target cells and elicited an immunological response. Fortunately significant progress has been made: today adeno-associated viral vectors can be produced completely free of viral genes and Phase I and II clinical studies have shown that these vectors are well tolerated. The technology for gene delivery has reached a state of readiness for clinical translation in many fields of neurology, including peripheral nerve repair. The current range of potential therapeutic genes for the repair of the traumatized peripheral nerve has also grown over the years and now includes neurotrophic factors with specificities for various subtypes of peripheral neurons, cell adhesion and extracellular matrix molecules and transcription factors. This review for this Festschrift, published to celebrate the 70th birthday of Willem Hendrik Gispen, contains many &quot;footprints&quot; from the time the senior author (JV) worked with Willem Hendrik, first as a student intern, then as a Ph.D. student (1983-1987) and later as a postdoctoral fellow (1989-1993). The preface of this article highlights personal memories of a time that will never come back.
Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing brain disease for which many of the underlying neuronal mechanisms are yet to be unravelled. There seems to be an interaction between the melanocortin system and drugs of abuse. For instance, infusion of the melanocortin MC4 receptor antagonist SHU9119 (Ac-Nle-cyclo(-Asp-His-D-2-Nal-Arg-Trp-Lys)-NH2) into the nucleus accumbens results in conditioned place avoidance, reduces the amount of lever presses for cocaine and blocks development of cocaine-induced locomotor sensitisation. The aim of this study is to determine whether the induction of locomotor sensitisation to repeated cocaine is inhibited by the melanocortin MC4 receptor inverse agonist Agouti Related Peptide (AgRP83-132). Rats were sensitised to daily cocaine injections for 5 consecutive days and 30 min prior to every daily cocaine injection, rats received an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) or intra nucleus accumbens injection with AgRP(83-132) or saline, to determine whether we could inhibit cocaine-induced locomotor sensitisation. We show that i.c.v. injections of AgRP(83-132) inhibit cocaine-induced locomotor sensitisation. This effect is not regulated via the nucleus accumbens, since injecting the melanocortin receptor inverse agonist AgRP(83-132) directly into the nucleus accumbens was unable to inhibit the cocaine-induced locomotor sensitisation. This implicates that the nucleus accumbens is an unlikely site to inhibit the induction of locomotor sensitisation via the melanocortin MC4 receptor. This is in contrast to other studies that show an effect of the melanocortin MC4 receptor antagonist SHU9119 on locomotor sensitisation when injected into the nucleus accumbens.
Striatal dopamine (DA) is thought to code for learned associations between cues and reinforcers and to mediate approach behavior toward a reward. Less is known about the contribution of DA to cognitive flexibility-the ability to adapt behavior in response to changes in the environment. Altered reward processing and impairments in cognitive flexibility are observed in psychiatric disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Patients with this disorder show a disruption of functioning in the frontostriatal circuit and alterations in DA signaling. In this review we summarize findings from animal and human studies that have investigated the involvement of striatal DA in cognitive flexibility. These findings may provide a better understanding of the role of dopaminergic dysfunction in cognitive inflexibility in psychiatric disorders, such as OCD.


Discovery of intronic hexanucleotide repeat expansions of the C9ORF72 gene in a significant proportion of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD)(1,2) was an important step for research into these disorders. The C9ORF72 genetic variant is more common than other described mutations and, unlike patients with mutations in SOD1, C9ORF72-ALS clinically and pathologically resembles the more numerous sporadic form.(3) However, progress has been limited by lack of understanding of the function of the C9ORF72 locus in health and disease. It is unknown whether the expansion causes disease by a gain of toxicity, or whether it disrupts expression of the wild-type protein encoded by the C9ORF72 gene, or some combination of both mechanisms.(1,2,4.)






During late Schwann cell development, immature Schwann cells segregate large axons from bundles, a process called &quot;axonal radial sorting.&quot; Here we demonstrate that canonical Wnt signals play a critical role in radial sorting and assign a role to Wnt and Rspondin ligands in this process. Mice carrying -catenin loss-of-function mutations show a delay in axonal sorting; conversely, gain-of-function mutations result in accelerated sorting. Sorting deficits are accompanied by abnormal process extension, differentiation, and aberrant cell cycle exit of the Schwann cells. Using primary cultured Schwann cells, we analyze the upstream effectors, Wnt and Rspondin ligands that initiate signaling, and downstream genetic programs that mediate the Wnt response. Our analysis contributes to a better understanding of the mechanisms of Schwann cell development and fate decisions.
Human infants in the first year of life possess an intuitive sense of number. This preverbal number sense may serve as a developmental building block for the uniquely human capacity for mathematics. In support of this idea, several studies have demonstrated that nonverbal number sense is correlated with mathematical abilities in children and adults. However, there has been no direct evidence that infant numerical abilities are related to mathematical abilities later in childhood. Here, we provide evidence that preverbal number sense in infancy predicts mathematical abilities in preschool-aged children. Numerical preference scores at 6 months of age correlated with both standardized math test scores and nonsymbolic number comparison scores at 3.5 years of age, suggesting that preverbal number sense facilitates the acquisition of numerical symbols and mathematical abilities. This relationship held even after controlling for general intelligence, indicating that preverbal number sense imparts a unique contribution to mathematical ability. These results validate the many prior studies purporting to show number sense in infancy and support the hypothesis that mathematics is built upon an intuitive sense of number that predates language.
Our ability to manipulate objects dexterously relies fundamentally on sensory signals originating from the hand. To restore motor function with upper-limb neuroprostheses requires that somatosensory feedback be provided to the tetraplegic patient or amputee. Given the complexity of state-of-the-art prosthetic limbs and, thus, the huge state space they can traverse, it is desirable to minimize the need for the patient to learn associations between events impinging on the limb and arbitrary sensations. Accordingly, we have developed approaches to intuitively convey sensory information that is critical for object manipulation--information about contact location, pressure, and timing--through intracortical microstimulation of primary somatosensory cortex. In experiments with nonhuman primates, we show that we can elicit percepts that are projected to a localized patch of skin and that track the pressure exerted on the skin. In a real-time application, we demonstrate that animals can perform a tactile discrimination task equally well whether mechanical stimuli are delivered to their native fingers or to a prosthetic one. Finally, we propose that the timing of contact events can be signaled through phasic intracortical microstimulation at the onset and offset of object contact that mimics the ubiquitous on and off responses observed in primary somatosensory cortex to complement slowly varying pressure-related feedback. We anticipate that the proposed biomimetic feedback will considerably increase the dexterity and embodiment of upper-limb neuroprostheses and will constitute an important step in restoring touch to individuals who have lost it.


Memory consolidation is a dynamic process. Reactivation of consolidated memories triggers reconsolidation, a time-limited period during which memories can be modified. Episodic memory refers to our ability to recall specific past events about what happened, including where and when. However, it is unknown whether noninvasive stimulation of the neocortex during reconsolidation might strengthen existing episodic memories in humans. To modify these memories, we applied repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over right lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), a region involved in the reactivation of episodic memories. We report that rTMS of PFC after memory reactivation strengthened verbal episodic memories, an effect documented by improved recall 24 hr postreactivation compared to stimulation of PFC without reactivation and vertex (control site) after reactivation. In contrast, there was no effect of stimulation 1 hr postreactivation (control experiment), showing that memory strengthening is time dependent, consistent with the reconsolidation theory. Thus, we demonstrated that right lateral PFC plays a causal role in strengthening of episodic memories through reconsolidation in humans. Reconsolidation may serve as an opportunity to modify existing memories with noninvasive stimulation of a critical brain region, an issue of fundamental importance for memory research and clinical applications.
Visual perception depends on integration of the eyes' raw sensory input with information distributed across distinct regions of the brain. Recordings of neuronal activity in monkeys reveal that these two types of signal reach visual cortex in spatially distinct layers.

Cooperation is central to human communication. The foundation of cooperative verbal communication is taking turns to speak. Given the universality of turn-taking, it is natural to ask how it evolved. We used marmoset monkeys to explore whether another primate species exhibits cooperative vocal communication by taking turns. Marmosets share with humans a cooperative breeding strategy and volubility. Cooperative care behaviors are thought to scaffold prosocial cognitive processes. Moreover, marmosets and other callitrichid primates are very vocal and readily exchange vocalizations with conspecifics. By measuring the natural statistics of marmoset vocal exchanges, we observed that they take turns in extended sequences and show that this vocal turn-taking has as its foundation dynamics characteristic of coupled oscillators--one that is similar to the dynamics proposed for human conversational turn-taking. As marmoset monkeys are on a different branch of the evolutionary tree that led to humans, our data demonstrate convergent evolution of vocal cooperation. Perhaps more importantly, our data offer a plausible alternative scenario to &quot;gestural origin&quot; hypotheses for how human cooperative vocal communication could have evolved.

Due to the aperture problem, the initial direction of tracking responses to a translating bar is biased towards the direction orthogonal to the bar. This observation offers a powerful way to explore the interactions between retinal and extraretinal signals in controlling our actions. We conducted two experiments to probe these interactions by briefly (200 and 400 ms) blanking the moving target (45 or 135 tilted bar) during steady state (Experiment 1) and at different moments during the early phase of pursuit (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, we found a marginal but statistically significant directional bias on target reappearance for all subjects in at least one blank condition (200 or 400 ms). In Experiment 2, no systematic significant directional bias was observed at target reappearance after a blank. These results suggest that the weighting of retinal and extraretinal signals is dynamically modulated during the different phases of pursuit. Based on our previous theoretical work on motion integration, we propose a new closed-loop two-stage recurrent Bayesian model where retinal and extraretinal signals are dynamically weighted based on their respective reliabilities and combined to compute the visuomotor drive. With a single free parameter, the model reproduces many aspects of smooth pursuit observed across subjects during and immediately after target blanking. It provides a new theoretical framework to understand how different signals are dynamically combined based on their relative reliability to adaptively control our actions. Overall, the model and behavioral results suggest that human subjects rely more strongly on prediction during the early phase than in the steady state phase of pursuit.
The freshwater leech, Hirudo medicinalis, is a versatile model organism that has been used to address scientific questions in the fields of neurophysiology, neuroethology, and developmental biology. The goal of this report is to consolidate experimental techniques from the leech system into a single article that will be of use to physiologists with expertise in other nervous system preparations, or to biology students with little or no electrophysiology experience. We demonstrate how to dissect the leech for recording intracellularly from identified neural circuits in the ganglion. Next we show how individual cells of known function can be removed from the ganglion to be cultured in a Petri dish, and how to record from those neurons in culture. Then we demonstrate how to prepare a patch of innervated skin to be used for mapping sensory or motor fields. These leech preparations are still widely used to address basic electrical properties of neural networks, behavior, synaptogenesis, and development. They are also an appropriate training module for neuroscience or physiology teaching laboratories.






Since the sense of time is strongly influenced by advancing age, this laboratory study aimed to find out more about older pedestrians' decisions to cross the road, focusing on their estimates of how long it would take them to cross. The walking times of older female adults with or without any walking impairment and of healthy young adults were recorded on a walkway representing a road section. Participants also performed actual and imagined crossings of this &quot;road&quot; as well as a duration production task. Results showed that misestimated crossing times were related to the individual time base, with stronger time distortions in some older participants. A comparison between the older participants with disabilities and their age-paired counterparts without disabilities revealed an overestimation of crossing time in the former, affording them a bigger safety margin.
Akt is becoming an attractive target in the development of anti-tumor agents. In the present study, we aimed to discover novel negative Akt regulators against malignant glioma. An Akt regulator screening platform performed in an Akt-GFP overexpression cell line was developed, and natural product library was screened and evaluated using this platform. In addition, the cytotoxic effect of the regulator was detected by MTT assay. Cell apoptosis was assayed by Hoechst 33342 staining and flow cytometry analysis. Afterwards, the apoptotic signaling pathway was investigated by western blot analysis. Glaucocalyxin A, isolated from Rabdosia japonica, was identified as a potent negative regulator of Akt. In human-derived malignant glioma U87MG cells, glaucocalyxin A inhibited Akt phosphorylation, suppressed proliferation, and promoted apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner, but not in normal glial cells. Furthermore, glaucocalyxin A activated caspase-3, decreased BAD phosphorylation, and reduced the expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein. Taken together, these results indicated that glaucocalyxin A may become a promising candidate in the treatment of malignant glioma.
Dose-response studies of botulinum toxin for reduction of sweating are sparse in the literature. The aim of this study was to determine the most appropriate concentrations of Botox, Dysport, Xeomin and NeuroBloc, respectively, in order to achieve the greatest reduction in sweating, thus reducing the costs and increasing the safety of treatment. Four concentrations of each product were investigated. Intradermal injections of all products and concentrations were applied to the backs of 20 consenting subjects, in a randomized, double-blind manner. Areas of anhidrotic and hypohidrotic skin were measured with an iodine-starch test after 4, 8 and 12 weeks, respectively. Optimal concentrations were found to be 25 U/ml for Botox and Xeomin, approximately 100 U/ml for Dysport, and 50 U/ml for NeuroBloc. When comparing the mean anhidrotic area per unit for 100 U/ml of each product, the calculated dose conversion ratios were 1:1.6:1.2:1.3 (Botox:Dysport:Xeomin:NeuroBloc). If, instead, the optimal concentration for each product was compared, the dose conversion ratios were 1:4.8:1.3:2.2. Thus, it is crucial to consider botulinum toxin concentration in a treatment regimen.




Stroke is a major public health concern, with estimated 16 million people worldwide experiencing first-time strokes each year, a number that is expected to rise. Two-thirds of those experiencing a stroke are younger than 70 years of age. Stroke is a leading cause of disability in adults as a result of major sequelae that include spasticity, cognitive impairment, paresis, and depression. Disabling spasticity, defined as spasticity severe enough to require intervention, occurs in 4% of stroke survivors within 1 year of first-time stroke. The aim of this report is to focus instead on a discussion of patient-provider communication, and its role in post-stroke spasticity (PSS) rehabilitation within the context of patient-centered health care. A discussion based on a review of the literature, mainly since 2000. Problems within communication are identified and suggestion to enhance communication are proposed thus improving patient-centered goal setting/goal achievement for the effective management of spasticity rehabilitation. These are as follows: (i) involving family members, (ii) educating patients and family members on stroke and rehabilitation, and (iii) establishing a common definition for long-term goals. Increased communication among physicians, patients, and payers may bridge some of the gaps and increase the effectiveness of PSS rehabilitation and management.




Aftereffects of adaptation have revealed both independent and interactive coding of facial signals including identity and expression or gender and age. By contrast, interactive processing of non-linguistic features in voices has rarely been investigated. Here we studied bidirectional cross-categorical aftereffects of adaptation to vocal age and gender. Prolonged exposure to young (~20yrs) or old (~70yrs) male or female voices biased perception of subsequent test voices away from the adapting age (Exp. 1) and the adapting gender (Exp. 2). Relative to gender-congruent adaptor-test pairings, vocal age aftereffects (VAAEs) were reduced but remained significant when voice gender changed between adaptation and test. This suggests that the VAAE relies on both gender-specific and gender-independent age representations for male and female voices. By contrast, voice gender aftereffects (VGAEs) were not modulated by age-congruency of adaptor and test voices (Exp. 2). Instead, young voice adaptors generally induced larger VGAEs than old voice adaptors. This suggests that young voices are particularly efficient gender adaptors, likely reflecting more pronounced sexual dimorphism in these voices. In sum, our findings demonstrate how high-level processing of vocal age and gender is partially intertwined.
It is largely admitted that processing numerosity relies on an innate Approximate Number System (ANS), and recent research consistently observed a relationship between ANS acuity and mathematical ability in childhood. However, studies assessing this relationship in adults led to contradictory results. In this study, adults with different levels of mathematical expertise performed two tasks on the same pairs of dot collections, based either on numerosity comparison or on cumulative area comparison. Number of dots and cumulative area were congruent in half of the stimuli, and incongruent in the other half. The results showed that adults with higher mathematical ability obtained lower Weber fractions in the numerical condition than participants with lower mathematical ability. Further, adults with lower mathematical ability were more affected by the interference of the continuous dimension in the numerical comparison task, whereas conversely higher-expertise adults showed stronger interference of the numerical dimension in the continuous comparison task. Finally, ANS acuity correlated with arithmetic performance. Taken together, the data suggest that individual differences in ANS acuity subsist in adulthood, and that they are related to mathematical ability.
We investigated whether the mere presentation of single-digit Arabic numbers activates their magnitude representations using a visually-presented symbolic same-different task for 20 adults and 15 children. Participants saw two single-digit Arabic numbers on a screen and judged whether the numbers were the same or different. We examined whether reaction time in this task was primarily driven by (objective or subjective) perceptual similarity, or by the numerical difference between the two digits. We reasoned that, if Arabic numbers automatically activate magnitude representations, a numerical function would best predict reaction time; but if Arabic numbers do not automatically activate magnitude representations, a perceptual function would best predict reaction time. Linear regressions revealed that a perceptual function, specifically, subjective visual similarity, was the best and only significant predictor of reaction time in adults and in children. These data strongly suggest that, in this task, single-digit Arabic numbers do not necessarily automatically activate magnitude representations in adults or in children. As the first study to date to explicitly study the developmental importance of perceptual factors in the symbolic same-different task, we found no significant differences between adults and children in their reliance on perceptual information in this task. Based on our findings, we propose that visual properties may play a key role in symbolic number judgements.


According to the World Health Organization, about 2 billion people drink alcohol. Excessive alcohol consumption can result in alcohol addiction, which is one of the most prevalent neuropsychiatric diseases afflicting our society today. Prevention and intervention of alcohol binging in adolescents and treatment of alcoholism are major unmet challenges affecting our health-care system and society alike. Our newly formed German SysMedAlcoholism consortium is using a new systems medicine approach and intends (1) to define individual neurobehavioral risk profiles in adolescents that are predictive of alcohol use disorders later in life and (2) to identify new pharmacological targets and molecules for the treatment of alcoholism. To achieve these goals, we will use omics-information from epigenomics, genetics transcriptomics, neurodynamics, global neurochemical connectomes and neuroimaging (IMAGEN; Schumann etal. ) to feed mathematical prediction modules provided by two Bernstein Centers for Computational Neurosciences (Berlin and Heidelberg/Mannheim), the results of which will subsequently be functionally validated in independent clinical samples and appropriate animal models. This approach will lead to new early intervention strategies and identify innovative molecules for relapse prevention that will be tested in experimental human studies. This research program will ultimately help in consolidating addiction research clusters in Germany that can effectively conduct large clinical trials, implement early intervention strategies and impact political and healthcare decision makers.
Cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptors control the motivational properties and reinforcing effects of nicotine. Indeed, peripheral administration of a CB1 receptor antagonist dramatically decreases both nicotine taking and seeking. However, the neural substrates through which the cannabinoid CB1 receptors regulate the voluntary intake of nicotine remain to be elucidated. In the present study, we sought to determine whether central injections of a CB1 receptor antagonist delivered either into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the nucleus accumbens (NAC) may alter nicotine intravenous self-administration (IVSA). Rats were first trained to self-administer nicotine (30g/kg/0.1ml). The effect of central infusions of the CB1 antagonist AM 251 (0, 1 and 10g/0.5l/side) on nicotine-taking behavior was then tested. Intra-VTA infusions of AM 251 dose dependently reduced IVSA with a significant decrease for the dose 10g/0.5l/side. Moreover, operant responding for water was unaltered by intra-VTA AM 251 at the same dose. Surprisingly, intra-NAC delivery of AM 251 did not alter nicotine behavior at all. These data suggest that in rats chronically exposed to nicotine IVSA, the cannabinoid CB1 receptors located in the VTA rather than in the NAC specifically control nicotine reinforcement and, subsequently, nicotine-taking behavior.
Learned associations between drugs and the places they are used are critical to the development of drug addiction. Contextual conditioning has long been studied in animals as an indirect measure of drug reward, but little is known about the process in humans. Here, we investigated de novo contextual conditioning with d-amphetamine in healthy humans (n=34). Volunteers underwent four conditioning sessions conducted in two testing rooms with double-blind, alternating d-amphetamine (20mg) and placebo administration. Before conditioning procedures began, they rated the two rooms to examine pre-existing preferences. One group (Paired, n=19) always received d-amphetamine in their least preferred room and placebo in the other during conditioning sessions. Another group (Unpaired, n= 15) received d-amphetamine and placebo in both rooms. Subjective drug effects were monitored at repeated times. At a separate re-exposure test, preference ratings for the drug-associated room were increased among the Paired group only, and more subjects in the Paired than the Unpaired group switched their preference to their initially least preferred room. Also, ratings of d-amphetamine drug liking independently predicted room liking at test among the Paired group only. Further, Paired group subjects reported greater stimulation and drug craving after d-amphetamine on the second administration, relative to the first. This study supports preliminary findings that humans, like animals, develop a preference for a place associated with d-amphetamine that is related to its subjective effects. These findings also suggest that experiencing d-amphetamine in a consistent environment produces context-dependent changes in its subjective effects, including an enhanced rewarding efficacy and abuse potential.
The cannabinoid 1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716) alters rewarding properties and intake of food and drugs. Additionally, striatal dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) availability has been implicated in reward function. This study shows that chronic treatment of rats with rimonabant (1.0 and 3.0mg/kg/day) dose-dependently increased DRD2 availability in the dorsal striatum (14 and 23%) compared with vehicle. High-dose rimonabant also increased DRD2 availability in the ventral striatum (12%) and reduced weight gain. Thus, up-regulation of striatal DRD2 by chronic rimonabant administration may be an underlying mechanism of action and confirms the interactions of the endocannabinoid and dopaminergic systems.

Children who are clumsy are often bullied. Nevertheless, motor skills have been overlooked in research on bullying victimization. A total of 2,730 Swedish adults (83% females) responded to retrospective questions on bullying, their talents in physical education (i.e., coordination and balls skills) and school academics. Poor talents were used as indicators of poor gross motor skills and poor academic skills. A subset of participants also provided information on educational level in adulthood, childhood obesity, belonging to an ethic minority in school and socioeconomic status relative to schoolmates. A total of 29.4% of adults reported being bullied in school, and 18.4% reported having below average gross motor skills. Of those with below average motor skills, 48.6% were bullied in school. Below average motor skills in childhood were associated with an increased risk (OR 3.01 [95% CI: 1.97-4.60]) of being bullied, even after adjusting for the influence of lower socioeconomic status, poor academic performance, being overweight, and being a bully. Higher odds for bully victimization were also associated with lower socioeconomic status (OR 2.29 [95% CI: 1.45-3.63]), being overweight (OR 1.71 [95% CI: 1.18-2.47]) and being a bully (OR 2.18 [95% CI: 1.53-3.11]). The findings indicate that poor gross motor skills constitute a robust risk-marker for vulnerability for bully victimization.
Glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission undergo significant changes during adolescence. Receptors for both of these transmitters (NMDAR, and GABAA) are known to be key targets for the acute effects of ethanol in adults. The current study set out to investigate the acute effects of ethanol on both NMDAR-mediated excitatory transmission and GABAergic inhibitory transmission within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) across age. The BNST is an area of the brain implicated in the negative reinforcing properties associated with alcohol dependence, and the BNST plays a critical role in stress-induced relapse. Therefore, assessing the developmental regulation of ethanol sensitivity in this key brain region is important to understanding the progression of ethanol dependence. To do this, whole-cell recordings of isolated NMDAR-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) or evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (eIPSCs) were performed on BNST neurons in slices from 4- or 8-week-old male C57BL/6J mice. Ethanol (50 mm) produced greater inhibition of NMDAR-eEPSCs in adolescent mice than in adult mice. This enhanced sensitivity in adolescence was not a result of shifts in function of the GluN2B subunit of the NMDAR, measured by Ro25-6981 inhibition and decay kinetics measured across age. Adolescent mice also exhibited greater ethanol sensitivity of GABAergic transmission, as ethanol (50 mm) enhanced eIPSCs in the BNST of adolescent but not adult mice. Collectively, this work illustrates that a moderate dose of ethanol produces greater inhibition of transmission in the BNST (through greater excitatory inhibition and enhancement of inhibitory transmission) in adolescents compared to adults. Given the role of the BNST in alcohol dependence, these developmental changes in acute ethanol sensitivity could accelerate neuroadaptations that result from chronic ethanol use during the critical period of adolescence.








Dedication: with highest respect and affection to Prof. Giovanni Neri on the eve of his official administrative retirement as Chair of the Institute of Medical Genetics of the Universit Cattolica of Rome for leadership in medical genetics and medical science and friendship for decades. The concept &quot;atavism,&quot; reversion, throwback, Rckschlag remains an epistemological challenge in biology; unwise or implausible over-interpretation of a given structure as such has led some to almost total skepticism as to its existence. Originating in botany in the 18th century it became applied to zoology (and humans) with increasing frequency over the last two centuries such that the very concept became widely discredited. Presently, atavisms have acquired a new life and reconsideration given certain reasonable criteria, including: Homology of structure of the postulated atavism to that of ancestral fossils or collateral species with plausible soft tissue reconstructions taking into account relationships of parts, obvious sites of origin and insertion of muscles, vascular channels, etc. Most parsimonious, plausible phylogenetic assumptions. Evident rudimentary or vestigial anatomical state in prior generations or in morphogenesis of a given organism. Developmental instability in prior generations, that is, some closely related species facultatively with or without the trait. Genetic identity or phylogenomic similarity inferred in ancestors and corroborated in more or less closely related species. Fluctuating asymmetry may be the basis for the striking evolutionary diversification and common atavisms in limbs; however, strong selection and developmental constraints would make atavisms in, for example, cardiac or CNS development less likely. Thus, purported atavisms must be examined critically in light of the above criteria.
This Commentary highlights the article by Rom et al which shows that selective cannabinoid receptor 2 activation in leukocytes decreases key steps in monocyte-blood brain barrier engagement suppressing inflammatory leukocyte responses and preventing neuroinflammation.


Diminished synthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) in the brain has been linked to disturbed memory processes. The present study investigated the effects of diminished central nervous 5-HT synthesis as achieved by an acute dietary tryptophan depletion (ATD) on verbal declarative episodic memory in young women while controlling for the effects of female sex hormones. Eighteen healthy females (aged 20-31 years) participated in a within-subject repeated measures study, with two separate days of assessment spaced at least one individual menstrual cycle apart. On one day, participants were subjected to ATD, thus lowering central nervous 5-HT synthesis. The other day participants received a tryptophan-balanced amino acid load (BAL = control condition). The study was randomized, counterbalanced and double blind in terms of ATD/BAL administration. Measurements took place in the early follicular phase of the participants' menstrual cycle. Estrogen, FSH and LH levels were assessed at baseline. Verbal declarative episodic memory was assessed using a structured word-learning task. Short-term memory, as indexed by immediate recall, was reduced after ATD intake, whereas delayed recall and recognition after a 25-min delay did not show any differences after intake of ATD or BAL. In young women, verbal short-term memory function was more vulnerable to ATD than consolidation processes. In light of the possible interplay between female sex hormones and 5-HT, further studies comparing different menstrual cycle phases are needed.
Protein succination, the non-enzymatic modification of cysteine residues by fumarate, is distinguishable from succinylation, an enzymatic reaction forming an amide bond between lysine residues and succinyl-CoA. Treatment of adipocytes with 30 mM glucose significantly increases protein succination with only a small change in succinylation. Protein succination may be significantly increased intracellularly after treatment with fumaric acid esters, however, the ester must be removed by saponification to permit 2SC-antibody detection of the fumarate adduct.
Sperm chromatin/DNA damage can be measured by a variety of assays. However, it has been reported that these tests may lose prognostic value in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) cycles when assessed in post-prepared samples, possibly due to the normalizing effect promoted by sperm preparation procedures. We have recently implemented a modified version of the Diff-Quik staining assay that allows for the evaluation of human sperm chromatin status in native samples, together with standard sperm morphology assessment. However, the value of this parameter in terms of predicting in vitro fertilization (IVF) and Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) outcomes after sperm selection is unknown. In this study, data from 138 couples undergoing in vitro fertilization (IVF) or Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatments showed that sperm chromatin integrity was significantly improved after density gradient centrifugation and swim up (p&lt;0.001), but no correlations were found with fertilization or embryo development rates (p&gt;0.05). However, sperm samples presenting lower percentages of damaged chromatin were associated with better quality (Grade I) embryos in both ART procedures (p&lt;0.05) and clinical pregnancy among IVF couples (p&lt;0.05). Furthermore, regression analysis confirmed the clinical value of Diff-Quik staining in predicting IVF (but not ICSI) clinical pregnancy (OR: 0.927, 95% CI: 0.871-0.985, p=0.015), and a threshold value of 34.25% for this parameter was established. The proportion of IVF couples achieving a clinical pregnancy was reduced 1.9-fold when the percentage of abnormal dark staining was 34.25% (p=0.05). In conclusion, the Diff-Quik staining assay provides useful information regarding ART success, particularly in IVF cycles, where some degree of 'natural' sperm selection may occur; but not in ICSI, where sperm selection is operator dependent. This quick and low-cost assay is suggested as an alternative method to detect sperm chromatin status in minimal clinical settings, when no other well-established and robust assays (e.g. Sperm chromatin structure assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUDP nick-end labelling) are available.


Introduction: Earlier treatment with intravenous stroke thrombolysis improves outcomes and lowers risk of bleeding complications. The decision-making and consent process is one of the rate-limiting steps in the duration between hospital arrival and treatment initiation. We aim to describe the attitudes and practices of neurologists in Singapore on the consent and decision-making processes for stroke thrombolysis. Materials and Methods: A survey of neurologists and neurologists-in-training in 2 large tertiary public hospitals in Singapore was conducted. Results: Among 46 respondents, 94% of them considered stroke thrombolysis an emergency treatment and 67% of them indicated there is a need for written informed consent. The majority (87%) knew that from a legal perspective, the doctor should be the decision-maker in an emergency treatment for a mentally incapacitated patient. However, 63% of respondents reported that it is the nextof- kin who usually makes the decision in actual practice. If confronted with a mentally incapacitated stroke patient, 57% of them were willing to be the proxy decision-maker and 13% of them were not. In 3 commonly encountered vignettes when a mentally incapacitated patient was being considered for stroke thrombolysis, there was no clear consensus on the respondents' practices. Conclusion: The next-of-kin is usually the decision-maker for stroke thrombolysis in practice for a mentally incapacitated patient despite most doctors considering thrombolysis an emergency treatment. This, together with the lack of consensus and variance in decision-making and consent practice amongst neurologists for stroke thrombolysis, demonstrates the need to develop best practice guidelines to standardise healthcare practices for greater consistency in health service delivery.
Introduction: We aimed to create a definition of neurophobia, and determine its prevalence and educational risk factors amongst medical students and junior doctors in Singapore. Materials and Methods: We surveyed medical students and junior doctors in a general hospital using electronic and paper questionnaires. We asked about knowledge, interest, perceived difficulty in neurology, and confidence in managing neurology patients compared to 7 other internal medicine specialties; quality and quantity of undergraduate and postgraduate neuroscience teaching, clinical neurology exposure, and postgraduate qualifications. Neurophobia was defined as 4 composite score of difficulty and confidence with neurology. Results: One hundred and fifty-eight medical students (63.5%) and 131 junior doctors (73.2%) responded to the questionnaire. Neurophobia prevalence was 47.5% in medical students, highest amongst all medical subspecialties, and 36.6% in junior doctors. Multivariate analysis revealed that for medical students, female gender (OR 3.0, 95% CI, 1.3 to 6.7), low interest (OR 2.5, 95% CI, 1.0 to 6.2), low knowledge (OR 10.1, 95% CI, 4.5 to 22.8), and lack of clinical teaching by a neurologist (OR 2.8, 95% CI, 1.2 to 6.6) independently increased the risk of neurophobia. For doctors, low interest (OR 3.0, 95% CI, 1.3 to 7.0) and low knowledge (OR 2.7, 95% CI, 1.2 to 6.2) independently increased the risk of neurophobia, and female gender was of borderline significance (OR 2.0, 95% CI, 0.9 to 4.6). Conclusion: Neurophobia is highly prevalent amongst Singapore medical students and junior doctors. Low interest and knowledge are independent risk factors shared by both groups; female gender may also be a shared risk factor. The mnemonic GIK (Gender, Interest, Knowledge) identifies the risk factors to mitigate when planning teaching strategies to reduce neurophobia.

Therapeutic hypothermia (TH) is considered a standard of care in the post-resuscitation phase of cardiac arrest. In experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI), TH was found to have neuroprotective properties. However, TH failed to demonstrate beneficial effects on neurological outcome in patients with TBI. The absence of benefits of TH uniformly applied in TBI patients should not question the use of TH as a second-tier therapy to treat elevated intracranial pressure. The management of all the practical aspects of TH is a key factor to avoid side effects and to optimize the potential benefit of TH in the treatment of intracranial hypertension. Induction of TH can be achieved with external surface cooling or with intra-vascular devices. The therapeutic target should be set at a 35C using brain temperature as reference, and should be maintained at least during 48 hours and ideally over the entire period of elevated intracranial pressure. The control of the rewarming phase is crucial to avoid temperature overshooting and should not exceed 1C/day. Besides its use in the management of intracranial hypertension, therapeutic cooling is also essential to treat hyperthermia in brain-injured patients. In this review, we will discuss the benefit-risk balance and practical aspects of therapeutic temperature management in TBI patients.
Many of us go through our daily lives on autopilot, not fully aware of our conscious experiences. In a discussion moderated by Steve Paulson, executive producer and host of To the Best of Our Knowledge, neuroscientists Richard Davidson and Amishi Jha and clinical mindfulness expert Jon Kabat-Zinn explore the role of consciousness in mental and physical health, how we can train our minds to be more flexible and adaptable, and cutting-edge neuroscience findings about the transformation of consciousness through mindfulness and contemplative practice. The following is an edited transcript of the discussion that occurred February 6, 2013, 7:00-8:15 PM, at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York City.
A universal fascination with how we remember, forget, and create false memories cuts across the arts and sciences, as do the questions of how and where memories are formed and preserved. Moderated by Steve Paulson, executive producer and host of To the Best of Our Knowledge, novelist and comparative literature professor Andr Aciman (City University of New York), neuroscientist Joseph LeDoux (New York University), psychologist Daniel Schacter (Harvard University), and historian of science and medicine Alison Winter (University of Chicago) discuss how memory impacts our perception of ourselves, the development of personality, and the ability to construct and reconstruct our past experience. The following is an edited transcript of the discussion that occurred November 14, 2012, 7:00-8:15 PM, at the New York Academy of Sciences in New York City.
This chapter gives an overview of the projects facing a science of consciousness. Such a science must integrate third-person data about behavior and brain processes with first-person data about conscious experience. Empirical projects for integrating these data include those of contrasting conscious and unconscious processes, investigating the contents of consciousness, finding neural correlates of consciousness, and eventually inferring underlying principles connecting consciousness with physical processes. These projects are discussed with reference to current experimental research on consciousness. Some obstacles that a science of consciousness faces are also discussed.

Competing theories on the etiology and treatment of chronic tic disorders and Tourette syndrome have long made the search for efficacious intervention more challenging for patients and families seeking to reduce functional impairment related to tic symptoms. These symptoms were historically posited to be either psychological in origin, leading to the long tradition of psychoanalytic psychotherapy for tics, or biological in nature, particularly since the advent of successful treatments using neuroleptic medications. Current thinking about the phenomenology of tic disorders comes from growing empirical evidence as well as advances in neuroscience and genetics research and reveals a biological vulnerability that is exacerbated by physiological arousal related to environmental or interpersonal stress. This manuscript summarizes the evolution of this knowledge base and describes current best-practice recommendations for patients, families, and clinicians.
The neuroscience of creativity and music improvisation is a fascinating topic and one with strong implications for clinical music therapy. Music therapists are trained to use musical improvisation as a means to bring their clients into deeper therapeutic relationship as well as free up any inhibitions or limitations that may block recovery. Could recent fMRI studies of jazz musicians showing areas of brain activation during music improvisation provide a new framework to understand underlying mechanisms at work with neurologically impaired individuals?
Memory plays an important role in everyday life but does not provide an exact and unchanging record of experience: research has documented that memory is a constructive process that is subject to a variety of errors and distortions. Yet these memory &quot;sins&quot; also reflect the operation of adaptive aspects of memory. Memory can thus be characterized as an adaptive constructive process, which plays a functional role in cognition but produces distortions, errors, or illusions as a consequence of doing so.
Creativity is a fundamental and remarkable human capacity, yet the scientific study of creativity has been limited by the difficulty of reconciling the scientific method and creative processes. We outline several hurdles and considerations that should be addressed when studying the cognitive neuroscience of creativity and suggest that jazz improvisation may be one of the most useful experimental models for the study of spontaneous creativity. More broadly, we argue that studying creativity in a way that is both scientifically and ecologically valid requires collaboration between neuroscientists and artists.


Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) decarboxylates isocitrate to -ketoglutarate (-KG) leading to generation of NADPH, which is required to regenerate reduced glutathione (GSH), the major cellular ROS scavenger. Mutation of R132 of IDH1 abrogates generation of -KG and leads to conversion of -KG to 2-hydroxyglutarate. We hypothesized that glioma cells expressing mutant IDH1 have a diminished antioxidative capacity and therefore may encounter an ensuing loss of cytoprotection under conditions of oxidative stress. Our study was performed with LN229 cells stably overexpressing IDH1 R132H and wild type IDH1 or with a lentiviral IDH1 knockdown. Quantification of GSH under basal conditions and following treatment with the glutathione reductase inhibitor BCNU revealed significantly lower GSH levels in IDH1 R132H expressing cells and IDH1 KD cells compared to their respective controls. FACS analysis of cell death and ROS production also demonstrated an increased sensitivity of IDH1-R132H-expressing cells and IDH1 KD cells to BCNU, but not to temozolomide. The sensitivity of IDH1-R132H-expressing cells and IDH1 KD cells to ROS induction and cell death was further enhanced with the transaminase inhibitor aminooxyacetic acid and under glutamine free conditions, indicating that these cells were more addicted to glutaminolysis. Increased sensitivity to BCNU-induced ROS production and cell death was confirmed in HEK293 cells inducibly expressing the IDH1 mutants R132H, R132C and R132L. Based on these findings we propose that in addition to its established pro-tumorigenic effects, mutant IDH1 may also limit the resistance of gliomas to specific death stimuli, therefore opening new perspectives for therapy.
Animals can learn that specific contexts are associated with important biological events such as food intake through classical conditioning. Very few studies suggest this is also possible in humans and contextual appetitive conditioning might even be a main determinant of habitual overeating in vulnerable humans. A Virtual Reality laboratory was used to test whether humans show conditioned responding (increased food desires and expectations, increased salivation and increased food intake) to a specific context after repeated pairings of this context with intake. It was also examined whether the personality trait impulsivity strengthens this contextual appetitive conditioning. Conditioned context-induced reactivity was indeed demonstrated and impulsivity predicted increased intake in only the intake-associated context. It is concluded that humans easily learn desires to eat in intake-related environments. The data also suggest that in particular more impulsive people are vulnerable for conditioned context-induced overeating. This relatively easy learning of associations between specific contexts and intake might stimulate habitual overeating and contribute to increased obesity prevalence.
The present study tested the impact of experimentally manipulated perceived availability of chocolate on attention for chocolate stimuli, momentary (state) craving for chocolate and consumption of chocolate in healthy weight female students. It was hypothesized that eating forbiddance would be related to attentional avoidance (thus diminished attention focus on food cues in an attempt to prevent oneself from processing food cues) and that eating motivation would be related to attentional approach (thus maintained attentional focus on food cues). High chronic chocolate cravers (n=40) and low cravers (n=40) participated in one of four perceived availability contexts (required to eat, forbidden to eat, individual choice to eat, and 50% chance to eat) following a brief chocolate exposure. Attention for chocolate was measured using eye-tracking; momentary craving from self-report; and the consumption of chocolate was assessed from direct observation. The perceived availability of chocolate did not significantly influence attention allocation for chocolate stimuli, momentary craving or chocolate intake. High chocolate cravers reported significantly higher momentary craving for chocolate (d=1.29, p&lt;.001), and showed longer initial duration of gaze on chocolate, than low cravers (d=0.63, p&lt;.01). In contrast, participants who indicated during the manipulation check that they would not have permitted themselves to eat chocolate, irrespective of the availability instruction they received, showed significantly less craving (d=0.96, p&lt;.01) and reduced total dwell time for chocolate stimuli than participants who permitted themselves to eat chocolate (d=0.53, p&lt;.05). Thus, this study provides evidence that attention biases for food stimuli reflect inter-individual differences in eating motivation--such as chronic chocolate craving, and self-endorsed eating permission.
Congenital insensitivity to pain is a rare hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy (HSAN). This disorder is an autosomal recessive condition: since 1996, mutations attributed to this entity have been found in the neurotrophin tyrosine-kinase gene receptor on chromosome 1. The authors report 3 cases of congenital insensitivity to pain. In these 3 sisters of consanguineous parents, the clinical investigation showed total absence of pain and temperature sensations with preservation of all other sensory modalities, mental retardation, but in contrast to HSAN type IV, there was no anhidrosis. The neurophysiological investigation revealed an isolated axonal sensory polyneuropathy in the 3 patients. The clinical and neurophysiological investigations were normal in both parents and the brother. The physiopathology of this entity is discussed. We suggest a particular form of HSAN type IV with preservation of transpiration or a new entity of congenital insensitivity to pain, which should be analyzed genetically.
Compounds acting on the cannabinoid (CB) receptors are involved in the control of cell fate, and there is an emerging consensus that CBs have anticancer effects. However, the CB-mediated effects are contradictory since some studies suggest stimulatory effects on cancer cell proliferation, and CBs have been shown to stimulate both proliferation and differentiation of other mitotic cells such as stem and progenitor cells. In this study, the concentration-dependent effects of synthetic and endogenous CBs on the viability of mouse P19 embryonal carcinoma (EC) cells have been examined by using fluorescence assays of cell membrane integrity, cell proliferation, oxidative stress, and detection of apoptosis and necrosis. All compounds examined produced a concentration-dependent decrease in cell viability in the micromolar range, with the potent CB receptor agonist HU 210 and the enantiomer HU 211 (with no CB receptor activity) being the most potent compounds examined with apparent IC50 values of 1 and 0.6 M, respectively. The endogenous CB anandamide showed similar potency and efficacy as structurally related polyunsaturated fatty acids with no reported activity at the CB receptors. The rapid (within hours) decrease in cell viability induced by the examined CBs suggests cytocidal rather than antiproliferative effects and is dependent on the plating cell population density with the highest toxicity around 100 cells/mm(2). The CB-induced cytotoxicity, which appears to involve CB receptors and the sphingomyelin-ceramide pathway, is a mixture of both apoptosis and necrosis that can be blocked by the antioxidants -tocopherol and N-acetylcysteine. In conclusion, both synthetic and endogenous CBs produce seemingly unspecific cytotoxic effects in the P19 EC cells.


The action-specific perception hypothesis (Witt, Current Directions in Psychological Science 20: 201-206, 2011) claims that the environment is represented with respect to potential interactions for objects present within said environment. This investigation sought to extend the hypothesis beyond perceptual mechanisms and assess whether action-specific potential could alter attentional allocation. To do so, we examined a well-replicated attention bias in the weapon focus effect (Loftus, Loftus, &amp; Messo, Law and Human Behaviour 1, 55-62, 1987), which represents the tendency for observers to attend more to weapons than to neutral objects. Our key manipulation altered the anticipated action-specific potential of observers by providing them a firearm while they freely viewed scenes with and without weapons present. We replicated the original weapon focus effect using modern eye tracking and confirmed that the increase in time looking at weapons comes at a cost of less time spent looking at faces. Additionally, observers who held firearms while viewing the various scenes showed a general bias to look at faces over objects, but only if the firearm was in a readily usable position (i.e., pointed at the scenes rather than holstered at one's side). These two effects, weapon focus and the newly found bias to look more at faces when armed, canceled out one another without interacting. This evidence confirms that the action capabilities of the observer alter more than just perceptual mechanisms and that holding a weapon can change attentional priorities. Theoretical and real-world implications are discussed.
To investigate the effect of semantic congruity on audiovisual target responses, participants detected a semantic concept that was embedded in a series of rapidly presented stimuli. The target concept appeared as a picture, an environmental sound, or both; and in bimodal trials, the audiovisual events were either consistent or inconsistent in their representation of a semantic concept. The results showed faster detection latencies to bimodal than to unimodal targets and a higher rate of missed targets when visual distractors were presented together with auditory targets, in comparison to auditory targets presented alone. The findings of Experiment 2 showed a cross-modal asymmetry, such that visual distractors were found to interfere with the accuracy of auditory target detection, but auditory distractors had no effect on either the speed or the accuracy of visual target detection. The biased-competition theory of attention (Desimone &amp; Duncan Annual Review of Neuroscience 18: 1995; Duncan, Humphreys, &amp; Ward Current Opinion in Neurobiology 7: 255-261 1997) was used to explain the findings because, when the saliency of the visual stimuli was reduced by the addition of a noise filter in Experiment 4, visual interference on auditory target detection was diminished. Additionally, the results showed faster and more accurate target detection when semantic concepts were represented in a visual rather than an auditory format.
When multiple cues are presented simultaneously, Klein, Christie, and Morris (Psychonomic Bulletin &amp; Review 12:295-300, 2005) found a gradient of inhibition (of return, IOR), with the slowest simple manual detection responses occurring to targets in the direction of the center of gravity of the cues. Here, we explored the possibility of extending this finding to the saccade response modality, using methods of data analysis that allowed us to consider the relative contributions of the distance from the target to the center of gravity of the array of cues and the nearest element in the cue array. We discovered that the bulk of the IOR effect with multiple cues, in both the previous and present studies, can be explained by the distance between the target and the center of gravity of the cue array. The present results are consistent with the proposal advanced by Klein et al., (2005) suggesting that this IOR effect is due to population coding in the oculomotor pathways (e.g., the superior colliculus) driving the eye movement system toward the center of gravity of the cued array.



Increases in performance on tests of attention and learning are often observed shortly after a period of aerobic exercise, and evidence suggests that humans who engage in regular exercise are partially protected from age-related cognitive decline. However, the cognitive benefits of exercise are typically short-lived, limiting the practical application of these observations. Here, we explored whether physical exercise might induce lasting changes in general cognitive ability if that exercise was combined with working memory training, which is purported to broadly impact cognitive performance. Mice received either exercise treatment (6 weeks of voluntary running wheel access), working memory training (in a dual radial-arm maze), both treatments, or various control treatments. After this period of exercise, working memory training was initiated (alternating with days of exercise), and continued for several weeks. Upon completion of these treatments, animals were assessed (2-4 weeks later) for performance on four diverse learning tasks, and the aggregate performance of individual animals across all four learning tasks was estimated. Working memory training alone promoted small increases in general cognitive performance, although any beneficial effects of exercise alone had dissipated by the time of learning assessments. However, the two treatments in combination more than doubled the improvement in general cognitive performance supported by working memory training alone. Unlike the transient effects that acute aerobic exercise can have on isolated learning tasks, these results indicate that an acute period of exercise combined with working memory training can have synergistic and lasting impact on general cognitive performance.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) results from exposure to a traumatic event and manifests as re-experiencing, arousal, avoidance, and negative cognition/mood symptoms. Avoidant symptoms, as well as the newly defined negative cognitions/mood, are a serious complication leading to diminished interest in once important or positive activities, such as social interaction; however, the basis of these symptoms remains poorly understood. PTSD patients also exhibit impaired object and social recognition, which may underlie the avoidance and symptoms of negative cognition, such as social estrangement or diminished interest in activities. Previous studies have demonstrated that single prolonged stress (SPS), models PTSD phenotypes, including impairments in learning and memory. Therefore, it was hypothesized that SPS would impair social and object recognition memory. Male Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to SPS then tested in the social choice test (SCT) or novel object recognition test (NOR). These tests measure recognition of novelty over familiarity, a natural preference of rodents. Results show that SPS impaired preference for both social and object novelty. In addition, SPS impairment in social recognition may be caused by impaired behavioral flexibility, or an inability to shift behavior during the SCT. These results demonstrate that traumatic stress can impair social and object recognition memory, which may underlie certain avoidant symptoms or negative cognition in PTSD and be related to impaired behavioral flexibility.
Long signal durations that represent closed-loop conditions permit responses based on the sensory feedback during the presentation of the stimulus, while short stimulus durations that represent open-loop conditions do not allow for directed head turns during signal presentation. A previous study showed that for broadband noise stimuli, the minimum audible angle (MAA) of the European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is smaller under closed-loop compared to open-loop conditions (Feinkohl &amp; Klump, 2013). Head turns represent a possible strategy to improve sound localization cues under closed-loop conditions. In this study, we analyze the influence of head turns on the starling MAA for broadband noise and 2 kHz tones under closed-loop and open-loop conditions. The starlings made more head turns under closed-loop conditions compared to open-loop conditions. Under closed-loop conditions, their sensitivity for discriminating sound source positions was best if they turned their head once or more per stimulus presentation. We discuss potential cues generated from head turns under closed-loop conditions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), can be described as a vascular disorder, is characterized by endothelial and platelet activation. One feature of activated cells is loss of lipid asymmetry, and membrane blebbing which cause microparticle (MP) formation. MPs increased under many pathological states and little information is available relating to their changes in AD. The purpose of this work was to characterize the time course of the endothelial-derived microparticles (EMPs) and platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) alteration after intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Rats were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ/Saline, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma EMPs (Annexin V(+) CD61(-)CD144(+)) and PMPs (Annexin V(+) CD61(+)CD144(-)) were analyzed with flow cytometry at 2 h, 4 h, 24 h, 4 days, 7 days, 14 days and 21 days after ICV-STZ/Saline administration. Cognitive impairment, malondialdehyde (MDA) level of hippocampus, plasma serotonin, and serum S100B were also assessed. We showed the elevation of CSF and plasma level of EMPs and PMPs, which may represent a proinflammatory and prothrombotic status. These alterations were simultaneous with the hippocampal MDA rise, plasma serotonin increment, and S100B decrement, 7 days after ICV-STZ administration and precede the onset of cognitive impairment. Understanding the profile of MP changes in CSF or plasma as biomarkers from tissues undergoing activation or damage, may be helpful in prediction or early diagnosis of AD.
Highly addictive drugs like nicotine and amphetamine not only change an individual's behaviour in the short and long-term, they also induce persistent changes in neuronal excitability and morphology. Although research has started to examine the epigenetic changes that occur immediately after drug exposure, there has been little investigation into the persistent modifications to the epigenome that likely moderate the stable maintenance of the neurological changes. Male Long-Evans rats were administered amphetamine, nicotine, or saline for 14 consecutive days, given a 14 day withdrawal period, and then sacrificed. DNA from the mPFC, OFC, and nucleus accumbens (NAc) was used for global DNA methylation analysis and RNA from the same brain regions was used for gene expression analysis. Following the two-week withdrawal period, exposure to amphetamine or nicotine was associated with a decrease in global DNA methylation in each brain region examined. Previous exposure to nicotine was associated with changes in expression of 16 genes (NAc:6, mPFC:5, OFC:5) whereas exposure to amphetamine was associated with changes in expression of 25 genes (NAc:13, OFC:8, mPFC:4). The persistent epigenetic changes associated with exposure to amphetamine and nicotine were region and drug dependent, and differ from the latent epigenetic changes that occur immediately after drug exposure. The changes in DNA methylation are consistent with the gene expression results and provide further support to the notion that DNA methylation is the key regulatory mechanism for experience dependent changes.

After experiencing juvenile social subjugation (JSS), adult female rats display more severe depression- and anxiety-like behaviors than adult males, suggesting that JSS is encoded in a sex-specific manner. To test this hypothesis, prepubertal rats (P28-33) were subjected to 10 aggressive acts in 10 min from an aggressive adult male, a 10 min encounter with a non-aggressive adult male, or to 10 min in an empty, clean cage (handled control) and were sacrificed one hour later. We then used unbiased stereology to estimate the total number and proportion of neurons immunoreactive for the immediate early gene product Fos bilaterally in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), the anterior and posterior subdivisions of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Overall, females' Fos responses were less selective than males'. The BLA in males displayed a selective Fos response to the non-aggressive male, whereas no such selectivity occurred in the BLA of females. Additionally, there were more neurons overall in the left BLA than the right and this lateralization was specific to males. The principal subdivision of the BST (BSTpr) in males responded selectively to JSS, whereas the BSTpr in females responded to both the non-aggressive and aggressive males. We also found that the regional volume and neuron number of the BSTpr is greater in males than in females. Finally, the PVN in males was, like the BLA, selective for the non-aggressive male, whereas none of the experiences elicited a selective response in females. The greater selectivity for non-threatening stimuli in males in three stress-responsive brain regions may be a clue as to why males are less susceptible to the anxiogenic effects of JSS.
In the past decade, considerable amounts of studies have explored the neural underpinnings of empathic response toward the positive and negative feelings of others, such as pain and social exclusion, in the field of neuroeconomics. In addition, empathic response of observing other's financial gains and losses have recently started to gain increasing attention in this interdisciplinary field. However, the effects of inequality-averse social preference on individuals' response toward other's gains and losses have not yet been clearly characterized. This work conducted an electrophysiological study with a simple gambling task to explore how inequality aversion matters in modulating neural temporal dynamics toward self and others' gains and losses using scalp-recorded event-related potentials (ERPs). The electrophysiological data demonstrated increased amplitude of P300 toward self's monetary gains and losses independent of advantageous and disadvantageous status. Intriguingly, subjects in the high pay group evoked more pronounced gain loss disparity of feedback-related negativity (FRN) amplitude toward others than themselves. Meanwhile, such a pattern was not observed among the subjects in the low pay group. Therefore, the current double dissociation results of FRN and P300 may indicate that advantageous status enhances subjects' empathic response toward others' pecuniary outcome, giving a direct electrophysiological evidence for the economic modeling on inequality aversion behavior.
Acetylcholine (ACh) modulates neuronal activities in extensive brain regions to play an essential role in various brain functions including attention, learning and memory, and cognition. Although ACh is known to modulate information processing in the primary visual cortex (V1) in many species including rodent, its functional role in visual ability has remained unknown. We examined whether and how ACh influences behavioral contrast detectability in rat. The detectability was assessed as the contrast sensitivity (CS) to a grating stimulus. Measurements were performed in a two-alternative forced-choice task combined with a staircase method in freely behaving rats. The contrast sensitivity function of rats under the no drug condition showed a low-pass spatial frequency (SF) tuning peaking at 0.1 cycles/degree (cpd) of SF (SF(peak)) that bottomed at 0.5 cpd (SF(bottom)), which was sensitive to the stimulus size, but to neither the temporal frequency nor orientation of the stimulus. The stimulus size was correlated with the CS only at the low SF range. The effect of donepezil on the size- and SF-dependency of the CS was examined using three stimulus conditions: an easy detectability condition with large grating at SF(peak), a difficult detectability condition with small grating at SF(peak), and an upper limit SF condition with large grating at SF(bottom). Donepezil improved the CS at SF(peak), especially in the difficult detectability condition. Therefore, we conclude that ACh plays an important role in enhancing behavioral CS at sensitive SF ranges, but not in improving the upper limit of SF.
Genetic factors significantly influence addiction-related phenotypes. This is supported by the successful bidirectional selective breeding of two replicate sets of mouse lines for amount of methamphetamine consumed. Some of the same genetic factors that influence methamphetamine consumption have been previously found also to influence sensitivity to the conditioned rewarding and aversive effects of methamphetamine. The goal of the current studies was to determine if some of the same genetic factors influence sensitivity to the conditioned rewarding and aversive effects of cocaine. Cocaine conditioned reward was examined in methamphetamine high drinking and low drinking line mice using a conditioned place preference procedure and cocaine conditioned aversion was measured using a conditioned taste aversion procedure. In addition, a general sensitivity measure, locomotor stimulant response to cocaine, was assessed in these lines; previous data indicated no difference between the selected lines in sensitivity to methamphetamine-induced stimulation. In contrast to robust differences for methamphetamine, the methamphetamine high and low drinking lines did not differ in sensitivity to either the rewarding or aversive effects of cocaine. They also exhibited comparable sensitivity to cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation. These data suggest that the genetic factors that influence sensitivity to the conditioned rewarding and aversive effects of methamphetamine in these lines of mice do not influence sensitivity to these effects of cocaine. Thus, different genetic factors may influence risk for methamphetamine versus cocaine use.
Human decisions are often biased by emotions. Stressed and depressed individuals tend to make negative, pessimistic judgements while those in positive affective states are often more optimistic. Chronic psychosocial stress has previously been shown to induce a spectrum of behavioural and physiological changes in rats that are considered the correlates of depressive symptoms in humans. In this study, we investigate whether chronic social defeat makes animals more 'pessimistic'. To measure the changes in cognitive judgement bias, we applied the ambiguous-cue interpretation paradigm. In the operant boxes, the rats were trained to press one lever in response to one tone to receive a reward and to press another lever in response to a different tone to avoid punishment. Cognitive bias was tested by measuring the pattern of animals' responses to a tone of intermediate frequency (ambiguous-cue). To induce chronic psychosocial stress, we subjected the animals to daily social defeat in the resident-intruder paradigm for 3 weeks. We report that chronic psychosocial stress makes rats more pessimistic.
Evidence suggests that behavioural affective reactions to sweet and bitter substances are homologous in humans, nonhuman primates, and rodents. The sweet taste of sucrose elicits facial responses that include rhythmic tongue protrusions whereas the bitter taste of quinine elicits facial responses that include gapes, featuring an opening of the mouth and protrusion of the tongue. The present study using the horse (Equus caballus) was undertaken for three reasons: (1) there is debate about the presence of a sweet receptor gene in the horse, (2) there is a need to expand the examination of facial reactions to taste in lineages other than the closely related lineages of rodents and primates, and (3) the horse provides an opportunity to test the hypothesis that some social signals derive from movements related to taste reaction. The horses were given oral infusions of either sucrose or quinine and their behaviour was examined using frame-by-frame video analysis. Control groups were exposed received water or syringe insertion only. Amongst the many responses made to the infusions, the distinctive response to sucrose was a bob coupled with a slight tongue protrusion and forward movement of the ears; the distinctive response to quinine was a head extension and mouth gape accompanied by a large tongue protrusion and backward movement of the ears. Sucrose Bobs and Quinine Gapes are discussed with respect to: (1) the relevance of facial reactions to both sucrose and quinine to taste receptors in horses, (2) the similarity of features of taste expression in horses to those documented in rodents and primates, and (3) the dissimilarity between facial reactions to taste and other social signals displayed by horses.
People often sleep deprive themselves voluntarily for social and lifestyle reasons. Animals also appear to stay awake longer as a result of their natural curiosity to explore novel environments and interact socially with conspecifics. Although multiple arousal systems in the brain are known to act jointly to promote and maintain wakefulness, it remains unclear whether these systems are similarly engaged during voluntary vs. forced wakefulness. Using c-Fos immunohistochemistry, we compared neuronal responses in rats deprived of sleep for 2 h by gentle sensory stimulation, exploration under social isolation, or exploration with social interaction, and rats under undisturbed control conditions. In many arousal, limbic, and autonomic nuclei examined (e.g., anterior cingulate cortex and locus coeruleus), the two sleep deprivation procedures involving exploration were similarly effective, and both were more effective than sleep deprivation with sensory stimulation, in increasing the number of c-Fos immunoreactive neurons. However, some nuclei (e.g., paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and select amygdala nuclei) were more responsive to exploration with social interaction, while others (e.g., histaminergic tuberomammillary nucleus) responded more strongly to exploration in social isolation. In the rostral basal forebrain, cholinergic and GABAergic neurons responded preferentially to exploration with social interaction, whereas resident neurons in general responded most strongly to exploration without social interaction. These results indicate that voluntary exploration with/without social interaction is more effective than forced sleep deprivation with gentle sensory stimulation for inducing c-Fos in arousal and limbic/autonomic brain regions, and suggest that these nuclei participate in different aspects of arousal during sustained voluntary wakefulness.
Drug abuse runs in families suggesting the involvement of genetic risk factors. Differences in addiction-related neurobiological systems, including learning and memory and circadian rhythms, may exist prior to developing addiction. We characterized the cognitive phenotypes and the free-running circadian period of mouse lines selectively bred for high methamphetamine (MA) drinking (MA high drinking or MAHDR) and low MA drinking (MA low drinking or MALDR). MA-nave MALDR mice showed spatial memory retention while MAHDR mice did not. MA-nave MAHDR mice had elevated hippocampal levels of the AMPA receptor subunits GluA2 (old terminology: GluR2), but not GluA1 (old terminology: GluR1). There were no line differences in the free running period () when only water was available. During a 25 mg/L MA solution access period (vs water), there was an increase in  in MALDR but not MAHDR mice, although MAHDR mice consumed significantly more MA. During a 50 mg/L MA solution access period (vs water), both lines showed an increased . There was a positive correlation between MA consumption and  from baseline in MALDR, but not MAHDR, mice. Thus, a heritable proclivity for elevated MA self-administration may be associated with impairments in hippocampus-dependent memory and reduced sensitivity to effects of MA on lengthening of the circadian period.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder caused by the experience of a severe traumatic event. In rats this disorder has been modeled by exposure to a predator threat. PTSD has been associated to structural and functional changes in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Direct injections into this brain region of glutamate antagonists or inhibitors of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzyme cause anxiolytic-like effects in rodents. In the present work we investigated if the behavioral changes induced by predator exposure are associated with changes in the mPFC nitrergic system. Since the hippocampus, amygdala and dorsal periaqueductal grey have also been associated to anxiety disorders, including PTSD, we also verified if this procedure would modify the nitrergic system in these regions. Male Wistar rats were exposed to a dummy or live cat for ten minutes and tested in the elevated plus maze test (EPM) seven days later. Immediately after the test their brains were removed for neuronal NOS (nNOS) immunohistochemistry detection and measurements of nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels. Exposure to the live cat increased freezing responses. One week later the animals that froze when confronted with the cat presented a decreased percentage of entries in the open arms of the EPM and an increased number of nNOS positive neurons in the mPFC and basolateral nucleus of amygdala, but not in the hippocampus, central and medial nuclei of amygdaloid complex or dorsal-lateral periaqueductal grey. Moreover, cat exposed animals showed increased NOx levels in the mPFC but not in the hippocampus one week later. The number of nNOS neurons and NOx levels in the mPFC showed a significant correlation with freezing time during cat exposure. Our results suggest that plastic modifications of the nitrergic system in the mPFC could be related to long lasting behavioral changes induced by severe traumatic events such as predator exposure.
Both nitric oxide (NO) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by nNOS and NADPH oxidase (NOX), respectively, in the brain have been implicated in an array of behaviors ranging from learning and memory to social interactions. Although recent work has elucidated how these separate redox pathways regulate neural function and behavior, the interaction of these two pathways in the regulation of neural function and behavior remains unspecified. Toward this end, the p47phox subunit of NOX, and nNOS were deleted to generate double knockout mice that were used to characterize the behavioral outcomes of concurrent impairment of the NO and ROS pathways in the brain. Mice were tested in a battery of behavioral tasks to evaluate learning and memory, as well as social, affective, and cognitive behaviors. p47phox deletion did not affect depressive-like behavior, whereas nNOS deletion abolished it. Both p47phox and nNOS deletion singly reduced anxiety-like behavior, increased general locomotor activity, impaired spatial learning and memory, and impaired preference for social novelty. Deletion of both genes concurrently had synergistic effects to elevate locomotor activity, impair spatial learning and memory, and disrupt prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle. Although preference for social novelty was impaired in single knockouts, double knockout mice displayed elevated levels of preference for social novelty above that of wild type littermates. These data demonstrate that, depending upon modality, deletion of p47phox and nNOS genes have dissimilar, similar, or additive effects. The current findings provide evidence that the NOX and nNOS redox signaling cascades interact in the brain to affect both cognitive function and social behavior.
Some evidence suggests that adolescents are more sensitive than adults to ethanol-induced cognitive deficits and that these effects may be long-lasting. The purpose of Exp 1 was to determine if early-mid adolescent [postnatal day (P) 28-48] intermittent ethanol exposure would affect later learning and memory in a Pavlovian fear conditioning paradigm differently than comparable exposures in adulthood (P70-90). In Exp 2 animals were exposed to ethanol during mid-late adolescence (P35-55) to assess whether age of initiation within the adolescent period would influence learning and memory differentially. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given 4 g/kg i.g. ethanol (25%) or water every 48 h for a total of 11 exposures. After a 22 day non-ethanol period, animals were fear conditioned to a context (relatively hippocampal-dependent task) or tone (amygdala-dependent task), followed by retention tests and extinction (mPFC-dependent) of this conditioning. Despite similar acquisition, a deficit in context fear retention was evident in animals exposed to ethanol in early adolescence, an effect not observed after a comparable ethanol exposure in mid-late adolescence or adulthood. In contrast, animals that were exposed to ethanol in mid-late adolescence or adulthood showed enhanced resistance to context extinction. Together these findings suggest that repeated ethanol imparts long-lasting consequences on learning and memory, with outcomes that differ depending on age of exposure. These results may reflect differential influence of ethanol on the brain as it changes throughout ontogeny and may have implications for alcohol use not only throughout the developmental period of adolescence, but also in adulthood.
The GABA(B) receptor has been well characterised as a substrate of unconditioned anxiety behaviour. Indeed, the anxiolytic effects of positive modulators of the GABA(B) receptor have been demonstrated across a range of behavioural tests of innate anxiety, whereas GABA(B) receptor deficient mice have an elevated anxiety phenotype. However, the role of the GABA(B) receptor in regulating conditioned anxiety behaviour; an important facet of the preclinical study of anxiety disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder is less well understood. In vitro data suggests that the GABA(B) receptor plays an important role in regulating the neural circuitry that underpins conditioned fear learning and extinction, but whether these effects translate into alterations in conditioned anxiety behaviour has not been widely investigated. This represents a crucial deficit in the preclinical characterisation of these drugs as putative anxiolytic agents. Using the highly anxious mouse strain, BALB/c, and an auditory fear conditioning protocol, we sought to characterise the GABA(B) receptor positive modulator GS39783 and GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP52432, two compounds not previously evaluated for their effects on conditioned fear. Neither GS39783 nor CGP52432 altered freezing behaviour irrespective of whether drugs were administered before the acquisition, recall or extinction training sessions. These findings suggest limitations to the potential role of GABA(B) receptor active drugs as clinical agents in the treatment of anxiety.
Cardinal symptoms of depression include helplessness and anhedonia. In addition, depression and anxiety are often comorbid disorders. H/Rouen mice, a genetic mouse model of depression, display helpless behavior in the tail suspension test, whereas non-helpless NH/Rouen mice show the opposite behavior. It is unknown whether H/Rouen mice display an anxious behavior as compared to NH/Rouen mice, and is unclear whether they display anhedonia. Time spent in the periphery of an open-field, an index of anxiety, was found to be higher in male and female H/Rouen mice as compared to NH/Rouen mice. In the elevated plus-maze, a decrease in the number of entries and in the time spent in the open arms was observed in both male and female H/Rouen. In the light/dark box, the number of entries and the time spent in the anxiogenic bright compartment was significantly reduced in male and female H/Rouen mice. In addition, the preference of consumption of a 2% sucrose solution was significantly reduced in male and female H/Rouen mice as compared to NH/Rouen and I/Rouen mice in a two-bottle choice paradigm but was restored by a chronic (3 weeks) fluoxetine treatment. H/Rouen mice thus display both anxiety and anhedonia making them a potent animal model in the treatment of forms depression comorbidly expressed with anxiety.
Neural cell replacement therapy using fetal striatal cells has provided evidence of disease modification in clinical trials in Huntington's disease (HD) patients, although the results have been inconsistent. One of the contributing factors to the variable outcome could be the different capacity of transplanted cells derived from the primordial striatum to proliferate and maturate into striatal projection neurons. Based on the rodent lesion model of HD, the current study investigated how intrastriatal-striatal grafts from variable aged donors develop in vivo and how they influence functional recovery. Young adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were lesioned unilaterally in the dorso-striatum with quinolinic acid (0.12 M) and transplanted 14 days later with single cell suspension grafts equivalent of one whole ganglionic eminence (WGE) from donors of embryonic developmental age E13, E14, or E15; animals with or without striatal lesion served as controls. All animals were tested on the Cylinder and the Corridor tests, as well as on apomorphine-induced rotation at baseline, post-lesion/pre-grafting, and at 6 and 10 weeks post-grafting. A week prior to perfusion, a sub-group in each grafted group received fluorogold injections into the ipsilateral globus pallidus to study graft efferent projections. In summary, the data demonstrates that the age of the embryonic donor tissue has an impact on both the graft mediated functional recovery, and on the in vivo cellular composition of the striatal transplant. E13 tissue grafts gave the best overall outcome indicating that WGE from different donor ages have different potential to promote functional recovery. Understanding the stages and process in rodent striatal development could improve tissue selection in clinical trials of cell therapy in HD.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of repeated morphine pre-treatment on impairment of spatial memory acquisition induced by intra dorsal hippocampus (intra-CA1) administration of the non-selective cannabinoid CB1/CB2 receptor agonist, WIN55,212-2 in adult male rats. 2-day version of Morris water maze task has been used for the assessment of spatial memory. On the training day, rats were trained by a single training session of eight trials and 24 h later a probe trial test consist of 60s free swim period without a platform and the visible test was administered. Animals received pre-treatment subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of morphine, once daily for three days followed by five days drug-free treatment before training trials. The results indicated that bilateral pre-training intra-CA1 infusions of WIN55,212-2 (0.25 and 0.5 g/rat) impaired acquisition of spatial memory on the training and test day. The amnesic effect of WIN55, 212-2 (0.5 g/rat) was prevented in rats previously injected with morphine (20 mg/kg/day  3 days, s.c.). Improvement in spatial memory acquisition in morphine-pretreated rats was inhibited by once daily administration of naloxone (1 and 2 mg/kg, s.c.) 15 min prior to injection of morphine for three days. The results suggest that sub-chronic morphine treatment may produced sensitization to cannabinoids, which in turn reversed the impairment of spatial memory acquisition induced by WIN55,212-2 and mu- opioid receptors may play an important role in this effect.
The parabigeminal (PBG), pedunculopontine (PPTg), and laterodorsal tegmental (LDTg) nuclei located in the rostral brainstem are the primary sources of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) for the midbrain and thalamus, and as part of the ascending reticular activating system, these cholinergic signaling pathways regulate mouse behavioral responses to sensory stimuli. Here, I report that mice harboring a conditional deletion of ACh synthesis specifically within these nuclei (ChAT(En1 KO)) exhibit decreased ultrasonic vocalizations both as pups and adults, consistent with their previously reported hypoactivity when exploring the novel environment of the open field arena. Furthermore, in prepulse inhibition (PPI) tests, ChAT(En1 KO) animals exhibited increased sensorimotor gating in comparison to control littermates. These data suggest that ACh signaling arising from the rostral brainstem modulates animal behavior in part by tuning the levels of sensorimotor gating. Thus, the net effect of this cholinergic activity is to increase sensitivity to environmental stimuli, and loss of this pathway contributes to the hypoactivity in these mutants by raising the sensory threshold for eliciting exploratory behaviors.
Development of a widely accepted vocabulary referring to various types of social learning has made important contributions to decades of progress in analyzing the role of socially acquired information in the development of behavioral repertoires. It is argued here that emergence of a consensus vocabulary, while facilitating both communication and research, has also unnecessarily restricted research on social learning. The article has two parts. In the first, I propose that Thorndike's (1898, 1911) definition of imitation as &quot;learning to do an act from seeing it done&quot; has unduly restricted studies of the behavioral processes involved in the propagation of behavior. In part 2, I consider the possibility that success in labeling social learning processes believed to be less cognitively demanding than imitation (e.g. local and stimulus enhancement, social facilitation, etc.) has been mistaken for understanding of those processes, although essentially nothing is known of their stimulus control, development, phylogeny or substrate either behavioral or physiological.
Zebrafish is an ideal vertebrate model for neuroscience studies focusing on learning and memory. Although genetic manipulation of zebrafish is available, behavioral protocols are often lacking. In this study we tested whether physical activity can facilitate zebrafish's learning process in an associative conditioning task. Learning was inferred by the approach of the feeding area just after the conditioned stimulus (light). Unexercised zebrafish showed conditioning response from the 5th testing day while fish previously submitted to swim against the water current showed learning by the 3rd day of testing. It seems that physical activity may accelerate associative learning response in zebrafish, indicating the benefits of exercise for cognitive processes. We suggest that this preliminary work could be useful for high throughput screening.
Neuroethics and neurolaw are fields of study that involve the interface of neuroscience with clinical and legal decision-making. The past two decades have seen increasing attention being paid to both fields, in large part because of the advances in neuroimaging techniques and improved ability to visualize and measure brain structure and function. Traumatic brain injury (TBI), along with its acute and chronic sequelae, has emerged as a focus of neuroethical issues, such as informed consent for treatment and research, diagnostic and prognostic uncertainties, and the subjectivity of interpretation of data. The law has also more frequently considered TBI in criminal settings for exculpation, mitigation and sentencing purposes and in tort and administrative law for personal injury, disability and worker's compensation cases. This article provides an overview of these topics with an emphasis on the current challenges that the neuroscience of TBI faces in the medicolegal arena.
Peptides represent a major class of cell-cell signaling molecules. Most peptidomic studies have focused on peptides present in brain or other tissues. For a peptide to function in intercellular signaling, it must be secreted. The present study was undertaken to identify the major peptides secreted from mouse brain slices that were cultured in oxygenated buffer for 3-4h. Approximately 75% of the peptides identified in extracts of cultured slices matched the previously reported peptide content of heat-inactivated mouse brain tissue, whereas only 2% matched the peptide content of unheated brain tissue; the latter showed a large number of postmortem changes. As found with extracts of heat-inactivated mouse brain, the extracts of cultured brain slices represented secretory pathway peptides as well as peptides derived from intracellular proteins such as those present in the cytosol and mitochondria. A subset of the peptides detected in the extracts of the cultured slices was detected in the culture media. The vast majority of secreted peptides arose from intracellular proteins and not secretory pathway proteins. The peptide RVD-hemopressin, a CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist, was detected in culture media, which is consistent with a role for RVD-hemopressin as a non-classical neuropeptide. Taken together with previous studies, the present results show that short-term culture of mouse brain slices is an appropriate system to study peptide secretion, especially the non-conventional pathway(s) by which peptides produced from intracellular proteins are secreted. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: An Updated Secretome.
Circadian rhythms in the sleep/wake cycle, along with a range of physiological measures, are severely disrupted in individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD). Moreover, several central circadian genes have been implicated as potential genetic factors underlying the illness through candidate gene studies and some genome wide association studies. However, investigations into the molecular underpinnings of circadian disturbances in the human brain have been quite challenging. In their recent publication, Li and colleagues have used a novel approach to determine the rhythmic patterns of circadian gene expression in several regions of the human brain, and how these patterns are disrupted in MDD. Their findings demonstrate that in healthy subjects, several brain regions outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus (the master clock) exhibit diurnal gene expression patterns that are disrupted in the brains of MDD subjects. These findings will provide the foundation for future studies of gene-specific drug targets, and biomarkers for the disease.



The last two decades have provided a large weight of preclinical data implicating the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1) and its cognate ligand substance P (SP) in a broad range of both central and peripheral disease conditions. However, to date, only the NK1 receptor antagonist aprepitant has been approved as a therapeutic and this is to prevent chemotherapy-induced nausea &amp; vomiting (CINV). The belief remained that the full therapeutic potential of NK1 receptor antagonists had yet to be realized; therefore clinical evidence that NK1 receptor antagonists may be effective in major depression disorder, resulted in a significant further investment in discovering novel CNS penetrant druggable NK1 receptor antagonists to address this condition. At GlaxoSmithKline after the discovery of casopitant, that went on to demonstrate efficacy as a novel antidepressant in the clinic, additional novel analogues of this NK1 receptor antagonist were designed to further enhance its drug developability characteristics. Herein, we therefore describe the discovery process and the vivo pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profile of the new NK1 receptor antagonist 3a (also called orvepitant), selected as clinical candidate and further progressed into clinical studies for major depressive disorder. Moreover, molecular modeling studies enabled us to improve the pharmacophore model of the NK1 receptor antagonists with the identification of a region able to accommodate a variety of heterocycle moieties.
The objective of this study was to synthesize and evaluate a novel fluorine-18 labeled deuterium substituted analogue of rasagiline (9, [(18)F]fluororasagiline-D2) as a potential PET radioligand for studies of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). The precursor compound (6) and reference standard (7) were synthesized in multi-step syntheses. Radiolabeling of 9 was accomplished by a two-step synthesis, compromising a nucleophilic substitution followed by hydrolysis of the sulfamidate group. The incorporation radiochemical yield from fluorine-18 fluoride was higher than 30%, the radiochemical purity was &gt;99% and the specific radioactivity was &gt;160GBq/mol at the time of administration. In vitro compound 7 inhibited the MAO-B activity with an IC50 of 173.013.6nM. The MAO-A activity was inhibited with an IC50 of 9.91.1M. The fluorine-18 version 9 was characterized in the cynomolgus monkey brain where a high brain uptake was found (275% SUV at 4min). There was a higher uptake in the striatum and thalamus compared to the cortex and cerebellum. A pronounced blocking effect (50% decrease) was observed in the specific brain regions after administration of l-deprenyl (0.5mg/kg) 30min prior to the administration of 9. Radiometabolite studies demonstrated 40% of unchanged radioligand at 90min post injection. An efficient radiolabeling of 9 was successfully established and in the monkey brain 9 binds to MAO-B rich regions and its binding is blocked by the selective MAO-B compound l-deprenyl. The radioligand 9 is a potential candidate for human PET studies.
Development of SAR in an aryl ether series of mGlu5 NAMs leading to the identification of tool compound VU0409106 is described in this Letter. VU0409106 is a potent and selective negative allosteric modulator of mGlu5 that binds at the known allosteric binding site and demonstrates good CNS exposure following intraperitoneal dosing in mice. VU0409106 also proved efficacious in a mouse marble burying model of anxiety, an assay known to be sensitive to mGlu5 antagonists as well as clinically efficacious anxiolytics.
Microwave accelerated reaction system (MARS) technology provided a good method to obtain selective and open isoxazole ligands that bind to and inhibit the Sxc- antiporter. The MARS provided numerous advantages, including: shorter time, better yield and higher purity of the product. Of the newly synthesized series of isoxazoles the salicyl hydrazide 6 exhibited the highest level of inhibitory activity in the transport assay. A homology model has been developed to summarize the SAR results to date, and provide a working hypothesis for future studies.



Despite being a relatively effective and safe treatment, the clinical management of alcohol abuse/dependence by oral naltrexone can be compromised due to the patient's non-compliance with daily use of this medication. Over the past decade an increasing body of research has suggested that the use of sustained release depot naltrexone preparations can overcome this issue and deliver improved clinical outcomes. However, at the same time, research findings from diverse areas of pharmacogenetics, neurobiology and behavioural psychology have also been converging to identify variables including genetic markers, patient psychosocial characteristics and drug use history differences, or clusters of these variables that play a major role in mediating the response of alcohol abuse/dependent persons to treatment by naltrexone. While this article does not attempt to review all available data pertaining to an individual alcohol dependent patient's response to treatment by naltrexone, it does identify relevant research areas and highlights the importance of data arising from them. The characterization of clinical markers, to identify those patients who are most likely to benefit from naltrexone and to tailor a more individual naltrexone treatment, will ultimately provide significant benefit to both patients and clinicians by optimizing treatment outcome.

Human adults process and select the opportunities for action in their environment rapidly, efficiently, and effortlessly. While several studies have revealed substantial improvements in object recognition skills, motor abilities, and control over the motor system during late childhood, surprisingly little is known about how object processing for action develops during this period. This study addresses this issue by investigating how the ability to ignore actions potentiated by a familiar utensil develops between ages 6 and 10 years. It is the first study to demonstrate that (1) the mechanisms that transform a graspable visual stimulus into an object-appropriate motor response are in place by the sixth year of life and (2) graspable features of an object can facilitate and interfere with manual responses in an adult-like manner by this age. The results suggest that there may be distinct developmental trajectories for the ability to ignore motor responses triggered by visual affordances and the stimulus response compatibility effects typically assessed with Simon tasks.







Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is heterogeneous with high variability in the speed of progression even in cases with a defined genetic cause such as superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations. We reported that SOD1(G93A) mice on distinct genetic backgrounds (C57 and 129Sv) show consistent phenotypic differences in speed of disease progression and life-span that are not explained by differences in human SOD1 transgene copy number or the burden of mutant SOD1 protein within the nervous system. We aimed to compare the gene expression profiles of motor neurons from these two SOD1(G93A) mouse strains to discover the molecular mechanisms contributing to the distinct phenotypes and to identify factors underlying fast and slow disease progression. Lumbar spinal motor neurons from the two SOD1(G93A) mouse strains were isolated by laser capture microdissection and transcriptome analysis was conducted at four stages of disease. We identified marked differences in the motor neuron transcriptome between the two mice strains at disease onset, with a dramatic reduction of gene expression in the rapidly progressive (129Sv-SOD1(G93A)) compared with the slowly progressing mutant SOD1 mice (C57-SOD1(G93A)) (1276 versus 346; Q-value  0.01). Gene ontology pathway analysis of the transcriptional profile from 129Sv-SOD1(G93A) mice showed marked downregulation of specific pathways involved in mitochondrial function, as well as predicted deficiencies in protein degradation and axonal transport mechanisms. In contrast, the transcriptional profile from C57-SOD1(G93A) mice with the more benign disease course, revealed strong gene enrichment relating to immune system processes compared with 129Sv-SOD1(G93A) mice. Motor neurons from the more benign mutant strain demonstrated striking complement activation, over-expressing genes normally involved in immune cell function. We validated through immunohistochemistry increased expression of the C3 complement subunit and major histocompatibility complex I within motor neurons. In addition, we demonstrated that motor neurons from the slowly progressing mice activate a series of genes with neuroprotective properties such as angiogenin and the nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 transcriptional regulator. In contrast, the faster progressing mice show dramatically reduced expression at disease onset of cell pathways involved in neuroprotection. This study highlights a set of key gene and molecular pathway indices of fast or slow disease progression which may prove useful in identifying potential disease modifiers responsible for the heterogeneity of human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and which may represent valid therapeutic targets for ameliorating the disease course in humans.
Periventricular nodular heterotopia is caused by defective neuronal migration that results in heterotopic neuronal nodules lining the lateral ventricles. Mutations in filamin A (FLNA) or ADP-ribosylation factor guanine nucleotide-exchange factor 2 (ARFGEF2) cause periventricular nodular heterotopia, but most patients with this malformation do not have a known aetiology. Using comparative genomic hybridization, we identified 12 patients with developmental brain abnormalities, variably combining periventricular nodular heterotopia, corpus callosum dysgenesis, colpocephaly, cerebellar hypoplasia and polymicrogyria, harbouring a common 1.2 Mb minimal critical deletion in 6q27. These anatomic features were mainly associated with epilepsy, ataxia and cognitive impairment. Using whole exome sequencing in 14 patients with isolated periventricular nodular heterotopia but no copy number variants, we identified one patient with periventricular nodular heterotopia, developmental delay and epilepsy and a de novo missense mutation in the chromosome 6 open reading frame 70 (C6orf70) gene, mapping in the minimal critical deleted region. Using immunohistochemistry and western blots, we demonstrated that in human cell lines, C6orf70 shows primarily a cytoplasmic vesicular puncta-like distribution and that the mutation affects its stability and subcellular distribution. We also performed in utero silencing of C6orf70 and of Phf10 and Dll1, the two additional genes mapping in the 6q27 minimal critical deleted region that are expressed in human and rodent brain. Silencing of C6orf70 in the developing rat neocortex produced periventricular nodular heterotopia that was rescued by concomitant expression of wild-type human C6orf70 protein. Silencing of the contiguous Phf10 or Dll1 genes only produced slightly delayed migration but not periventricular nodular heterotopia. The complex brain phenotype observed in the 6q terminal deletion syndrome likely results from the combined haploinsufficiency of contiguous genes mapping to a small 1.2 Mb region. Our data suggest that, of the genes within this minimal critical region, C6orf70 plays a major role in the control of neuronal migration and its haploinsufficiency or mutation causes periventricular nodular heterotopia.



The mammalian circadian system regulates many physiological functions including inflammatory responses. Appropriately timed light information is essential for maintaining circadian organization. Over the past 120 years, urbanization and the widespread adoption of electric lights have dramatically altered lighting environments. Exposure to light at night (LAN) is pervasive in modern society and disrupts core circadian clock mechanisms. Because microglia are the resident macrophages in the brain and macrophages contain intrinsic circadian clocks, we hypothesized that chronic exposure to LAN would alter microglia cytokine expression and sickness behavior following LPS administration. Exposure to 4 weeks of dim LAN elevated inflammatory responses in mice. Mice exposed to dimly lit, as compared to dark, nights exaggerated changes in body temperature and elevated microglia pro-inflammatory cytokine expression following LPS administration. Furthermore, dLAN mice had a prolonged sickness response following the LPS challenge. Mice exposed to dark or dimly lit nights had comparable sickness behavior directly following the LPS injection; however, dLAN mice showed greater reductions in locomotor activity, increased anorectic behavior, and increased weight loss than mice maintained in dark nights 24h post-LPS injection. Overall, these data suggest that chronic exposure to even very low levels of light pollution may alter inflammatory responses. These results may have important implications for humans and other urban dwelling species that commonly experience nighttime light exposure.
The interaction between CD200, expressed on several cell types, and its receptor CD200R, expressed on cells of the myeloid lineage, has been shown to be an important factor in modulating inflammation in macrophage function in several conditions including colitis and arthritis. More recently its modulatory effect on microglial activation has been identified and CD200-deficiency has been associated with increased microglial activation accompanied by increased production of inflammatory cytokines. The response of glia prepared from CD200-deficient mice to stimuli like lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is markedly greater than the response of cells prepared from wildtype mice and, consistent with this, is the recent observation that expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 and signalling through NFB are increased in microglia prepared from CD200-deficient mice. Here we show that glia from CD200-deficient mice are also more responsive to interferon- (IFN) which triggers classical activation of microglia. We investigated the effects of CD200-deficiency in vivo and report that there is an increase in expression of several markers of microglial activation including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-, which is a hallmark of classically-activated microglia. These changes are accompanied by increased IFN, and the evidence suggests that this is produced by infiltrating cells including T cells and macrophages. We propose that these cells enter the brain as a consequence of increased blood brain barrier (BBB) permeability in CD200-deficient mice and that infiltration is assisted by increased expression of the chemokines, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), IFN-induced protein-10 (IP-10) and RANTES. This may have implications in neurodegenerative diseases where BBB permeability is compromised.
Sleep and subjective health are both prospectively related to objective indices of health and health care use. Here, we tested whether five days with restricted sleep and subsequent recovery days affect subjective health and is related to increased levels of circulating IL-6 and TNF- and fatigue. Nine healthy men (23-28 ears) went through a 6-week sleep protocol with subjects as their own controls in a repeated measures design with a total of 11 nights in a sleep laboratory. The experimental part of the protocol included three baseline days (sleep 23-07 h), five days with sleep restriction (03-07 h) and three recovery days (23-07 h) in the sleep laboratory. Subjective health and fatigue was recorded daily. Eight blood samples were drawn each day (every third hour) on 8 days of the protocol and analyzed with respect to IL-6 and TNF-. Subjective health deteriorated gradually during restricted sleep (p=.002) and returned to baseline levels after three days of recovery. IL-6 and TNF- did not change significantly. Fatigue increased gradually during sleep restriction (p=.001), which significantly contributed to the association between restricted sleep and subjective health. The study is the first to show that subjective health is directly responsive to changes in sleep length and related to increased fatigue. Thus, subjective health is differently appraised after manipulation of one of its presumed determinants. Larger experimental studies would be beneficial to further distinguish causation from association regarding the underpinnings of subjective health.
Several physiological and behavioral processes rely on precisely timed light information derived from the natural solar cycle. Using this information, traits have adapted to allow individuals within specific niches to optimize survival and reproduction, but urbanization by humans has significantly altered natural habitats. Nighttime light exposure alters immune function in several species, which could lead to decreased fitness or survival, particularly in the face of an environmental challenge. We exposed male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) to five lux of light at night for four weeks, and then administered six hours of acute restraint stress. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response was assessed immediately following stress. Acute restraint increased the DTH reaction in dark nights, but exposure to nighttime light prevented this response. Exposure to light at night prolonged the DTH response in non-stressed control hamsters. These results suggest that light pollution may significantly alter physiological responses in Siberian hamsters, particularly in response to a salient environmental challenge such as stress.
Rotation of a visual image in mind is associated with a slow posterior negative deflection of the event-related potential (ERP), termed rotation-related negativity (RRN). Retention of a visual image in short-term memory is also associated with a slow posterior negative ERP, termed negative slow wave (NSW). We tested whether short-term memory retention, indexed by the NSW, contributes to the RRN. ERPs were recorded in the same subjects in two tasks, a mental rotation task, eliciting the RRN, and a visual short-term memory task, eliciting the NSW. Over both right and left parietal scalp, no association was found between the NSW and the RRN amplitudes. Furthermore, adjusting for the effect of the NSW had no influence on a significant association between the RRN amplitude and response time, an index of mental rotation performance. Our data indicate that the RRN reflects manipulation of a visual image but not its retention in short-term memory.
Primate studies have recently identified the dorsal stream as constituting multiple dissociable pathways associated with a range of specialized cognitive functions. To elucidate the nature and number of dorsal pathways in the human brain, the current study utilized in vivo probabilistic tractography to map the structural connectivity associated with subdivisions of the left supramarginal gyrus (SMG). The left SMG is a prominent region within the dorsal stream, which has recently been parcellated into five structurally-distinct regions which possess a dorsal-ventral (and rostral-caudal) organisation, postulated to reflect areas of functional specialisation. The connectivity patterns reveal a dissociation of the arcuate fasciculus into at least two segregated pathways connecting frontal-parietal-temporal regions. Specifically, the connectivity of the inferior SMG, implicated as an acoustic-motor speech interface, is carried by an inner/ventro-dorsal arc of fibres, whilst the pathways of the posterior superior SMG, implicated in object use and cognitive control, forms a parallel outer/dorso-dorsal crescent.
Nonfluent (NFV) and semantic (SV) variants of primary progressive aphasia (PPA) are associated with distinct patterns of focal cortical atrophy and underlying pathology. Previous diffusion tensor (DT) MRI studies showed a more ventral white matter (WM) involvement in SV patients and a more widespread frontal involvement in NFV. Aim of this manuscript is twofold. First, we wished to provide a brief state-of-the-art review on WM damage in PPA. Second, we used DT MRI to assess the topography of WM microstructural damage along dorsal and ventral language pathways and corpus callosum in patients with NFV and SV. Our findings show that the two PPA variants share an overlapping pattern of dorsal and ventral pathway abnormalities. In addition to these common abnormalities, variant-specific WM changes were also found, with NFV patients having a more severe damage to the dorsal (fronto-parietal) WM connections within the left superior longitudinal fasciculus/arcuate and SV patients showing a greater left ventral tract involvement (inferior longitudinal and uncinate fasciculi). These findings offer evidence that both dorsal and ventral language networks may contribute to the relatively selective deficits in NFV and SV patients.
The execution of complex visual, auditory, and linguistic behaviors requires a dynamic interplay between spatial ('where/how') and non-spatial ('what') information processed along the dorsal and ventral processing streams. However, while it is acknowledged that there must be some degree of interaction between the two processing networks, how they interact, both anatomically and functionally, is a question which remains little explored. The current review examines the anatomical, temporal, and behavioral evidence regarding three potential models of dual stream interaction: (1) computations along the two pathways proceed independently and in parallel, reintegrating within shared target brain regions; (2) processing along the separate pathways is modulated by the existence of recurrent feedback loops; and (3) information is transferred directly between the two pathways at multiple stages and locations along their trajectories.
The distinction between dorsal and ventral visual processing streams, first proposed by Ungerleider and Mishkin (1982) and later refined by Milner and Goodale (1995) has been elaborated substantially in recent years, spurred by two developments. The first was proposed in large part by Rizzolatti and Matelli (2003) and is a more detailed description of the multiple neural circuits connecting the frontal, temporal, and parietal cortices. Secondly, there are a number of behavioral observations that the classic &quot;two visual systems&quot; hypothesis is unable to accommodate without additional assumptions. The notion that the Dorsal stream is specialized for &quot;where&quot; or &quot;how&quot; actions and the Ventral stream for &quot;What&quot; knowledge cannot account for two prominent disorders of action, limb apraxia and optic ataxia, that represent a double dissociation in terms of the types of actions that are preserved and impaired. A growing body of evidence, instead, suggests that there are at least two distinct Dorsal routes in the human brain, referred to as the &quot;Grasp&quot; and &quot;Use&quot; systems. Both of these may be differentiated from the Ventral route in terms of neuroanatomic localization, representational specificity, and time course of information processing.



Recent studies suggest that action-verb processing is particularly affected in early stage Parkinson's disease (PD), highlighting the potential role of subcortical areas in language processing and in the semantic integration of actions. However, this disorder-related language impairment is frequently unrecognized by clinicians and often remains untreated. Early detection of action-language processing deficits could be critical for diagnosing and developing treatment strategies for PD. In this article, we review how action-verb processing is affected in PD and propose a model in which multiple and parallel frontotemporal circuits between the cortex and the basal ganglia provide the anatomic substrate for supporting action-language processing. We hypothesize that contextual coupling of action-language networks are partially dependent on cortical-subcortical integration, and not only on somatotopic motor cortical organization or in a mirror neuron system. This hypothesis is supported by both experimental and clinical evidence. Then, we identify further research steps that would help to determine the reliability of action-language impairments as an early marker of PD. Finally, theoretical implications for clinical assessment and for models of action-language interaction (action-perception cycle theories, mirror system models of language, and embodied cognition approaches to language) are discussed.
Chronic stress in experimental animals induces dendritic atrophy and decreases spine density in principal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). This structural plasticity may play a neuroprotective role and underlie stress-induced behavioral changes. Different evidences indicate that the prefrontocortical GABA system is also altered by stress and in major depression patients. In the amygdala, chronic stress induces dendritic remodeling both in principal neurons and in interneurons. However, it is not known whether similar structural changes occur in mPFC interneurons. The polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) may mediate these changes, because it is known to influence the dendritic organization of adult cortical interneurons. We have analyzed the dendritic arborization and spine density of mPFC interneurons in adult mice after 21 days of restraint stress and have found dendritic hypertrophy in a subpopulation of interneurons identified mainly as Martinotti cells. This aversive experience also decreases the number of glutamate decarboxylase enzyme, 67 kDa isoform (GAD67) expressing somata, without affecting different parameters related to apoptosis, but does not alter the number of interneurons expressing PSA-NCAM. Quantitative retrotranscription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis of genes related to general and inhibitory neurotransmission and of PSA synthesizing enzymes reveals increases in the expression of NCAM, synaptophysin and GABA(A)1. Together these results show that mPFC inhibitory networks are affected by chronic stress and suggest that structural plasticity may be an important feature of stress-related psychiatric disorders where this cortical region, specially their GABAergic system, is altered.
In a previous meta-analysis across almost 200 neuroimaging experiments, working memory for object location showed significantly stronger convergence on the posterior superior frontal gyrus, whereas working memory for identity showed stronger convergence on the posterior inferior frontal gyrus (dorsal to, but overlapping with Brodmann's area BA 44). As similar locations have been discussed as part of a dorsal frontal-superior parietal reach system and an inferior frontal grasp system, the aim of the present study was to test whether the regions of working-memory related &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; processing show a similar distinction in parietal connectivity. The regions that were found in the previous meta-analysis were used as seeds for functional connectivity analyses using task-based meta-analytic connectivity modelling and task-independent resting state correlations. While the ventral seed showed significantly stronger connectivity with the bilateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS), the dorsal seed showed stronger connectivity with the bilateral posterior inferior parietal and the medial superior parietal lobule. The observed connections of regions involved in memory for object location and identity thus clearly demonstrate a distinction into separate pathways that resemble the parietal connectivity patterns of the dorsal and ventral premotor cortex in non-human primates and humans. It may hence be speculated that memory for a particular location and reaching towards it as well as object memory and finger positioning for manipulation may rely on shared neural systems. Moreover, the ensuing regions, in turn, featured differential connectivity with the bilateral ventral and dorsal extrastriate cortex, suggesting largely segregated bilateral connectivity pathways from the dorsal visual cortex via the superior and inferior parietal lobules to the dorsal posterior frontal cortex and from the ventral visual cortex via the IPS to the ventral posterior frontal cortex that may underlie action and cognition.
Inbred LOU/C/Jall rats are currently described as a model of successful aging. These rats have a longer healthy median lifespan than many other strains, do not develop obesity, diabetes, or tumor and more importantly they do not show cognitive decline with aging. This is the first study to examine gene expression changes in the inbred LOU/C/Jall rat hippocampus and frontal cortex. Microarray data from animals aged 5 and 26 months were compared to that obtained from the classical Wistar rat strain to potentially identify only the genes associated with successful aging. We have thus identified a set of 15 genes in the hippocampus and 70 genes in the frontal cortex that could be grouped into several clearly delineated clusters of highly correlated genes associated with a diversity of biological processes, including regulation of plasticity, inflammatory response, metabolic, catabolic and homeostatic processes, and transcription. Such a multiplicity of gene networks and diversity of biological functions were not observed in the Wistar rat strain. The gene expression profiles identified in aged the LOU/C/Jall rats' hippocampus and frontal cortex should be related to their intact cognitive abilities, such as those assessed through spontaneous alternation.
The ventral pallidum (VP) is a part of the ventral striatopallidal system and is involved in reward-related behaviors. The VP is composed of a ventromedial (VPvm) and a dorsolateral (VPdl) subregion, and some rostral-caudal differences are reported. Study of the VP often focuses on the subcommissural VP, typically considered homogenous in spite of known subdivisions. In this work, we used slice electrophysiology combined with immunohistochemistry for marker neuropeptides to test whether the subcommissural VP is functionally homogenous. Using sagittal slices, we show that more lateral levels (2.40 mm) of the subcommissural VP are homogenous but that a more medial slice (1.90 mm) contains two types of neurons. One type, located more caudally, resembles neurons in the lateral subcommissural VP, with long aspiny dendrites, primarily GABAergic input, and characteristic electrophysiological properties, such as depolarized membrane potential and spontaneous action potential discharge. The second type of neuron, located mostly in the rostral subcommissural VP, shows properties that are akin to medium spiny neurons of adjacent regions, including spiny dendrites, major glutamatergic input, hyperpolarized membrane potential, and no spontaneous action potentials. The two types of neurons were present in both the VPvm and VPdl, implying that the mix is not a characteristic of histologically defined subregions. We conclude that at medial levels the rostral subcommissural VP contains a mix of typical ventral pallidal neurons and spiny neurons similar to those in adjacent regions. This observation needs to be considered when interpreting past experiments and designing future experiments in the subcommissural VP.

With a 3-fold increase in the number of cancer survivors noted since the 1970s, there are now over 28 million cancer survivors worldwide. Accordingly, there is a heightened awareness of long-term toxicities and the impact on quality of life following treatment in cancer survivors. This review will address the increasing importance and challenge of chemotherapy-induced neurotoxicity, with a focus on neuropathy associated with the treatment of breast cancer, colorectal cancer, testicular cancer, and hematological cancers. An overview of the diagnosis, symptomatology, and pathophysiology of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy will be provided, with a critical analysis of assessment strategies, neuroprotective approaches, and potential treatments. The review will concentrate on neuropathy associated with taxanes, platinum compounds, vinca alkaloids, thalidomide, and bortezomib, providing clinical information specific to these chemotherapies.

ERBB receptor transmodulation by heterologous G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) generates functional diversity in signal transduction. Tachykinins are neuropeptides and proinflammatory cytokines that promote cell survival and cancer progression by activating several GPCRs. In this work, we found that the pain-associated tachykinin Substance P (SP) contributes to persistent transmodulation of the ERBB receptors, EGFR and HER2, in breast cancer, acting to enhance malignancy and therapeutic resistance. SP and its high-affinity receptor NK-1R were highly expressed in HER2(+) primary breast tumors (relative to the luminal and triple-negative subtypes) and were overall correlated with poor prognosis factors. In breast cancer cell lines and primary cultures derived from breast cancer samples, we found that SP could activate HER2. Conversely, RNA interference-mediated attenuation of NK-1R, or its chemical inhibition, or suppression of overall GPCR-mediated signaling, all strongly decreased steady-state expression of EGFR and HER2, establishing that their basal activity relied upon transdirectional activation by GPCR. Thus, SP exposure affected cellular responses to anti-ERBB therapies. Our work reveals an important oncogenic cooperation between NK-1R and HER2, thereby adding a novel link between inflammation and cancer progression that may be targetable by SP antagonists that have been clinically explored.
Cell migration is fundamental to many biological processes, including development, normal tissue remodeling, wound healing, and many pathologies. However, cell migration is a complex process, and understanding its regulation in health and disease requires the ability to manipulate and measure this process quantitatively under controlled conditions. This report describes a simple in vitro assay for quantitative analysis of cell migration in two-dimensional cultures that is an inexpensive alternative to the classic &quot;scratch&quot; assay. The method described utilizes flexible silicone masks fabricated in the lab according to the research demands of the specific experiment to create a cell-free area for cells to invade, followed by quantitative analysis based on widely available microscopic imaging tools. This experimental approach has the important advantage of visualizing cell migration in the absence of the cellular damage and disruption of the substrate that occurs when the &quot;wound&quot; is created in the scratch assay. This approach allows the researcher to study the intrinsic migratory characteristics of cells in the absence of potentially confounding contributions from cellular responses to injury and disruption of cell-substrate interactions. This assay has been used with vascular smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts, and epithelial cell types, but should be applicable to the study of practically any type of cultured cell. Furthermore, this method can be easily adapted for use with fluorescence microscopy, molecular biological, or pharmacological manipulations to explore the molecular mechanisms of cell migration, live cell imaging, fluorescence microscopy, and correlative immunolabeling.

In CNS, glucocorticoids (GCs) activate both GC receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), whereas GR is widely expressed, the expression of MR is restricted. However, both are present in the microglia, the resident macrophages of the brain and their activation can lead to pro- or anti-inflammatory effects. We have therefore addressed the specific functions of GR in microglia. In mice lacking GR in macrophages/microglia and in the absence of modifications in MR expression, intraparenchymal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activating Toll-like receptor 4 signaling pathway resulted in exacerbated cellular lesion, neuronal and axonal damage. Global inhibition of GR by RU486 pre-treatment revealed that microglial GR is the principal mediator preventing neuronal degeneration triggered by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and contributes with GRs of other cell types to the protection of non-neuronal cells. In vivo and in vitro data show GR functions in microglial differentiation, proliferation and motility. Interestingly, microglial GR also abolishes the LPS-induced delayed outward rectifier currents by downregulating Kv1.3 expression known to control microglia proliferation and oxygen radical production. Analysis of GR transcriptional function revealed its powerful negative control of pro-inflammatory effectors as well as upstream inflammatory activators. Finally, we analyzed the role of GR in chronic unpredictable mild stress and aging, both known to prime or sensitize microglia in vivo. We found that microglial GR suppresses rather than mediates the deleterious effects of stress or aging on neuronal survival. Overall, the results show that microglial GR acts on several key processes limiting pro-inflammatory actions of activated microglia.
Adult skeletal muscle can regenerate in response to muscle damage. This ability is conferred by the presence of myogenic stem cells called satellite cells. In response to stimuli such as injury or exercise, these cells become activated and express myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs), i.e., transcription factors of the myogenic lineage including Myf5, MyoD, myogenin, and Mrf4 to proliferate and differentiate into myofibers. The MRF family of proteins controls the transcription of important muscle-specific proteins such as myosin heavy chain and muscle creatine kinase. Different growth factors are secreted during muscle repair among which insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are the only ones that promote both muscle cell proliferation and differentiation and that play a key role in muscle regeneration and hypertrophy. Different isoforms of IGFs are expressed during muscle repair: IGF-IEa, IGF-IEb, or IGF-IEc (also known as mechano growth factor, MGF) and IGF-II. MGF is expressed first and is observed in satellite cells and in proliferating myoblasts whereas IGF-Ia and IGF-II expression occurs at the state of muscle fiber formation. Interestingly, several studies report the induction of MRFs in response to IGFs stimulation. Inversely, IGFs expression may also be regulated by MRFs. Various mechanisms are proposed to support these interactions. In this review, we describe the general process of muscle hypertrophy and regeneration and decipher the interactions between the two groups of factors involved in the process.
Trafficking of ionotropic glutamate receptors to the plasma membrane commonly requires occupation of the agonist binding sites. This quality control check does not typically involve receptor activation, as binding by competitive antagonists or to non-functional channels may also permit surface expression. The tetrameric kainate receptors can be assembled from five different subunits (GluK1-GluK5). While the &quot;low-affinity&quot; GluK1-3 subunits are able to produce functional homomeric receptors, the &quot;high-affinity&quot; GluK4 and GluK5 subunits require co-assembly with GluK1, 2, or 3 for surface expression. These two different types of subunits have distinct functional roles in the receptor. Therefore, we examined the relative importance of occupancy of the agonist site of the GluK2 or GluK5 subunit for surface expression of heteromeric receptors. We created subunits with a mutation within the S2 ligand-binding domain which decreased agonist affinity. Mutations at this site reduced functional surface expression of homomeric GluK2 receptors, but surface expression of these receptors could be increased with either a competitive antagonist or co-assembly with wild-type GluK5. In contrast, mutations in the GluK5 subunit reduced the production of functional heteromeric receptors at the membrane, and could not be rescued with either an antagonist or wild-type GluK2. These findings indicate that ligand binding to only the GluK5 subunit is both necessary and sufficient to allow trafficking of recombinant GluK2/K5 heteromers to the cell membrane, but that occupancy of the GluK2 site alone is not. Our results suggest a distinct role for the GluK5 subunit in regulating surface expression of heteromeric kainate receptors.
Neonatal hypoglycaemia initiates a series of events leading to neuronal death, even if glucose and glycogen stores return to normal. Disturbances in the cortical dopaminergic function affect memory and cognition. We recommend Bacopa monnieri extract or Bacoside A to treat neonatal hypoglycaemia. We investigated the alterations in dopaminergic functions by studying the Dopamine D1 and D2 receptor subtypes. Receptor-binding studies revealed a significant decrease (p &lt; 0.001) in dopamine D1 receptor number in the hypoglycaemic condition, suggesting cognitive dysfunction. cAMP content was significantly (p &lt; 0.001) downregulated in hypoglycaemic neonatal rats indicating the reduction in cell signalling of the dopamine D1 receptors. It is attributed to the deficits in spatial learning and memory. Hypoglycaemic neonatal rats treated with Bacopa extract alone and Bacoside A ameliorated the dopaminergic and cAMP imbalance as effectively as the glucose therapy. The upregulated Bax expression in the present study indicates the high cell death in hypoglycaemic neonatal rats. Enzyme assay of SOD confirmed cortical cell death due to free radical accumulation. The gene expression of SOD in the cortex was significantly downregulated (p &lt; 0.001). Bacopa treatment showed a significant reversal in the altered gene expression parameters (p &lt; 0.001) of Bax and SOD. Our results suggest that in the rat experimental model of neonatal hypoglycaemia, Bacopa extract improved alterations in D1, D2 receptor expression, cAMP signalling and cell death resulting from oxidative stress. This is an important area of study given the significant motor and cognitive impairment that may arise from neonatal hypoglycaemia if proper treatment is not implemented.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive lipid mediator that exerts a wide range of biological actions. In recent decades, LPA has been demonstrated as an important initiator of neuropathic pain based on the mechanisms of LPA-induced feed-forward LPA amplification. In this study, we examined the possible involvement of interleukin (IL)-1 in such LPA production. Intrathecal (i.t.) LPA injection rapidly increased the expression of IL-1 mRNA in the spinal dorsal horn as early as 0.5 h after injection, and the level reached peak at 2 h. Through a developed quantitative mass spectrometry for detecting LPA species, the elevated levels of 18:1, 16:0, and 18:0 LPA in the spinal dorsal horn were observed at 3 h after 18:1 LPA injection and this elevation was completely blocked by the pretreatment of IL-1-neutralizing antibody. Moreover, enzyme assay experiments showed that LPA (i.t.) significantly activated calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2) and cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) in the spinal dorsal horn at 1 and 2 h, respectively, and these biochemical changes were also significantly inhibited by IL-1-neutralizing antibody. Similarly, IL-1-neutralizing antibody reversed LPA-induced neuropathic pain-like behavior. These findings suggest that the early release of IL-1 is involved in LPA-induced amplification of LPA production, which underlies the initial mechanisms of LPA-induced neuropathic pain.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), mainly produced by cystathionine -lyase (CSE) in vascular system, emerges as a novel gasotransmitter exerting anti-inflammatory and anti-atherosclerotic effects. Alterations of CSE/H2S pathway may thus be involved in atherosclerosis pathogenesis. However, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. The present study showed that the levels of CSE mRNA and protein expression, as well as H2S production were decreased in ox-LDL-treated macrophage. CSE overexpression reduced the ox-LDL-stimulated tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) generation in Raw264.7 and primary macrophage while CSE knockdown enhanced it. Exogenous supplementation of H2S with NaHS and Na2S also decreased the production of TNF- and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in ox-LDL-stimulated macrophage, and alleviated the adhesion of macrophage to endothelial monolayer. Cysteine, a CSE preferential substrate for H2S biosynthesis, produced similar effects on the pro-inflammatory cytokine generation, which were reversed by CSE inhibitors PAG and BCA, respectively. Moreover, NaHS and Na2S attenuated the phosphorylation and degradation of IB and p65 nuclear translocation, as well as JNK activation caused by ox-LDL. The JNK inhibitor suppressed the NF-B transcription activity in ox-LDL-treated cells. Furthermore, inhibitors of NF-B (PDTC), ERK (U0126 and PD98059) and JNK (SP600125) partially blocked the suppression by ox-LDL on the CSE mRNA levels. Taken together, the findings demonstrate that ox-LDL may down-regulate the CSE/H2S pathway, which plays an anti-inflammatory role in ox-LDL-stimulated macrophage by suppressing JNK/NF-B signaling. The study reveals new therapeutic strategies for atherosclerosis, based on modulating CSE/H2S pathway.
Fine-tuning of synaptic connectivity during development is guided by intrinsic activity of the immature networks characteristically consisting of intermittent bursts of synchronous activity. However, the role of synchronous versus asynchronous activity in synapse maturation in the brain is unclear. Here, we have pharmacologically prevented generation of synchronous activity in the immature rat CA3-CA1 circuitry in a manner that preserves unitary activity. Long-term desynchronization of the network resulted in weakening of AMPA-receptor-mediated glutamatergic transmission in CA1 pyramidal cells. This weakening was dependent on protein phosphatases and mGluR activity, associated with an increase in the proportion of silent synapses and a decrease in the protein levels of GluA4 suggesting postsynaptic mechanisms of expression. The findings demonstrate that synchronous activity in the immature CA3-CA1 circuitry is critical for the induction and maintenance of glutamatergic synapses and underscores the importance of temporal activity patterns in shaping the synaptic circuitry during development.
Recent visual neuroscience investigations suggest that ventral occipito-temporal cortex is retinotopically organized, with high acuity foveal input projecting primarily to the posterior fusiform gyrus (pFG), making this region crucial for coding high spatial frequency information. Because high spatial frequencies are critical for fine-grained visual discrimination, we hypothesized that damage to the left pFG should have an adverse effect not only on efficient reading, as observed in pure alexia, but also on the processing of complex non-orthographic visual stimuli. Consistent with this hypothesis, we obtained evidence that a large case series (n = 20) of patients with lesions centered on left pFG: 1) Exhibited reduced sensitivity to high spatial frequencies; 2) demonstrated prolonged response latencies both in reading (pure alexia) and object naming; and 3) were especially sensitive to visual complexity and similarity when discriminating between novel visual patterns. These results suggest that the patients' dual reading and non-orthographic recognition impairments have a common underlying mechanism and reflect the loss of high spatial frequency visual information normally coded in the left pFG.
The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) has consistently been implicated in cognitive control of motor behavior. There is, however, considerable variability in the exact location and extension of these activations across functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments. This poses the question of whether this variability reflects sampling error and spatial uncertainty in fMRI experiments or structural and functional heterogeneity of this region. This study shows that the right DLPFC as observed in 4 different experiments tapping executive action control may be subdivided into 2 distinct subregions-an anterior-ventral and a posterior-dorsal one -based on their whole-brain co-activation patterns across neuroimaging studies. Investigation of task-dependent and task-independent connectivity revealed both clusters to be involved in distinct neural networks. The posterior subregion showed increased connectivity with bilateral intraparietal sulci, whereas the anterior subregion showed increased connectivity with the anterior cingulate cortex. Functional characterization with quantitative forward and reverse inferences revealed the anterior network to be more strongly associated with attention and action inhibition processes, whereas the posterior network was more strongly related to action execution and working memory. The present data provide evidence that cognitive action control in the right DLPFC may rely on differentiable neural networks and cognitive functions.
Gephyrin is a scaffolding protein important for the postsynaptic clustering of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors. Here, we investigated the properties of gephyrin scaffolds at -aminobutyric acid- (GABA-)ergic synapses in organotypic entorhino-hippocampal cultures prepared from a transgenic mouse line, which expresses green fluorescent protein-tagged gephyrin under the control of the Thy1.2 promoter. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching revealed a developmental stabilization of postsynaptic gephyrin clusters concomitant with an increase in cluster size and synaptic strength between 1 and 4 weeks in vitro. Prolonged treatment of the slice cultures with diazepam or a GABAA receptor antagonist disclosed a homeostatic regulation of both inhibitory synaptic strength and gephyrin cluster size and stability in 4-weeks-old cultures, whereas at 1 week in vitro, the same drug treatments modulated GABAergic postsynapse and gephyrin cluster properties following a Hebbian mode of synaptic plasticity. Our data are consistent with a model in which the postnatal maturation of the hippocampal network endows CA1 pyramidal neurons with the ability to homeostatically adjust the strength of their inhibitory postsynapses to afferent GABAergic drive by regulating gephyrin scaffold properties.
Shrinking of deafferented somatosensory regions after neural damage is thought to participate to the emergence of neuropathic pain, and pain-relieving procedures have been reported to induce the normalization of altered cortical maps. While repetitive magnetic stimulation (rTMS) of the motor cortex can lessen neuropathic pain, no evidence has been provided that this is concomitant to changes in sensory maps. Here, we assessed in healthy volunteers the ability of 2 modes of motor cortex rTMS commonly used in pain patients to induce changes in pain thresholds and plastic phenomena in the S1 cortex. Twenty minutes of high-frequency (20 Hz) rTMS significantly increased pain thresholds in the contralateral hand, and this was associated with the expansion of the cortical representation of the hand on high-density electroencephalogram source analysis. Neither of these effects were observed after sham rTMS, nor following intermittent theta-burst stimulation (iTBS). The superiority of 20-Hz rTMS over iTBS to induce sensory plasticity may reflect its better match with intrinsic cortical motor frequencies, which oscillate at around 20 Hz. rTMS-induced changes might partly counterbalance the plasticity induced by a nerve lesion, and thus substantiate the use of rTMS to treat human pain. However, a mechanistic relation between S1 plasticity and pain-relieving effects is far from being established.
The upper layers (II-IV) are the most prominent distinguishing feature of mammalian neocortex compared with avian or reptilian dorsal cortex, and are vastly expanded in primates. Although the time-dependent embryonic generation of upper-layer cells is genetically instructed within their parental progenitors, mechanisms governing cell-intrinsic fate transitions remain obscure. POU-homeodomain transcription factors Pou3f3 and Pou3f2 (Brn1 and Brn2) are known to label postmitotic upper-layer cells, and are redundantly required for their production. We find that the onset of Pou3f3/2 expression actually occurs in ventricular zone (VZ) progenitors, and that Pou3f3/2 subsequently label neural progeny switching from deep-layer Ctip2(+) identity to Satb2(+) upper-layer fate as they migrate to proper superficial positions. By using an Engrailed dominant-negative repressor, we show that sustained neurogenesis after the deep- to upper-layer transition requires the proneual action of Pou3fs in VZ progenitors. Conversely, single-gene overexpression of any Pou3f in early neural progenitors is sufficient to specify the precocious birth of Satb2(+) daughter neurons that extend axons to the contralateral hemisphere, as well as exhibit robust pia-directed migration that is characteristic of upper-layer cells. Finally, we demonstrate that Pou3fs influence multiple stages of neurogenesis by suppressing Notch effector Hes5, and promoting the expression of proneural transcription factors Tbr2 and Tbr1.


Prenatal alcohol exposure is a risk factor for neurologically based cognitive and adaptive disability. Diagnostic nomenclature for prenatally exposed children with cognitive and adaptive disability who lack features for foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) or partial FAS includes the terms alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND) and foetal alcohol spectrum disorder(s) (FASD). Although these terms are now widely used, this paper argues that both are problematic. ARND is flawed by unjustifiably turning a risk factor into a causal factor and shrouding the result in terminological ambiguity, while FASD is not appropriate as a clinical label, and its use as a proxy for ARND deflects critical attention from the causal inferencing that is integral to diagnosing children with an alcohol-related teratogenic condition. Existing nomenclature is at odds with logical and evidence-based diagnosing and also has implications for interpretation of epidemiological data. Diagnostic nomenclature that is not tightly linked to causal inference is preferable at the present stage of this field's development.

Individuals of many species can regulate their physiology, morphology, and behavior in response to annual changes of day length (photoperiod). In mammals, the photoperiodic signal is mediated by a change in the duration of melatonin, leading to alterations in gene expressions, neuronal circuits, and hormonal secretion. The hippocampus is one of the most plastic structures in the adult brain and hippocampal neuronal morphology displays photoperiod-induced differences. Because the hippocampus is important for emotional and cognitive behaviors, photoperiod-driven remodeling of hippocampal neurons is implicated in seasonal differences of affect, including seasonal affective disorder (SAD) in humans. Because neuronal architecture is also affected by the day-night cycle in several brain areas, we hypothesized that hippocampal neuronal morphology would display a diurnal rhythm and that day length would influence that rhythm. In the present study, we examined diurnal and seasonal differences in hippocampal neuronal morphology, as well as mRNA expression of the neurotrophic factors (i.e., brain-derived neurotrophic factor [Bdnf], tropomyosin receptor kinase B [trkB; a receptor for BDNF], and vascular endothelial growth factor [Vegf]) and a circadian clock gene, Bmal1, in the hippocampus of Siberian hamsters. Diurnal rhythms in total length of dendrites, the number of primary dendrites, dendritic complexity, and distance of the furthest intersection from the cell body were observed only in long-day animals; however, diurnal rhythms in the number of branch points and mean length of segments were observed only in short-day animals. Spine density of dendrites displayed diurnal rhythmicity with different peak times between the CA1 and DG subregions and between long and short days. These results indicate that photoperiod affects daily morphological changes of hippocampal neurons and the daily rhythm of spine density, suggesting the possibility that photoperiod-induced adjustments of hippocampal neuronal dynamics might underlie seasonal difference of affective responses. Bmal1 mRNA showed a diurnal rhythm and different expression levels between long and short days were observed. However, there were no strong effects of day length on Bdnf. trkb, and Vegf gene expression, suggesting that these genes are not involved in the photoperiodic effects on hippocampal neurons.
Gray's Anatomy states, &quot;the celiac trunk is the first anterior branch of the abdominal aorta and arises just below the aortic hiatus. The superior mesenteric artery originates from the aorta c1.0 cm below the celiac trunk.&quot; (Standring, 2008a, Gray's Anatomy. 40th Ed. London: Churchill Livingstone Elsevier, p. 1073-1074). During dissection classes with medical students we found this not to be the case. We have re-evaluated the anatomy of the origins of the celiac trunk (CT) and superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and the relationship of the CT to the median arcuate ligament (MAL) in 99 cadavers. We have found the external distance between the CT and SMA to range from 0 to 20 mm (mean 3.4 mm, SD 5.17 mm), with the two in direct apposition in 57.6% (n=99) of cases: a higher figure than previously documented. However, the internal distance between the CT and SMA ranged from 10 to 30 mm (mean 18.9 mm, SD 4.09 mm). There was no distance measurable between the MAL and the CT in 88 cadavers (92.6%, n=95) and, of these, 32 (33.7%) showed evidence of compression or kinking of the CT. We suspect that the MAL is responsible for the approximation of the CT to the SMA in these cadavers, and that the high incidence of kinking of the CT (33.7% of cases) may have implications with regard to its role in MAL syndrome.

The Kennard principle suggests that the immature brain should be more able to recover from injury than the more developed brain. Curiously, preterm infants continue to have a high rate of debilitating neurodevelopmental handicaps despite a progressive improvement in structural damage to the brain, from acute necrotic injury of the periventricular white matter, with axonal loss in historical cohorts, to diffuse gliosis with trivial axonal damage. In the present review we examine recent evidence that disability after preterm birth is largely mediated by disturbed development of neuronal connections. Potential mechanisms include impaired white matter maturation associated with gliosis, suboptimal neuronal maturation, adverse effects of infection/inflammation on the cell environment, exposure to clinical therapies that modulate brain function (including maternal glucocorticoids), upregulation of physiological apoptosis and loss or misprogramming of progenitor cells in the subventricular zone. These findings suggest that insults during this critical phase alter the trajectory of brain development and that a key focus of basic science and clinical research should be to understand neuronal connectivity, as well as the triggers of cell death.

A variant (rs3129882) in the genome-wide association study (GWAS)-linked variant [in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene region] has been reported to associate with an increased risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) in Caucasian population. Studies among Chinese are limited. To address this, we analysed rs3129882 in a total of 1312 subjects of Chinese ethnicity from independent Asian centers comprising of 675 controls and 637 PD cases. The rs3129882 variant was associated with a decreased risk in our ethnic Chinese PD patients. Logistic regression analysis taking into consideration variables of age, gender and race showed that allele A reduced the risk of PD via a dominant model [odds ratio (OR)=0.77, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.62, 0.96, p=0.018]. As HLA is a highly polymorphic region, it is possible that ethnic-specific effect or environmental agents may modulate the effect of this GWAS-linked locus in influencing the risk of PD.





Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become a frequently performed surgery in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. The technique has been further refined throughout the years by improved imaging techniques, advanced neurophysiological recording possibilities, and advances in hardware and software technology. In addition, the complications, which can be divided into surgery-related, target-related, and hardware-related complications, were better recognised and managed. In this review, we describe our experience specifically with the surgery of STN DBS in the light of the existing literature. Tips and tricks, complications and their management are the main elements of this article. In addition, we provide scientific information from our research and other groups in specific sections.






The global burden imposed by metabolic diseases and associated complications continue to escalate. Neurological complications, most commonly peripheral neuropathy, represent a significant cause of morbidity and disability in patients with diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Furthermore, health care costs are substantially increased by the presence of complications making investigation into treatment a matter of high priority. Over the last decade nerve excitability techniques have entered the clinical realm and enabled in vivo assessment of biophysical properties and function of peripheral nerves in health and disease. Studies of excitability in diabetic neuropathy have demonstrated alteration in biophysical properties, including changes in Na(+) conductances and Na(+)/K(+) pump function, which may contribute to the development of neuropathic symptoms. Interventional studies have demonstrated that these changes are responsive to pharmacological agents. Excitability studies in patients with chronic kidney disease have demonstrated prominent changes that may contribute to the development of uraemic neuropathy. In particular, these studies have demonstrated strong correlation between hyperkalaemia and the development of nerve dysfunction. These studies have provided a basis for future work assessing the benefits of potassium restriction as a therapeutic strategy in this condition.
The biomedical model posits that mental disorders are brain diseases and emphasizes pharmacological treatment to target presumed biological abnormalities. A biologically-focused approach to science, policy, and practice has dominated the American healthcare system for more than three decades. During this time, the use of psychiatric medications has sharply increased and mental disorders have become commonly regarded as brain diseases caused by chemical imbalances that are corrected with disease-specific drugs. However, despite widespread faith in the potential of neuroscience to revolutionize mental health practice, the biomedical model era has been characterized by a broad lack of clinical innovation and poor mental health outcomes. In addition, the biomedical paradigm has profoundly affected clinical psychology via the adoption of drug trial methodology in psychotherapy research. Although this approach has spurred the development of empirically supported psychological treatments for numerous mental disorders, it has neglected treatment process, inhibited treatment innovation and dissemination, and divided the field along scientist and practitioner lines. The neglected biopsychosocial model represents an appealing alternative to the biomedical approach, and an honest and public dialog about the validity and utility of the biomedical paradigm is urgently needed.

Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity measured with the dexamethasone suppression test and the dexamethesone/CRH test may have some predictive power for suicidal behavior in patients with mood disorders. Increased prolactin (PRL) levels may be related both to physiological and pathological conditions. HPA-axis abnormalities and increased levels of PRL may coexist, and common neuroendocrine changes may activate both HPA axis and PRL release. HPA-axis hyperactivity is presumably present in a large subpopulation of depressed subjects. Suicidal behavior is considered to be a form of inward-directed aggression, and aggressive behavior has been connected to high androgen levels. However, lower plasma total testosterone levels have also been reported in subjects with depression and higher suicidality. Lipid/immune dysregulations, the increased ratio of blood fatty acids, and increased PRL levels may each be associated with the increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which have been reported in patients with major depression and patients engaging in suicidal behavior. Although no studies have been done to determine whether ante-mortem physical stress may be detected by raised post-mortem PRL, this would be of great interest for physicians.

This review addresses the central role played by multimodal interactions in neurocognitive development. We first analyzed our studies of multimodal verbal and nonverbal cognition and emotional interactions within neuronal, that is, natural environments in typically developing children. We then tried to relate them to the topic of creating artificial environments using mobile toy robots to neurorehabilitate severely autistic children. By doing so, both neural/natural and artificial environments are considered as the basis of neuronal organization and reorganization. The common thread underlying the thinking behind this approach revolves around the brain's intrinsic properties: neuroplasticity and the fact that the brain is neurodynamic. In our approach, neural organization and reorganization using natural or artificial environments aspires to bring computational perspectives into cognitive developmental neuroscience.
Is visual awareness graded or binary? Experimental work has provided support for both possibilities, leading to two coexisting but contradictory theoretical accounts. Here we propose a promising candidate factor through which to integrate both accounts: the depth of stimulus processing required by the task. We compared color identification (a low-level task) with numerical judgements (a high-level task) performed on the very same colored number stimuli. Psychophysical curves were analyzed for both objective discrimination performance and subjective visibility ratings on a trial-by trial basis. We observed a graded relationship between stimulus duration and visibility in the low-level task, but a more non-linear relationship in the high-level task. Both patterns of results have previously been consistently associated with the graded and the dichotomous account, respectively. Follow-up experiments that manipulate the level of processing can further unify previously inconsistent results, thus integrating two major theories of visual awareness.
Recent findings suggest that infants understand others' preferential choice and can use the perspectives and beliefs of others to interpret their actions. The standard interpretation in the field is that infants understand preferential choice as a dispositional state of the agent. It is possible, however, that these social situations trigger the acquisition of more general, not person-specific knowledge. In a looking-time study we showed an Agent A demonstrating a choice, that only could have been interpreted as preferential based on the perspective (and thus the belief) of the agent, not the observer. Then we introduced a new agent (Agent B), who chose consistently or inconsistently with Agent A; also varying whether Agent B was an adult or a child. Results show that infants expected Agent B (both the adult and the child) to choose as Agent A, but only in the condition where according to Agent A's knowledge two objects were present in familiarization(confirming previous evidence on the importance of contrastive choice). We interpret these results in the following way: (1) infants do not encode the perspectives of other agents as person-specific sources of knowledge and (2) they learn about the object, rather than the agent's disposition towards that object. We propose that early theory of mind processes lack the binding of belief content to the belief holder. However, such limitation may in fact serve an important function, allowing infants to acquire information through the perspectives of others in the form of universal access to general information.
Insects show sophisticated odor-mediated behaviors controlled by an olfactory system that is genetically and anatomically simpler than that of vertebrates, providing an attractive system to investigate the mechanistic link between behavior and odor perception. Advances in neuroscience have been facilitated by modern optical imaging technologies--both in instrumentation and in probe design--that permit the visualization of functional neural circuits. Imaging calcium activity in genetically defined populations of neurons provides an important tool for investigating the function of neural circuits. This article describes a two-photon imaging system for monitoring neural activity in the Drosophila antennal lobe. Odor-evoked calcium activity is followed by measuring the specific expression of the calcium-sensitive green fluorescent protein G-CaMP in Drosophila antennae-brain preparations.
The telencephalon-associated intercellular adhesion molecule 5 (Telencephalin; ICAM-5) regulates dendritic maturation, a process dependent on extracellular proteases in the developing brain. Using transmission electron microscopy, we have reported previously that ICAM-5 is localized primarily in dendritic protrusions during a period of robust synaptogenesis (P14 in mouse visual cortex). As dendritic protrusions mature (P28), ICAM-5 immuno-reactivity shifts from dendritic protrusions into dendritic shafts. ICAM-5 immuno-reactivity does not shift in animals lacking the matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), a protease shown to regulate ICAM-5 cleavage. Cleaved ICAM-5 (soluble fraction; sICAM-5) has been shown to bind to a number of receptors located in neighboring structures, resulting in a variety of downstream signaling events, including enhanced neurotransmission. Here, we investigated the potential MMP-regulated ICAM-5 signaling by examining the relationship between ICAM-5 immuno-positive elements and the structures that directly neighbor them.
In a recent paper, we showed that domestic chickens can be trained to search for a social stimulus in specific magnetic directions. Chickens can hardly fly and have only small home ranges, hence their having a functional magnetic compass may seem rather surprising. Yet considering the natural habitat of their ancestors and their lifestyle until recently, the advantages of a magnetic compass become evident.
The destruction of normal synaptic architecture is the main pathogenetic substrate in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND), but the sequence of cellular events underlying this outcome is not completely understood. Our recent work in a mouse model of HAND using a single intraparenchymal injection of the HIV-1 regulatory protein trans-activator of transcription revealed increased microglial phagocytosis that was accompanied by an increased release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and elimination of dendritic spines in vivo, thus suggesting that microglia-synapse interactions could be dysregulated in HAND. Here, we further examine the relationships between microglia and synaptic structures in our mouse model, at high spatial resolution using immunocytochemical electron microscopy. Our ultrastructural analysis reveals the prevalence of putative microglial filopodial protrusions, which are targeting excitatory and inhibitory synapses, some of which contain phagocytic inclusions at various distances from their distal extremities to the microglial cell bodies. These observations thus suggest that cell-to-cell contacts mediated by microglial filopodia might be a crucial preliminary step in the elimination of synaptic structures in a neuroinflammatory milieu that occurs in HAND.

We recently reported that prolonged exposure to the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ligand corticosterone impairs decision-making that is dependent on the predictive relationship between an action and its outcome (Gourley et al.; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2012). Additionally, acute GR blockade, when paired with action-outcome conditioning, also blocks new learning. We then showed that dendritic spines in the prelimbic prefrontal cortex remodeled under both conditions. Nonetheless, the relationship between deep-layer dendritic spines and outcome-based decision-making remains opaque. We report here that a history of prolonged corticosterone exposure increases dendritic spine density in deep-layer prelimbic cortex. When spines are imaged simultaneously with corticosteroid exposure (i.e., without a washout period), dendritic spine densities are, however, reduced. Thus, the morphological response of deep-layer prelimbic cortical neurons to prolonged corticosteroid exposure may be quite dynamic, with spine elimination during a period of chronic exposure and spine proliferation during a subsequent washout period. We provide evidence, using a Rho-kinase inhibitor, that GR-mediated dendritic spine remodeling is causally related to complex decision-making. Finally, we conclude this report with evidence that a history of early-life (adolescent) GR blockade, unlike acute blockade in adulthood, enhances subsequent outcome-based decision-making. Together, our findings suggest that physiological levels of GR binding enable an organism to learn about the predictive relationship between an action and its outcome, but a history of GR blockade may, under some circumstances, also have beneficial consequences.
Excitatory synaptic transmission takes place at actin-rich protrusions called dendritic spines. Strong synaptic input activates NMDA-type glutamate receptors and induces calcium flux into these structures, initiating a program of cytoskeletal rearrangement that results in larger spines with stronger synapses. These changes in synaptic strength are thought to be the primary cellular mechanism underlying learning and memory. We recently reported that the dual Ras/Rac1 guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) RasGRF2 links calcium flux to both spine enlargement and synaptic strengthening through its Rac-GEF activity. Additionally, we demonstrated that acute Rac1 activation is sufficient to enhance synaptic transmission. Since Rac1 is a major regulator of the actin cytoskeleton, these results suggest that the cytoskeleton itself regulates synaptic strengthening. Here we discuss models for how cytoskeletal modifications may enhance synaptic AMPA-type glutamate receptor abundance during long-term potentiation.
Concerns about aluminum (Al) exposure in the human diet have persisted for one century. We suggest that continued research would benefit from better reporting of environmental factors that are known to influence Al accumulation in plant organs that are consumed, focusing on subsets of the general public that exhibit the highest risk for neuropathological responses, increased evaluation of commercial processing procedures that may concentrate Al or other toxic substances, and designing studies with low dose, chronic exposure rather than further study of acute, brief exposure.
Sources of blood glucose in European seabass (initial weight 218.043.0g; meanS.D., n=18) were quantified by supplementing seawater with deuterated water (5%-(2)H2O) for 72h and analyzing blood glucose (2)H-enrichments by (2)H NMR. Three different nutritional states were studied: continuously fed, 21-day of fast and 21-day fast followed by 3days of refeeding. Plasma glucose levels (mM) were 10.76.3 (fed), 4.81.2 (fasted), and 9.31.4 (refed) (meansS.D., n=6), showing poor glycemic control. For all conditions, (2)H-enrichment of glucose position 5 was equivalent to that of position 2 indicating that blood glucose appearance from endogenous glucose 6-phosphate (G6P) was derived by gluconeogenesis. G6P-derived glucose accounted for 657% and 4410% of blood glucose appearance in fed and refed fish, respectively, with the unlabeled fraction assumed to be derived from dietary carbohydrate (357% and 5610%, respectively). For 21-day fasted fish, blood glucose appearance also had significant contributions from unlabeled glucose (5216%) despite the unavailability of dietary carbohydrates. To assess the role of hepatic enzymes in glycemic control, activity and mRNA levels of hepatic glucokinase (GK) and glucose 6-phosphatase (G6Pase) were assessed. Both G6Pase activity and expression declined with fasting indicating the absence of a classical counter-regulatory stimulation of hepatic glucose production in response to declining glucose levels. GK activities were basal during fed and fasted conditions, but were strongly stimulated by refeeding. Overall, hepatic G6Pase and GK showed limited capacity in regulating glucose levels between feeding and fasting states.



Assessing the subjective experience of others in terms of mental states, a brain function referred to as mentalizing, is achieved in the brain through a set of low-level perceptual and high-level inference-based processes. Because of its recurrent implication in fMRI studies, the right frontal cortex, especially in its inferolateral and dorsomesial parts, is posited to be a &quot;core system&quot; in the sustenance of these neurocognitive mechanisms. In this context, we reasoned that if the right frontal cortex is really crucial for mentalizing, its surgical resection, following diffuse low-grade glioma invasion, should induce irreversible impairments. To test this hypothesis, we designed a longitudinal experimental setup in which ten patients harboring a low-grade glioma in right frontal areas were assessed just before, immediately after and three months after a brain surgery. Two well-validated behavioral tasks, thought to evaluate both aspects of mentalizing, were administered. The results obtained provide evidence that widespread surgical excisions of the right prefrontal cortex do not induce a long-term worsening of both aspects of mentalizing, although some transitory effects are observed immediately after the surgery. They suggest also for the first time in the same sample of patients a possible double functional dissociation between low-level perceptual (posterior inferolateral prefrontal) and high-level inference-based (dorsomesial prefrontal) mentalizing processes. This overall finding challenges the traditional view according to which the right frontal cortex is an &quot;essential cortical node&quot; in the mentalizing network since it might be expected that massive surgical excisions of this brain area would have induced more definitive impairments.
Disorientation is frequent after brain damage. It is a constituent component of post-traumatic amnesia and was part of the original definition of the Korsakoff syndrome, together with amnesia and confabulations. Orbitofrontal reality filtering is a pre-conscious memory control process that has been held accountable for disorientation and a specific type of confabulations that patients act upon. A recent study questioned the specificity of this process and suggested that confabulating patients who failed in orbitofrontal reality filtering similarly failed to monitor the precise content of memories, a critical step within the strategic retrieval account, which describes a series of processes leading up to the recollection of memories. In the present study we combined the proposed experimental requirements of both processes in a single continuous recognition task and tested a group of 21 patients with a matched deficit of delayed free recall. We found that only deficient reality filtering, but not content monitoring, significantly correlated with disorientation and distinguished between confabulators and non-confabulators. Thus, reality confusion, as evident in disorientation and behaviourally spontaneous confabulation, primarily reflects an inability to monitor memories' relation with ongoing reality rather than to monitor their precise content.
Orienting attention in space recruits fronto-parietal networks whose damage results in unilateral spatial neglect. However, attention orienting may also be governed by emotional and motivational factors; but it remains unknown whether these factors act through a modulation of the fronto-parietal attentional systems or distinct neural pathways. Here we asked whether attentional orienting is affected by learning about the reward value of targets in a visual search task, in a spatially specific manner, and whether these effects are preserved in right-brain damaged patients with left spatial neglect. We found that associating rewards with left-sided (but not right-sided) targets during search led to progressive exploration biases towards left space, in both healthy people and neglect patients. Such spatially specific biases occurred even without any conscious awareness of the asymmetric reward contingencies. These results show that reward-induced modulations of space representation are preserved despite a dysfunction of fronto-parietal networks associated with neglect, and therefore suggest that they may arise through spared subcortical networks directly acting on sensory processing and/or oculomotor circuits. These effects could be usefully exploited for potentiating rehabilitation strategies in neglect patients.

Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have identified several regions in the ventral visual pathway that are specialized for processing faces, words and general objects. However, little is known about the origin of the functional selectivity of these regions. Here, we reported a pediatric patient who suffered a left occipitoparietal lesion in the first year after birth from a subdural hematoma. After the hematoma was removed at the age of six, the hemianopia in the right visual field was alleviated, and no obvious deficits in low-level vision were observed in the patient at the age of twelve. In line with the behavioral observations, meridian mappings with fMRI showed that the early visual cortex of the left hemisphere was significantly activated, which was similar to that of the intact right hemisphere. However, the left ventral temporal cortex failed to show selective responses for faces, words and objects, which were in contrast to the normal selective responses for these objects in the right counterpart. Therefore, it is likely that the development of object selectivity in the ventral temporal cortex depends on visual inputs from the early visual cortex at an early age.
Developmental dyscalculia is thought to be a specific impairment of mathematics ability. Currently dominant cognitive neuroscience theories of developmental dyscalculia suggest that it originates from the impairment of the magnitude representation of the human brain, residing in the intraparietal sulcus, or from impaired connections between number symbols and the magnitude representation. However, behavioral research offers several alternative theories for developmental dyscalculia and neuro-imaging also suggests that impairments in developmental dyscalculia may be linked to disruptions of other functions of the intraparietal sulcus than the magnitude representation. Strikingly, the magnitude representation theory has never been explicitly contrasted with a range of alternatives in a systematic fashion. Here we have filled this gap by directly contrasting five alternative theories (magnitude representation, working memory, inhibition, attention and spatial processing) of developmental dyscalculia in 9-10-year-old primary school children. Participants were selected from a pool of 1004 children and took part in 16 tests and nine experiments. The dominant features of developmental dyscalculia are visuo-spatial working memory, visuo-spatial short-term memory and inhibitory function (interference suppression) impairment. We hypothesize that inhibition impairment is related to the disruption of central executive memory function. Potential problems of visuo-spatial processing and attentional function in developmental dyscalculia probably depend on short-term memory/working memory and inhibition impairments. The magnitude representation theory of developmental dyscalculia was not supported.
Knowing whether an individual prefers the left or right hand for skilled activities is important to researchers in experimental psychology and neuroscience. The current study reports on a new measure of skilled hand preference derived from the Provins and Cunliffe (1972) handedness inventory. Undergraduates (n = 3324) indicated their lateral preference for their hands, feet, eyes and ears. A measure of hand performance and familial handedness was also obtained. Factor analysis identified ten items that loaded on skilled hand preference and these were included in the new FLANDERS questionnaire. Cluster analysis of the new questionnaire revealed three distinct groups (left-, mixed- &amp; right-handed). The new test showed a strong association with other measures of lateral preference and hand performance. Scores on the test were also related to the sex of the respondent and the hand preference of their parents. The FLANDERS provides a measure of skilled hand preference that is easy to administer and understand and should be useful for experimenters wanting to screen for hand preference.
Multisensory interactions have been documented within low-level, even primary, cortices and at early post-stimulus latencies. These effects are in turn linked to behavioral and perceptual modulations. In humans, visual cortex excitability, as measured by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) induced phosphenes, can be reliably enhanced by the co-presentation of sounds. This enhancement occurs at pre-perceptual stages and is selective for different types of complex sounds. However, the source(s) of auditory inputs effectuating these excitability changes in primary visual cortex remain disputed. The present study sought to determine if direct connections between low-level auditory cortices and primary visual cortex are mediating these kinds of effects by varying the pitch and bandwidth of the sounds co-presented with single-pulse TMS over the occipital pole. Our results from 10 healthy young adults indicate that both the central frequency and bandwidth of a sound independently affect the excitability of visual cortex during processing stages as early as 30 msec post-sound onset. Such findings are consistent with direct connections mediating early-latency, low-level multisensory interactions within visual cortices.

In humans, glucocorticoid excess may cause neuropsychiatric symptoms, including psychosis and cognitive impairment, and glucocorticoid signaling hyperactivation may sensitize to substance of abuse. The aim of this work was to evaluate whether exposure to glucocorticoid excess triggers molecular changes in dopaminergic and opioidergic systems within relevant forebrain areas. We acutely exposed Sprague-Dawley rats to dexamethasone, a glucocorticoid analog, or vehicle and evaluated the mRNA expression of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and enkephalin within the cortex, the striatum, and the midbrain. Dexamethasone reduced mRNA expression of D1 receptor and enkephalin in the cortex. In the striatum, dexamethasone reduced the expression of D1 receptor mRNA, but not that of D2 receptor and enkephalin. No significant changes in D2 receptor mRNA expression were observed in the midbrain. Basal distribution of D1 and D2 receptor mRNA showed a clear-cut striatal/cortical gradient, while this distribution was less obvious for enkephalin mRNA. Dexamethasone increased the cortico-striatal separation in terms of D1 and D2 receptor mRNA expression. These molecular changes may represent adaptive mechanisms to dexamethasone-induced potentiation of dopaminergic and opioidergic transmission, mostly in cortical areas.
The dystonias comprise a group of syndromes characterized by prolonged involuntary muscle contractions resulting in repetitive movements and abnormal postures. Primary dystonia has been associated with over 14 different genotypes, most of which follow an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern with reduced penetrance. Independent of etiology, the disease is characterized by extensive variability in disease phenotype and clinical severity. Recent neuroimaging studies investigating this phenomenon in manifesting and non-manifesting genetic carriers of dystonia have discovered microstructural integrity differences in the cerebello-thalamo-cortical tract in both groups related to disease penetrance. Further study suggests these differences to be specific to subrolandic white matter regions somatotopically related to clinical phenotype. Clinical severity was correlated to the degree of microstructural change. These findings suggest a mechanism for the penetrance and clinical variability observed in dystonia and may represent a novel therapeutic target for patients with refractory limb symptoms.
The neurobiological basis of psychogenic movement disorders (PMDs) has been elusive, and they remain difficult to treat. In the last few years, functional neuroimaging studies have provided insight into their pathophysiology and neural correlates. Here, we review the various methodological approaches that have been used in both clinical and research practice to address neural correlates of functional disorders. We then review the dominant hypotheses generated from the literature on psychogenic paralysis. Overall, these studies emphasize abnormalities in the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices. Recently, functional neuroimaging has been used to specifically examine PMDs. These studies have addressed a major point of controversy: whether higher frontal brain areas are directly responsible for inhibiting motor areas or whether they reflect modulation by attentional and/or emotional processes. In addition to elucidating the mechanism and cause, recent work has also explored the lack of agency that characterizes PMDs. We describe the results and implications of the results of these imaging studies and discuss possible interpretations.
Significant advances have allowed diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to evolve into a powerful tool in the field of movement disorders that can be used to study disease states and connectivity between brain regions. Diffusion MRI is a promising potential biomarker for Parkinson's disease and other forms of parkinsonism, and may allow the distinction of different forms of parkinsonism. Techniques such as tractography have contributed to our current thinking regarding the pathophysiology of dystonia and possible mechanisms of penetrance. Diffusion MRI measures could potentially assist in monitoring disease progression in Huntington's disease, and in uncovering the nature of the processes and structures involved the development of essential tremor. The ability to represent structural connectivity in vivo also makes diffusion MRI an ideal adjunctive tool for the surgical treatment of movement disorders. We review recent studies using diffusion MRI in movement disorders research and present the current state of the science as well as future directions.
Logopenic progressive aphasia is the most recently described clinical variant of primary progressive aphasia (PPA), defined by impairment of lexical retrieval and sentence repetition. Unlike other PPA variants, the logopenic variant of PPA (lv-PPA) is commonly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), a fact that is relevant to the selection of patients for clinical trials and disease-modifying therapies. Despite the straightforward definition and coherent pathological association, the existence of lv-PPA has been challenged, as its distinction from AD or other PPA variants can be difficult. Despite these issues, lv-PPA patients display characteristic linguistic deficits, a pattern of brain atrophy, and possibly genetic susceptibility, which warrant considering this variant as a discrete AD endophenotype. More specific clinical and anatomical markers can strengthen the consistency of this syndrome.





Growing evidence has shown that the proforms of several neurotrophins, e.g., nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin3 (NT3) can be synthesized, secreted from neurons or glial cells and function actively in mammalian nervous system. By the intracellular and extracellular enzymatic cleavage processing, mature neurotrophins are generated and exert their functions in the developing, physiological and pathological activities. While mature neurotrophins exhibit neuroprotective roles via tyrosine kinase receptors (TrkA, TrkB and TrkC), the proforms of neurotrophins show totally-different biological effects that may induce apoptotic cell death of neurons by triggering p75NTR-sortilin signaling cascades. In addition, another key neurotrophic factor named glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) also appears to be a product generated from proGDNF, and its cleavage and potential biological function of proGDNF remains an unrevealed problem. Obviously, accumulating studies indicated that the exact or timely cleavage processing should be essential for the functional switch from proneurotrophins to mature neurotrophins, while dysfunction in the enzymatic cleavage, aberrant extracellular release, and abnormal subunit organization of binding receptors might be also crucially involved in neurodegeneration of the central neurons, pathogenesis, and even disease progression of various neurodegenerative diseases in human beings.
Over two-thirds of the 11.4 million cancer survivors in the United States can expect long-term survival, with many others living with cancer as a chronic disease controlled by ongoing therapy. Behavioral comorbidities often arise during treatment and persist long term to complicate survival and reduce quality of life. This review focuses on depression and insomnia with an emphasis on understanding the role of cancer-specific factors and their contribution to the prevalence of these behavioral comorbidities in cancer patients following cancer diagnosis and treatment. The clinical significance of depression and insomnia for cancer patients is further stressed by epidemiological observations that link depression and insomnia to cancer morbidity and mortality risk.
Statin is now recommended in secondary prevention after stroke or transient ischemic attacks to reduce the risk of a new stroke or major cardiovascular events. However, some issues about the extent of the benefit in some stroke patients and the risk of cerebral hemorrhage remain debated. This review shows that statins are significantly effective in decreasing the risk of further strokes despite an increase in the risk of brain hemorrhage. A significant benefit was observed in men and women, in aged patients and possibly to a greater extent in patients with carotid artery stenosis. Intensive statin therapy lowering the LDL-cholesterol beyond the cut-off value of 1.8 mmol/L (70 mg/dl) seems to be more effective than less intensive treatment and without an increased risk of side effects. Overall, statins are well tolerated. Further prospective studies should clarify whether the effect is of the same magnitude in small vessel disease and how to select the patients to reduce the risk of cerebral hemorrhage.

Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) is a common, neurodevelopmental disorder of children that results in significant impairment in everyday activities of living. Over the past two decades, a large body of work has documented associations between DCD, physical inactivity, and poor health-related fitness. The exact nature of these relations, however, has been relatively little studied. In this paper, we ask whether the balance of evidence supports the proposition that DCD is a fundamental cause of inactivity and poor fitness. To address this question, we apply Hill's criteria for causation. We conclude that the evidence is consistent with, and reasonably supportive of, this proposition, but does not exclude alternative explanations.
The corticospinal tract (CST) is important for limb control. In humans, it begins developing prenatally but CST connections do not have a mature pattern until about 6 months of age and its capacity to evoke muscle contraction does not mature until mid-adolescence. An initially bilateral projection is subsequently refined, so that most ipsilateral CST connections are eliminated. Unilateral brain damage during refinement leads to bilateral developmental impairments. The damaged side develops sparse and weak contralateral spinal connections and the non-involved hemisphere maintains its ipsilateral projection to develop an aberrant bilateral spinal projection. In a kitten model of unilateral spastic cerebral palsy, we replicate key features of the CST circuit changes: robust bilateral CST projections from the non-involved hemisphere, sparse contralateral connections from the affected hemisphere, and motor impairments. We discuss the role of activity-dependent synaptic competition in development of bilateral CSTs and consider several experimental strategies for restoring a more normal pattern of CST connections from the damaged and non-involved sides. We highlight recent results stressing the importance of combined repair of CST axons, restoration of a more normal motor cortex motor representation, and key involvement of spinal cholinergic interneurons in restoring skilled motor function.
Visual functions are often impaired in preterm infants with periventricular haemorrhagic infarction, because of the involvement of the region where the optic radiations are located. In some cases an unexpected sparing of the visual fields has been described, and related to the plasticity of thalamo-cortical afferents that are supposedly able to bypass the lesion when it occurs in the early third trimester of gestation. We systematically reviewed the literature in the field to determine the limits and potentials of this type of reorganization. We found four studies meeting our criteria, from which we extracted case reports on 19 individuals with intraventricular haemorrhagic infarction. Eleven of the 19 did not have visual field defects, five had a bilateral visual field defect, and the remaining three had a unilateral visual field defect. The involvement of the optic radiations was often associated with normal visual fields as only one of the four individuals with damaged optic radiations showed visual field defects. Conversely, the presence of basal ganglia/thalamus involvement apparently prevented such reorganization, as the only two individuals with unilateral field restriction and available magnetic resonance imaging data both showed abnormalities in those structures. Consistent with this, we report on a further individual in which visual field restriction was associated with abnormal tractography on brain magnetic resonance imaging. Overall, this review supports the existence of effective mechanisms of plastic reorganization that allow a rewiring of geniculo-calcarine connections with restoration of full field vision but which are hindered by the involvement of the basal ganglia and thalamus.

The interpretation of social cues must change during adolescence in order to promote appropriate social interactions in adulthood. For example, adult, but not juvenile, male Syrian hamsters find female pheromones contained in vaginal sections (VS) rewarding, and only adult hamsters engage in sexual behavior with a receptive female. We previously demonstrated that the rewarding value of VS is both testosterone- and dopamine-dependent. Additionally, VS induces Fos expression throughout the mesocorticolimbic circuit in adult but not juvenile hamsters. In this study, we determined whether or not treatment of juvenile male hamsters with testosterone is sufficient to promote adult-like neural responses to VS. Juvenile and adult male hamsters were gonadectomized and given empty or testosterone-filled subcutaneous capsules for 1 week. Hamsters were then exposed to either clean or VS-containing mineral oil on their nares, and brains were collected 1 h later for immunohistochemistry to visualize Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells. Testosterone treatment failed to promote adult-typical patterns of Fos expression in juvenile hamsters; indeed, in some brain regions, juveniles exposed to VS expressed less Fos compared to age-matched controls while, as expected, adults exposed to VS expressed greater Fos compared to age-matched controls. Age-related changes in tyrosine hydroxylase expression were also observed. These data indicate that testosterone cannot activate the adult-typical pattern of Fos expression in response to female social cues in prepubertal males, and that additional neural maturation during adolescence is required for adult-typical mesocorticolimbic responses to female pheromones.
The study assessed possible age differences in brain activation patterns to low dose ethanol (.5g/kg intraperitoneally) and the influence of social context on this activation. Early adolescent or young adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were placed either alone or with an unfamiliar partner of the same age and sex following saline or ethanol administration. c-Fos protein immunoreactivity was used to index neuronal activation in 15 regions of interest. Ethanol had little effect on c-Fos activation. In adolescents, social context activated an &quot;autonomic&quot; network including the basolateral and central amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, lateral hypothalamus, and lateral septum. In contrast, when adult rats were alone, activation was evident in a &quot;reward&quot; network that included the substantia nigra, nucleus accumbens, anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortices, lateral parabrachial nucleus, and locus coeruleus.
The present study examined the impact of the developmental timing of trauma exposure on posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms and psychosocial functioning in a large sample of community-dwelling older adults (N = 1,995). Specifically, we investigated whether the negative consequences of exposure to traumatic events were greater for traumas experienced during childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, midlife, or older adulthood. Each of these developmental periods is characterized by age-related changes in cognitive and social processes that may influence psychological adjustment following trauma exposure. Results revealed that older adults who experienced their currently most distressing traumatic event during childhood exhibited more severe symptoms of PTSD and lower subjective happiness compared with older adults who experienced their most distressing trauma after the transition to adulthood. Similar findings emerged for measures of social support and coping ability. The differential effects of childhood compared with later life traumas were not fully explained by differences in cumulative trauma exposure or by differences in the objective and subjective characteristics of the events. Our findings demonstrate the enduring nature of traumatic events encountered early in the life course and underscore the importance of examining the developmental context of trauma exposure in investigations of the long-term consequences of traumatic experiences.
The endophenotype is central to modern developmental psychopathology studies. It is used in studies seeking to connect the genetic substrates of the panoply of major mental disorders with processes, tapped by laboratory and other assessment measures, in the genotype to a behavior/psychopathology pathway. Proposed originally by Gottesman and Shields (1972; Shields &amp; Gottesman, 1973) 41 years ago, the endophenotype concept has gained widespread traction in psychopathology research since the Gottesman and Gould (2003) review. Other concepts broadly related to the endophenotype notion have also generated discussion in experimental and developmental psychopathology research. One is the intermediate phenotype, a concept proffered as a putative alternative formulation to the endophenotype. Another concept in this intellectual vein is biomarker. The terms endophenotype, intermediate phenotype, and biomarker have often been used interchangeably in the psychiatric literature, yielding conceptual confusion. However, these three terms are not fungible. The recent Research Domain Criteria proposal from the National Institute of Mental Health has emphasized selected underlying processes thought to be of developmental etiologic significance to psychopathology. These selected processes will be the focus of energetic future research efforts, many of which will make use of the endophenotype and biomarker research paradigms. In this context, the concepts of endophenotype, intermediate phenotype, and biomarker are examined critically and contrasted in terms of meaning, intention, clarity, and intellectual history. This analysis favors use of the endophenotype concept in genetically informed laboratory and neuroscience studies of psychopathology. The term intermediate phenotype is perhaps best restricted to its originally defined meaning in genetics. Biomarker is used to denote objectively measured biological antecedents or consequences of normal or pathogenic processes or a physiologic response to a therapeutic intervention.
The development of socioemotional functioning is a complex process that occurs over a protracted time period and requires coordinating affective, cognitive, and social faculties. At many points in development, the trajectory of socioemotional development can be deleteriously altered due to a combination of environmental insults and individual vulnerabilities. The result can be psychopathology. However, researchers are just beginning to understand the neural and genetic mechanisms involved in the development of healthy and disordered socioemotional functioning. We propose a translational developmental neuroscience framework to understand the transactional process that results in socioemotional functioning in both healthy and disordered populations. We then apply this framework to healthy socioemotional development, pediatric anxiety, pediatric depression, and autism spectrum disorder, selectively reviewing current literature in light of the framework. Finally, we examine ways that the framework can help to frame future directions of research on socioemotional development and translational implications for intervention.
We measured Chinese dyslexic and control children's eye movements during rapid automatized naming (RAN) with alphanumeric (digits) and symbolic (dice surfaces) stimuli. Both types of stimuli required identical oral responses, controlling for effects associated with speech production. Results showed that naming dice was much slower than naming digits for both groups, but group differences in eye-movement measures and in the eye-voice span (i.e. the distance between the currently fixated item and the voiced item) were generally larger in digit-RAN than in dice-RAN. In addition, dyslexics were less efficient in parafoveal processing in these RAN tasks. Since the two RAN tasks required the same phonological output and on the assumption that naming dice is less practiced than naming digits in general, the results suggest that the translation of alphanumeric visual symbols into phonological codes is less efficient in dyslexic children. The dissociation of the print-to-sound conversion and phonological representation suggests that the degree of automaticity in translation from visual symbols to phonological codes in addition to phonological processing per se is also critical to understanding dyslexia.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major worldwide healthcare problem. Despite promising outcomes from many preclinical studies, the failure of several clinical studies to identify effective therapeutic and pharmacological approaches for TBI suggests that methods to improve the translational potential of preclinical studies are highly desirable. Rodent models of TBI are increasingly in demand for preclinical research, particularly for closed head injury (CHI), which mimics the most common type of TBI observed clinically. Although seemingly simple to establish, CHI models are particularly prone to experimental variability. Promisingly, bioengineering-oriented research has advanced our understanding of the nature of the mechanical forces and resulting head and brain motion during TBI. However, many neuroscience-oriented laboratories lack guidance with respect to fundamental biomechanical principles of TBI. Here, we review key historical and current literature that is relevant to the investigation of TBI from clinical, physiological and biomechanical perspectives, and comment on how the current challenges associated with rodent TBI models, particularly those involving CHI, could be improved.






The addition of acoustic stimulation to electric stimulation via a cochlear implant has been shown to be advantageous for speech perception in noise, sound quality, music perception, and sound source localization. However, the signal processing and fitting procedures of current cochlear implants and hearing aids were developed independently, precluding several potential advantages of bimodal stimulation, such as improved sound source localization and binaural unmasking of speech in noise. While there is a large and increasing population of implantees who use a hearing aid, there are currently no generally accepted fitting methods for this configuration. It is not practical to fit current commercial devices to achieve optimal binaural loudness balance or optimal binaural cue transmission for arbitrary signals and levels. There are several promising experimental signal processing systems specifically designed for bimodal stimulation. In this article, basic psychophysical studies with electric acoustic stimulation are reviewed, along with the current state of the art in fitting, and experimental signal processing techniques for electric acoustic stimulation.


Males have a higher risk for developing Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism after ischemic stroke than females. Although estrogens have been shown to play a neuroprotective role in Parkinson's disease, there is little information on androgens' actions on dopamine neurons. In this study, we examined the effects of androgens under conditions of oxidative stress to determine whether androgens play a neuroprotective or neurotoxic role in dopamine neuronal function. Mitochondrial function, cell viability, intracellular calcium levels, and mitochondrial calcium influx were examined in response to androgens under both nonoxidative and oxidative stress conditions. Briefly, N27 dopaminergic cells were exposed to the oxidative stressor, hydrogen peroxide, and physiologically relevant levels of testosterone or dihydrotestosterone, applied either before or after oxidative stress exposure. Androgens, alone, increased mitochondrial function via a calcium-dependent mechanism. Androgen pretreatment protected cells from oxidative stress-induced cell death. However, treatment with androgens after the oxidative insult increased cell death, and these effects were, in part, mediated by calcium influx into the mitochondria. Interestingly, the negative effects of androgens were not blocked by either androgen or estrogen receptor antagonists. Instead, a putative membrane-associated androgen receptor was implicated. Overall, our results indicate that androgens are neuroprotective when oxidative stress levels are minimal, but when oxidative stress levels are elevated, androgens exacerbate oxidative stress damage.
The study aimed at evaluating the effects of cadmium and selenite ions on protein synthesis and metallothioneins content in mice liver after 2 h, 8 h, 24 h and 14 days of exposure. Our studies revealed that cadmium suppressed protein synthesis after 2 h and 24 h, but activated after 8h and 14 days. Also, the endogenous mRNA translation were reduced under any exposure to cadmium, meanwhile, metallothioneins content was decreased after 2 h, but then was progressively increasing up to 492% after 14 days. Meantime, selenite did not influence metallothioneins content, caused mild activation of protein synthesis, and slightly suppressed the endogenous mRNA translation. The combined treatments with cadmium and selenite favored toward resisting of protein synthesis to cadmium after 2 h and 24 h of intoxication. Besides, selenite also protected translation against cadmium in cell-free systems, but did not attenuate effects of cadmium on metallothioneins content.
Neural development is a delicate process that can be disrupted by pollution that exerts detrimental impact on neural signaling. This commentary highlights recent discoveries in the arena of research at the interface of environmental toxicology and developmental neuroscience relating to toxicity mechanisms of bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous chemical used in manufacturing of plastics and epoxy resins that is known to bind to and interfere with estrogen receptors, estrogen-receptor-related receptors and other receptors for gonadal steroids. It was recently observed that BPA disrupts the perinatal chloride shift, a key neurodevelopmental mechanism that brings down neuronal chloride from ~100 mM to ~20 mM within weeks. The chloride shift happens in all central nervous systems of vertebrates around parturition. High neuronal chloride supports neuron precursors' migrations, low neuronal chloride is the prerequisite for inhibitory action of neurotransmitters GABA and glycine, and thus an absolute requisite for normal functioning of the mature CNS. One critical contributor to the neuronal chloride shift is the concomitant upregulation of expression of the chloride-extruding transporter molecule, KCC2. We highlight recent findings including our discovery that BPA disrupts the chloride shift in a sex-specific manner by recruiting epigenetics mechanisms. These could be relevant for childhood neuropsychiatric disorders as well as for liability to develop chronic neuropsychiatric diseases later in life.
Epileptic encephalopathies (EEs) are electroclinical entities with a peculiar course of disease; seizures and electroencephalographic (EEG) epileptiform abnormalities, ictal and interictal, contribute to progressive disturbance of cerebral functions. Frequently EEs are drug resistant, and consequences may be catastrophic. The main goal of treatment is to stop the peculiar course of epilepsy, operating on three parameters: seizure control, reduction of EEG abnormalities, and developmental outcome. For a correct therapeutic approach it is mandatory to have an as accurate as possible syndromic and etiologic diagnosis. Given the poor efficacy of conventional antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), the use of specific drugs for EEs, such as adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosteroids or stiripentol is suggested. In some cases the choice of treatment is strictly related to the etiology: vigabatrin in tuberous sclerosis, ketogenic diet in glucose transporter type 1 (GLUT-1) deficiency, and pyridoxine in pyridoxine deficiency. Some AEDs combinations, such as sodium valproate with lamotrigine, have also provided interesting results, for example, in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, although controlled studies are lacking. Finally, early surgery can be an option in children with focal structural abnormalities responsible for EEs preferably before irreversible damage on developmental outcome. Multispecialist support is recommended in EE. Management should be global from the onset, integrating not only seizure control but also all issues related to comorbidities, particularly neuropsychological and psychiatric.
Epileptic encephalopathy is a condition in which epileptic activity, clinical or subclinical, is thought to be responsible for any disturbance of cognition, behavior, or motor control. However, experimental evidence supporting this clinical observation are still poor and the causal relationship between pharmacoresistant seizures and cognitive outcome is controversial. In the past two decades, genetic studies shed new light onto complex mechanisms underlying different severe epileptic conditions associated with intellectual disability and behavioral abnormalities, thereby providing important clues on the relationship between seizures and cognitive outcome. Dravet syndrome is a childhood disorder associated with loss-of-function mutations in SCN1A and is characterized by frequent seizures and severe cognitive impairment, thus well illustrating the concept of epileptic encephalopathy. However, it is difficult to determine the causative role of the underlying sodium channel dysfunction and that of the consequent seizures in influencing cognitive outcome in these children. It is also difficult to demonstrate whether a recognizable profile of cognitive impairment or a definite behavioral phenotype exists. Data from the laboratory and the clinics may provide greater insight into the degree to which epileptic activity may contribute to cognitive impairment in individual syndromes.

Stress is one of the most frequently self-identified seizure triggers in patients with epilepsy; however, most previous publications on stress and epilepsy have focused on the role of stress in the initial development of epilepsy. This narrative review explores the causal role of stress in triggering seizures in patients with existing epilepsy. Findings from human studies of psychological stress, as well as of physiologic stress responses in humans and animals, and evidence from nonpharmacologic interventions for epilepsy are considered. The evidence from human studies for stress as a trigger of epileptic seizures is inconclusive. Although retrospective self-report studies show that stress is the most common patient-perceived seizure precipitant, prospective studies have yielded mixed results and studies of life events suggest that stressful experiences only trigger seizures in certain individuals. There is limited evidence suggesting that autonomic arousal can precede seizures. Interventions designed to improve coping with stress reduce seizures in some individuals. Studies of physiologic stress using animal epilepsy models provide more convincing evidence. Exposure to exogenous and endogenous stress mediators has been found to increase epileptic activity in the brain and trigger overt seizures, especially after repeated exposure. In conclusion, stress is likely to exacerbate the susceptibility to epileptic seizures in a subgroup of individuals with epilepsy and may play a role in triggering &quot;spontaneous&quot; seizures. However, there is currently no strong evidence for a close link between stress and seizures in the majority of people with epilepsy, although animal research suggests that such links are likely. Further research is needed into the relationship between stress and seizures and into interventions designed to reduce perceived stress and improve quality of life with epilepsy.


In India, there are less than 2000 neurologists, and an estimated 5 million patients have epilepsy. With such limited neurological care available, novel treatment approaches for epilepsy are necessary. This study evaluates the effectiveness of a mobile clinic in treating epilepsy. Patients from two mobile clinic stop locations in northern India were contacted 7 and 9 months later for an in-person or over-the-phone survey. Of the 306 eligible patients who had been seen in the selected cities, 142 were interviewed, 72.5% of whom reported that they were still taking medications; among medication-nave patients, 50.9% were still taking medications. The one-time clinic is effective and could be a model for working towards reducing the wide rural epilepsy treatment gap in India and other countries. Creative follow-up mechanisms need to be developed.
Frontal lobe dysfunction is known to be associated with impairment in social behavior. We investigated the link between severe pharmacoresistant frontal lobe epilepsy and antisocial trait. We studied four patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy involving the prefrontal cortex, presenting abnormal interictal social behavior. Noninvasive investigations (video-EEG, PET, MRI) and intracerebral recording (stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG)) were performed as part of a presurgical assessment. Comprehensive psychiatric and cognitive evaluation was performed pre- and postoperatively for frontal lobe epilepsy, with at least 7years of follow-up. All patients shared a characteristic epilepsy pattern: (1) chronic severe prefrontal epilepsy with daily seizures and (2) an epileptogenic zone as defined by intracerebral recording involving the anterior cingulate cortex, ventromedial PFC, and the posterior part of the orbitofrontal cortex, with early propagation to contralateral prefrontal and ipsilateral medial temporal structures. All patients fulfilled the diagnostic criteria (DSM-IV) of antisocial personality disorder, which proved to be reversible following seizure control. Pharmacoresistant epilepsy involving a prefrontal network is associated with antisocial personality. We hypothesize that the occurrence of frequent seizures in this region over a prolonged period produces functional damage leading to impaired prefrontal control of social behavior. This functional damage is reversible since successful epilepsy surgery markedly improved antisocial behavior in these patients. The results are in line with previous reports of impairment of social and moral behavior following ventromedial frontal lobe injury.
Over the last few years, zonisamide has been proposed as a potentially useful medication for patients with focal seizures, with or without secondary generalization. Since psychiatric adverse effects, including mania, psychosis, and suicidal ideation, have been associated with its use, it was suggested that the presence of antecedent psychiatric disorders is an important factor associated with the discontinuation of zonisamide therapy in patients with epilepsy. We, therefore, set out to assess the tolerability profile of zonisamide in a retrospective chart review of 23 patients with epilepsy and comorbid mental disorders, recruited from two specialist pediatric (n=11) and adult (n=12) neuropsychiatry clinics. All patients had a clinical diagnosis of treatment-refractory epilepsy after extensive neurophysiological and neuroimaging investigations. The vast majority of patients (n=22/23, 95.7%) had tried previous antiepileptic medications, and most adult patients (n=9/11, 81.8%) were on concomitant medication for epilepsy. In the majority of cases, the psychiatric adverse effects of zonisamide were not severe. Four patients (17.4%) discontinued zonisamide because of lack of efficacy, whereas only one patient (4.3%) discontinued it because of the severity of psychiatric adverse effects (major depressive disorder). The low discontinuation rate of zonisamide in a selected population of patients with epilepsy and neuropsychiatric comorbidity suggests that this medication is safe and reasonably well-tolerated for use in patients with treatment-refractory epilepsy. Given the limitations of the present study, including the relatively small sample size, further research is warranted to confirm this finding.
This study is based on the psychodynamic and neurological analysis of three Turkish patients who displayed ictal kissing automatism during their seizures. To unveil the probable underlying causes of their kissing behaviors, all patients underwent psychiatric interviews after being evaluated by ictal video-EEG recordings. The group consisted of two females (ages 35 and 29) and one male (age 26). In addition to prominent oral automatisms, each patient also displayed behaviors of kissing or blowing kisses to individuals at close proximity. Seizures were related to the right temporal lobe in two patients and the left temporal lobe in one patient. Magnetic resonance imaging showed mesial temporal sclerosis in two of the patients (one left, one right) and was normal in one. According to the DSM-IV-TR criteria, each of the three patients also suffered from major depression, while the psychodynamic interviews revealed traumatic childhood histories and intense unfulfilled affective needs.
The aims of our study were to evaluate excessive daytime sleepiness in a group of de novo untreated people with epilepsy using a comprehensive and standardized approach, including subjective evaluation and neurophysiological and performance tests, and to compare these results with those obtained in a control group. Forty-seven patients with epilepsy (17 affected by primary generalized epilepsy and 30 by partial epilepsy), with a new epilepsy diagnosis and never treated, and 44 controls underwent Multiple Sleep Latency Test (preceded by nocturnal polysomnography), simple/complex visual reaction times, and Epworth Sleepiness Scale evaluation. Newly diagnosed and drug-free patients with epilepsy did not differ from controls in any of the tests performed to evaluate daytime sleepiness. In clinical practice, daytime sleepiness is a well-known and frequent complaint of patients with epilepsy, but different mechanisms and causes, such as associated psychiatric or sleep disorders, nocturnal seizures, sleep fragmentation, and antiepileptic drugs, must be taken into account. Excessive daytime sleepiness should not be considered an unavoidable consequence of epilepsy. Thus, a complete diagnostic work-up in patients with epilepsy and sleepiness should be undertaken whenever possible.
Treatment of epileptic patients with valproic acid (VPA) may be associated with substantial weight changes that may increase morbidity and impair adherence to the treatment regimen. VPA-induced weight gain seems to be associated with many metabolic disturbances; the most frequent are hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, hyperleptinemia and leptin resistance. Patients who gain weight during VPA therapy can develop dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome that are associated with long-term vascular complications such as hypertension and atherosclerosis. Moreover, an elevation in the levels of uric acid and homocysteine, together with oxidative stress, may contribute to atherosclerotic risk in patients under long-term therapy with VPA. The aim of this review is to discuss the metabolic and endocrine effects of VPA chronic treatment in patients with epilepsy.

We systematically compared fMRI results for covert (silent) and overt (spoken) versions of a language task in a representative sample of children with lesional focal epilepsy being considered for neurosurgical treatment (N=38, aged 6-17 years). The overt task was advantageous for presurgical fMRI assessments of language; it produced higher quality scans, was more sensitive for identifying activation in core language regions on an individual basis, and provided an online measure of performance crucial for improving the yield of presurgical fMRI.
In silico approaches to predict absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) of new drug candidates are gaining a relevant importance in drug discovery programmes. When considering particularly the pharmacokinetics during the development of oral antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), one of the most prominent goals is designing compounds with good bioavailability and brain penetration. Thus, it is expected that in silico models able to predict these features may be applied during the early stages of AEDs discovery. The present investigation was mainly carried out in order to generate in vivo pharmacokinetic data that can be utilized for development and validation of in silico models. For this purpose, a single dose of each compound (1.4mmol/kg) was orally administered to male CD-1 mice. After quantifying the parent compound and main metabolites in plasma and brain up to 12h post-dosing, a non-compartmental pharmacokinetic analysis was performed and the corresponding brain/plasma ratios were calculated. Moreover the plasma protein binding was estimated in vitro applying the ultrafiltration procedure. The present in vivo pharmacokinetic characterization of the test compounds and corresponding metabolites demonstrated that the metabolism extensively compromised the in vivo activity of CBZ derivatives and their toxicity. Furthermore, it was clearly evidenced that the time to reach maximum peak concentration, bioavailability (given by the area under the curve) and metabolic stability (given by the AUC0-12h ratio of the parent compound and total systemic drug) influenced the in vivo pharmacological activities and must be considered as primary parameters to be investigated. All the test compounds presented brain/plasma ratios lower than 1.0, suggesting that the blood-brain barrier restricts drug entry into the brain. In agreement with in vitro studies already performed within our research group, CBZ, CBZ-10,11-epoxide and oxcarbazepine exhibited the highest brain/plasma ratios (&gt;0.50), followed by eslicarbazepine, R-licarbazepine, trans-diol and BIA 2-024 (ratios within 0.05-0.50). BIA 2-265 was not found in the biophase, probably due to its high plasma-protein bound fraction (&gt;90%) herein revealed for the first time. The comparative in vivo pharmacokinetic data obtained in the present work might be usefully applied in the context of discovery of new antiepileptic drugs that are derivatives of CBZ.
The article summarises the role of input and consequent phasic events in the dynamism of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and in homeostatic slow-wave economy during sleep. Then, an overview of the mechanism of how micro-arousals in NREM sleep gate epileptic events in absence epilepsy (AE) and in sporadic and autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE/ADNFLE) is presented. The ictal type of generalised spike-wave discharges (SWDs) are associated with a special vigilance level in between NREM, rapid-eye movement (REM) and wake state. This transitional state is characterised by input-driven bidirectional fluctuations. Among them, SWDs are linked to A1 type A phases of CAP and therefore seem to be associated with shifts towards NREM sleep (sleep induction). In ADNFLE (and presumably in NFLE), micro-arousals release epileptic events in NREM sleep probably due to epileptic sensitisation of the cholinergic arousal system by the known acetylcholine (ACh) receptor mutations affecting the arousal system, giving rise to the epileptic (and also parasomniac) episodes. In both kinds of these system epilepsies (AE and NFLE), epileptic events can be released by phasic events during NREM sleep. The difference is that absences are activated in reactive states with a sleep-promoting, antiarousal effect, while in NFLE the epileptic disorder is interwoven with the cholinergic arousal function. The role of arousal/antiarousal in NFLE and AE fits nicely with the hypothesis that these epilepsies are disorders of two antagonistic thalamo-frontal systems involved in functions NREM sleep and wakefulness.
Olfactory receptor (OR) expression is also present in the sperm cells and could mediate sperm chemotaxis. OR1D2 was the first OR expressed in the testis demonstrated to be involved in chemotaxis and to be expressed also in the nose with a similar behavior. Bourgeonal is the OR1D2 most potent known agonist. Infertility affects ~15 % of couples in western countries and sometimes it is unexplained. This pilot study compared the bourgeonal olfactory thresholds, the ability of sperm to sense the bourgeonal and the frequency of 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of OR1D2 gene in nine males suffering of unexplained infertility with a control group of 15 healthy males. The mean olfactory threshold for bourgeonal was statistically different between the study group (10.5  3.7; median 12.3) and the control group (14.0  2.8; median 15.5) (p = 0.006). Statistical analysis showed a significantly higher percentage of spermatozoa that migrated toward the capillaries filled with bourgeonal in the control group compared to the study group (p &lt; 0.0001). Sperm migration was equally inhibited in both groups of subjects when, together with bourgeonal, capillaries were filled with undecanal, a strong bourgeonal inhibitor (p = 0.42). The 13 SNPs of OR1D2 revealed a statistically significant difference for allele and genotype frequency of rs769423 in study group versus control group (p = 0.02). The present preliminary study seems to confirm the important role of OR1D2 both in nose and spermatozoa and may explain the idiopathic infertility of the study group. Further studies on larger series are mandatory to confirm our preliminary evidence.

Leukocyte telomere length (LTL) shortens with age. Longitudinal studies have reported accelerated LTL attrition when baseline LTL is longer. However, the dependency of LTL attrition on baseline LTL might stem from a statistical artifact known as regression to the mean (RTM). To our knowledge no published study of LTL dynamics (LTL and its attrition rate) has corrected for this phenomenon. We illustrate the RTM effect using replicate LTL measurements, and show, using simulated data, how the RTM effect increases with a rise in stochastic measurement variation (representing LTL measurement error), resulting in spurious increasingly elevated dependencies of attrition on baseline values. In addition, we re-analyzed longitudinal LTL data collected from four study populations to test the hypothesis that LTL attrition depends on baseline LTL. We observed that the rate of LTL attrition was proportional to baseline LTL, but correction for the RTM effect reduced the slope of the relationship by 57% when measurement error was low (coefficient of variation ~2%). A modest but statistically significant effect remained however, indicating that high baseline LTL is associated with higher LTL attrition even when correcting for the RTM effect. Baseline LTL explained 1.3% of the variation in LTL attrition, but this effect, which differed significantly between the study samples, appeared to be primarily attributable to the association in men (3.7%).
A 26-year-old patient was diagnosed as having chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction with manometric and histopathologic features suggestive of an intestinal myopathy. Histology was characterized by smooth muscle degeneration without inflammatory or immune cells. The severe gut dysfunction required full parenteral nutritional support. After a few months, the patient developed symptomatic tachy-brady arrhythmia episodes with syncopes. A thorough diagnostic work-up led to a diagnosis of sick sinus syndrome, which was managed by pacemaker implantation and administration of -blockers. This led to a partial improvement in tachy-brady arrhythmia episodes. Nonetheless, the patient continued to experience sustained supraventricular tachyarrhythmia runs, poorly responsive to increasing -blocker doses. To investigate the origin of the cardiologic impairment, the patient was tested for anticonductive tissue autoantibodies, which were positive, thus supporting a possible autoimmune origin of the dysrhythmia. Other autoantibodies were negative. On the basis of these findings, the patient was treated with high-dose steroids, which were then tapered. The patient responded to the steroid treatment and did not experience further episodes of syncope and tachyarrhythmias. The severe gut dysfunction remained unchanged. This case highlights an association between severe gut dysfunction and cardiac conductive tissue abnormalities, with autoantibodies to conductive tissue possibly causing the dysrhythmia. The severe gut and heart (likely autoimmune-mediated) dysfunction presented in this case provides a basis to further assess a link between intestinal and cardiac abnormal rhythmicity.
To better understand the neurobiology of methamphetamine (METH) dependence and the cognitive impairments induced by METH use, we compared the effects of extended (12h) and limited (1h) access to METH self-administration on locomotor activity and object place recognition, and on extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen. Rats were trained to self-administer intravenous METH (0.05mg/kg). One group had progressively extended access up to 12-h sessions. The other group had limited-access 1-h sessions. Microdialysis experiments were conducted during a 12-h and 1-h session, in which the effects of a single METH injection (self-administered, 0.05mg/kg, i.v.) on extracellular dopamine levels were assessed in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen compared with a drug-naive group. The day after the last 12-h session and the following day experimental groups were assessed for their locomotor activities and in a place recognition procedure, respectively. The microdialysis results revealed tolerance to the METH-induced increases in extracellular dopamine only in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the caudate-putamen in the extended-access group compared with the control and limited-access groups. These effects may be associated with the increased lever-pressing and drug-seeking observed during the first hour of drug exposure in the extended-access group. This increase in drug-seeking leads to higher METH intake and may result in more severe consequences in other structures responsible for the behavioral deficits (memory and locomotor activity) observed in the extended-access group, but not in the limited-access group.
During post-weaning development, a marked increase in peer-peer interactions is observed in mammals, including humans, which is signified by the abundance of social play behaviour. Social play is highly rewarding, and known to be modulated through monoaminergic neurotransmission. Recently, the habenula has received widespread attention because of its role in the regulation of monoaminergic neurotransmission as well as in a variety of emotional and cognitive functions. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the involvement of the habenula in social play behaviour. Using the neuronal activity maker c-fos, we showed that the habenula was activated after 24 h of social isolation in adolescent rats, and that a subsequent social play interaction reduced c-fos activity in the medial part of the lateral habenula. This suggested that habenula activity modulated the aversive properties of social isolation, which was alleviated by the positive effects of social play. Furthermore, after functional inactivation of the habenula, using a mixture of the GABA receptor agonists baclofen and muscimol, social play behaviour was markedly reduced, whereby responsiveness to play solicitation was more sensitive to habenula inactivation than play solicitation itself. Together, our data indicate an important role for the habenula in the processing of positive (i.e., social play behaviour) and negative (i.e., social isolation) social information in adolescent rats. Altered habenula function might therefore be related to the social impairments in childhood and adolescent psychiatric disorders such as autism, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder and early-onset schizophrenia.
Tonic inhibition mediated by extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A) Rs) is an important regulator of neuronal excitability. Phosphorylation by protein kinase C (PKC) provides a key mode of regulation for synaptic GABA(A) Rs underlying phasic inhibition; however, less attention has been focused on the plasticity of tonic inhibition and whether this can also be modulated by receptor phosphorylation. To address this issue, we used whole-cell patch clamp recording in acute murine brain slices at both room and physiological temperatures to examine the effects of PKC-mediated phosphorylation on tonic inhibition. Recordings from dentate gyrus granule cells in the hippocampus and dorsal lateral geniculate relay neurons in the thalamus demonstrated that PKC activation caused downregulation of tonic GABA(A) R-mediated inhibition. Conversely, inhibition of PKC resulted in an increase in tonic GABA(A) R activity. These findings were corroborated by experiments on human embryonic kidney 293 cells expressing recombinant 42 GABA(A) Rs, which represent a key extrasynaptic GABA(A) R isoform in the hippocampus and thalamus. Using bath application of low GABA concentrations to mimic activation by ambient neurotransmitter, we demonstrated a similar inhibition of receptor function following PKC activation at physiological temperature. Live cell imaging revealed that this was correlated with a loss of cell surface GABA(A) Rs. The inhibitory effects of PKC activation on 42 GABA(A) R activity appeared to be mediated by direct phosphorylation at a previously identified site on the 2 subunit, serine 410. These results indicate that PKC-mediated phosphorylation can be an important physiological regulator of tonic GABA(A) R-mediated inhibition.
The detection of auditory stimuli that deviate from a simple or complex auditory regularity is reflected by the mismatch negativity component of the human auditory evoked potential. Moreover, simple deviants of an oddball paradigm modulate the preceding middle-latency response of the auditory evoked potential. For the frequency oddball paradigms it has been shown that the Nb wave, at approximately 40ms from stimulus onset, is enhanced in response to deviant compared with standard stimuli. In this study we tested whether the detection of auditory deviants in a (frequency-location) feature-conjunction paradigm is reflected by modulations of the Na, Pa or Nb wave of healthy human participants. In addition, a frequency oddball paradigm was applied to directly contrast the results of a simple and a complex invariance. Feature-conjunction deviants did not elicit any modulations of the tested middle-latency waves. Deviants of the frequency oddball paradigm, by contrast, elicited an enhancement of the Nb wave, confirming the outcome of precedent studies. In both conditions a significant mismatch negativity component was elicited, which showed larger amplitudes and shorter latencies in the oddball condition than in the feature-conjunction condition. These findings corroborate the idea that simple auditory regularities are encoded upstream of those of more complex auditory features and are in line with the idea of a hierarchically working auditory novelty system.
Estradiol and progesterone interact with the dopaminergic and other neurotransmitter systems that are involved in the processing of rewards. On the systems level, these hormones modulate responses to stimulants as well as neuronal activity related to the anticipation of monetary gains. As different mechanisms might underlie the processing of gains and losses, the current study aims to investigate whether neural correlates of gain and loss anticipation are differentially modulated by menstrual cycle phases. Therefore, young, naturally cycling women were examined by means of functional neuroimaging during performing a modified version of the 'Monetary Incentive Delay' task in the early follicular and in the luteal menstrual cycle phase. During the low hormone early follicular phase, the anticipation of high vs. low gains and losses was associated with activity in a largely overlapping network of brain areas. However, high hormone levels in the luteal phase affected brain activity in these areas differentially during the anticipation of high vs. low gains and losses. In particular, the orbitofrontal cortex showed a reduced sensitivity to gain magnitude, whereas the ventral striatum and the anterior cingulate showed a reduced sensitivity to loss magnitude. In summary, the high amount of progesterone and estradiol in the luteal phase decreased activity related to the anticipation of monetary gains and losses in different brain areas, suggesting that hormones modulate different processes during the anticipation of gain and loss magnitude.
Genetic variability in the strength and precision of fear memory is hypothesised to contribute to the etiology of anxiety disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder. We generated fear-susceptible (F-S) or fear-resistant (F-R) phenotypes from an F8 advanced intercross line (AIL) of C57BL/6J and DBA/2J inbred mice by selective breeding. We identified specific traits underlying individual variability in Pavlovian conditioned fear learning and memory. Offspring of selected lines differed in the acquisition of conditioned fear. Furthermore, F-S mice showed greater cued fear memory and generalised fear in response to a novel context than F-R mice. F-S mice showed greater basal corticosterone levels and hypothalamic corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA levels than F-R mice, consistent with higher hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis drive. Hypothalamic mineralocorticoid receptor and CRH receptor 1 mRNA levels were decreased in F-S mice as compared with F-R mice. Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) was used to investigate basal levels of brain activity. MEMRI identified a pattern of increased brain activity in F-S mice that was driven primarily by the hippocampus and amygdala, indicating excessive limbic circuit activity in F-S mice as compared with F-R mice. Thus, selection pressure applied to the AIL population leads to the accumulation of heritable trait-relevant characteristics within each line, whereas non-behaviorally relevant traits remain distributed. Selected lines therefore minimise false-positive associations between behavioral phenotypes and physiology. We demonstrate that intrinsic differences in HPA axis function and limbic excitability contribute to phenotypic differences in the acquisition and consolidation of associative fear memory. Identification of system-wide traits predisposing to variability in fear memory may help in the direction of more targeted and efficacious treatments for fear-related pathology.
Motherhood has profound effects on physiology, neuronal plasticity, and behavior. We conducted a series of experiments to test the hypothesis that fatherhood, similarly to motherhood, affects brain plasticity (such as cell proliferation and survival) and various behaviors in the highly social prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). In Experiment 1, adult males were housed with their same-sex cage mate (control), single-housed (isolation), or housed with a receptive female to mate and produce offspring (father) for 6 weeks. Fatherhood significantly reduced cell survival (assessed by bromodeoxyuridine labeling), but not cell proliferation (assessed by Ki67-labeling), in the amygdala, dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and ventromedial hypothalamus, suggesting that fatherhood affects brain plasticity. In Experiment 2, neither acute (20 min) nor chronic (20 min daily for 10 consecutive days) pup exposure altered cell proliferation or survival in the brain, but chronic pup exposure increased circulating corticosterone levels. These data suggest that reduced cell survival in the brain of prairie vole fathers was unlikely to be due to the level of pup exposure and display of paternal behavior, and may not be mediated by circulating corticosterone. The effects of fatherhood on various behaviors (including anxiety-like, depression-like, and social behaviors) were examined in Experiment 3. The data indicated that fatherhood increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors as well as altered aggression and social recognition memory in male prairie voles. These results warrant further investigation of a possible link between brain plasticity and behavioral changes observed due to fatherhood.
Environmental stimulation results in an increased expression of transcription factors called immediate early genes (IEGs) in specific neuronal populations. In male Japanese quail, copulation with a female increases the expression of the IEGs zenk and c-fos in the medial pre-optic nucleus (POM), a key nucleus controlling male sexual behavior. The functional significance of this increased IEG expression that follows performance of copulatory behavior is unknown. We addressed this question by repeatedly quantifying the performance of appetitive (learned social proximity response) and consummatory (actual copulation) sexual behavior in castrated, testosterone-treated males that received daily intra-cerebroventricular injection of an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide targeting c-fos or control vehicle. Daily antisense injections significantly inhibited the expression of copulatory behavior as well as the acquisition of the learned social proximity response. A strong reduction of the proximity response was still observed in antisense-treated birds that copulated with a female, ruling out the indirect effect of the absence of interactions with females on the learning process. After a 2-day interruption of behavioral testing but not of antisense injections, birds were submitted to a final copulatory test that confirmed the behavioral inhibition in antisense-injected birds. Brains were collected at 90 min after the behavioral testing for quantification of c-fos-immunoreactive cells. A significant reduction of the number of c-fos-positive cells in the POM but not in other brain regions was observed following antisense injection. Taken together, the data suggest that c-fos expression in the POM modulates copulatory behavior and sexual learning in male quail.
This study aimed to evaluate the long-term consequences of early motor training on the muscle phenotype and motor output of middle-aged C57BL/6J mice. Neonatal mice were subjected to a variety of motor training procedures, for 3 weeks during the period of acquisition of locomotion. These procedures are widely used for motor training in adults; they include enriched environment, forced treadmill, chronic centrifugation, and hindlimb suspension. At 9 months, the mice reared in the enriched environment showed a slower type of fibre in slow muscles and a faster type in fast muscles, improved performance in motor tests, and a modified gait and body posture while walking. The proportion of fibres in the postural muscles of centrifuged mice did not change, but these mice showed improved resistance to fatigue. The suspended mice showed increased persistence of immature hybrid fibres in the tibialis, with a slower shift in the load-bearing soleus, without any behavioural changes. The forced treadmill was very stressful for the mice, but had limited effects on motor output, although a slower profile was observed in the tibialis. These results support the hypothesis that motor experience during a critical period of motor development shapes muscle phenotype and motor output. The different impacts of the various training procedures suggest that motor performance in adults can be optimized by appropriate training during a defined period of motor development.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs), the most common neurodegenerative diseases in children, are characterised by storage of autofluorescent material that has a characteristic ultrastructure. We report two families with variant late infantile NCL, both originating from Pakistan. Probands from both families were homozygous for the same mutation (c.316dupC) but had variable pathology to that currently thought to be typical for CLN6 disease, late infantile variant. The observed pathology of one proband resembled condensed fingerprints, previously described in late infantile CLN7 and CLN8 diseases, and pathology from the second proband was thought to be absent even after repeated skin biopsy, but observed after review. This mutation is the most common NCL mutation in families originating from Pakistan and could be prioritised for testing. Finally, this report contains the first prenatal diagnosis for late infantile CLN6 disease, initially made on the basis of EM and now confirmed by mutation analysis.

We have previously described the development of novel sterically stabilized F3-targeted pH-sensitive liposomes, which exhibited the ability to target both cancer and endothelial cells. Herein, the therapeutic potential of those liposomes was assessed upon encapsulation of a siRNA against a well-validated molecular target, PLK1. Treatment of prostate cancer (PC3) and angiogenic endothelial (HMEC-1) cells with F3-targeted liposomes containing anti-PLK1 siRNA resulted in a significant decrease in cell viability, which was mediated by a marked PLK1 silencing, both at the mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, pre-treatment of PC3 cells with F3-targeted liposomes containing anti-PLK1 siRNA enabled a 3-fold reduction of paclitaxel IC50 and a 2.5-fold augment of the percentage of cancer cells in G2/mitosis arrest, which ultimately culminated in cell death. Overall, the F3-targeted nanocarrier containing an anti-PLK1 siRNA might constitute a valuable system for prostate cancer treatment, either applied in a single schedule or combined with conventional chemotherapy.

Pathological gambling (PG) is a disabling disorder experienced by 1-3% of adults, and empirically validated treatments are lacking. Perturbations of prefrontal-dependent cognitive functions are implicated in the pathophysiology of PG. The enzyme catechol-O-methyl-transferase (COMT) is responsible for degradation of dopamine in the cortices and thereby is known to regulate such cognitive functions and their neural substrates. The objective of this study was to determine whether tolcapone, a COMT inhibitor, improves symptoms of PG and to explore whether such effects are dependent on COMT val-158-met polymorphism status and relate to concomitant changes in fronto-parietal activation. Twenty-four individuals with PG were enrolled in an 8-week trial of oral tolcapone (100mg/day titrated to 100mg thrice/day) and 12 undertook pre- and post-treatment fMRI to examine brain activation during an executive planning task in a pre-defined fronto-parietal network. At baseline, patients with PG showed fronto-parietal under-activation versus controls during executive planning. Treatment was associated with statistically significant reductions on PG-Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (PG-YBOCS), the extent of which correlated significantly with augmentation of planning-related fronto-parietal activation. Symptom improvement was also significantly more pronounced in subjects with the val/val COMT polymorphism. Tolcapone improved PG symptoms, and the extent of symptomatic improvement was significantly related to augmentation of fronto-parietal activation (fMRI probe) and COMT status. Objective genetic and fMRI markers hold promise in the search for targeting treatment and elucidating brain mechanisms associated with optimal clinical outcomes.
Tourette syndrome (TS) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) both are neuropsychiatric disorders associated with abnormalities in dopamine neurotransmission. Aims of this study were to quantify striatal D2/3 receptor availability in TS and OCD, and to examine dopamine release and symptom severity changes in both disorders following amphetamine challenge. Changes in [(11)C]raclopride binding potential (BP(ND)) were assessed using positron emission tomography before and after administration of d-amphetamine (0.3 mg kg(-1)) in 12 TS patients without comorbid OCD, 12 OCD patients without comorbid tics, and 12 healthy controls. Main outcome measures were baseline striatal D2/3 receptor BP(ND) and change in BP(ND) following amphetamine as a measure of dopamine release. Voxel-based analysis revealed significantly decreased baseline [(11)C]raclopride BP(ND) in bilateral putamen of both patient groups vs. healthy controls, differences being more pronounced in the TS than in the OCD group. Changes in BP(ND) following amphetamine were not significantly different between groups. Following amphetamine administration, tic severity increased in the TS group, which correlated with BP(ND) changes in right ventral striatum. Symptom severity in the OCD group did not change significantly following amphetamine challenge and was not associated with changes in BP(ND). This study provides evidence for decreased striatal D2/3 receptor availability in TS and OCD, presumably reflecting higher endogenous dopamine levels in both disorders. In addition, it provides the first direct evidence that ventral striatal dopamine release is related to the pathophysiology of tics.
Side effects of antidepressants are usually underreported in clinical trials and large scale naturalistic studies are restricted to six months of use. We examined the prevalence and nature of patient-perceived side effects and their determinants during long-term antidepressant use in a naturalistic setting. Subjects, aged 19 to 67 years, in the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety were recruited from primary care and specialized mental health care covered 927 cases of single antidepressant use. In 64% of cases, on average, 2.9 side effects were reported. The number of side effects was higher when subjects had higher depression severity (OR=1.28; p=0.002), three or more psychiatric diagnoses (OR=1.97; p=0.02), higher dose (OR=1.44; p=0.006) and was lower when subjects were older (OR=0.83; p=0.02) and had longer duration of use (OR=0.94; p=0.04). Tricyclic antidepressants were associated with more side effects (OR=2.52; p=0.003) and, particularly, more anticholinergic effects, like dry mouth and constipation, as compared to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Venlafaxine showed more profuse sweating (OR=1.79; p=0.007), whereas mirtazapine showed more weight gain and less sexual dysfunction (OR=0.36; p=0.03), as compared to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Weight gain was associated with female gender (OR=1.76; p=0.004) and duration of use (OR=1.06; p=0.03). We show that antidepressant side effect, known from short-term studies, persist during long-term use and are associated with depression severity and antidepressant dose. A novel finding was that venlafaxine is associated with more profuse sweating and that weight gain appeared more specific in female users. Clinicians should be aware that, during long-term antidepressant use, side effects are common and persistent.
This study evaluated the efficacy of as-needed use of the opioid system modulator nalmefene in reducing alcohol consumption in patients with alcohol dependence. Seven hundred and eighteen patients (placebo=360; nalmefene=358),  18 years of age, with a diagnosis of alcohol dependence,  6 heavy drinking days and an average alcohol consumption  WHO medium drinking risk level in the 4 weeks preceding screening, were randomised (1:1) to 24 weeks of as-needed placebo or nalmefene 18 mg/day. The co- primary efficacy analyses showed a significantly superior effect of nalmefene compared to placebo in the change from baseline to month 6 in heavy drinking days (group difference: -1.7 days/month [95% CI -3.1; -0.4]; p=0.012) and a better but not significant effect in reducing total alcohol consumption (group difference: -5.0 g/day last month [95% CI -10.6; 0.7]; p=0.088). A subgroup analysis showed that patients who did not reduce their drinking prior to randomisation benefitted more from nalmefene. Improvements in Clinical Global Impression and reductions in liver enzymes were greater in the nalmefene group than in the placebo group. Adverse events were more common with nalmefene; the incidence of adverse events leading to dropout was similar in both groups. This study provides evidence for the efficacy of nalmefene, which constitutes a new pharmacological treatment paradigm in terms of treatment goal (reduced drinking) and dosing regimen (as-needed), in alcohol dependent patients unable to reduce alcohol consumption on their own.
Non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP) and ketamine are commonly and interchangeably used to model aspects of schizophrenia in animals. We compared here the effects of acute administration of these compounds over a range of pre-treatment times in tests of instrumental responding (VI 30s response schedule), simple reaction time (SRT) and cognitive flexibility (reversal learning and attentional set shifting digging task) in rats. At standard pre-treatment times (15-30 min), both ketamine and PCP produced overall response suppression in VI 30 and increased reaction times in SRT suggesting that any concomitant cognitive performance deficits are likely to be confounded by motor and/or motivational changes. However, the use of extended pre-treatment times produced deficits in cognitive flexibility measured up to 4h after drug administration in the absence of motor/motivational impairment. Generally, PCP increased impulsive responding in the SRT indicating a possible loss of inhibitory response control that may have contributed to deficits observed in reversal learning and attentional set-shifting. In contrast to PCP, ketamine did not have the same effect on impulsive responding, and possibly as a consequence produced more subtle cognitive deficits in attentional set-shifting. In summary, acute treatment with NMDAR antagonists can produce cognitive deficits in rodents that are relevant to schizophrenia, provided that motor and/or motivational effects are allowed to dissipate. The use of longer pre-treatment times than commonly employed might be advantageous. Also, ketamine, which is more frequently used in clinical settings, did not produce as extensive cognitive deficits as PCP.
Induction of motor disorders is considered the clinical landmark differentiating typical from atypical antipsychotics, and has been mainly correlated to dopamine D2 receptors blockade in striatum. This view is challenged by benzamides, such as amisulpride, which display low liability for motor side effects despite being D2/D3 receptors high-affinity blocking agents. These effects have been explained with the prominent presynaptic action of amisulpride or with the fast dissociation at D2 receptors, but there is scarce information on the effects of amisulpride on postsynaptic signaling. We carried out a molecular imaging study of gene expression after acute administration of haloperidol (0.8 mg/kg), amisulpride (10 or 35 mg/kg), or vehicle, focusing on postsynaptic genes that are key regulators of synaptic plasticity, such as Arc, c-fos, Zif-268, Norbin, Homer. The last one has been associated to schizophrenia both in clinical and preclinical studies, and is differentially induced by antipsychotics with different D2 receptors affinity. Topography of gene expression revealed that amisulpride, unlike haloperidol, triggers transcripts expression peak in medial striatal regions. Correlation analysis of gene expression revealed a prevalent correlated gene induction within motor corticostriatal regions by haloperidol and a more balanced gene induction within limbic and motor corticostriatal regions by amisulpride. Despite the selective dopaminergic profile of both compounds, our results demonstrated a differential modulation of postsynaptic molecules by amisulpride and haloperidol, the former impacting preferentially medial regions of striatum whereas the latter inducing strong gene expression in lateral regions. Thus, we provided a possible molecular profile of amisulpride, putatively explaining its &quot;atypical atypicality&quot;.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and has been associated with several cognitive functions that are known to change with age. In rodents and humans age-related glutamate changes have been found in several brain areas. In this cross-sectional study the presence and extent of age-associated glutamate changes in the medial frontal cortex of healthy young adults were measured. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) and brain imaging were performed at 7 T in a 2  2  2 cm(3) voxel in 33 participants between 18 and 31 years old. Glutamate concentrations and grey and white matter volume could be successfully determined at an ultra-high magnetic field strength. Glutamate concentrations were lower in older individuals (0.33 mM/year). This decline is in line with grey matter thinning in the medial frontal cortex, but could not be explained by cortical thinning alone. Therefore, the decrease in glutamate in young adulthood may be due to physiological changes rather than anatomical changes.

Clinical and preclinical investigations suggest that epidural stimulation of the motor cortex (MC) can improve stroke-induced neurological deficits. The mechanisms involved in stimulation-induced recovery are not well understood and might involve neurogenesis-related processes. Here, we addressed the question whether MC stimulation influences processes of migration and differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells in vivo. Epidural stimulation electrodes were implanted at the level of the MC in rats, and electrical current was applied for a period of 1 month. Increased cell proliferation was observed in the subventricular zone (SVZ). We also found evidences for enhanced cell migration toward the source of current, a process known as electrotaxis. Some of these cells expressed the neuronal marker, NeuN. In addition, our results indicate that MC stimulation enhances neuronal activity of the dorsal raphe nucleus, leading to an increase in the expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine in the SVZ. It is known that such an increase can promote formation of new cells in the SVZ. Our findings suggest that epidural MC stimulation influences neurogenesis-related processes in animal models.
Optimal task performance requires anticipatory planning to select the most appropriate movement strategy. There is conflicting evidence for hemispheric specialisation of motor planning, with some suggesting left hemisphere dominance, claiming that children with right hemiplegic cerebral palsy (HCP) are therefore disproportionally affected. An alternative view is that there is a positive relationship between functional ability (rather than side of lesion) and motor planning skill. We aimed to compare children with right and left HCP on motor planning ability and to explore its relationship with functional manual ability. Participants were 76 children with HCP (40 left HCP; 30 female), aged 4-15 years (Mean 9.09, SD 2.94). Motor planning was assessed using a measure of end-state comfort, which involved turning a hexagonal handle 180 without readjusting grasp. This is difficult, or in some cases impossible, to achieve unless an appropriate initial grasp is adopted. Children completed 24 turns (12 clockwise), which were video recorded for offline scoring. Functional manual ability was assessed with the ABILHAND-Kids questionnaire, completed by parents. Contrary to the existing literature, no differences were observed between right and left HCP. However, a significant interaction between direction of turn and side of hemiplegia indicated a preferential bias for turns in the medial direction, consistent with the &quot;medial over lateral advantage&quot;. There was no relationship between functional ability and motor planning. Therefore, motor planning may not be a priority for therapeutic intervention to improve functional ability in HCP.
Degus (Octodon degus) are rodents that are becoming more widely used in the neuroscience field. Degus display several more complex behaviors than rats and mice, including complicated social behaviors, vocal communications, and tool usage with superb manual dexterity. However, relatively little information is known about the anatomy of degu brains. Therefore, for these complex behaviors to be correlated with specific brain regions, a contemporary atlas of the degu brain is required. This manuscript describes the construction of a three-dimensional (3D) volume rendered model of the degu brain that combines histological and magnetic resonance images. This atlas provides several advantages, including the ability to visualize the surface of the brain from any angle. The atlas also permits virtual cutting of brain sections in any plane and provides stereotaxic coordinates for all sections, to be beneficial for both experimental surgeries and radiological studies. The reconstructed 3D atlas is freely available online at: http://brainatlas.brain.riken.jp/degu/modules/xoonips/listitem.php?index_id=24 .
Maintaining a selective attention set allows us to efficiently perform sensory tasks despite the multitude of concurrent sensory stimuli. Unpredictably occurring, rare events nonetheless capture our attention, that is, we get distracted. The present study investigated the efficiency of control over distraction as a function of preparation time available before a forthcoming distracter. A random sequence of short and long tones (100 or 200 ms with 50-50 % probability) was presented. Independently from tone duration, occasionally (13.3 % of the time), the pitch of a tone was changed. Such rare pitch variants (distracters) usually lead to delayed and less precise discrimination responses, and trigger a characteristic series of event-related potentials (ERPs) reflecting the stages of distraction-related processing: starting with negative ERPs signaling the sensory registration of the distracter; a P3a-usually interpreted as a reflection of involuntary attention change and finally the so-called reorienting negativity signaling the restoration of the task-optimal attention set. In separate conditions, 663 or 346 ms before each tone (long or short cue-tone interval), a visual cue was presented, which signaled whether the forthcoming tone was a distracter (rare pitch variant), with 80 % validity. As reflected by reduced reaction time delays and P3a amplitudes, valid cues led to the prevention of distraction, but only in the long cue-tone interval condition. The analyses of the cue-related P3b and contingent negative variation showed that participants made more effort to utilize cue information to prevent distraction in the long cue-tone than in the short cue-tone interval condition.
The cerebellum is critically involved in the adaptation mechanisms that maintain the accuracy of goal-directed acts such as saccadic eye movements. Two categories of saccades, each relying on different adaptation mechanisms, are defined: reactive (externally triggered) saccades and voluntary (internally triggered) saccades. The contribution of the medio-posterior part of the cerebellum to reactive saccades adaptation has been clearly demonstrated, but the evidence that other parts of the cerebellum are also involved is limited. Moreover, the cerebellar substrates of voluntary saccades adaptation have only been marginally investigated. Here, we addressed these two questions by investigating the adaptive capabilities of patients with cerebellar or pre-cerebellar stroke. We recruited three groups of patients presenting focal lesions located, respectively, in the supero-anterior cerebellum, the infero-posterior cerebellum and the lateral medulla (leading to a Wallenberg syndrome including motor dysfunctions similar to those resulting from lesion of the medio-posterior cerebellum). Adaptations of reactive saccades and of voluntary saccades were tested during separate sessions in all patients and in a group of healthy participants. The functional lesion of the medio-posterior cerebellum in Wallenberg syndrome strongly impaired the adaptation of both reactive and voluntary saccades. In contrast, patients with lesion in the supero-anterior part of the cerebellum presented a specific adaptation deficit of voluntary saccades. Finally, patients with an infero-posterior cerebellar lesion showed mild adaptation deficits. We conclude that the medio-posterior cerebellum is critical for the adaptation of both saccade categories, whereas the supero-anterior cerebellum is specifically involved in the adaptation of voluntary saccades.
Studies of humans, monkeys and rodents have implicated combined gray and white matter damage as important for development of chronic pain following spinal cord injury (SCI). Below-level chronic pain and hyperalgesia following injury to the spinal white matter, including the spinothalamic tract (STT), can be enhanced by excitotoxic influences within the gray matter at the site of SCI. Also, excitotoxic injury of thoracic gray matter without interruption of the STT results in below-level heat hyperalgesia. The present study evaluates the possibility that thoracolumbar gray matter injury increases sensitivity to nociceptive heat stimulation by altering spinal sympathetic outflow. Thermal preferences of rats for heat (45 C) versus cold (15 C) were evaluated before and after thoracolumbar injections of quisqualic acid (QUIS). A pre-injury preference for heat changed to a post-injury preference for cold. Systemic activation of the sympathetic nervous system by restraint stress decreased the heat preference pre-injury and increased the cold preference post-injury. The heat aversive effect of stress was magnified and prolonged post-injury, compared to pre-injury. Also, peripheral sympathetic activation by nociceptive stimulation was evaluated pre- and post-injury by measuring thermal transfer through a hindpaw during stimulation with 44.5 C. Skin temperature recordings revealed enhanced sympathetic activation by nociceptive heat stimulation following spinal QUIS injury. However, increased sympathetic activation with peripheral vasoconstriction should enhance cold aversion, in contrast to the observed increase in heat aversion. Thus, peripheral sympathetic vasoconstriction can be ruled out as a mechanism for heat hyperalgesia following excitotoxic gray matter injury.
The ciliary marginal zone (CMZ) is a circumferential ring of cells found at the extreme periphery of the maturing and mature neural retina that consists of retinal stem and progenitor cells. It functions to add retinal neurons to the periphery of the neural retina in larval and adult fish, larval frogs, and birds. Additionally, the CMZ may contribute to regeneration of the damaged retina in frogs and fish. In mammals, cells from the ciliary epithelium can be induced to express retinal stem cell-like characteristics in culture but may not comprise a classically defined CMZ.
Dysbindin, the product of the DTNBP1 gene, was identified by yeast two hybrid assay as a binding partner of dystrobrevin, a cytosolic component of the dystrophin protein complex. Although its functional role has not yet been completely elucidated, the finding that dysbindin assembles into the biogenesis of lysosome related organelles complex 1 (BLOC-1) suggests that it participates in intracellular trafficking and biogenesis of organelles and vesicles. Dysbindin is ubiquitous and in brain is expressed primarily in neurons. Variations at the dysbindin gene have been associated with increased risk for schizophrenia. As anomalies in retinal function have been reported in patients suffering from neuropsychiatric disorders, we investigated the expression of dysbindin in the retina. Our results show that differentially regulated dysbindin isoforms are expressed in rat retina during postnatal maturation. Interestingly, we found that dysbindin is mainly localized in Mller cells. The identification of dysbindin in glial cells may open new perspectives for a better understanding of the functional involvement of this protein in visual alterations associated to neuropsychiatric disorders.
We report here beneficial effects of life-long dietary restriction on the progression of age-associated cochlear degeneration in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Thirty-month old rats on a 70% dietary restriction were compared to ad libitum fed age-matched rats, and three-month old adult rats. As expected, aged dietary restricted rats displayed about 20% higher survival rate than age-matched rats fed ad libitum. This difference was reflected also in the auditory system. In the dietary restricted group, 73% of the subjects had preserved auditory reflexes (Preyer), and only modest degeneration of the stria vascularis of the inner ear was observed. In contrast, aged ad libitum fed animals, of which only 15% had detectable Preyer reflexes, showed a marked thinning, cellular degeneration and loss of cell processes in the stria vascularis. The extent of loss of sensory hair cells (~24%) was similar in both the aged groups, and neither group showed a significant reduction in the number of spiral ganglion neurons across adult life-span. The observations thus demonstrate that dietary restriction delays age-related degradation of the auditory system. The results provide further insights into the mechanisms of strial presbycusis.
This study investigated whether animals sustaining experimental damage to the basal forebrain cholinergic system would benefit from treatment with exogenous neurotrophic factors. Specifically, we set out to determine whether neurotrophic factors would rescue damaged cholinergic neurons and improve behavioral performance on a spatial learning and memory task. Adult rats received bilateral injections of either saline (controls) or 192 IgG-saporin to damage basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs). Two weeks later, animals received implants of an Alzet mini-pump connected to cannulae implanted bilaterally in the lateral ventricles. Animals received infusions of nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin 3 (NT3), a combination of NGF and NT3, or a saline control over a 4-week period. Compared to saline-treated controls, animals sustaining saporin-induced damage to BFCNs took significantly more trials to learn a delayed match to position task and also performed more poorly on subsequent tests, with increasing delays between test runs. In contrast, animals infused with neurotrophins after saporin treatment performed significantly better than animals receiving saline infusions; no differences were detected for performance scores among animals infused with NGF, NT3, or a combination of NGF and NT3. Studies of ChAT immunnocytochemical labeling of BFCNs revealed a reduction in the numbers of ChAT-positive neurons in septum, nucleus of diagonal band, and nucleus basalis in animals treated with saporin followed by saline infusions, whereas animals treated with infusions of NGF, NT3 or a combination of NGF and NT3 showed only modest reductions in ChAT-positive neurons. Together, these data support the notion that administration of neurotrophic factors can rescue basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and improve learning and memory performance in rats.
Aging and biological sex are critical determinants of stroke outcome. Post-ischemic inflammatory response strongly contributes to the extent of ischemic brain injury, but how this response changes with age and sex is unknown. We subjected young (5-6 months), middle aged (14-15 months) and aged (20-22 months), C57BL/6 male and female mice to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and found that a significant age by sex interaction influenced histological stroke outcomes. Acute functional outcomes were worse with aging. Neutrophils, inflammatory macrophages, macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs) and microglia significantly increased in the brain post MCAO. Cycling females had higher Gr1(-) non-inflammatory macrophages and lower T cells in the brain after stroke and these correlated with serum estradiol levels. Estrogen loss in acyclic aged female mice exacerbated stroke induced splenic contraction. Advanced age increased T cells, DCs and microglia at the site of injury, which may be responsible for the exacerbated behavioral deficits in the aged. We conclude that aging and sex have differential effects on the post stroke inflammatory milieu. Putative immunomodulatory therapies need to account for this heterogeneity.
The association of vitamin D deficiency with higher prevalence, relapse rate and progression of multiple sclerosis (MS) has stimulated great interest in using vitamin D supplementation as a preventative measure and even a therapy for established MS. However, there is a considerable lack of evidence when it comes to an age/developmental stage-dependent efficacy of vitamin D action and a time-window for the most effective prophylactic treatment remains unclear. We studied the effect of vitamin D supplementation in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, at three different developmental stages in rats. Supplementation treatment was initiated: i) prior to gestation and maintained throughout pre- and early postnatal development (gestation and lactation); ii) after weaning, throughout juvenile/adolescence period and iii) in adult age. We observed a marked attenuation of EAE in juvenile/adolescent rats reflected in a less severe CNS inflammation and demyelination, accompanied by a lower amount of IFN- producing MOG-specific T cells. Moreover, the cytokine expression pattern in these rats reflected a more anti-inflammatory phenotype of their peripheral immune response. However, the same supplementation regimen failed to improve the disease outcome both in adult rats and in rats treated during pre- and early post-natal development. Our data demonstrate a developmental stage-dependent efficiency of vitamin D to ameliorate neuroinflammation, suggesting that childhood and adolescence should be the target for the most effective preventive treatment.
The hypothalamus regulates the key hormonal signalling events essential for reproduction and fertility in mammals. The gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons are the principal neurons of the complex neuronal network that co-ordinates multiple internal homeostatic and external factors necessary for fertility. Kisspeptin neurons are one of the major regulators of GnRH neuronal activity, but the ways in which kisspeptin neurons, located in the arcuate nucleus (ARN) and rostral periventricular area of the third ventricle (RP3V), control GnRH neurons are poorly understood. This study focused on the use of anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques to establish the neuronal projection patterns of kisspeptin cells in the female mouse brain. Both anterograde and retrograde tracing studies highlight the complexity of the kisspeptin neuronal system and indicate that both ARN and RP3V kisspeptin neurons may participate in a variety of limbic functions. In relationship to the GnRH neuronal network, these investigations demonstrate that rostral ARN kisspeptin neurons may also project to GnRH neuronal cell bodies. However, we found no anatomical evidence to suggest that kisspeptin neurons innervate GnRH nerve terminals in the external layer of the median eminence. These studies provide a neuroanatomical framework for the further elucidation of the functions of the ARN and RP3V kisspeptin neuron populations.


Despite recent scientific advances in the understanding of the biology of malignant gliomas, there has been little change in the overall survival for this devastating disease. New and innovative treatments are under constant investigation. Starting in the 1990s, there was an interest in using viral therapeutics for the treatment of malignant gliomas. Multiple strategies were pursued, including oncolytic viral therapy, enzyme/pro-drug combinations and gene transfer with viral vectors. Multiple Phase I and II trials demonstrated the safety of these techniques, but clinically showed limited efficacy. However, this led to a better understanding of the pitfalls of viral therapy and encouraged the development of new approaches and improved delivery methods. Here we review the prior and ongoing clinical trials of viral therapy for gliomas, and discuss how novel strategies are currently being utilized in clinical trials.
Hypertension treatment and control efforts represent a major component of primary care with dedicated clinical guidelines and recommendations. However, high blood pressure (BP) control rates are complicated with the difficult to treat and resistant hypertensive patients. This category of patient, therefore, affects the development and implementation of the clinical guidelines. The recommendations of specific algorithms for resistant hypertension and difficult-to-treat patients with elevated BPs have been developed in consideration of new therapies and combination drug treatment. Hypertension treatment guidelines include and will continue to grade evidence from randomized clinical trials with detailed strategies on the management of these high-risk patients. Although resistant hypertension affects high BP control rates, the inclusion of refined pharmaceutical and device treatment strategies in evidence-based guidelines will be expected to have a significant impact on the clinical management of this high-risk patient population.
As in many fields of neuroscience, alterations in brain morphology, and specifically gray matter volume and cortical thickness, have been repeatedly linked to chronic pain disorders. Numerous studies have shown changes in cortical and subcortical brain regions suggesting a dynamic process that may be a result of chronic pain or contributing to a more generalized phenomenon in chronic pain including comorbid anxiety and depression. In this review, we provide a perspective of pain as an innate state of pain based on alterations in structure and by inference, brain function. A better neurobiological understanding of gray matter changes will contribute to our understanding of how structural changes contribute to chronic pain (disease driver) and how these changes may be reversed (disease modification or treatment).

Social animals establish flexible behaviors and integrated decision-making processes to adapt to social environments. Such behaviors are impaired in all major neuropsychiatric disorders and depend on the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We previously showed that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and norepinephrine (NE) in the PFC are necessary for mice to show adapted social cognition. Here, we investigated how the cholinergic and NE systems converge within the PFC to modulate social behavior. We used a social interaction task (SIT) in C57BL/6 mice and mice lacking 2*nAChRs (2(-/-) mice), making use of dedicated software to analyze &gt;20 social sequences and pinpoint social decisions. We performed specific PFC NE depletions before SIT and measured monoamines and acetylcholine (ACh) levels in limbic corticostriatal circuitry. After PFC-NE depletion, C57BL/6 mice exhibited impoverished and more rigid social behavior and were 6-fold more aggressive than sham-lesioned animals, whereas 2(-/-) mice showed unimpaired social behavior. Our biochemical measures suggest a critical involvement of DA in SIT. In addition, we show that the balance between basal levels of monoamines and of ACh modulates aggressiveness and this modulation requires functional 2*nAChRs. These findings demonstrate the critical interplay between prefrontal NE and nAChRs for the development of adapted and nonaggressive social cognition.
Chronic pain represents a significant public health concern and current therapies do not adequately meet patient needs. With the advent of genomic technologies, pain researchers have begun to identify key loci associating with human pain diseases, and these data are instructing the development of next generation analgesics. Although human genetics efforts have been effective, complementary approaches, including functional genomics, may provide additional insight into pain genetics and help identify additional new drug targets. In the present review, we discuss the use of fruit fly systems biology combined with mammalian genetics to accelerate the discovery of novel pain genes and candidate drug targets.
Transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels are emerging as a new set of membrane proteins involved in a vast array of cellular processes and regulated by a large number of physical and chemical stimuli, which involves them with sensory cell physiology. The vanilloid TRP subfamily (TRPV) named after the vanilloid receptor 1 (TRPV1) consists of six members, and at least four of them (TRPV1-TRPV4) have been related to thermal sensation. One of the least characterized members of the TRP subfamily is TRPV2. Although initially characterized as a noxious heat sensor, TRPV2 now seems to have little to do with temperature sensing but a much more complex physiological profile. Here we review the available information and research progress on the structure, physiology and pharmacology of TRPV2 in an attempt to shed some light on the physiological and pharmacological deorphanization of TRPV2.
For many years aging research was confined to statistics, psychology, and socioeconomic aspects of old age. However, today the study of aging is one of the most attractive and prosperous fields in biology. This change followed on from observations that single gene mutations can modulate the aging process, demonstrating the dynamic and plastic nature of the pathways involved. The field of aging is continually being fuelled by the discovery of new genes and pathways that extend lifespan when manipulated in organisms ranging from unicellular yeast to the more complex round worm C. elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. Such interventions have also been successful in mammals, proving the principle that discoveries in invertebrates can be evolutionarily relevant to humans. The most successful and evolutionary conserved interventions are those related to nutrient sensing pathways, the effector pathways upon which dietary restriction operates to promote health and longevity. To validate the existence of genes that modify the aging process in humans, biogerontologists have opted for a genome-wide approach to studying centenarians, those fortunate to live beyond 100 years of age. By studying these individuals, they hope to unravel the genetic signatures that promote healthy ageing and long life.
Green anoles are seasonally breeding lizards, with an annual rise in testosterone (T) being the primary activator of male sexual behaviors. Responsiveness to T is decreased in the non-breeding season (NBS) compared to breeding season (BS) on a variety of levels, including displays of reproductive behavior and the morphology and biochemistry of associated tissues. To evaluate the possibility that seasonal changes in responsiveness to T are regulated by androgen receptors (AR) and/or two of its coactivators, CREB binding protein (CBP) and steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1), we tested whether they differ in expression across season in brains of both sexes and in peripheral copulatory tissues of males (hemipenis and retractor penis magnus muscle). AR mRNA was increased in the brains of males compared to females and in copulatory muscle in the BS compared to NBS. In the hemipenis, transcriptional activity appeared generally diminished in the NBS. T-treatment increased AR mRNA in the copulatory muscle and AR protein in the hemipenis, the latter to a greater extent in the BS than the NBS. T also decreased SRC-1 protein in hemipenis. Interpretations are complicated, in part because levels of mRNA and protein expression were not correlated and multiple sizes of the AR and CBP proteins were detected, with some tissue specificity. However, the results are consistent with the idea that differences in receptor and coactivator expression at central and peripheral levels may play roles in regulating sex and seasonal differences in the motivation or physical ability to engage in sexual behavior.



Although evolutionary changes must take place in neural connectivity and synaptic architecture as nervous systems become more complex, we lack understanding of the general principles and specific mechanisms by which these changes occur. Previously, we found that morphology of the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) varies extensively among different species of Drosophila but is relatively conserved within a species. To identify specific genes as candidates that might underlie phenotypic differences in NMJ morphology among Drosophila species, we performed a genetic analysis on one of two phenotypic variants we found among 20 natural isolates of Drosophila melanogaster. We discovered genetic polymorphisms for both positive and negative regulators of NMJ growth segregating within the variant line. Focusing on one subline, that displayed NMJ overgrowth, we mapped the phenotype to Mob2 [Monopolar spindle (Mps) one binding protein 2)], a gene encoding a Nuclear Dbf2 (Dumbbell formation 2)-Related (NDR) kinase activator. We confirmed this identification by transformation rescue experiments and showed that presynaptic expression of Mob2 is necessary and sufficient to regulate NMJ growth. Mob2 interacts in a dominant, dose-dependent manner with tricornered but not with warts, to cause NMJ overgrowth, suggesting that Mob2 specifically functions in combination with the former NDR kinase to regulate NMJ development. These results demonstrate the feasibility and utility of identifying genetic variants affecting NMJ morphology in natural populations of Drosophila. These variants can lead to discovery of new genes and molecular mechanisms that regulate NMJ development while also providing new information that can advance our understanding of mechanisms that underlie nervous system evolution.
Early events in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesion formation are loss of blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, immune cell trafficking into the central nervous system, and demyelination. To date, the molecular mechanisms underlying these pathogenic events are poorly understood. Heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (HB-EGF) is a trophic factor that is induced by inflammatory stimuli and has previously been shown to interact with tetraspanins (TSPs), a family of transmembrane proteins that are involved in cellular migration and adhesion. Given the known roles of TSPs and HB-EGF, we hypothesized that HB-EGF and TSPs may play a role in the processes that underlie MS lesion formation. We examined the expression of HB-EGF and the TSPs CD9 and CD81 in MS brain and found that HB-EGF was highly induced in reactive astrocytes in active lesions. TSPs were constitutively expressed throughout normal appearing white matter and control white matter. In contrast, CD9 was reduced in demyelinated lesions and increased on blood vessels in lesion areas. In vitro studies revealed that expression of HB-EGF and TSPs is regulated during inflammation. Importantly, blocking either HB-EGF or CD9 significantly reduced the migration of monocytes across brain endothelial cell monolayers. Moreover, blocking CD9 strongly enhanced the barrier function of the BBB in vitro. Together, we demonstrate that these molecules are likely implicated in processes that are highly relevant for MS lesion formation, and therefore, HB-EGF and TSPs are promising therapeutic targets.
Searching for chemical agents and molecular targets protecting against secondary neuronal damage reflects one major issue in neuroscience. Cannabinoids limit neurodegeneration by activation of neuronal G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1 ) and microglial G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB2 ). However, pharmacological experiments with CB1 /CB2 -deficient mice unraveled the existence of further, so-called non-CB1 /non-CB2 G protein-coupled receptor (GPR) subtypes. GPR55, whose function in the brain is still poorly understood, represents a novel target for various cannabinoids. Here, we investigated whether GPR55 reflects a potential beneficial target in neurodegeneration by using the excitotoxicity in vitro model of rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSC). l--Lysophosphatidylinositol (LPI), so far representing the most selective agonist for GPR55, protected dentate gyrus granule cells and reduced the number of activated microglia after NMDA (50 M) induced lesions. The relevance of GPR55 activation for LPI-mediated neuroprotection was determined by using Gpr55 siRNA. Microglia seems to mediate the observed neuroprotection since their depletion in OHSC attenuated the beneficial effects of LPI. Moreover, LPI alone induced microglia chemotaxis but conversely significantly attenuated ATP triggered microglia migration. These effects seemed to be independent from intracellular Ca(2+) and p38 or p44/p42 MAPK phosphorylation. In conclusion, this study unmasked a yet unknown role for GPR55 in neuroprotection driven by LPI-mediated modulation of microglia function.
Little is known about the functional phenotype of microglia in normal appearing white matter (NAWM) of multiple sclerosis (MS), although it may hold valuable clues about mechanisms for lesion development. Therefore, we studied microglia from NAWM obtained post-mortem from controls (n=25) and MS patients (n=21) for their phenotype ex vivo and their immune responsiveness in vitro, using a microglia isolation method that omits culture and adherence. By flow cytometry, microglia in MS NAWM displayed elevated CD45 levels and increased size and granularity but were distinct from autologous choroid plexus macrophages by absent or low expression of additional markers, in particular CD206. Flow cytometric analysis of microglia from NAWM of three controls and four MS patients showed alterations in levels of Fc-gamma receptors in MS. In primary microglia from a bigger sample of subjects, analysis of Fc-gamma receptors by quantitative PCR indicated a significant increase in mRNA levels of the inhibitory CD32b isoform in MS NAWM. Despite their changed activation status, microglia from MS NAWM were unresponsive to lipopolysaccharide in vitro. Notably, culture with dexamethasone led to an impaired induction of the inflammation-limiting cytokine CCL18 in microglia from MS NAWM compared with those from control NAWM. Together, these data demonstrate that microglia in MS NAWM are in an alerted state, but display features of immunosuppression. Thus, the activation status of microglia in NAWM of MS patients likely reflects a response to ongoing neuroinflammation, which coincides with upregulation of immunoregulatory molecules to prevent full activation and damage to the vulnerable milieu.
New approaches are needed to examine the diverse symptoms and comorbidities of the growing family of neurodevelopmental disorders known as autism spectrum disorder (ASD). ASD originally was thought to be a static, inheritable neurodevelopmental disorder, and our understanding of it is undergoing a major shift. It is emerging as a dynamic system of metabolic and immune anomalies involving many organ systems, including the brain, and environmental exposure. The initial detailed observation and inquiry of patients with ASD and related conditions and the histories of their caregivers and families have been invaluable. How gastrointestinal (GI) factors are related to ASD is not yet clear. Nevertheless, many patients with ASD have a history of previous antibiotic exposure or hospitalization, GI symptoms, abnormal food cravings, and unique intestinal bacterial populations, which have been proposed to relate to variable symptom severity. In addition to traditional scientific inquiry, detailed clinical observation and recording of exacerbations, remissions, and comorbidities are needed. This article reviews the role that enteric short-chain fatty acids, particularly propionic (also called propanoic) acid, produced from ASD-associated GI bacteria, may play in the etiology of some forms of ASD. Human populations that are partial metabolizers of propionic acid are more common than previously thought. The results from pre-clinical laboratory studies show that propionic acid-treated rats display ASD-like repetitive, perseverative, and antisocial behaviors and seizure. Neurochemical changes, consistent and predictive with findings in ASD patients, including neuroinflammation, increased oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, glutathione depletion, and altered phospholipid/acylcarnitine profiles, have been observed. Propionic acid has bioactive effects on (1) neurotransmitter systems, (2) intracellular acidification and calcium release, (3) fatty acid metabolism, (4) gap junction gating, (5) immune function, and (6) alteration of gene expression that warrant further exploration. Traditional scientific experimentation is needed to verify the hypothesis that enteric short-chain fatty acids may be a potential environmental trigger in some forms of ASD. Novel collaborative developments in systems biology, particularly examining the role of the microbiome and its effects on host metabolism, immune and mitochondrial function, and gene expression, hold great promise in ASD.
Photophobia refers to a sensory disturbance provoked by light. However, because it arises distinctly in a broad range of clinical conditions, its definition remains elusive. Many underscore the painful sensory aspects of photophobia, while others emphasize its unpleasant, affective qualities. To add further complexity, recent discoveries in photophobia research have raised disparate and potentially conflicting results. In this installment of an occasional series, we asked clinicians and scientists to give their interpretation of what these discoveries tell us about photophobia in the clinic, and vice versa.
Synovial cysts of the temporomandibular joint are rare, and to our knowledge, only 14 cases have been reported. The most common presentation is local pain and swelling. We present a case of a synovial cyst presenting with neuralgia in the distribution of the auriculotemporal nerve, initially misdiagnosed as trigeminal neuralgia.
The purpose of this article is to identify the implications of commonly held ideologies within theories of child development. Despite critiques to doing so, developmental theory assumes that children's bodies are unitary, natural and material. The recent explosion of neuroscience illustrates the significance of historical, social and cultural contexts to portrayals of brain development, offering the opportunity for a critical departure in thinking. Instead, this neuroscience research has been taken up in ways that align with biomedical traditions and neoliberal values. This article uses a critical discursive approach, supported by Haraway's ideas of technoscience, to analyse a population-based early child development research initiative. This initiative organises a large-scale surveillance of children's development, operating from the premise that risks to development are best captured early to optimise children's potential. The analysis in this article shows an intermingling of health and economic discourses and clarifies how the child is a figure of significant contemporary social and political interests. In a poignant example of technobiopolitics, the collusion between health research, technologies and the state enrols health professionals to participate in the production of children as subjects of social value, figured as human capital, investments in the future, or alternatively, as waste. The analysis shows how practices that participate in what has become a developmental enterprise also participate in the marginalisation of the very children they intend to serve. Hence, there is the need to rethink practices critically and move towards innovative conceptualisations of child development that hold possibilities to resist these figurations.
Drugs prescription in children correlates with a high risk of developing unknown or rare adverse drug reactions (ADRs). In the absence of appropriate clinical trials in the paediatric population, the spontaneous reporting of suspected ADRs is an important means to promote reasonable warning signals. In this context, family paediatricians (FPs) play a crucial role although a general poor compliance in their ability of reporting of ADR is widely described. To understand the reasons beyond this situation we performed a survey, the first of its kind in Italy, to evaluate FPs knowledge, feeling and compliance in ADR reporting. A total of 552 FPs evenly distributed throughout the Italian territory provided a feedback to the survey. Knowledge of pharmacovigilance (PV) resulted to be poor, mainly due to the absence of adequate training in academy; despite this, the majority of FPs declared to be interested to PV and aware of its positive impact on their clinical practice. Yet, FPs reported a poor compliance to the reporting of ADRs. A very high variability in ADRs reporting however, was observed among the regions, possibly because of variability of regional educational programmes dedicated to PV.

The challenge of understanding how the brain processes natural signals is compounded by the fact that such signals are often tied closely to specific natural behaviors and natural environments. This added complexity is especially true for auditory communication signals that can carry information at multiple hierarchical levels, and often occur in the context of other competing communication signals. Selective attention provides a mechanism to focus processing resources on specific components of auditory signals, and simultaneously suppress responses to unwanted signals or noise. Although selective auditory attention has been well-studied behaviorally, very little is known about how selective auditory attention shapes the processing on natural auditory signals, and how the mechanisms of auditory attention are implemented in single neurons or neural circuits. Here we review the role of selective attention in modulating auditory responses to complex natural stimuli in humans. We then suggest how the current understanding can be applied to the study of selective auditory attention in the context natural signal processing at the level of single neurons and populations in animal models amenable to invasive neuroscience techniques. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Communication Sounds and the Brain: New Directions and Perspectives&quot;.
Learning and maintaining the sounds we use in vocal communication require accurate perception of the sounds we hear performed by others and feedback-dependent imitation of those sounds to produce our own vocalizations. Understanding how the central nervous system integrates auditory and vocal-motor information to enable communication is a fundamental goal of systems neuroscience, and insights into the mechanisms of those processes will profoundly enhance clinical therapies for communication disorders. Gaining the high-resolution insight necessary to define the circuits and cellular mechanisms underlying human vocal communication is presently impractical. Songbirds are the best animal model of human speech, and this review highlights recent insights into the neural basis of auditory perception and feedback-dependent imitation in those animals. Neural correlates of song perception are present in auditory areas, and those correlates are preserved in the auditory responses of downstream neurons that are also active when the bird sings. Initial tests indicate that singing-related activity in those downstream neurons is associated with vocal-motor performance as opposed to the bird simply hearing itself sing. Therefore, action potentials related to auditory perception and action potentials related to vocal performance are co-localized in individual neurons. Conceptual models of song learning involve comparison of vocal commands and the associated auditory feedback to compute an error signal that is used to guide refinement of subsequent song performances, yet the sites of that comparison remain unknown. Convergence of sensory and motor activity onto individual neurons points to a possible mechanism through which auditory and vocal-motor signals may be linked to enable learning and maintenance of the sounds used in vocal communication. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Communication Sounds and the Brain: New Directions and Perspectives&quot;.
Abundant evidence from both field and lab studies has established that conspecific vocalizations (CVs) are of critical ecological significance for a wide variety of species, including humans, non-human primates, rodents, and other mammals and birds. Correspondingly, a number of experiments have demonstrated behavioral processing advantages for CVs, such as in discrimination and memory tasks. Further, a wide range of experiments have described brain regions in many species that appear to be specialized for processing CVs. For example, several neural regions have been described in both mammals and birds wherein greater neural responses are elicited by CVs than by comparison stimuli such as heterospecific vocalizations, nonvocal complex sounds, and artificial stimuli. These observations raise the question of whether these regions reflect domain-specific neural mechanisms dedicated to processing CVs, or alternatively, if these regions reflect domain-general neural mechanisms for representing complex sounds of learned significance. Inasmuch as CVs can be viewed as complex combinations of basic spectrotemporal features, the plausibility of the latter position is supported by a large body of literature describing modulated cortical and subcortical representation of a variety of acoustic features that have been experimentally associated with stimuli of natural behavioral significance (such as food rewards). Herein, we review a relatively small body of existing literature describing the roles of experience, learning, and memory in the emergence of species-typical neural representations of CVs and auditory system plasticity. In both songbirds and mammals, manipulations of auditory experience as well as specific learning paradigms are shown to modulate neural responses evoked by CVs, either in terms of overall firing rate or temporal firing patterns. In some cases, CV-sensitive neural regions gradually acquire representation of non-CV stimuli with which subjects have training and experience. These results parallel literature in humans describing modulation of responses in face-sensitive neural regions through learning and experience. Thus, although many questions remain, the available evidence is consistent with the notion that CVs may acquire distinct neural representation through domain-general mechanisms for representing complex auditory objects that are of learned importance to the animal. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Communication Sounds and the Brain: New Directions and Perspectives&quot;.
Successful categorization of phonemes in speech requires that the brain analyze the acoustic signal along both spectral and temporal dimensions. Neural encoding of the stimulus amplitude envelope is critical for parsing the speech stream into syllabic units. Encoding of voice onset time (VOT) and place of articulation (POA), cues necessary for determining phonemic identity, occurs within shorter time frames. An unresolved question is whether the neural representation of speech is based on processing mechanisms that are unique to humans and shaped by learning and experience, or is based on rules governing general auditory processing that are also present in non-human animals. This question was examined by comparing the neural activity elicited by speech and other complex vocalizations in primary auditory cortex of macaques, who are limited vocal learners, with that in Heschl's gyrus, the putative location of primary auditory cortex in humans. Entrainment to the amplitude envelope is neither specific to humans nor to human speech. VOT is represented by responses time-locked to consonant release and voicing onset in both humans and monkeys. Temporal representation of VOT is observed both for isolated syllables and for syllables embedded in the more naturalistic context of running speech. The fundamental frequency of male speakers is represented by more rapid neural activity phase-locked to the glottal pulsation rate in both humans and monkeys. In both species, the differential representation of stop consonants varying in their POA can be predicted by the relationship between the frequency selectivity of neurons and the onset spectra of the speech sounds. These findings indicate that the neurophysiology of primary auditory cortex is similar in monkeys and humans despite their vastly different experience with human speech, and that Heschl's gyrus is engaged in general auditory, and not language-specific, processing. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Communication Sounds and the Brain: New Directions and Perspectives&quot;.
A major goal in auditory neuroscience is to characterize how communication sounds are represented at the cortical level. The present review aims at investigating the role of auditory cortex in the processing of speech, bird songs and other vocalizations, which all are spectrally and temporally highly structured sounds. Whereas earlier studies have simply looked for neurons exhibiting higher firing rates to particular conspecific vocalizations over their modified, artificially synthesized versions, more recent studies determined the coding capacity of temporal spike patterns, which are prominent in primary and non-primary areas (and also in non-auditory cortical areas). In several cases, this information seems to be correlated with the behavioral performance of human or animal subjects, suggesting thatspike-timing based coding strategies might set the foundations of our perceptive abilities. Also, it is now clear that the responses of auditory cortex neurons are highly nonlinear and that their responses to natural stimuli cannot be predicted from their responses to artificial stimuli such as moving ripples and broadband noises. Since auditory cortex neurons cannot follow rapid fluctuations of the vocalizations envelope, they only respond at specific time points during communication sounds, which can serve as temporal markers for integrating the temporal and spectral processing taking place at subcortical relays. Thus, the temporal sparse code of auditory cortex neurons can be considered as a first step for generating high level representations of communication sounds independent of the acoustic characteristic of these sounds. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Communication Sounds and the Brain: New Directions and Perspectives&quot;.
One of the now classic tenets of neuroscience is that the brain retains a substantial amount of structural and functional plasticity throughout adulthood and old age. Enriching experiences that stimulate physical and mental activity produce robust changes in subsequent behaviors, including learning and memory, that tap a wide range of neural systems. In this article, we review evidence for cognitive priming with physical and mental exercise through a memory systems lens and present brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling as one candidate neural mechanism for experience-dependent modulation of learning and memory. We highlight our recent findings showing that priming with voluntary exercise or with spontaneous alternation, a working memory task, enhances new learning of hippocampus-sensitive place, or striatum-sensitive response tasks. Blocking BDNF signaling with infusions of a BDNF receptor inhibitor into hippocampus or striatum just before training on place or response tasks, respectively, abrogated the benefits of priming regardless of the type of priming experience. These results suggest that enhanced BDNF signaling during learning may itself produce the cognitive benefits afforded by prior physical or mental activity.
This review addresses a fundamental, yet poorly understood set of issues in systems neuroscience. The issues revolve around conceptualizations of the organization of learning and memory in the mammalian brain. One intriguing, and somewhat popular, conceptualization is the idea that there are multiple learning and memory systems in the mammalian brain and they interact in different ways to influence and/or control behavior. This approach has generated interesting empirical and theoretical work supporting this view. One issue that needs to be addressed is how these systems influence or gain control of voluntary behavior. To address this issue, we clearly specify what we mean by a learning and memory system. We then review two types of processes that might influence which memory system gains control of behavior. One set of processes are external factors that can affect which system controls behavior in a given situation including task parameters like the kind of information available to the subject, types of training experience, and amount of training. The second set of processes are brain mechanisms that might influence what memory system controls behavior in a given situation including executive functions mediated by the prefrontal cortex; switching mechanisms mediated by ascending neurotransmitter systems, the unique role of the hippocampus during learning. The issue of trait differences in control of different learning and memory systems will also be considered in which trait differences in learning and memory function are thought to potentially emerge from differences in level of prefrontal influence, differences in plasticity processes, differences in ascending neurotransmitter control, differential access to effector systems like motivational and motor systems. Finally, we present scenarios in which different mechanisms might interact. This review was conceived to become a jumping off point for new work directed at understanding these issues. The outcome of this work, in combination with other approaches, might improve understanding of the mechanisms of volition in human and non-human animals.
Learning and memory can be controlled by distinct memory systems. How these systems are coordinated to optimize learning and behavior has long been unclear. Accumulating evidence indicates that stress may modulate the engagement of multiple memory systems. In particular, rodent and human studies demonstrate that stress facilitates dorsal striatum-dependent &quot;habit&quot; memory, at the expense of hippocampus-dependent &quot;cognitive&quot; memory. Based on these data, a model is proposed which states that the impact of stress on the relative use of multiple memory systems is due to (i) differential effects of hormones and neurotransmitters that are released during stressful events on hippocampal and dorsal striatal memory systems, thus changing the relative strength of and the interactions between these systems, and (ii) a modulatory influence of the amygdala which biases learning toward dorsal striatum-based memory after stress. This shift to habit memory after stress can be adaptive with respect to current performance but might contribute to psychopathology in vulnerable individuals.
In the U.S. and worldwide anabolic/androgenic steroid use remains high in the adolescent population. This is concerning given that anabolic/androgenic steroid use is associated with a higher incidence of aggressive behavior during exposure and anxiety during withdrawal. This study uses pubertal Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) to investigate the hypothesis that an inverse behavioral relationship exists between anabolic/androgenic steroid-induced aggression and anxiety across adolescent exposure and withdrawal. In the first experiment, we examined aggression and anxiety during adolescent anabolic/androgenic steroid exposure and withdrawal. Adolescent anabolic/androgenic steroid administration produced significant increases in aggression and decreases in anxiety during the exposure period followed by significant decreases in aggression and increases in anxiety during anabolic/androgenic steroid withdrawal. In a second experiment, anabolic/androgenic steroid exposed animals were separated into groups based on their aggressive response during the exposure period and then tested for anxiety during exposure and then for both aggression and anxiety during withdrawal. Data were analyzed using a within-subjects repeated measures predictive analysis. Linear regression analysis revealed that the difference in aggressive responding between the anabolic/androgenic steroid exposure and withdrawal periods was a significant predictor of differences in anxiety for both days of testing. Moreover, the combined data suggest that the decrease in aggressive behavior from exposure to withdrawal predicts an increase in anxiety-like responding within these same animals during this time span. Together these findings indicate that early anabolic/androgenic steroid exposure has potent aggression- and anxiety-eliciting effects and that these behavioral changes occur alongside a predictive relationship that exists between these two behaviors over time.

This study investigated gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) damage in 89 patients at different clinical stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) (17 early, 46 mild, 14 moderate, and 12 severe) to differentiate the trajectories of tissue injury in this condition. PD patients had a very little GM atrophy even at the more advanced stages of the disease. Microstructural damage to the WM occurs with increasing PD severity and involves the brainstem, thalamocortical pathways, olfactory tracts, as well as the major interhemispheric, limbic, and extramotor association tracts. The most marked WM damage was found in moderate vs. mild cases. WM damage correlated with the degree of global cognitive deficits. WM abnormalities beyond the nigrostriatal system accumulate with increasing PD severity. WM damage is likely to contribute to the more severe motor and nonmotor dysfunctions occurring in patients at the later stages.

Hyperkalemia is a potentially life-threatening condition, which may occur in many clinical settings. Heparin-induced hyperkalemia is less well-recognized than other side effects of heparin therapy. Even lesser known is heparin abuse amongst drug addicts. We report a case of fatal hyperkalemia related to long-term heparin abuse, which was refractory to anti-hyperkalemia therapy including hemodialysis. The objective is to alert the clinicians to possible abuse of heparin in drug addicts, which can be a cause for refractory hyperkalemia. We also briefly review the available literature on heparin-induced hyperkalemia.
A new robust, simple and economic high performance thin layer chromatographic method was developed for simultaneous estimation of L-glutamic acid and -amino butyric acid in brain homogenate. The high performance thin layer chromatographic separation of these amino acid was achieved using n-butanol:glacial acetic acid:water (22:3:5 v/v/v) as mobile phase and ninhydrin as a derivatising agent. Quantitation of the method was achieved by densitometric method at 550 nm over the concentration range of 10-100 ng/spot. This method showed good separation of amino acids in the brain homogenate with Rf value of L-glutamic acid and -amino butyric acid as 21.670.58 and 33.670.58, respectively. The limit of detection and limit of quantification for L-glutamic acid was found to be 10 and 20 ng and for -amino butyric acid it was 4 and 10 ng, respectively. The method was also validated in terms of accuracy, precision and repeatability. The developed method was found to be precise and accurate with good reproducibility and shows promising applicability for studying pathological status of disease and therapeutic significance of drug treatment.


Animal models of viral respiratory disease often use weight loss as a marker of disease severity; however, this may relate to dehydration and malnutrition that would be corrected clinically. We tested whether parenteral fluid therapy improved weight loss from influenza infection. BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice were infected with A/X31 (H3N2) influenza and randomized to intraperitoneal fluid therapy. Blood glucose was also measured post-viral infection on day 3 and 6 in BALB/c mice and on day 6 in C57BL/6 mice. Parenteral fluids did not alter weight loss or the immunological response to infection, and glucose levels were not abnormal.
-Adrenergic receptor stimulation plays an important role in cardiomyocyte stress responses, which may result in apoptosis and cardiovascular degeneration. We previously demonstrated that toxicity of the -adrenergic agonist isoproterenol on H9c2 cardiomyoblasts depends on the stage of cell differentiation. We now investigate -adrenergic receptor downstream signaling pathways and stress responses that explain the impact of muscle cell differentiation on hyper--adrenergic stimulation-induced cytotoxicity. When incubated with isoproterenol, differentiated H9c2 muscle cells have increased cytosolic calcium, cyclic-adenosine monophosphate content and oxidative stress, as well as mitochondrial depolarization, increased superoxide anion, loss of subunits from the mitochondrial respiratory chain, decreased Bcl-xL content, increased p53 and phosphorylated-p66Shc as well as activated caspase-3. Undifferentiated H9c2 cells incubated with isoproterenol showed increased Bcl-xL protein and increased superoxide dismutase 2 which may act as protective mechanisms. We conclude that the differentiation of H9c2 is associated with differential regulation of stress responses, which impact the toxicity of several agents, namely those acting through -adrenergic receptors and resulting in mitochondrial disruption in differentiated cells only.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a debilitating condition often resulting in paralysis, yet currently there is no effective treatment. Stem cell transplantation is a promising therapeutic strategy for promoting tissue repair after SCI. Stem cells offer a renewable source of cells with inherent plasticity for tissue regeneration. Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) are multipotent cells that self-renew and are committed to the neural lineage, and thus, they are especially suited to SCI repair. NSPCs may differentiate into neural cells after transplantation into the injured spinal cord, replacing lost or damaged cells, providing trophic support, restoring connectivity, and facilitating regeneration. Here, we review experimental studies and considerations for clinical translation of NSPC transplantation for SCI.
Exposure to excessive glucocorticoids during fetal development period contributes to later life psychopathology. Prenatal stress decreases dendritic spine density and impair LTP in the hippocampus of rat pups, however, the mechanisms regulating these changes are still unclear. Glutamate receptors are localized in the postsynaptic density. PSD-95 is a postsynaptic scaffolding protein that plays a role in synaptic maturation and regulation of the synaptic strength and plasticity. PSD-95 interacts with other proteins to form the protein networks that promote dendritic spine formation. The present study investigated the effect of prenatal stress on the levels of scaffolding proteins of NMDA receptor in the hippocampus in order to explain how prenatal stress alters the amount of NMDA receptor in the pups' brain. Pregnant rats were randomly assigned to either the prenatal stress (PS) or the control group (C). The pregnant rats in the PS group were restrained in a plexiglas restrainer for 4h/day during the GD 14-21. Control rats were left undisturbed for the duration of their pregnancies. The amount of PSD-95, SPAR, NR2A and NR2B, as well as the levels of Snk Polo-like kinase 2 and the SCF -TrCP ubiquitin ligase were measured in the hippocampus of the offspring. The results show that prenatal stress induces a reduction in the amount of NR2B and NR2A subunits in the hippocampus of rat pups, parallel to the decrease in PSD-95 and SPAR at P40 and P60. Moreover, prenatal stress increases Snk and -TrCP in the hippocampus of rat pups, and the timing correlates with the decrease of SPAR and PSD-95. Prenatal stress also induces a significantly increases in the level of ubiquitinated SPAR in the hippocampus of rat pups at adulthood. The results suggest that degradation of SPAR via UPS system may contribute to the loss of PSD-95 and NMDA receptor subunits in the hippocampus of rat pups at adulthood. In conclusion, the present work demonstrates that the developing brain is critically influenced by glucocorticoids, especially during pre- and early postnatal period, which can have long-term effects on brain development. In addition, an involvement of the UPS system in the prenatal stress model has led to a greater understanding of the effects of prenatal stress later on in life.
The generation of new neurons from neural stem cells (NSCs) throughout adult life in the mammalian brain is a biological process that fascinates scientists for its uniqueness and restorative potential. In the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus NSCs are able to self-renew and generate new granule cells and astrocytes through a complex and plastic mechanism that can be regulated by endogenous and exogenous cues at different levels. Unexpected recent findings suggest that the population of NSCs is heterogeneous in morphology and behavior. We herein explore the hypothesis that NSC heterogeneity and the neurogenic potential of the DG depends on their developmental origin. We provide an up-to-date picture of the process of neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus with an especial focus on NSCs and outline key unsolved aspects. Further, we discuss the origin of NSCs in the adult DG from a developmental perspective and explore the possibility of NSC heterogeneity being determined from early postnatal periods and being responsible for the neurogenic output of the DG in the long term.
Mobilization of remyelinating cells spontaneously occurs in the adult brain. These cellular resources are specially active after demyelinating episodes in early phases of multiple sclerosis (MS). Indeed, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) actively proliferate, migrate to and repopulate the lesioned areas. Ultimately, efficient remyelination is accomplished when new oligodendrocytes reinvest nude neuronal axons, restoring the normal properties of impulse conduction. As the disease progresses this fundamental process fails. Multiple causes seem to contribute to such transient decline, including the failure of OPCs to differentiate and enwrap the vulnerable neuronal axons. Regenerative medicine for MS has been mainly centered on the recruitment of endogenous self-repair mechanisms, or on transplantation approaches. The latter commonly involves grafting of neural precursor cells (NPCs) or neural stem cells (NSCs), with myelinogenic potential, in the injured areas. Both strategies require further understanding of the biology of oligodendrocyte differentiation and remyelination. Indeed, the success of transplantation largely depends on the pre-commitment of transplanted NPCs or NSCs into oligodendroglial cell type, while the endogenous differentiation of OPCs needs to be boosted in chronic stages of the disease. Thus, much effort has been focused on finding molecular targets that drive oligodendrocytes commitment and development. The present review explores several aspects of remyelination that must be considered in the design of a cell-based therapy for MS, and explores more deeply the challenge of fostering oligodendrogenesis. In this regard, we discuss herein a tool developed in our research group useful to search novel oligodendrogenic factors and to study oligodendrocyte differentiation in a time- and cost-saving manner.
Adult-born neurons in crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) are the progeny of 1st-generation precursor cells (functionally analogous to neuronal stem cells in vertebrates) that are located in a neurogenic niche on the ventral surface of the brain. The daughters of these precursor cells migrate along the processes of bipolar niche cells to proliferation zones in the cell clusters where the somata of the olfactory interneurons reside. Here they divide again, producing offspring that differentiate into olfactory local and projection neurons. The features of this neuronal assembly line, and the fact that it continues to function when the brain is isolated and perfused or maintained in organotypic culture, provide opportunities unavailable in other organisms to explore the sequence of cellular and molecular events leading to the production of new neurons in adult brains. Further, we have determined that the 1st-generation precursor cells are not a self-renewing population, and that the niche is, nevertheless, not depleted as the animals grow and age. We conclude, therefore, that the niche is not a closed system and that there must be an extrinsic source of neuronal stem cells. Based on in vitro studies demonstrating that cells extracted from the hemolymph are attracted to the niche, as well as the intimate relationship between the niche and vasculature, we hypothesize that the hematopoietic system is a likely source of these cells.



Reduction in maternal mortality requires an in-depth knowledge of the causes of death. This study was conducted to explore the circumstances and events leading to maternal mortality through a holistic approach. Using narrative text analysis, all documents related to maternal deaths occurred from 2007 to 2011 in Kerman province/Iran were reviewed thoroughly by an expert panel. A 93-item chart abstraction instrument was developed according to the expert panel and literature. The instrument consisted of demographic and pregnancy related variables, underlying and contributing causes of death, and type of delays regarding public health aspects, medical and system performance issues. A total of 64 maternal deaths were examined. One third of deaths occurred in women less than 18 or higher than 35 years. Nearly 95% of them lived in a low or mid socioeconomic status. In half of the cases, inappropriate or nonuse of contraceptives was seen. Delay in the provision of any adequate treatment after arrival at the health facility was seen in 59% of cases. The most common medical causes of death were preeclampsia/eclampsia (15.6%), postpartum hemorrhage (12.5%) and deep phlebothrombosis (10.9%), respectively. Negligence was accounted for 95% of maternal deaths. To overcome the root causes of maternal death, more emphasis should be devoted to system failures and patient safety rather than the underlying causes of death and medical issues solely.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is one of the most common malignant brain tumors. Saponin B, a novel compound isolated from the medicinal plant, Anemone taipaiensis, has been found to have a strong time- and dose-dependent cytostatic effect on human glioma cells and to suppress the growth of U87MG GBM cells. In this study, we investigated whether saponin B induces the apoptosis of glioblastoma cells and examined the underlying mechanism(s) of action of saponin B. Saponin B signicantly suppressed U87MG cell proliferation. Flow cytometric analysis of DNA in the U87MG cells conrmed that saponin B blocked the cell cycle at the S phase. Furthermore, treatment of the U87MG cells with saponin B induced chromatin condensation and led to the formation of apoptotic bodies, as observed under a uorescence microscope, and Annexin V/PI assay further suggested that phosphatidylserine (PS) externalization was apparent at higher drug concentrations. Treatment with saponin B activated the receptor-mediated pathway of apoptosis, as western blot analysis revealed the activation of Fas-l. Saponin B increased the Bax and caspase-3 ratio and decreased the protein expression of Bcl-2. The results from the present study demonstrate that the novel compound, saponin B, effectively induces the apoptosis of GBM cells and inhibits glioma cell growth and survival. Therefore, saponin B may be a potential candidate for the development of novel cancer therapeutics with antitumor activity against gliomas.
(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol ((9)-THC), the main psychoactive ingredient of marijuana, has led to equivocal results when tested with the intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) procedure or the open-field test for motor activity, two behavioural models for evaluating the reward-facilitating and locomotor stimulating effects of drugs of abuse, respectively. Therefore, in the present study, the effects of high and low doses of (9)-THC were compared in the ICSS procedure and the open-field test. Moreover, the involvement of CB(1) receptors in tentative (9)-THC-induced effects was investigated by pre-treating the animals with the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716A (rimonabant). The results obtained show that low doses of (9)-THC induce opposite effects from high doses of (9)-THC. Specifically, 0.1 mg/kg (9)-THC decreased ICSS thresholds and produced hyperactivity, whereas 1 mg/kg increased ICSS thresholds and produced hypoactivity. Both effects were reversed by pre-treatment with SR141716A, indicating the involvement of CB(1) receptors on these actions. Altogether, our results indicate that (9)-THC can produce acute activating effects in locomotion that coincide with its reward-facilitating effects in the ICSS paradigm. The present findings provide further support that (9)-THC induces behaviours typical of abuse and substantiate the notion that marijuana resembles other drugs of abuse.
An altered polyamine system has been suggested to play a key role in mood disorders and suicide, a hypothesis corroborated by the evidence that lithium inhibits the polyamine mediated stress response in the rat brain. Recent post-mortem studies have shown that spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SAT1), the key regulator of cellular polyamine content, is under-expressed in brains from suicide victims compared to controls. In our study we tested the effect of in vitro lithium treatment on SAT1 gene and protein expression in B lymphoblastoid cell lines (BLCLs) from bipolar disorder (BD) patients who committed suicide (and for which BLCLs were collected prior to their death), BD patients with high and low risk of suicide and a sample of non-psychiatric controls. Baseline mRNA levels were similar in the four groups of subjects (p &gt; 0.05). Lithium had no effect in suicide completers (p &gt; 0.05) while it significantly increased SAT1 expression in the high risk (p &lt; 0.001) and low risk (p &lt; 0.01) groups as well as in controls (p &lt; 0.001). Protein and mRNA levels were not correlated; lithium significantly reduced protein levels only in the control sample (p &lt; 0.05). Our findings suggest that SAT1 transcription is influenced by lithium and that this effect is altered in BD patients who completed suicide, further supporting a role for polyamines in suicide.
One of the main obstacles faced by translational neuroscience is the development of animal models of psychiatric disorders. Behavioural pharmacology studies indicate that psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and dissociative drugs, such as phencyclidine (PCP), induce in healthy human volunteers psychotic and cognitive symptoms that resemble some of those observed in schizophrenia patients. Serotonin 5-HT2A and metabotropic glutamate 2 receptors have been involved in the mechanism of action of psychedelic and dissociative drugs. Here we review recent advances using LSD-like and PCP-like drugs in rodent models that implicate these receptors in the neurobiology of schizophrenia and its treatment.


Motor performance in a social evaluative environment was examined in participants (N = 19) who completed a pistol shooting task under both performance-alone (PA) and competitive (C) conditions. Electroencephalographic (EEG), autonomic, and psychoendocrine activity were recorded in addition to kinematic measures of the aiming behavior. State anxiety, heart rate, and cortisol were modestly elevated during C and accompanied by relative desynchrony of high-alpha power, increased cortico-cortical communication between motor and non-motor regions, and degradation of the fluency of aiming trajectory, but maintenance of performance outcome (i.e., score). The findings reveal that performance in a complex social-evaluative environment characterized by competition results in elevated cortical activity beyond that essentially required for motor performance that translated as less efficient motor behavior.
Smell identification deficits (SIDs) are relatively specific to schizophrenia and its negative symptoms, and may predict transition to psychosis in clinical high-risk (CHR) individuals. Moreover, event-related potentials (ERPs) to odors are reduced in schizophrenia. This study examined whether CHR patients show SIDs and abnormal olfactory N1 and P2 potentials. ERPs (49 channels) were recorded from 21 CHR and 20 healthy participants (13 males/group; ages 13-27 years) during an odor detection task using three concentrations of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) or blank air presented unilaterally by a constant-flow olfactometer. Neuronal generator patterns underlying olfactory ERPs were identified and measured by principal components analysis (unrestricted Varimax) of reference-free current source densities (CSD). Replicating previous findings, CSD waveforms to H2S stimuli were characterized by an early N1 sink (345 ms, lateral-temporal) and a late P2 source (600 ms, mid-frontocentroparietal). N1 and P2 varied monotonically with odor intensity (strong &gt; medium &gt; weak) and did not differ across groups. Patients and controls also showed comparable odor detection and had normal odor identification and thresholds (Sniffin' Sticks). However, olfactory ERPs strongly reflected differences in odor intensity and detection in controls, but these associations were substantially weaker in patients. Moreover, severity of negative symptoms in patients was associated with reduced olfactory ERPs and poorer odor detection, identification and thresholds. Three patients who developed psychosis had poorer odor detection and thresholds, and marked reductions of N1 and P2. Thus, despite the lack of overall group differences, olfactory measures may be of utility in predicting transition to psychosis among CHR patients.


Objective(s): The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of subacute administration of propylthiouracil (PTU) on gentamicin (GM)-induced nephrotoxicity in male rats. Materials and Methods: Male Wistar rats were divided into 4 experimental groups as follow: (1) Control group: isotonic saline (1 ml/kg, IP. for 18 d), (2) GM group: 100 mg/kg, IP for 8 d, (3) PTU group: PTU (10 mg/kg, IP for 18 d.) and (4) PTU + GM group: GM (100 mg/kg, IP. for 8d) and PTU (10 mg/kg, IP. for 18 d). Blood sample was taken from all animals and then the animals were sacrificed under light ether anesthesia on the day after the last injection. Sera were separated and were used to measure the urea and creatinine. Microscopic evaluation of renal injury was performed using a semiquantitative scale to evaluate the degree of tubular necrosis. Results: GM markedly increased serum urea and creatinine, as well as acute tubular necrosis (ATN), glomerular atrophy, hyaline casts formation in tubular lumen, interstitial nephritis and infiltration of inflammatory cells. PTU administration alone caused hyperemia and interstitial nephritis and infiltration of lymphocytic inflammatory cells in cortex but it had no marked effect on glomerular and tubular morphology and function. Co-administration of PTU and GM potentiates the GM-induced nephrotoxicity characterized by diffuse ATN; diffuse hyaline cast formation in lumen and infiltration of inflammatory cell in kidney tissues. Conclusion: Our data indicate that PTU potentiates GM-induced nephrotoxicity. The underlying mechanism(s) via which PTU potentiates GM renal toxicity remains to be elucidated.
Research suggests that spatial navigation relies on the same neural network as episodic memory, episodic future thinking, and theory of mind (ToM). Such findings have stimulated theories (e.g., the scene construction and self-projection hypotheses) concerning possible common underlying cognitive capacities. Consistent with such theories, autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is characterized by concurrent impairments in episodic memory, episodic future thinking, and ToM. However, it is currently unclear whether spatial navigation is also impaired. Hence, ASD provides a test case for the scene construction and self-projection theories. The study of spatial navigation in ASD also provides a test of the extreme male brain theory of ASD, which predicts intact or superior navigation (purportedly a systemizing skill) performance among individuals with ASD. Thus, the aim of the current study was to establish whether spatial navigation in ASD is impaired, intact, or superior. Twenty-seven intellectually high-functioning adults with ASD and 28 sex-, age-, and IQ-matched neurotypical comparison adults completed the memory island virtual navigation task. Tests of episodic memory, episodic future thinking, and ToM were also completed. Participants with ASD showed significantly diminished performance on the memory island task, and performance was positively related to ToM and episodic memory, but not episodic future thinking. These results suggest that (contra the extreme male brain theory) individuals with ASD have impaired survey-based navigation skills--that is, difficulties generating cognitive maps of the environment--and adds weight to the idea that scene construction/self-projection are impaired in ASD. The theoretical and clinical implications of these results are discussed.
A growing body of evidence suggests that moderate to vigorous activity levels can affect quality of life, cognition, and brain structure in patients diagnosed with schizophrenia. However, physical activity has not been systematically studied during the period immediately preceding the onset of psychosis. Given reports of exercise-based neurogenesis in schizophrenia, understanding naturalistic physical activity levels in the prodrome may provide valuable information for early intervention efforts. The present study examined 29 ultra high-risk (UHR) and 27 matched controls to determine relationships between physical activity level, brain structure (hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus), and symptoms. Participants were assessed with actigraphy for a 5-day period, MRI, and structured clinical interviews. UHR participants showed a greater percentage of time in sedentary behavior while healthy controls spent more time engaged in light to vigorous activity. There was a strong trend to suggest the UHR group showed less total physical activity. The UHR group exhibited smaller medial temporal volumes when compared with healthy controls. Total level of physical activity in the UHR group was moderately correlated with parahippocampal gyri bilaterally (right: r = .44, left: r = .55) and with occupational functioning (r = -.36; of negative symptom domain), but not positive symptomatology. Results suggest that inactivity is associated with medial temporal lobe health. Future studies are needed to determine if symptoms are driving inactivity, which in turn may be affecting the health of the parahippocampal structure and progression of illness. Although causality cannot be determined from the present design, these findings hold important implications for etiological conceptions and suggest promise for an experimental trial.




To better understand how medication status and task demands affect cognition in major depressive disorder (MDD), we evaluated medication-nave patients with MDD, medicated patients with MDD receiving the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) paroxetine, and healthy controls. All three groups were administered a computer-based cognitive task with two phases, an initial phase in which a sequence is learned through reward-based feedback (which our prior studies suggest is striatal-dependent), followed by a generalization phase that involves a change in the context where learned rules are to be applied (which our prior studies suggest is hippocampal-region dependent). Medication-nave MDD patients were slow to learn the initial sequence but were normal on subsequent generalization of that learning. In contrast, medicated patients learned the initial sequence normally, but were impaired at the generalization phase. We argue that these data suggest (i) an MDD-related impairment in striatal-dependent sequence learning which can be remediated by SSRIs and (ii) an SSRI-induced impairment in hippocampal-dependent generalization of past learning to novel contexts, not otherwise seen in the medication-nave MDD group. Thus, SSRIs might have a beneficial effect on striatal function required for sequence learning, but a detrimental effect on the hippocampus and other medial temporal lobe structures is critical for generalization.









Individual ventilated cages (IVC) are increasing in popularity. Although mice avoid IVC in preference testing, they show no aversion when provided additional nesting material or the cage is not ventilated. Given the high ventilation rate in IVC, we developed 3 hypotheses: that mice housed in IVC experience more cold stress than do mice housed in static cages; that IVC-induced cold stress affects the results of experiments using mice; and that, when provided shelters, mice behaviorally thermoregulate and thereby rescue the cold-stress effects of IVC. To test these hypotheses, we housed mice in IVC, IVC with shelters, and static cages maintained at 20 to 21 C. We quantified the cold stress of each housing system on mice by assessing nonshivering thermogenesis and brown adipose vacuolation. To test housing effects in a common, murine model of human disease, we implanted mice with subcutaneous epidermoid carcinoma cells and quantified tumor growth, tumor metabolism, and adrenal weight. Mice housed in IVC had histologic signs of cold stress and significantly higher nonshivering thermogenesis, smaller subcutaneous tumors, lower tumor metabolism, and larger adrenal weights than did mice in static cages. Shelters rescued IVC-induced nonshivering thermogenesis, adrenal enlargement, and phenotype-dependent cold-mediated histologic changes in brown adipose tissue and tumor size. IVC impose chronic cold stress on mice, alter experimental results, and are a source of systemic confounders throughout rodent-dependent research. Allowing mice to exhibit behavioral thermoregulation through seeking shelter markedly rescues the experiment-altering effects of housing-imposed cold stress, improves physiologic uniformity, and increases experimental reproducibility across housing systems.

This paper offers a contribution towards furthering our understanding of a theme more usually associated with the Freudian tradition, namely the role and function of words as action, particularly in relation to the representational process and its somatic roots. Some reference to neuroscience research will be offered in this respect. It also considers the value of differentiating Empathy from Empathism, as defined by the Italian psychoanalyst Stefano Bolognini who distinguishes informing complementary countertransference from states of over-concordance. Two analytic sessions taken from the intensive analysis of a deeply deprived late-latency child showing violent behaviour are provided with the aim of illustrating the application of these concepts. It is argued that, given the same elaboration of the countertransference and the adequate empathic position on the part of the analyst, the difference in the outcome of the interpretation was made by the specific use of words-in this case the use or not of the personal pronoun-in the two sessions. As the case material is taken from the clinical work of a supervisee, some elements regarding the supervisory situation are also discussed in the paper.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is a component of the reticular activating system (RAS), and is involved in the activated states of waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Gamma oscillations (approximately 30-80 Hz) are evident in all PPN neurons and are mediated by high-threshold voltage-dependent N- and P/Q-type calcium channels. We tested the hypothesis that high-speed calcium imaging would reveal calcium-mediated oscillations in dendritic compartments in synchrony with patch-clamp recorded oscillations during depolarizing current ramps. Patch-clamped 8- to 16-day-old rat PPN neurons (n = 67 out of 121) were filled with Fura 2, Bis Fura, or OGB1/CHR. This study also characterized a novel ratiometric technique using Oregon Green BAPTA-1 (OGB1) with coinjections of a new long-stokes-shift dye, Chromeo 494 (CHR). Fluorescent calcium transients were blocked with the nonspecific calcium channel blocker cadmium, or by the combination of -agatoxin-IVA, a specific P/Q-type calcium channel blocker, and -conotoxin-GVIA, a specific N-type calcium channel blocker. The calcium transients were evident in different dendrites (suggesting channels are present throughout the dendritic tree) along the sampled length without interruption (suggesting channels are evenly distributed), and appeared to represent a summation of oscillations present in the soma. We confirm that PPN calcium channel-mediated oscillations are due to P/Q- and N-type channels, and reveal that these channels are distributed along the dendrites of PPN cells.
We examined the influences of face inversion and facial expression on sensitivity to eye contact in high-functioning adults with and without an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Participants judged the direction of gaze of angry, fearful, and neutral faces. In the typical group only, the range of directions of gaze leading to the perception of eye contact (the cone of gaze) was narrower for upright than inverted faces. In both groups, the cone of gaze was wider for angry faces than for fearful or neutral faces. These results suggest that in high-functioning adults with ASD, the perception of eye contact is not tuned to be finer for upright than inverted faces, but that information is nevertheless integrated across expression and gaze direction.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), mGluR1 and mGluR5, play critical functions in forms of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and synapse remodeling in physiological and pathological states. Importantly, in animal models of fragile X syndrome, group I mGluR activity is abnormally enhanced, a dysfunction that may partly underlie cognitive deficits in the condition. Lipid rafts are cholesterol- and sphingolipid-enriched membrane domains that are thought to form transient signaling platforms for ligand-activated receptors. Many G protein-coupled receptors, including group I mGluRs, are present in lipid rafts, but the mechanisms underlying recruitment to these membrane domains remain incompletely understood. Here, we show that mGluR1 recruitment to lipid rafts is enhanced by agonist binding and is supported at least in part by an intact cholesterol recognition/interaction amino acid consensus (CRAC) motif in the receptor. Substitutions of critical residues in the motif reduce mGluR1 association with lipid rafts and agonist-induced, mGluR1-dependent activation of extracellular-signal-activated kinase1/2 MAP kinase (ERK-MAPK). We find that alteration of membrane cholesterol content or perturbation of lipid rafts regulates agonist-dependent activation of ERK-MAPK by group I mGluRs, suggesting a potential function for cholesterol as a positive allosteric modulator of receptor function(s). Together, these findings suggest that drugs that alter membrane cholesterol levels or directed to the receptor-cholesterol interface could be employed to modulate abnormal group I mGluR activity in neuropsychiatric conditions, including fragile X syndrome.
Structural models of Cys-loop receptors based on homology with the Torpedo marmorata nicotinic acetylcholine receptor infer the existence of cytoplasmic portals within the conduction pathway framed by helical amphipathic regions (termed membrane-associated (MA) helices) of adjacent intracellular M3-M4 loops. Consistent with these models, two arginine residues (Arg(436) and Arg(440)) within the MA helix of 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3A (5-HT3A) receptors act singularly as rate-limiting determinants of single-channel conductance (). However, there is little conservation in primary amino acid sequences across the cytoplasmic loops of Cys-loop receptors, limiting confidence in the fidelity of this particular aspect of the 5-HT3A receptor model. We probed the majority of residues within the MA helix of the human 5-HT3A subunit using alanine- and arginine-scanning mutagenesis and the substituted cysteine accessibility method to determine their relative influences upon . Numerous residues, prominently those at the 435, 436, 439, and 440 positions, were found to markedly influence . This approach yielded a functional map of the 5-HT3A receptor portals, which agrees well with the homology model.


The retinal vasculature supplies cells of the inner and middle layers of the retina with oxygen and nutrients. Photic stimulation dilates retinal arterioles producing blood flow increases, a response termed functional hyperemia. Despite recent advances, the neurovascular coupling mechanisms mediating the functional hyperemia response in the retina remain unclear. In this review, the retinal functional hyperemia response is described, and the cellular mechanisms that may mediate the response are assessed. These neurovascular coupling mechanisms include neuronal stimulation of glial cells, leading to the release of vasoactive arachidonic acid metabolites onto blood vessels, release of potassium from glial cells onto vessels, and production and release of nitric oxide (NO), lactate, and adenosine from neurons and glia. The modulation of neurovascular coupling by oxygen and NO are described, and changes in functional hyperemia that occur with aging and in diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and other pathologies, are reviewed. Finally, outstanding questions concerning retinal blood flow in health and disease are discussed.
Growing evidence suggests that endogenous lactate is an important substrate for neurons. This study aimed to examine cerebral lactate metabolism and its relationship with brain perfusion in patients with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). A prospective cohort of 24 patients with severe TBI monitored with cerebral microdialysis (CMD) and brain tissue oxygen tension (PbtO2) was studied. Brain lactate metabolism was assessed by quantification of elevated CMD lactate samples (&gt;4mmol/L); these were matched to CMD pyruvate and PbtO2 values and dichotomized as glycolytic (CMD pyruvate &gt;119mol/L vs. low pyruvate) and hypoxic (PbtO2 &lt;20mmHg vs. nonhypoxic). Using perfusion computed tomography (CT), brain perfusion was categorized as oligemic, normal, or hyperemic, and was compared with CMD and PbtO2 data. Samples with elevated CMD lactate were frequently observed (418%), and we found that brain lactate elevations were predominantly associated with glycolysis and normal PbtO2 (738%) rather than brain hypoxia (146%). Furthermore, glycolytic lactate was always associated with normal or hyperemic brain perfusion, whereas all episodes with hypoxic lactate were associated with diffuse oligemia. Our findings suggest predominant nonischemic cerebral extracellular lactate release after TBI and support the concept that lactate may be used as an energy substrate by the injured human brain.
Measurement of cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) can give valuable information about existing pathology and the risk of adverse events, such as stroke. A common method of obtaining regional CVR values is by measuring the blood flow response to carbon dioxide (CO2)-enriched air using arterial spin labeling (ASL) or blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) imaging. Recently, several studies have used carbogen gas (containing only CO2 and oxygen) as an alternative stimulus. A direct comparison was performed between CVR values acquired by ASL and BOLD imaging using stimuli of (1) 5% CO2 in air and (2) 5% CO2 in oxygen (carbogen-5). Although BOLD and ASL CVR values are shown to be correlated for CO2 in air (mean response 0.110.03% BOLD, 4.461.80% ASL, n=16 hemispheres), this correlation disappears during a carbogen stimulus (0.360.06% BOLD, 4.971.30% ASL). It is concluded that BOLD imaging should generally not be used in conjunction with a carbogen stimulus when measuring CVR, and that care must be taken when interpreting CVR as measured by ASL, as values obtained from different stimuli (CO2 in air versus carbogen) are not directly comparable.
Arterial spin labeling (ASL) techniques are gaining popularity for visualizing and quantifying cerebral blood flow (CBF) in a range of patient groups. However, most ASL methods lack vessel-selective information, which is important for the assessment of collateral flow and the arterial supply to lesions. In this study, we explored the use of vessel-encoded pseudocontinuous ASL (VEPCASL) with multiple postlabeling delays to obtain individual quantitative CBF and bolus arrival time maps for each of the four main brain-feeding arteries and compared the results against those obtained with conventional pseudocontinuous ASL (PCASL) using matched scan time. Simulations showed that PCASL systematically underestimated CBF by up to 37% in voxels supplied by two arteries, whereas VEPCASL maintained CBF accuracy since each vascular component is treated separately. Experimental results in healthy volunteers showed that there is no systematic bias in the CBF estimates produced by VEPCASL and that the signal-to-noise ratio of the two techniques is comparable. Although more complex acquisition and image processing is required and the potential for motion sensitivity is increased, VEPCASL provides comparable data to PCASL but with the added benefit of vessel-selective information. This could lead to more accurate CBF estimates in patients with a significant collateral flow.
The presenilin-associated rhomboid-like (PARL) protein and high temperature requirement factor A2 (HtrA2) are key regulators of mitochondrial integrity and play pivotal roles in apoptosis. However, their roles after cerebral ischemia have not been thoroughly elucidated. To clarify these roles, mice were subjected to transient global cerebral ischemia, and striatal neuronal injury was assessed. Western blot and coimmunoprecipitation analyses revealed that PARL and processed HtrA2 localized to mitochondria, and that PARL was bound to HtrA2 in sham animals. Expression of PARL and processed HtrA2 in mitochondria significantly decreased 6 to 72hours after ischemia, and the binding of PARL to HtrA2 disappeared after ischemia. In contrast, expression of processed HtrA2 increased 24hours after ischemia in the cytosol, where HtrA2 was bound to X chromosome-linked inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (XIAP). Administration of PARL small interfering RNA inhibited HtrA2 processing and worsened ischemic neuronal injury. Our results show that downregulation of PARL after ischemia is a key step in ischemic neuronal injury, and that it decreases HtrA2 processing and increases neuronal vulnerability. In addition, processed HtrA2 released into the cytosol after ischemia contributes to neuronal injury via inhibition of XIAP.
Autoregulation of cerebral perfusion is impaired in hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. We investigated whether cerebrovascular pressure reactivity (PRx), an element of cerebral autoregulation that is calculated as a moving correlation coefficient between averages of intracranial and mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) with values between -1 and +1, is impaired during and after a hypoxic-ischemic insult (HI) in newborn pigs. Associations between end-tidal CO2, seizures, neuropathology, and PRx were investigated. The effect of hypothermia (HT) and Xenon (Xe) on PRx was studied. Pigs were randomized to Sham, and after HI to normothermia (NT), HT, Xe or xenon hypothermia (XeHT). We defined PRx &gt;0.2 as peak and negative PRx as preserved. Neuropathology scores after 72hours of survival was grouped as 'severe' or 'mild.' Secondary PRx peak during recovery, predictive of severe neuropathology and associated with insult severity (P=0.05), was delayed in HT (11.5hours) than in NT (6.5hours) groups. Seizures were associated with impaired PRx in NT pigs (P=0.0002), but not in the HT/XeHT pigs. PRx was preserved during normocapnia and impaired during hypocapnia. Xenon abolished the secondary PRx peak, increased (mean (95% confidence interval (CI)) MABP (6.5 (3.8, 9.4) mmHg) and cerebral perfusion pressure (5.9 (2.9, 8.9) mmHg) and preserved the PRx (regression coefficient, -0.098 (95% CI (-0.18, -0.01)), independent of the insult severity.
An increasing amount of data suggests that a dysfunction in dopamine (DA) neurotransmission is involved in the pathophysiology of various neurological and psychiatric disorders. With this in mind, the distribution and connectivity of the dopaminergic system in the rat brain has been studied extensively. So far, little is known about the distribution of DA containing neurons in the median raphe nucleus (MnR). This nucleus is mainly defined by a large population of serotonin containing neurons. Using quantitative immunohistochemistry, we observed the presence of a small number of DA containing neurons in the rat MnR, which was in contrast to a previous report.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is a major contributor to motor neuron (MN) degeneration in disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), stroke and spinal cord injury. Numerous in vitro and in vivo models have been developed to evaluate the efficacy and mode of action of neuroprotective agents. However, the dominance of glutamate receptor-subtype in the different regions of the spinal cord in these models has generally been overlooked. This study first compared the neuroprotective effect of administering glutamate receptor antagonists, (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), into a serum-free excitotoxic organotypic in vitro system, on the survival of MNs located in the lumbar area of spinal cord. The poor neuroprotection provided by MK-801 (NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) antagonist) in comparison to CNQX (AMPA/KA (a-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate/kainate) antagonist), raised the hypothesis that the extent of engagement by glutamate receptor sub-types in the mechanism of excitotoxicity may differ within different populations of MNs. The consequent examination of MN susceptibility to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in relation to the rostro-caudal level from which MN originated revealed a differential glutamate receptor sub-type dominance at different spinal cord regions (i.e. cervical, thoracic and lumbar). In the cervical and lumbar regions, the AMPA receptor was the main contributor to MN excitotoxicity, whereas in thoracic regions, the NMDA receptor was the main contributor. This study provides a new way of looking at mechanisms leading to glutamate-induced excitotoxicity in MN and may therefore be important for the development of treatment strategies in protection of spinal MNs in neurodegenerative disease and traumatic injury.
Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1)-binding zinc finger protein (DBZ) is a DISC1-interacting molecule and the interaction between DBZ and DISC1 is involved in neurite outgrowth in vitro. DBZ is highly expressed in brain, especially in the cortex. However, the physiological roles of DBZ in vivo have not been clarified. Here, we show that development of basket cells, a morphologically defined class of parvalbumin (PV)-containing interneurons, is disturbed in DBZ knockout (KO) mice. DBZ mRNA was highly expressed in the ventral area of the subventricular zone of the medial ganglionic eminence, where PV-containing cortical interneurons were generated, at embryonic 14.5 days (E14.5). Although the expression level for PV and the number of PV-containing interneurons were not altered in the cortices of DBZ KO mice, basket cells were less branched and had shorter processes in the somatosensory cortices of DBZ KO mice compared with those in the cortices of WT mice. Furthermore, in the somatosensory cortices of DBZ KO mice, the level of mRNAs for the gamma-aminobutyric acid-synthesizing enzymes GAD67 was decreased. These findings show that DBZ is involved in the morphogenesis of basket cells.

Primary orthostatic tremor (POT) is a rapid 13-18 Hertz tremor that produces a subjective feeling of unsteadiness when standing, and is absent when seated or supine. It predominantly affects the legs during isometric contraction though a similar tremor can be seen in the arms and jaw. When present in the jaw this rapid tremor has been successfully treated with botulinum toxin. We sought to test whether symptoms of POT improved following injection of abobotulinumtoxinA to muscles in the legs. This randomised, double blind, placebo controlled cross-over design study enrolled eight patients with electrophysiologically confirmed POT. Each patient received injections of either 200 mU abobotulinumtoxinA or 0.9% saline in the tibialis anterior bilaterally, with cross-over after 20 weeks. Electrophysiological and clinical assessments were performed before and 6 weeks after each injection. Seven patients completed the study. No significant differences were seen in the primary outcome measures of time from standing to unsteadiness or symptom diary scores. Electrophysiological characteristics of POT remained remarkably constant throughout the study in all patients with variability of less than 1 Hertz in the frequency recorded. Falls were common, with one patient experiencing a fall with upper limb fracture whilst on the placebo. The frequency of falls correlated with both the severity of the self-rated symptoms and a shorter time to feeling unsteady with eyes closed. In conclusion, treatment with 200 mU of abobotulinumtoxinA in the tibialis anterior does not alter subjective experience of unsteadiness in POT. Postural instability and falls are common.
Isolated cases of astasia or ptosis have each been reported in ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes involving the thalamus. We report a 70-year-old man with a medical history of hypertension who presented with left ptosis and gait disturbance despite intact motor strength in the legs and normal sensory function. MRI of the brain showed an evolving subacute infarction confined to the anteromedial-medial part of the left thalamus with no other areas of recent infarction identified. To our knowledge, combined ptosis and astasia in thalamic infarction has not been reported in the English literature. We identified 11 patients with thalamic ptosis and 21 with thalamic astasia in the literature. Patients who had ptosis, or gait abnormality which would not be related to thalamic stroke, were excluded; for example, evidence of infarction in the hypothalamus, midbrain, pons, cerebellum, or cingulate gyrus.
A 73-year-old man, with a history of hypertension and left supraclavicular fossa arteriovenous malformation with multiple previous uncomplicated vessel embolisation procedures, presented with acute spastic quadriparesis and urinary retention following upper limb angiography and embolisation. There was no evidence of preceding infection or neurological disease prior to the event. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was unremarkable. MRI of the cervical spine with a 1.5 Tesla magnet performed 13 hours from symptom onset revealed bilateral paramedian intramedullary T2-weighted signal change without gadolinium enhancement limited to the grey matter with corresponding diffusion restriction extending from C5-6 down to the mid-T1. The diagnosis of cervical spinal cord infarction (SCI) was made and the patient was given regular aspirin and atorvastatin. On follow-up at 3 months, there was modest improvement with respect to his quadriparesis and was walking unaided. An extensive literature review on the role of MRI in SCI is discussed.
Some patients with schizophrenia may suffer from continuous or severe auditory hallucinations that are refractory to antipsychotic drugs, including clozapine. Such patients may benefit from a short trial of once- to twice-daily transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) with the cathode placed over the left temporoparietal cortex and the anode over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; negative, cognitive, and other symptoms, if present, may also improve. At present, the case for tDCS treatment of refractory auditory hallucinations rests on 1 well-conducted randomized, sham tDCS-controlled trial and several carefully documented and instructive case reports. Benefits with up to 3 years of maintenance tDCS have also been described. In patients with refractory auditory hallucinations, tDCS has been delivered at 1- to 3-mA current intensity during 20-30 minutes in once- to twice-daily sessions for up to 3 years with no apparent adverse effects. Transcranial direct current stimulation therefore appears to be a promising noninvasive brain stimulation technique for patients with antipsychotic-refractory auditory hallucinations.
Behavioral studies have cast doubts about the role that posttraining sleep may play in the consolidation of implicit sequence learning. Here, we used event-related fMRI to test the hypothesis that sleep-dependent functional reorganization would take place in the underlying neural circuits even in the possible absence of obvious behavioral changes. Twenty-four healthy human adults were scanned at Day 1 and then at Day 4 during an implicit probabilistic serial RT task. They either slept normally (RS) or were sleep-deprived (SD) on the first posttraining night. Unknown to them, the sequential structure of the material was based on a probabilistic finite-state grammar, with 15% chance on each trial of replacing the rules-based grammatical (G) stimulus with a nongrammatical (NG) one. Results indicated a gradual differentiation across sessions between RTs (faster RTs for G than NG), together with NG-related BOLD responses reflecting sequence learning. Similar behavioral patterns were observed in RS and SD participants at Day 4, indicating time- but not sleep-dependent consolidation of performance. Notwithstanding, we observed at Day 4 in the RS group a diminished differentiation between G- and NG-related neurophysiological responses in a set of cortical and subcortical areas previously identified as being part of the network involved in implicit sequence learning and its offline processing during sleep, indicating a sleep-dependent processing of both regular and deviant stimuli. Our results suggest the sleep-dependent development of distinct neurophysiological processes subtending consolidation of implicit motor sequence learning, even in the absence of overt behavioral differences.
Historically, the study of human identity perception has focused on faces, but the voice is also central to our expressions and experiences of identity [Belin, P., Fecteau, S., &amp; Bedard, C. Thinking the voice: Neural correlates of voice perception. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 8, 129-135, 2004]. Our voices are highly flexible and dynamic; talkers speak differently, depending on their health, emotional state, and the social setting, as well as extrinsic factors such as background noise. However, to date, there have been no studies of the neural correlates of identity modulation in speech production. In the current fMRI experiment, we measured the neural activity supporting controlled voice change in adult participants performing spoken impressions. We reveal that deliberate modulation of vocal identity recruits the left anterior insula and inferior frontal gyrus, supporting the planning of novel articulations. Bilateral sites in posterior superior temporal/inferior parietal cortex and a region in right middle/anterior STS showed greater responses during the emulation of specific vocal identities than for impressions of generic accents. Using functional connectivity analyses, we describe roles for these three sites in their interactions with the brain regions supporting speech planning and production. Our findings mark a significant step toward understanding the neural control of vocal identity, with wider implications for the cognitive control of voluntary motor acts.
We describe a set of new comprehensive, high-quality, high-resolution digital images of histological sections from the brain of male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) and make them publicly available through an interactive website (http://zebrafinch.brainarchitecture.org/). These images provide a basis for the production of a dimensionally accurate and detailed digital nonstereotaxic atlas. Nissl- and myelin-stained brain sections are provided in the transverse, sagittal, and horizontal planes, with the transverse plane approximating the more traditional Frankfurt plane. In addition, a separate set of brain sections in this same plane is stained for tyrosine hydroxylase, revealing the distribution of catecholaminergic neurons (dopaminergic, noradrenergic, and adrenergic) in the songbird brain. For a subset of sagittal sections we also prepared a corresponding set of drawings, defining and annotating various nuclei, fields, and fiber tracts that are visible under Nissl and myelin staining. This atlas of the zebra finch brain is expected to become an important tool for birdsong research and comparative studies of brain organization and evolution.
In lampreys, stretch receptor neurons (SRNs) are located at the margins of the spinal cord and activated by longitudinal stretch in that area caused by body bending. The aim of this study was a comprehensive analysis of motor responses to bending of the lamprey body in different planes and at different rostrocaudal levels. For this purpose, in vitro preparation of the spinal cord isolated together with notochord was used, and responses to bending were recorded from SRNs, as well as from motoneurons innervating the dorsal (dMNs) and ventral (vMNs) parts of a myotome. It was found that SRNs were activated on the convex (stretched) side of the preparation during bending both in the yaw and in the pitch plane. By contrast, responses of motoneurons depended on the site and plane of bending. In the yaw plane, concave responses to bending of rostral segments and convex responses to bending of mid-body segments prevailed. In the pitch plane, convex responses in dMNs and concave responses in vMNs to bending in mid-body segments prevailed. These spinal reflexes could contribute to feedback regulation of locomotor body undulations and to the control of body configuration during locomotion. After a longitudinal split of the spinal cord, only convex responses in motoneurons were present, suggesting an important role of contralateral networks in determining the type of motor response. Stimulation of the brainstem changed the type of motor response to bending, suggesting that these spinal reflexes can be modified by supraspinal signals in accordance with different motor behaviors.
Male Manduca sexta moths are attracted to a mixture of two components of the female's sex pheromone at the natural concentration ratio. Deviation from this ratio results in reduced attraction. Projection neurons innervating prominent male-specific glomeruli in the male's antennal lobe produce maximal synchronized spiking activity in response to synthetic mixtures of the two components centering around the natural ratio, suggesting that behaviorally effective mixture ratios are encoded by synchronous neuronal activity. We investigated the physiological activity and morphology of downstream protocerebral neurons that responded to antennal stimulation with single pheromone components and their mixtures at various concentration ratios. Among the tested neurons, only a few gave stronger responses to the mixture at the natural ratio whereas most did not distinguish among the mixtures that were tested. We also found that the population response distinguished among the two pheromone components and their mixtures, prior to the peak population response. This observation is consistent with our previous finding that synchronous firing of antennal-lobe projection neurons reaches its maximum before the firing rate reaches its peak. Moreover, the response patterns of protocerebral neurons are diverse, suggesting that the representation of olfactory stimuli at the level of protocerebrum is complex.
Laboratory rats have been widely used to study the development and neural underpinnings of play behavior. However, it is not known whether domestic rats play in the same way and at the same frequency as their wild counterparts. In this study, the play of juvenile rats from a colony of wild rats maintained in captivity was compared to that of a strain of domesticated rats (e.g., Long Evans hooded). Three predictions were tested. First, it was predicted that wild rats would incorporate more agonistic behavior in their play. This was not found, as in all cases, both the wild and the laboratory rats attacked and defended the nape during play, a nonagonistic body target. Second, because play is typically more frequent in domesticated animals than their wild progenitors, it was predicted that the wild rats should play less than the laboratory rats. This was found to be the case. Third, because wild animals tend to be less tolerant of proximity by conspecifics and tend to be more agile in their movements, it was predicted that there would be less contact between wild pair mates. This was found to be the case; data show that the play of laboratory rats involves the same target (i.e., the nape of the neck) and tactics of defense as those used by wild rats. However, the laboratory rats initiated playful attacks more frequently, and were more likely to use tactics that promoted bodily contact. These similarities and differences need to be considered when using laboratory animals as models for play in general.
There remain considerable questions regarding the evidence for population-level handedness in nonhuman primates when compared with humans. One challenge in comparing human and nonhuman primate handedness involves the procedures used to characterize individual handedness. Studies of human handedness use consistency in hand use within and between tasks as a basis for hand preference classification. In contrast, studies of handedness in nonhuman primates use statistical criteria for classifying handedness. In this study, we examined within- and between-task consistency in hand use as a means of characterizing individual handedness in a sample of 300 captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Chimpanzees showed population-level right-handedness for both within- and between-tasks consistency, though the proportion of right-handed chimpanzees was lower than what has typically been reported for humans. We further found that there were small, but significant, associations in hand use between measures. There were no significant sex or colony effects on the distribution of handedness. The results are discussed in the context of theories on the evolution of handedness in nonhuman primates.


In the 65 years since its formal specification, information theory has become an established statistical paradigm, providing powerful tools for quantifying probabilistic relationships. Behavior analysis has begun to adopt these tools as a novel means of measuring the interrelations between behavior, stimuli, and contingent outcomes. This approach holds great promise for making more precise determinations about the causes of behavior and the forms in which conditioning may be encoded by organisms. In addition to providing an introduction to the basics of information theory, we review some of the ways that information theory has informed the studies of Pavlovian conditioning, operant conditioning, and behavioral neuroscience. In addition to enriching each of these empirical domains, information theory has the potential to act as a common statistical framework by which results from different domains may be integrated, compared, and ultimately unified.
Children often struggle to behave flexibly when they must use self-directed goals (e.g., doing homework without prompting) rather than externally driven goals (e.g., cleaning up when told). Such struggles may reflect the demands of selecting among many potential options, as required for self-directed control. The current study tested whether (a) 6-year-old children show difficulty in selecting among competing semantic representations, (b) providing category labels designed to reduce selection demands improves performance, and (c) such benefits transfer to self-directed flexibility. Selection was measured using the blocked cyclic naming task for the first time with children. Pictures were named repeatedly in either homogeneous blocks from the same category (e.g., all animals), which create high selection demands due to spreading semantic activation and engage effortful cognitive control, or mixed blocks with each picture from a different category. Children showed robust difficulty in selecting among options, as indexed by response time (RT) differences between homogeneous and mixed blocks. Providing subcategory labels designed to reduce selection demands by distinguishing among same-category items (e.g., &quot;A cow is a farm animal. A cat is a pet.&quot;) improved selection. Providing superordinate categories (e.g., &quot;A cow is an animal. A cat is an animal.&quot;) also improved selection, but these benefits were less robust, and subcategory labels led to greater benefits than superordinate category labels on a subsequent verbal fluency task. These results support a role for subcategory representations in reducing selection demands to aid self-directed flexibility while suggesting that some children may use superordinate category labels to activate subcategory representations on their own.
Adults use gaze and voice signals as cues to the mental and emotional states of others. We examined the influence of voice cues on children's judgments of gaze. In Experiment 1, 6-year-olds, 8-year-olds, and adults viewed photographs of faces fixating the center of the camera lens and a series of positions to the left and right and judged whether gaze was direct or averted. On each trial, participants heard the participant-directed voice cue (e.g., &quot;I see you&quot;), an object-directed voice cue (e.g., &quot;I see that&quot;), or no voice. In 6-year-olds, the range of directions of gaze leading to the perception of eye contact (the cone of gaze) was narrower for trials with object-directed voice cues than for trials with participant-directed voice cues or no voice. This effect was absent in 8-year-olds and adults, both of whom had a narrower cone of gaze than 6-year-olds. In Experiment 2, we investigated whether voice cues would influence adults' judgments of gaze when the task was made more difficult by limiting the duration of exposure to the face. Adults' cone of gaze was wider than in Experiment 1, and the effect of voice cues was similar to that observed in 6-year-olds in Experiment 1. Together, the results indicate that object-directed voice cues can decrease the width of the cone of gaze, allowing more adult-like judgments of gaze in young children, and that voice cues may be especially effective when the cone of gaze is wider because of immaturity (Experiment 1) or limited exposure (Experiment 2).
The faces we encounter throughout our lives make different impressions on us: Some are remembered at first glance, while others are forgotten. Previous work has found that the distinctiveness of a face influences its memorability--the degree to which face images are remembered or forgotten. Here, we generalize the concept of face memorability in a large-scale memory study. First, we find that memorability is an intrinsic feature of a face photograph--across observers some faces are consistently more remembered or forgotten than others--indicating that memorability can be used for measuring, predicting, and manipulating subsequent memories. Second, we determine the role that 20 personality, social, and memory-related traits play in face memorability. Whereas we find that certain traits (such as kindness, atypicality, and trustworthiness) contribute to face memorability, they do not suffice to explain the variance in memorability scores, even when accounting for noise and differences in subjective experience. This suggests that memorability itself is a consistent, singular measure of a face that cannot be reduced to a simple combination of personality and social facial attributes. We outline modern neuroscience questions that can be explored through the lens of memorability.
The quintessential memory system in the human brain--the hippocampus and surrounding medial temporal lobe--is often treated as a module for the formation of conscious, or declarative, memories. However, growing evidence suggests that the hippocampus plays a broader role in memory and cognition and that theories organizing memory into strictly dedicated systems may need to be updated. We first consider the historical evidence for the specialized role of the hippocampus in declarative memory. Then, we describe the serendipitous encounter that motivated the special section in this issue, based on parallel research from our labs that suggested a more pervasive contribution of the hippocampus to cognition beyond declarative memory. Finally, we develop a theoretical framework that describes 2 general mechanisms for how the hippocampus interacts with other brain systems and cognitive processes: the memory modulation hypothesis, in which mnemonic representations in the hippocampus modulate the operation of other systems, and the adaptive function hypothesis, in which specialized computations in the hippocampus are recruited as a component of both mnemonic and nonmnemonic functions. This framework is consistent with an emerging view that the most fertile ground for discovery in cognitive psychology and neuroscience lies at the interface between parts of the mind and brain that have traditionally been studied in isolation.
A growing body of work suggests the hippocampus contributes to a variety of cognitive domains beyond its traditional role in memory. We propose that the hippocampus, in its capacity for relational binding, representational flexibility, and online maintenance and integration of multimodal relational representations, is a key contributor to language processing. Here we test the hypothesis that the online interpretation of pronouns is hippocampus-dependent. We combined eye tracking with neuropsychological methods, where participants (4 patients with bilateral hippocampal damage and severe declarative memory impairment, 4 patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex [vmPFC] damage, and healthy comparison participants) viewed a scene while listening to short dialogues introducing 2 characters; for example, Melissa is playing violin for Debbie/Danny as the sun is shining overhead. She is wearing a blue/purple dress. Consistent with previous work, analysis of eye gaze showed that younger and older healthy comparison participants and the vmPFC patients rapidly identified the intended referent of the pronoun when gender uniquely identified the referent, and when it did not, they showed a preference to interpret the pronoun as referring to the first-mentioned character. By contrast, hippocampal patients, while exhibiting a similar gender effect, exhibited significant disruptions in their ability to use information about which character had been mentioned first to interpret the pronoun. This finding suggests that the hippocampus plays a role in maintaining and integrating information even over a very short discourse history. These observed disruptions in referential processing demonstrate how promiscuously the hallmark processing features of the hippocampus are used in service of a variety of cognitive domains including language.
The hippocampus is thought to be an associative memory &quot;convergence zone,&quot; binding together the multimodal elements of an experienced event into a single engram. This predicts a degree of dependency between the retrieval of the different elements comprising an event. We present data from a series of studies designed to address this prediction. Participants vividly imagined a series of person-location-object events, and memory for these events was assessed across multiple trials of cued retrieval. Consistent with the prediction, a significant level of dependency was found between the retrieval of different elements from the same event. Furthermore, the level of dependency was sensitive both to retrieval task, with higher dependency during cued recall than cued recognition, and to subjective confidence. We propose a simple model, in which events are stored as multiple pairwise associations between individual event elements, and dependency is captured by a common factor that varies across events. This factor may relate to between-events modulation of the strength of encoding, or to a process of within-event &quot;pattern completion&quot; at retrieval. The model predicts the quantitative pattern of dependency in the data when changes in the level of guessing with retrieval task and confidence are taken into account. Thus, we find direct behavioral support for the idea that memory for complex multimodal events depends on the pairwise associations of their constituent elements and that retrieval of the various elements corresponding to the same event reflects a common factor that varies from event to event.
Functional neuroimaging studies have increasingly noted hippocampal activation associated with a variety of cognitive functions--such as decision making, attention, perception, incidental learning, prediction, and working memory--that have little apparent relation to declarative memory. Such findings might be difficult to reconcile with classical hippocampal lesion studies that show remarkable sparing of cognitive functions outside the realm of declarative memory. Even the oft-reported hippocampal activations during confident episodic retrieval are not entirely congruent with evidence that hippocampal lesions reliably impair encoding but inconsistently affect retrieval. Here we explore the conditions under which the hippocampus responds during episodic recall and recognition. Our findings suggest that anterior hippocampal activity may be related to the imbalance of incidental encoding across tasks and conditions rather than due to retrieval per se. Incidental encoding and hippocampal activity may be reduced during conditions where retrieval requires greater attentional engagement. During retrieval, anterior hippocampal activity decreases with increasing search duration and retrieval effort, and this deactivation corresponds with a coincident impaired encoding of the external environment (Israel, Seibert, Black, &amp; Brewer, 2010; Reas &amp; Brewer, 2013; Reas, Gimbel, Hales, &amp; Brewer, 2011). In light of this emerging evidence, we discuss the proposal that some hippocampal activity observed during memory retrieval, or other non-memory conditions, may in fact be attributable to concomitant encoding activity that is regulated by the attentional demands of the principal task.
Dimly lit targets in the dark are perceived as located about an implicit slanted surface that delineates the visual system's intrinsic bias (Ooi, Wu, &amp; He, 2001). If the intrinsic bias reflects the internal model of visual space-as proposed here-its influence should extend beyond target localization. Our first 2 experiments demonstrated that the intrinsic bias also influences perceived target size. We employed a size-matching task and an action task to measure the perceived size of a dimly lit target at various locations in the dark. Then using the size distance invariance hypothesis along with the accurately perceived target angular declination, we converted the perceived sizes to locations. We found that the derived locations from the size judgment tasks can be fitted by slanted curves that resemble the intrinsic bias profile from judged target locations. Our third experiment revealed that armed with the explicit knowledge of target size, an observer perceives target locations in the dark following an intrinsic bias-like profile that is shifted slightly farther from the observer than the profile obtained without knowledge of target size (i.e., slightly more veridical). Altogether, we showed that the intrinsic bias serves as an internal model, or memory, of ground surface layouts when the visual system cannot rely on external depth information. This memory/model can also be weakly influenced by top-down knowledge.
Sound stimuli elicit movement of the stereocilia that make up the hair bundle of cochlear hair cells, putting tension on the tip links connecting the stereocilia and thereby opening mechanotransducer (MT) channels. Tmc1 and Tmc2, two members of the transmembrane channel-like family, are necessary for mechanotransduction. To assess their precise role, we recorded MT currents elicited by hair bundle deflections in mice with null mutations of Tmc1, Tmc2, or both. During the first postnatal week, we observed a normal MT current in hair cells lacking Tmc1 or Tmc2; however, in the absence of both isoforms, we recorded a large MT current that was phase-shifted 180, being evoked by displacements of the hair bundle away from its tallest edge rather than toward it as in wild-type hair cells. The anomalous MT current in hair cells lacking Tmc1 and Tmc2 was blocked by FM1-43, dihydrostreptomycin, and extracellular Ca(2+) at concentrations similar to those that blocked wild type. MT channels in the double knockouts carried Ca(2+) with a lower permeability than wild-type or single mutants. The MT current in double knockouts persisted during exposure to submicromolar Ca(2+), even though this treatment destroyed the tip links. We conclude that the Tmc isoforms do not themselves constitute the MT channel but are essential for targeting and interaction with the tip link. Changes in the MT conductance and Ca(2+) permeability observed in the absence of Tmc1 mutants may stem from loss of interaction with protein partners in the transduction complex.



Our previous ecological studies of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has demonstrated a correlation between increasing ASD rates and aluminium (Al) adjuvants in common use in paediatric vaccines in several Western countries. The correlation between ASD rate and Al adjuvant amounts appears to be dose-dependent and satisfies 8 of 9 Hill criteria for causality. We have now sought to provide an animal model to explore potential behavioural phenotypes and central nervous system (CNS) alterations using s.c. injections of Al hydroxide in early postnatal CD-1 mice of both sexes. Injections of a &quot;high&quot; and &quot;low&quot; Al adjuvant levels were designed to correlate to either the U.S. or Scandinavian paediatric vaccine schedules vs. control saline-injected mice. Both male and female mice in the &quot;high Al&quot; group showed significant weight gains following treatment up to sacrifice at 6 months of age. Male mice in the &quot;high Al&quot; group showed significant changes in light-dark box tests and in various measures of behaviour in an open field. Female mice showed significant changes in the light-dark box at both doses, but no significant changes in open field behaviours. These current data implicate Al injected in early postnatal life in some CNS alterations that may be relevant for a better understanding of the aetiology of ASD.
Individuals with congenital hypothyroidism (CH), even those diagnosed and treated early, experience selective cognitive deficits, the most striking of which involves the visuocognitive domain. However, the range and nature of their visuocognitive disturbances is not fully understood. We assessed a range of higher-order visuocognitive abilities in 19 children and adolescents with CH and 19 age- and sex-matched typically developing peers (TD) using a battery of neuropsychological tests and a novel self-report measure of sense of direction. CH scored lower than TD on direct tests of visuocognitive function (judging line orientation, parts-to-whole localization, copying three-dimensional block towers, discriminating designs, and matching unfamiliar faces in  profile-view) as well as on self-reported problems in spatial ability. Visuocognitive problems were not global as CH and TD did not differ at copying two-dimensional block designs, mentally rotating and matching abstract shapes, or at matching unfamiliar front-view faces, design features, or designs that engaged either figure-ground segregation, visual constancy, or closure. Early and concurrent thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were associated with visuocognitive ability, although attention and working memory were not. Individuals with CH exhibit selective visuocognitive weaknesses, some of which are related to early and concurrent TSH levels.
The aim of this study was to evaluate attention difficulties in a contemporary geographic cohort of adolescents born extremely preterm (EP, &lt;28 weeks' gestation) or extremely low birth weight (ELBW, birth weight &lt;1000 g). The EP/ELBW group included 228 adolescents (mean age = 17.0 years) born in Victoria, Australia in 1991 and 1992. The control group were 166 adolescents (mean age = 17.4 years) born of normal birth weight (birth weight &gt;2499 g) who were recruited in the newborn period and matched to the EP/ELBW group on date of birth, gender, language spoken and health insurance status. Participants were assessed on measures of selective, sustained, and executive (shift and divided) attention, and parents and participants completed behavioral reports. The EP/ELBW group performed more poorly across tests of selective and executive attention, had greater rates of clinically significant difficulties compared with the control group, and also had greater behavioral attention problems as reported by parents. Neonatal risk factors were weakly associated with attention outcomes. In conclusion, higher rates of attention impairments are observed in individuals born EP/ELBW well into adolescence and may have consequences for their transition to adulthood.



The primary goal of this review is to highlight current research and theories describing the neurobiological basis of math (MD), reading (RD), and comorbid math and reading disability (MD+RD). We first describe the unique brain and cognitive processes involved in acquisition of math and reading skills, emphasizing similarities and differences in each domain. Next we review functional imaging studies of MD and RD in children, integrating relevant theories from experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience to characterize the functional neuroanatomy of cognitive dysfunction in MD and RD. We then review recent research on the anatomical correlates of MD and RD. Converging evidence from morphometry and tractography studies are presented to highlight distinct patterns of white matter pathways which are disrupted in MD and RD. Finally, we examine how the intersection of MD and RD provides a unique opportunity to clarify the unique and shared brain systems which adversely impact learning and skill acquisition in MD and RD, and point out important areas for future work on comorbid learning disabilities.


Computational analysis of the biomechanics of the vascular system aims at a better understanding of its physiology and pathophysiology. To be of clinical use, however, these models and thus their predictions, have to be patient specific regarding geometry, boundary conditions and material. In this paper we present an approach to determine individual material properties of human aortae based on a new type of in vivo full field displacement data acquired by dimensional time resolved three dimensional ultrasound (4D-US) imaging. We developed a nested iterative Finite Element Updating method to solve two coupled inverse problems: The prestrains that are present in the imaged diastolic configuration of the aortic wall are determined. The solution of this problem is integrated in an iterative method to identify the nonlinear hyperelastic anisotropic material response of the aorta to physiologic deformation states. The method was applied to 4D-US data sets of the abdominal aorta of five healthy volunteers and verified by a numerical experiment. This non-invasive in vivo technique can be regarded as a first step to determine patient individual material properties of the human aorta.
West syndrome (WS) is an epileptic encephalopathy of childhood, defined by the presence of clustered spasms usually occurring before the age of 1 year, hypsarrhythmia on EEG that is notoriously difficult to define, and developmental arrest or regression. The incidence of WS is 1:3200 live births with an aetiology-dependent prognosis. Up to 80% of children with symptomatic WS suffer from mental retardation, and approximately 50% develop Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. Using homozygosity mapping followed by exome sequencing, we identified a ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF) guanine nucleotide-exchange factor two (brefeldin A-inhibited) (ARFGEF2) mutation in five related infants with WS. ARFGEF2 is involved in the activation of ARFs by accelerating replacement of bound guanosine diphosphate (GDP) with Guanosine triphosphate (GTP), and is involved in Golgi transport. A mutation in ARFGEF2 has been previously described only once, causing microcephaly and periventricular heterotopia. Here, we describe a novel ARFGEF2 mutation in five related patients presenting with WS, microcephaly, periventricular heterotopia and thin corpus callosum.
This study reports a previously healthy, immunocompetent adult male in whom human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7) DNA was detected continuously from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). This patient developed definite sarcoidosis with primary symptomatic manifestations in the central nervous system (CNS). The initial presentation was with loss of visual acuity and papilledema. Brain MR imaging at presentation confirmed papilledema, but otherwise there were no focal abnormalities or signs of hydrocephalus. CSF investigation revealed pleocytosis and elevated protein levels. HHV-7 DNA was detected repeatedly from CSF but not from blood over 1 year follow-up. High resolution computed tomography of lungs was normal. Positron emission tomography showed several metabolically active lymph nodes in the mediastinum, and the histopathological investigation revealed granulomatous inflammation consistent with sarcoidosis. The finding of HHV-7 DNA in the CSF in the context of neurosarcoidosis has not been reported previously. The detection of HHV-7 DNA may result from the selective activation of CD4+ T-lymphocytes in the CSF caused by neurosarcoidosis. Further studies are needed to establish whether the detection of HHV-7 DNA in the CSF in association with neurosarcoidosis represents a clinically significant HHV-7 CNS infection.
We have previously observed changes in the RNA editing of AMPA receptors after acute spinal cord injury (SCI); this implies that post-transcriptional modifications are capable of affecting the physiological properties of glutamate receptor channels and related signal transduction in this neurodegenerative condition. Here, we report that the editing of the ionotropic KAR is markedly decreased at both GluK1 and GluK2 Q/R sites in the epicenter of the lesion and with distinct magnitude and kinetics also in the caudal and rostral portions of the injured cord. These effects are persistent, being observed as late as 30 days after lesioning. In addition, also the I/V and Y/C sites of GluK2 were severely affected after SCI. These findings add novel information to the relevance of editing of glutamate receptors following acute SCI, thus expanding the recently emerged role of post-transcriptional mechanisms under these experimental conditions.
Thrombin, a central factor in thrombogenesis, affects cells in the brain through protease activated receptors. Low levels of thrombin activity are neuroprotective while higher levels are deleterious, and we have therefore developed a new method for its direct quantitative measurement in brain slices following stroke. Thrombin activity was measured by a fluorescent substrate on fresh coronal slices taken from the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres 24-72 h following permanent right middle cerebral artery occlusion. Prolyl endopeptidase and aminopeptidases were inhibited as a critical step to insure the specificity of the assay for thrombin detection. Infarct volume was assessed using TTC staining. Thrombin activity in the right ischemic hemisphere was significantly higher compared to the contralateral hemisphere (326 and 2710 mU/ml, meanSE in the two most affected slices from the ischemic hemisphere vs. 216 and 82 mU/ml in corresponding contralateral slices; p&lt;0.05). Thrombin levels in the ischemic and contralateral hemispheres were significantly higher compared to healthy control mice and were above the range known to be protective to brain cells. A significant correlation was found between thrombin activity in the ischemic hemisphere and the infarct volume. Results of studies based on this method may translate into potential thrombin based therapies.

Rasagiline protects neuronal cells from cell death caused by various lines of insults. Its neuroprotective function is due to suppression of mitochondrial apoptosis signaling and induction of neuroprotective genes, including Bcl-2 and neurotrophic factors. Rasagiline inhibits the mitochondrial membrane permeabilization, an initial stage in apoptosis, but the mechanism has been elusive. In this paper, it was investigated how rasagiline regulates mitochondrial death cascade in apoptosis induced in SH-SY5Y cells by PK11195, a ligand of the outer membrane translocator protein of 18 kDa. Rasagiline prevented release of cytochrome c (Cyt-c), and the following caspase 3 activation, ATP depletion and apoptosis, but did not inhibit the mitochondrial membrane potential collapse, in contrast to Bcl-2 overexpression. Rasagiline stabilized the mitochondrial contact site and suppressed Cyt-c release into cytoplasm, which should be the critical point for the regulation of apoptosis. Monoamine oxidase was not associated with anti-apoptotic activity of rasagiline in PK11195-induced apoptosis.
Although numerous data suggest that glutamate (GLU) is involved in mediating the neural effects of nicotine, direct data on nicotine-induced changes in GLU release are still lacking. Here, we used high-speed amperometry with enzyme-based GLU and enzyme-free GLU-null biosensors to examine changes in extracellular GLU levels in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and nucleus accumbens shell (NAcc) induced by intravenous nicotine in a low, behaviorally active dose (30 g/kg) in freely moving rats. Using this approach, we found that the initial nicotine injection in drug-naive conditions induces rapid, transient, and relatively small GLU release (~ 90 nM; latency ~ 15 s, duration ~ 60 s) that is correlative in the VTA and NAcc. Following subsequent nicotine injections within the same session, this phasic GLU release was supplemented by stronger tonic increases in GLU levels (100-300 nM) that paralleled increases in drug-induced locomotor activation. GLU responses induced by repeated nicotine injections were more phasic and stronger in the NAcc than in VTA. Therefore, GLU is phasically released within the brain's reinforcement circuit following intravenous nicotine administration. Robust enhancement of nicotine-induced GLU responses following repeated injections suggests this change as an important mediator of sensitized behavioral and neural effects of nicotine. By using high-speed amperometry with glutamate (GLU) biosensors, we show that i.v. nicotine at a low, behaviorally relevant dose induces rapid GLU release in the NAcc and VTA that is enhanced following repeated drug injections. This is the first study reporting second-scale fluctuations in extracellular GLU levels induced by nicotine in two critical structures of the motivation-reinforcement circuit and rapid sensitization of GLU responses coupled with locomotor sensitization.
The timing of puberty has been mainly studied in females for several reasons, including the possible evaluation of a precise timer (i.e. menarcheal age) and concerns with respect to the high prevalence of precocity in females as opposed to males. Human evidence of altered female pubertal timing after exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) is equivocal. Among the limiting factors, most studies evaluate exposure to single EDCs at the time of puberty and hardly assess the impact of lifelong exposure to mixtures of EDCs. Some rodent and ovine studies indicate a possible role of foetal and neonatal exposure to EDCs, in accordance with the concept of an early origin of health and disease. Such effects possibly involve neuroendocrine mechanisms because the hypothalamus is a site where homeostasis of reproduction, as well as control of energy balance, is programmed and regulated. In our previous studies, pulsatile gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion control via oestrogen, glutamate and aryl hydrocarbon receptors was shown to be involved in the mechanism of sexual precocity after early postnatal exposure to the insecticide dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane. Very recently, we have shown that neonatal exposure to the potent synthetic oestrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) is followed by early or delayed puberty depending on the dose, with consistent changes in developmental increase of GnRH pulse frequency. Moreover, DES results in reduced leptin stimulation of GnRH secretion in vitro, an effect that is additive with prenatal food restriction. Thus, using puberty as an endpoint of the effects of EDC, it appears necessary to consider pre- and perinatal exposure to low doses and to pay attention to the other conditions of prenatal life, such as energy availability, keeping in mind the possibility that puberty could not only be advanced, but also delayed through neuroendocrine mechanisms.
Much research on oestrogens has focused on their long-term action, exerting behavioural effects within hours to days through gene transcription. Oestrogens also affect behaviour on a much shorter time scale. These rapid effects are assumed to occur through cell signalling and can elicit a behavioural effect as early as 15min after treatment. These effects on behaviour have primarily been explored through the action of oestradiol at three well-known oestrogen receptors (ERs): ER, ER and the more recently described G protein-coupled ER1 (GPER1). The rapid effects of oestradiol and ER agonists have been tested on both social and nonsocial learning paradigms. Social learning refers to a paradigm in which an animal acquires information and modifies its behaviour based on observation of another animal, commonly studied using the social transmission of food preferences paradigm. When administered shortly before testing, oestradiol rapidly improves social learning on this task, although no ER agonist has definitive, comparable improving effects. Some evidence points to GPER1, whereas ER impairs, and ER activation has no effect on social learning. Conversely, ER and GPER1 play a larger role than ER in the rapid improving effect of oestrogens on nonsocial learning, including social and object recognition. In addition, when administered immediately post-acquisition, oestrogens also rapidly improve memory consolidation in a variety of learning paradigms: object recognition, object placement, inhibitory avoidance and the Morris water maze, indicating that oestradiol affects the consolidation of multiple types of memory. Evidence suggests that these improvements are the result of oestrogens acting in the dorsal hippocampus where selective activation of all three ERs shows rapid improving effects on spatial learning comparable to oestradiol. However, the hippocampus is not necessary for rapid oestradiol improvements on social recognition. Although acute treatment with oestradiol enhances learning and memory on various social and nonsocial learning paradigms, the specific ERs play different roles in each type of learning. Future research should aim to further determine the roles of ERs with respect to the enhancing effects of oestradiol on learning and memory, and also determine where in the brain oestradiol acts to affect social and nonsocial learning.
Oestrogens are now recognised to be able to initiate rapid, fast responses, in addition to their classical, longer-term actions. There is a growing appreciation of the potential implications of this mode of action for oestrogenic signalling in both neuronal and non-neuronal systems. As such, much effort has been made to determine the mechanisms that are critical for transducing these rapid effects into cellular responses. Recently, an orphan G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), termed GPR30, was identified as an oestrogen-sensitive receptor in cancer cells. This receptor, now term G-protein oestrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) has been the subject of many investigations, and a role for this receptor in the nervous system is now emerging. In this review, we highlight some of the more recent advances in our understanding of the distribution and subcellular localisation of this receptor in the brain, as well as some of the evidence for the potential role that this receptor may play in the brain. We then discuss some of the controversies surrounding the pharmacology of this receptor, and attempt to reconcile these by suggesting that the 'agonist-specific coupling' model of GPCR function may provide a potential explanation for some of the divergent reports of GPER1 pharmacology.
Similar to humans, rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) are large, long-lived diurnal primates, and show similar age-related changes in the secretion of many steroid hormones, including oestradiol, testosterone, cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Consequently, they represent a pragmatic animal model in which to examine the mechanisms by which these steroidal changes contribute to perturbed sleep-wake cycles and cognitive decline in the elderly. Using remote serial blood sampling, we have found the circulating levels of DHEA sulphate, as well as oestradiol and testosterone, decline markedly in old monkeys. Furthermore, using the real-time polymerase chain reaction, we have shown that the genes for the enzymes associated with the conversion of DHEA to oestradiol and testosterone (3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, and aromatase) are highly expressed in brain areas associated with cognition and behaviour, including the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Taken together, these findings suggest that the administration of supplementary DHEA in the elderly may have therapeutic potential for cognitive and behavioural disorders, although with fewer negative side effects outside of the central nervous system. To test this, we have developed a novel steroid supplementation paradigm for use in old animals; this involves the oral administration of DHEA and testosterone at physiologically relevant times of the day to mimic the circadian hormone patterns observed in young adults. We are currently evaluating the efficacy of this steroid supplementation paradigm with respect to reversing age-associated disorders, including perturbed sleep-wake cycles and cognitive decline, as well as an impaired immune response.
Steroid hormones act in specific regions of the brain to alter behaviour and physiology. Although it has been well established that the bioavailability of the steroid and the expression of its receptor is critical for understanding steroid action in the brain, the importance of nuclear receptor coactivators in the brain is becoming more apparent. The present review focuses on the function of the p160 family of coactivators, which includes steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1), SRC-2 and SRC-3, in steroid receptor action in the brain. The expression, regulation and function of these coactivators in steroid-dependent gene expression in both brain and behaviour are discussed.
Oestrogens activate nucleus- and membrane-initiated signalling. Nucleus-initiated events control a wide array of physiological and behavioural responses. These effects generally take place within relatively long periods of time (several hours to days). By contrast, membrane-initiated signalling affects a multitude of cellular functions in a much shorter timeframe (seconds to minutes). However, much less is known about their functional significance. Furthermore, the origin of the oestrogens able to trigger these acute effects is rarely examined. Finally, these two distinct types of oestrogenic actions have often been studied independently such that we do not exactly know how they cooperate to control the same response. The present review presents a synthesis of recent work carried out in our laboratory that aimed to address these issues in the context of the study of male sexual behaviour in Japanese quail, which is a considered as a suitable species for tackling these issues. The first section presents data indicating that 17-oestradiol, or its membrane impermeable analogues, acutely enhances measures of male sexual motivation but does not affect copulatory behaviour. These effects depend on the activation of membrane-initiated events and local oestrogen production. The second part of this review discusses the regulation of brain oestrogen synthesis through post-translational modifications of the enzyme aromatase. Initially discovered in vitro, these rapid and reversible enzymatic modulations occur in vivo following variations in the social and environment context and therefore provide a mechanism of acute regulation of local oestrogen provision with a spatial and time resolution compatible with the rapid effects observed on male sexual behaviour. Finally, we discuss how these distinct modes of oestrogenic action (membrane- versus nucleus-initiated) acting in different time frames (short- versus long-term) interact to control different components (motivation versus performance) of the same behavioural response and improve reproductive fitness.
Oestrogen has been shown to be neuroprotective for stroke and other neural injury models. Oestrogen promotes a neuroprotective phenotype through myriad actions, including stimulating neurogenesis, promoting neuronal differentiation and survival, suppressing neuroinflammation and maintaining the integrity of the blood-brain barrier. At the molecular level, oestrogen directly modulates genes that are beneficial for repair and regeneration via the canonical oestrogen receptor. Increasingly, evidence indicates that oestrogen acts in concert with growth factors to initiate neuroprotection. Oestrogen and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 act cooperatively to influence cell survival, and combined steroid hormone/growth factor interaction has been well documented in the context of neurones and astrocytes. Here, we summarise the evidence that oestrogen-mediated neuroprotection is critically dependent on IGF-1 signalling, and specifically focus on microglia as the source of IGF-1 and the locus of oestrogen-IGF-1 interactions in stroke neuroprotection.
It is now clear that oestrogens are not only circulating reproductive hormones, but that they also have neurotransmitter-like properties in a wide range of brain circuits. The view of oestrogens as intrinsic neuromodulators that shape behaviour has been bolstered by a series of recent developments from multiple vertebrate model systems. Here, we review several recent findings from studies of songbirds showing how the identified neural circuits that govern auditory processing and sensorimotor integration are modulated by the local and acute production of oestrogens. First, studies using in vivo microdialysis demonstrate that oestrogens fluctuate in the auditory cortex (30-min time bin resolution) when songbirds are hearing song and interacting with conspecifics. Second, oestrogens rapidly boost the auditory-evoked activity of neurones in the same auditory cortical region, enhancing auditory processing. Third, local pharmacological blockade of oestrogen signalling in this region impairs auditory neuronal responsiveness, as well as behavioural song preferences. Fourth, the rapid actions of oestrogens that occur within the auditory cortex can propagate downstream (trans-synaptically) to sensorimotor circuits to enhance the neural representation of song. Lastly, we present new evidence showing that the receptor for the rapid actions of oestradiol is likely in neuronal membranes, and that traditional nuclear oestrogen receptor agonists do not mimic these rapid actions. Broadly speaking, many of these findings are observed in both males and females, emphasising the fundamental importance of oestrogens in neural circuit function. Together, these and other emergent studies provide support for rapid, brain-derived oestrogen signalling in regulating sensorimotor integration, learning and perception.






The contribution of various brain areas to the overall progression of Parkinson's disease remains to be determined. In this study, we apply MRI diffusion tensor imaging to investigate how alterations in diffusion relate to phenotype and symptoms measured by clinical rating scales. Sixty-four patients were investigated at baseline and three follow-ups (1, 3 and 5years). Thirty-six patients remained in the last follow-up. Regions of interests included frontal white matter, basal ganglia, thalamus, and cerebellum. Scoring on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) I, II, III, Hoehn and Yahr (HY) scale and the Schwab and England scale (SE) was determined. Mean, radial, and axial diffusion and fractional anisotropy were modeled with phenotype and clinical scales in a multivariate/univariate analysis correcting for other covariates. Significance was set at 0.05 Bonferroni corrected. All rating scales except UPDRS III significantly correlated to the diffusion measures, as did clinical phenotype. Specifically, putamen, globus pallidus, and thalamus demonstrated higher diffusion with worsening scores. Diffusion in thalamus was higher in the tremor dominant phenotype than in postural imbalance and gait disturbance. Decline in overall functionality (UPDRS II and SE scale), including mental status (UPDRS I) and stage of the disease (HY scale), in Parkinson's disease is related to altered diffusion in the lentiform nucleus and thalamus. Motor function is not mirrored in diffusion changes, possibly due to medication. Tremor dominant PD patients show diffusion alterations in the thalamus, but the significance of this for tremor generation remains to be determined.
Cognitive features, which begin before manifestation of the motor features, are an integral part of Huntington's disease and profoundly affect quality of life. A number of neuropsychological batteries have been used to assess this aspect of the condition, many of which are difficult to administer and time consuming, especially in advanced disease. We, therefore, investigated a simple and practical way to monitor cognition using the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised (ACE-R) in 126 manifest Huntington's disease patients, 28 premanifest gene carriers and 21 controls. Using this test, we demonstrated a selective decrease in phonemic, but not semantic, fluency in premanifest participants Cognitive decline in manifest Huntington's disease varied according to disease severity with extensive cognitive decline observed in early-stage Huntington's disease patients, indicating that this would be an optimal stage for interventions designed to halt cognitive decline, and lesser changes in the advanced cases. We next examined cognitive performance in patients prescribed antidopaminergic drugs as these drugs are known to decrease cognition when administered to healthy volunteers. We paradoxically found that these drugs may be beneficial, as early-stage Huntington's disease participants in receipt of them had improved attention and Mini-Mental State Examination scores. In conclusion, this is the first study to test the usefulness of the ACE-R in a Huntington's disease population and demonstrates that this is a brief, inexpensive and practical way to measure global cognitive performance in clinical practice with potential use in clinical trials.
In the past decade, many new antiepileptic drugs have become available, but their influence on patient outcomes in daily practice is not well known. In a community-based study, we assessed changes in epilepsy treatment and outcomes over a 10-year period. We compared two cross-sectional community-based samples that were obtained from the same Dutch suburban region in 2000 and 2010 using pharmacy records for recruitment, including 344 and 248 epilepsy patients, respectively. The main outcome was self-reported quality of life (QoL, using the QOLIE-31). Potential predictors of QoL (adverse effects, seizure control, seizure acceptability, demographic, epilepsy- or treatment-related determinants) were assessed by multivariable linear regression. New antiepileptic drugs were used by 9% of patients in 2000 and 34% in 2010, P&lt;0.001. More than 80% in both samples reported to be treated by a neurologist. We found no significant differences in QOLIE-31 scores (72.57 vs. 72.44), or in the proportion of patients with complete seizure control (51 vs. 54%), between the two study samples. Seizure control and adverse effects were important independent predictors of quality of life, explaining 58% of the variance. We found no evidence that in this community the QoL of epilepsy patients has improved in the last decade, despite unrestricted availability of healthcare resources, including accessibility to new AEDs. The relatively low proportion with complete seizure control and the high rate of adverse effects in these community-based samples suggest that the effectiveness of epilepsy treatment is still far from optimal.



The aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact of first-line radiotherapy on low-grade gliomas (LGGs) growth kinetics. The mean tumor diameter (MTD) of 39 LGGs was retrospectively measured on serial magnetic resonance images before (n = 16) and after radiotherapy onset (n = 39). After radiotherapy, a decrease of the MTD was observed in 37 patients. Median duration of the MTD decrease was 1.9 years (range 0-8.1 years). According to RANO criteria, the rates of partial and minor responses were 15 and 28 % at the first evaluation after radiotherapy and 36 and 34 % at the time of maximal MTD decrease. The presence of a 1p19q codeletion and the absence of p53 expression were associated with longer durations of MTD decrease (5.3 vs 1 years, p = 0.02 and 2.4 vs 1.8 years, p = 0.05, respectively) while no association was observed between IDH1-R132H expression and duration of MTD decrease. In most patients, MTD decrease after radiotherapy occurred in two phases: an initial phase of rapid MTD decrease followed by a second phase of slower MTD decrease. Patients with a high rate of MTD decrease during the initial phase (&gt;7 mm/year) had both a shorter duration of response (1.9 vs 5.3 years, p = 0.003) and a shorter overall survival (5.5 vs 11.6 years, p = 0.0004). LGGs commonly display a prolonged and ongoing volume decrease after radiotherapy. However, patients who respond rapidly should be carefully monitored because they are at a higher risk of rapid progression.
Natalizumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against 4 integrins, has, to date, been associated with 399 cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) worldwide in patients receiving treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS). Because of the limited number of histologic studies, the possible interplay between MS and PML lesions has not been investigated. We report the clinical, radiologic, and histologic findings of an MS patient who developed PML after 32 months of natalizumab monotherapy. After withdrawal of natalizumab, she received plasma exchange, mefloquine, and mirtazapine but died soon thereafter. Postmortem examination was restricted to examination of the brain and spinal cord. Extensive PML lesions, characterized by the presence of JC virus DNA were found in the cerebral white matter and neocortex. Sharply demarcated areas of active PML lesions contained prominent inflammatory infiltrates composed of approximately equal numbers of CD4-positive and CD8-positive T cells, consistent with an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. Conversely, all MS lesions identified were hypocellular, long-standing inactive plaques characterized by myelin loss, relative axonal preservation, and gliosis and, importantly, were devoid of JC virus DNA and active inflammation. Chronic inactive MS lesions were separate and distinct from nearby PML lesions. This case demonstrates the coexistence and apparent lack of interplay between chronic inactive MS and PML lesions, and that immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome seems to affect the shape and appearance of PML but not MS lesions.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). DJ-1 and PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) are important proteins for the maintenance of mitochondrial function and protection against cell death. Mutations in the genes coding for these proteins cause familial forms of Parkinson disease. Recent studies have postulated that changes in the expression of both proteins are also involved in pathologic mechanisms in ALS mouse models. Here, we studied the mRNA and protein expression of PINK1 and DJ-1 in postmortem brain and spinal cord tissue and muscle biopsy samples from ALS patients and controls and in brain, spinal cord, and gastrocnemius muscle of SOD1(G93A) ALS mice at different disease stages. We found significant decreases of PINK1 and DJ-1 mRNA levels in muscle tissue of SOD1(G93A) mice. Together with the significant decrease of PINK1 mRNA levels in human ALS muscle tissue, statistically nonsignificant reduction of DJ-1 mRNA levels, and reduced immunostaining for PINK1 in human ALS muscle, the results suggest potential pathophysiologic roles for these proteins in both mutant SOD1 transgenic mice and in sporadic ALS(G93A).
Despite the strong association between epilepsy and psychiatric comorbidities, data on clinicopathologic correlations are scant. We previously reported differential mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) patients with psychosis (MTLE + P) and major depression (MTLE + D). Because neurotrophins (NTs) can promote MFS, here, we investigated MFS, neuronal density and immunoreactivity for the NT nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin 3 (NT3) in hippocampi of 14 MTLE patients without a psychiatric history, 13 MTLE + D, 13 MTLE + P, and 10 control necropsies. Mossy fiber sprouting correlated with granular layer NGF immunoreactivity and seizure frequency. Patients with secondarily generalized seizures exhibited less NGF immunoreactivity versus patients with complex partial seizures. There was greater NT immunoreactivity in MTLE versus control groups but lesser NT immunoreactivity in MTLE + P versus MTLE patients; these findings correlated with neuropsychologic scores. Patients with MTLE + D taking fluoxetine showed greater BDNF immunoreactivity than those not taking fluoxetine; MTLE + P patients taking haloperidol had decreased neuronal density and immunoreactivity for NGF and BDNF in specific subfields versus those not taking haloperidol. There were no differences in NT3 immunoreactivity among the groups. These findings support a close association between MFS and NT expression in the hippocampi of MTLE patients and suggest that distinct structural and neurochemical milieu may contribute to the genesis or maintenance of psychiatric comorbidities in MTLE.
Local computation in microcircuits is an essential feature of distributed information processing in vertebrate and invertebrate brains. The insect antennal lobe represents a spatially confined local network that processes high-dimensional and redundant peripheral input to compute an efficient odor code. Social insects can rely on a particularly rich olfactory receptor repertoire, and they exhibit complex odor-guided behaviors. This corresponds with a high anatomical complexity of their antennal lobe network. In the honeybee, a large number of glomeruli that receive sensory input are interconnected by a dense network of local interneurons (LNs). Uniglomerular projection neurons (PNs) integrate sensory and recurrent local network input into an efficient spatio-temporal odor code. To investigate the specific computational roles of LNs and PNs, we measured several features of sub- and suprathreshold single-cell responses to in vivo odor stimulation. Using a semisupervised cluster analysis, we identified a combination of five characteristic features as sufficient to separate LNs and PNs from each other, independent of the applied odor-stimuli. The two clusters differed significantly in all these five features. PNs showed a higher spontaneous subthreshold activation, assumed higher peak response rates and a more regular spiking pattern. LNs reacted considerably faster to the onset of a stimulus, and their responses were more reliable across stimulus repetitions. We discuss possible mechanisms that can explain our results, and we interpret cell-type-specific characteristics with respect to their functional relevance.
Anatomic studies have demonstrated that the mesolimbic dopamine system receives a substantial afferent input from a variety of regions ranging from the prefrontal cortex through to the brain stem. However, how these afferents regulate dopamine neuron activity is still largely unknown. The mesopontine tegmentum provides a significant input to ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons, and it has been demonstrated that discrete subdivisions within this region differentially alter dopamine neuron activity. Thus the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus provides a tonic input essential for maintaining burst firing of dopamine neurons, whereas the pedunculopontine tegmental (PPTg) nucleus regulates a transition from single-spike firing to burst firing. In contrast, the recently identified rostromedial tegmental nucleus provides an inhibitory input to the VTA and decreases spontaneous dopamine neuron activity. Here, we demonstrate that an area adjacent to the PPTg regulates both population activity as well as burst firing of VTA dopamine neurons. Specifically, N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) activation of the lateral mesopontine tegmentum produces an increase in the number of spontaneously active dopamine neurons and an increase in the average percentage of burst firing of dopamine neurons. This increase in neuronal activity was correlated with extracellular dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens, as measured by in vivo microdialysis. Taken together, we provide further evidence that the mesopontine tegmentum regulates discrete dopamine neuron activity states that are relevant for the understanding of dopamine system function in both normal and disease states.
We examined the influence of focal cerebellar lesions on working memory (n-back task), gait, and the interaction between working memory and different gait tasks in a dual-task paradigm. The analysis included 17 young patients with chronic focal lesions after cerebellar tumor resection and 17 age-matched controls. Patients have shown mild to moderate ataxia. Lesion sites were examined on the basis of structural magnetic resonance imaging. N-back tasks were executed with different levels of difficulty (n = 1-4) during sitting (baseline), treadmill walking, and treadmill tandem walking (dual-task conditions). Patients exhibited decreased n-back performance particularly at difficult n-back levels and in dual-task conditions. Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping revealed that decreased baseline n-back performance was associated with lesions of the posterolateral cerebellar hemisphere and the dentate nucleus. By contrast, decreased n-back performance in dual-task conditions was more associated with motor-related areas including dorsal portions of the dentate and the interposed nucleus, suggesting a prioritization of the motor task. During baseline walking, increased gait variability was associated with lesions in medial and intermediate regions, whereas for baseline tandem gait, lesions in the posterolateral hemispheres and the dentate nucleus became important. Posterolateral regions overlapped with regions related to baseline n-back performance. Consistently, we observed increased tandem gait variability with growing n-back difficulty in the dual-task condition. These findings suggest that dual-task effects in cerebellar patients are at least partially caused by a common involvement of posterolateral cerebellar regions in working memory and complex motor tasks.
It has been hypothesized that the human cortical responses to nociceptive and nonnociceptive somatosensory inputs differ. Supporting this view, somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) elicited by thermal nociceptive stimuli have been suggested to originate from areas 1 and 2 of the contralateral primary somatosensory (S1), operculo-insular, and cingulate cortices, whereas the early components of nonnociceptive SEPs mainly originate from area 3b of S1. However, to avoid producing a burn lesion, and sensitize or fatigue nociceptors, thermonociceptive SEPs are typically obtained by delivering a small number of stimuli with a large and variable interstimulus interval (ISI). In contrast, the early components of nonnociceptive SEPs are usually obtained by applying many stimuli at a rapid rate. Hence, previously reported differences between nociceptive and nonnociceptive SEPs could be due to differences in signal-to-noise ratio and/or differences in the contribution of cognitive processes related, for example, to arousal and attention. Here, using intraepidermal electrical stimulation to selectively activate A-nociceptors at a fast and constant 1-s ISI, we found that the nociceptive SEPs obtained with a long ISI are no longer identified, indicating that these responses are not obligatory for nociception. Furthermore, using a blind source separation, we found that, unlike the obligatory components of nonnociceptive SEPs, the obligatory components of nociceptive SEPs do not receive a significant contribution from a contralateral source possibly originating from S1. Instead, they were best explained by sources compatible with bilateral operculo-insular and/or cingulate locations. Taken together, our results indicate that the obligatory components of nociceptive and nonnociceptive SEPs are fundamentally different.
-Amino butyric acid (GABA) plays a key role in the regulation of central nervous system by activating synaptic and extrasynaptic GABAA receptors. It is acknowledged that extrasynaptic GABAA receptors located in the soma, dendrites, and axons may be activated tonically by low extracellular GABA concentrations. The activation of these receptors produces a persistent conductance that can hyperpolarize or depolarize nerve cells depending on the Cl(-) equilibrium potential. In an in vitro preparation of the turtle spinal cord we show that extrasynaptic 5GABAA receptors mediate the tonic state of excitability of primary afferents independently of the phasic primary afferent depolarization mediated by synaptic GABAA receptors. Blockade of 5GABAA receptors with the inverse agonist L-655,708 depressed the dorsal root reflex (DRR) without affecting the phasic increase in excitability of primary afferents. Using RT-PCR and Western blotting, we corroborated the presence of the mRNA and the 5GABAA protein in the dorsal root ganglia of the turtle spinal cord. The receptors were localized in primary afferents in dorsal root, dorsal root ganglia, and peripheral nerve terminals using immunoconfocal microscopy. Considering the implications of the DRR in neurogenic inflammation, 5GABAA receptors may serve as potential pharmacological targets for the treatment of pain.
Activity of presympathetic neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus is known to play an important role in the regulation of sympathetic outflow. Sympathetic overactivity is associated with many pathophysiological conditions such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension; however, the underlying synaptic mechanisms are poorly understood. In this study, we examined the GABAergic inhibitory synaptic control of kidney-related presympathetic PVN neurons in the streptozotocin-treated type 1 diabetic mouse model, using patch-clamp slice electrophysiology in combination with retrograde labeling. Type 1 diabetes resulted in decreased frequency of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). Our data also demonstrated a reduction of mIPSC amplitude and mean inhibitory current without alteration of input resistance. Furthermore, our data revealed decreased tonic GABAergic inhibition of kidney-related PVN neurons in diabetic conditions, which was consistent with the observed increased excitability of the presympathetic PVN neurons. In summary, our data demonstrated decreased phasic and tonic inhibitory control of kidney-related presympathetic PVN neurons that suggest altered sympathetic circuitry in type 1 diabetes.
Odor signals are transmitted to the olfactory bulb by olfactory nerve (ON) synapses onto mitral/tufted cells (MTCs) and external tufted cells (ETCs); ETCs provide additional feed-forward excitation to MTCs. Both are strongly regulated by intraglomerular inhibition that can last up to 1 s and, when blocked, dramatically increases ON-evoked MC spiking. Intraglomerular inhibition thus limits the magnitude and duration of MC spike responses to sensory input. In vivo, sensory input is repetitive, dictated by sniffing rates from 1 to 8 Hz, potentially summing intraglomerular inhibition. To investigate this, we recorded MTC responses to 1- to 8-Hz ON stimulation in slices. Inhibitory postsynaptic current area (charge) following each ON stimulation was unchanged from 1 to 5 Hz and modestly paired-pulse attenuated at 8 Hz, suggesting there is no summation and only limited decrement at the highest input frequencies. Next, we investigated frequency independence of intraglomerular inhibition on MC spiking. MCs respond to single ON shocks with an initial spike burst followed by reduced spiking decaying to baseline. Upon repetitive ON stimulation peak spiking is identical across input frequencies but the ratio of peak-to-minimum rate before the stimulus (max-min) diminishes from 30:1 at 1 Hz to 15:1 at 8 Hz. When intraglomerular inhibition is selectively blocked, peak spike rate is unchanged but trough spiking increases markedly decreasing max-min firing ratios from 30:1 at 1 Hz to 2:1 at 8 Hz. Together, these results suggest intraglomerular inhibition is relatively frequency independent and can &quot;sharpen&quot; MC responses to input across the range of frequencies. This suggests that glomerular circuits can maintain &quot;contrast&quot; in MC encoding during sniff-sampled inputs.
We characterized the electroresponsive and morphological properties of neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). Previously, Rainnie and colleagues distinguished three cell types in the anterolateral region of BNST (BNST-AL): low-threshold bursting cells (LTB; type II) and regular spiking neurons that display time-dependent (RS; type I) or fast (fIR; type III) inward rectification in the hyperpolarizing direction (Hammack SE, Mania I, Rainnie DG. J Neurophysiol 98: 638-56, 2007). We report that the same neuronal types exist in the anteromedial (AM) and anteroventral (AV) regions of BNST. In addition, we observed two hitherto unreported cell types: late-firing (LF) cells, only seen in BNST-AL, that display a conspicuous delay to firing, and spontaneously active (SA) neurons, only present in BNST-AV, firing continuously at rest. However, the feature that most clearly distinguished the three BNST regions was the incidence of LTB cells (approximately 40-70%) and the strength of their bursting behavior (both higher in BNST-AM and AV relative to AL). The incidence of RS cells was similar in the three regions (25%), whereas that of fIR cells was higher in BNST-AL (25%) than AV or AM (8%). With the use of biocytin, two dominant morphological cell classes were identified but they were not consistently related to particular physiological phenotypes. One neuronal class had highly branched and spiny dendrites; the second had longer but poorly branched and sparsely spiny dendrites. Both often exhibited dendritic varicosities. Since LTB cells prevail in BNST, it will be important to determine what inputs set their firing mode (tonic vs. bursting) and in what behavioral states.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory afferents to the dorsal striatum likely occurs with learning to encode new skills and habits, yet corticostriatal LTP is challenging to evoke reliably in brain slice under physiological conditions. Here we test the hypothesis that stimulating striatal afferents with theta-burst timing, similar to recently reported in vivo temporal patterns corresponding to learning, evokes LTP. Recording from adult mouse brain slice extracellularly in 1 mM Mg(2+), we find LTP in dorsomedial and dorsolateral striatum is preferentially evoked by certain theta-burst patterns. In particular, we demonstrate that greater LTP is produced using moderate intraburst and high theta-range frequencies, and that pauses separating bursts of stimuli are critical for LTP induction. By altering temporal pattern alone, we illustrate the importance of burst-patterning for LTP induction and demonstrate that corticostriatal long-term depression is evoked in the same preparation. In accord with prior studies, LTP is greatest in dorsomedial striatum and relies on N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors. We also demonstrate a requirement for both Gq- and Gs/olf-coupled pathways, as well as several kinases associated with memory storage: PKC, PKA, and ERK. Our data build on previous reports of activity-directed plasticity by identifying effective values for distinct temporal parameters in variants of theta-burst LTP induction paradigms. We conclude that those variants which best match reports of striatal activity during learning behavior are most successful in evoking dorsal striatal LTP in adult brain slice without altering artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Future application of this approach will enable diverse investigations of plasticity serving striatal-based learning.
Visual motion on the macaque retina is processed by direction- and speed-selective neurons in extrastriate middle temporal cortex (MT). There is strong evidence for a link between the activity of these neurons and direction perception. However, there is conflicting evidence for a link between speed selectivity of MT neurons and speed perception. Here we study this relationship by using a strong perceptual illusion in speed perception: when two transparently superimposed dot patterns move in opposite directions, their apparent speed is much larger than the perceived speed of a single pattern moving at that physical speed. Moreover, the sensitivity for speed discrimination is reduced for such bidirectional patterns. We first confirmed these behavioral findings in human subjects and extended them to a monkey subject. Second, we determined speed tuning curves of MT neurons to bidirectional motion and compared these to speed tuning curves for unidirectional motion. Consistent with previous reports, the response to bidirectional motion was often reduced compared with unidirectional motion at the preferred speed. In addition, we found that tuning curves for bidirectional motion were shifted to lower preferred speeds. As a consequence, bidirectional motion of some speeds typically evoked larger responses than unidirectional motion. Third, we showed that these changes in neural responses could explain changes in speed perception with a simple labeled line decoder. These data provide new insight into the encoding of transparent motion patterns and provide support for the hypothesis that MT activity can be decoded for speed perception with a labeled line model.

Pediatric spinal pilomyxoid astrocytoma (PMA) is an extremely rare tumor that merits recognition as a specific, unique entity. The authors present the case of an intramedullary PMA in the thoracic spinal cord of an 11-year-old boy who presented with back pain, scoliosis, and multiple lung nodules. The patient underwent T5-11 laminoplasty and near-total resection of the spinal tumor. The final pathological diagnosis was WHO Grade II PMA. The patient did well for 14 months until the tumor progressed both clinically and radiographically. A literature review focusing on the clinical characteristics, histology, and treatment of PMAs provides a better understanding of these rare lesions. Because of the small number of cases optimal treatment guidelines have not been established, but gross-total resection and adjuvant chemotherapy with alkylating agents appear to confer a better long-term prognosis. Pediatric patients with PMAs can remain recurrence free at least 5 years after surgery, although these tumors may disseminate or dedifferentiate into more malignant gliomas. Recognition of intramedullary PMA as a unique entity in children is vital to the development of specific surgical and adjuvant treatment regimens.

A number of different rodent experimental models of spinal cord injury have been used in an attempt to model the pathophysiology of human spinal cord injury. As a result, interlaboratory comparisons of the outcome measures can be difficult. Further complicating interexperiment comparisons is the fact that the rodent response to different experimental models is strain-dependent. Moreover, the literature is abundant with examples in which the same injury model and strain result in divergent functional outcomes. The objective of this research was to determine whether substrain differences influence functional outcome in experimental spinal cord injury. We induced mild contusion spinal cord injuries in three substrains of Sprague-Dawley rats purchased from three different European breeders (Scanbur, Charles River, and Harlan) and evaluated the impact of injury on spontaneous locomotor function, hypersensitivity to mechanical stimulation, and bladder function. We found that Harlan rats regained significantly more hindlimb function than Charles River and Scanbur rats. We also observed substrain differences in the recovery of the ability to empty the bladder and development of hypersensitivity to mechanical stimulation. The Harlan substrain did not show any signs of hypersensitivity in contrast to the Scanbur and Charles River substrains, which both showed transient reduction in paw withdrawal thresholds. Lastly, we found histological differences possibly explaining the observed behavioral differences. We conclude that in spite of being the same strain, there might be genetic differences that can influence outcome measures in experimental studies of spinal cord injury of Sprague-Dawley rats from different vendors.







As prominently highlighted by Charles Darwin, music is one of the most mysterious aspects of human nature. Despite its ubiquitous presence across cultures and throughout recorded history, the reason humans respond emotionally to music remains unknown. Although many scientists and philosophers have offered hypotheses, there is little direct empirical evidence for any perspective. Here we address this issue, providing data which support the idea that music evolved in service of group living. Using 7 studies, we demonstrate that people's emotional responses to music are intricately tied to the other core social phenomena that bind us together into groups. In sum, this work establishes human musicality as a special form of social cognition and provides the first direct support for the hypothesis that music evolved as a tool of social living. In addition, the findings provide a reason for the intense psychological pull of music in modern life, suggesting that the pleasure we derive from listening to music results from its innate connection to the basic social drives that create our interconnected world.
Dopamine D3 receptor (D3R)-selective compounds may be useful medications for cocaine dependence. In this study, we identified two novel arylamide phenylpiperazines, OS-3-106 and WW-III-55, as partial agonists at the D3R in the adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay. OS-3-106 and WW-III-55 have 115- and 862-fold D3R:D2 receptor (D2R) binding selectivity, respectively. We investigated their effects (0, 3, 5.6, or 10 mg/kg) on operant responding by using a multiple variable-interval (VI) 60-second schedule that alternated components with sucrose reinforcement and components with intravenous cocaine reinforcement (0.375 mg/kg). Additionally, we evaluated the effect of OS-3-106 (10 mg/kg) on the dose-response function of cocaine self-administration and the effect of WW-III-55 (0-5.6 mg/kg) on a progressive ratio schedule with either cocaine or sucrose reinforcement. Both compounds were also examined for effects on locomotion and yawning induced by a D3R agonist. OS-3-106 decreased cocaine and sucrose reinforcement rates, increased latency to first response for cocaine but not sucrose, and downshifted the cocaine self-administration dose-response function. WW-III-55 did not affect cocaine self-administration on the multiple-variable interval schedule, but it reduced cocaine and sucrose intake on the progressive ratio schedule. Both compounds reduced locomotion at doses that reduced responding, and both compounds attenuated yawning induced by low doses of 7-OH-DPAT (a D3R-mediated behavior), but neither affected yawning on the descending limb of the 7-OH-DPAT dose-response function (a D2R-mediated behavior). Therefore, both compounds blocked a D3R-mediated behavior. However, OS-3-106 was more effective in reducing cocaine self-administration. These findings support D3Rs, and possibly D2Rs, as targets for medications aimed at reducing the motivation to seek cocaine.
Impaired transmission through glutamatergic circuits has been postulated to play a role in the underlying pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Furthermore, inhibition of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of ionotropic glutamate receptors (NMDAR) induces a syndrome that recapitulates many of the symptoms observed in patients with schizophrenia. Selective activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) may provide a novel therapeutic approach for treatment of symptoms associated with schizophrenia through facilitation of transmission through central glutamatergic circuits. Here, we describe the characterization of two novel N-aryl piperazine mGlu5 positive allosteric modulators (PAMs): 2-(4-(2-(benzyloxy)acetyl)piperazin-1-yl)benzonitrile (VU0364289) and 1-(4-(2,4-difluorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)-2-((4-fluorobenzyl)oxy)ethanone (DPFE). VU0364289 and DPFE induced robust leftward shifts in the glutamate concentration-response curves for Ca(2+) mobilization and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 phosphorylation. Both PAMs displayed micromolar affinity for the common mGlu5 allosteric binding site and high selectivity for mGlu5. VU0364289 and DPFE possessed suitable pharmacokinetic properties for dosing in vivo and produced robust dose-related effects in reversing amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, a preclinical model predictive of antipsychotic-like activity. In addition, DPFE enhanced acquisition of contextual fear conditioning in rats and reversed behavioral deficits in a mouse model of NMDAR hypofunction. In contrast, DPFE had no effect on reversing apomorphine-induced disruptions of prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex. These mGlu5 PAMs also increased monoamine levels in the prefrontal cortex, enhanced performance in a hippocampal-mediated memory task, and elicited changes in electroencephalogram dynamics commensurate with procognitive effects. Collectively, these data support and extend the role for the development of novel mGlu5 PAMs for the treatment of psychosis and cognitive deficits observed in individuals with schizophrenia.
The effects of alcohol monoterpene menthol, a major active ingredient of the peppermint plant, were tested on the function of human 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. 5-HT (1 M)-evoked currents recorded by two-electrode voltage-clamp technique were reversibly inhibited by menthol in a concentration-dependent (IC50 = 163 M) manner. The effects of menthol developed gradually, reaching a steady-state level within 10-15 minutes and did not involve G-proteins, since GTPS activity remained unaltered and the effect of menthol was not sensitive to pertussis toxin pretreatment. The actions of menthol were not stereoselective as (-), (+), and racemic menthol inhibited 5-HT3 receptor-mediated currents to the same extent. Menthol inhibition was not altered by intracellular 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid injections and transmembrane potential changes. The maximum inhibition observed for menthol was not reversed by increasing concentrations of 5-HT. Furthermore, specific binding of the 5-HT3 antagonist [(3)H]GR65630 was not altered in the presence of menthol (up to 1 mM), indicating that menthol acts as a noncompetitive antagonist of the 5-HT3 receptor. Finally, 5-HT3 receptor-mediated currents in acutely dissociated nodose ganglion neurons were also inhibited by menthol (100 M). These data demonstrate that menthol, at pharmacologically relevant concentrations, is an allosteric inhibitor of 5-HT3 receptors.

These studies investigate the relationships between perfusion pressure, force output and pressor responses for the contracting human tibialis anterior muscle. Eight healthy adults were studied. Changing the height of tibialis anterior relative to the heart was used to control local perfusion pressure. Electrically stimulated tetanic force output was highly sensitive to physiological variations in perfusion pressure showing a proportionate change in force output of 6.5% per 10 mmHg. This perfusion-dependent change in contractility begins within seconds and is reversible with a 53 s time constant, demonstrating a steady-state equilibrium between contractility and perfusion pressure. These stimulated contractions did not produce significant cardiovascular responses, indicating that the muscle pressor response does not play a major role in cardiovascular regulation at these workloads. Voluntary contractions at forces that would require constant motor drive if perfusion pressure had remained constant generated a central pressor response when perfusion pressure was lowered. This is consistent with a larger cortical drive being required to compensate for the lost contractility with lower perfusion pressure. The relationship between contractility and perfusion for this large postural muscle was not different from that of a small hand muscle (adductor pollicis) and it responded similarly to passive peripheral and active central changes in arterial pressure, but extended over a wider operating range of pressures. If we consider that, in a goal-oriented motor task, muscle contractility determines central motor output and the central pressor response, these results indicate that muscle would fatigue twice as fast without a pressor response. From its extent, timing and reversibility we propose a testable hypothesis that this change in contractility arises through contraction- and perfusion-dependent changes in interstitial K(+) concentration.
The intra-cortical local field potential (LFP) reflects a variety of electrophysiological processes including synaptic inputs to neurons and their spiking activity. It is still a common assumption that removing high frequencies, often above 300 Hz, is sufficient to exclude spiking activity from LFP activity prior to analysis. Conclusions based on such supposedly spike-free LFPs can result in false interpretations of neurophysiological processes and erroneous correlations between LFPs and behaviour or spiking activity. Such findings might simply arise from spike contamination rather than from genuine changes in synaptic input activity. Although the subject of recent studies, the extent of LFP contamination by spikes is unclear, and the fundamental problem remains. Using spikes recorded in the motor cortex of the awake monkey, we investigated how different factors, including spike amplitude, duration and firing rate, together with the noise statistic, can determine the extent to which spikes contaminate intra-cortical LFPs. We demonstrate that such contamination is realistic for LFPs with a frequency down to 10 Hz. For LFP activity below 10 Hz, such as movement-related potential, contamination is theoretically possible but unlikely in real situations. Importantly, LFP frequencies up to the (high-) gamma band can remain unaffected. This study shows that spike-LFP crosstalk in intra-cortical recordings should be assessed for each individual dataset to ensure that conclusions based on LFP analysis are valid. To this end, we introduce a method to detect and to visualise spike contamination, and provide a systematic guide to assess spike contamination of intra-cortical LFPs.
During normal viewing, the continuous stream of visual input is regularly interrupted, for instance by blinks of the eye. Despite these frequents blanks (that is the transient absence of a raw sensory source), the visual system is most often able to maintain a continuous representation of motion. For instance, it maintains the movement of the eye such as to stabilize the image of an object. This ability suggests the existence of a generic neural mechanism of motion extrapolation to deal with fragmented inputs. In this paper, we have modeled how the visual system may extrapolate the trajectory of an object during a blank using motion-based prediction. This implies that using a prior on the coherency of motion, the system may integrate previous motion information even in the absence of a stimulus. In order to compare with experimental results, we simulated tracking velocity responses. We found that the response of the motion integration process to a blanked trajectory pauses at the onset of the blank, but that it quickly recovers the information on the trajectory after reappearance. This is compatible with behavioral and neural observations on motion extrapolation. To understand these mechanisms, we have recorded the response of the model to a noisy stimulus. Crucially, we found that motion-based prediction acted at the global level as a gain control mechanism and that we could switch from a smooth regime to a binary tracking behavior where the dot is tracked or lost. Our results imply that a local prior implementing motion-based prediction is sufficient to explain a large range of neural and behavioral results at a more global level. We show that the tracking behavior deteriorates for sensory noise levels higher than a certain value, where motion coherency and predictability fail to hold longer. In particular, we found that motion-based prediction leads to the emergence of a tracking behavior only when enough information from the trajectory has been accumulated. Then, during tracking, trajectory estimation is robust to blanks even in the presence of relatively high levels of noise. Moreover, we found that tracking is necessary for motion extrapolation, this calls for further experimental work exploring the role of noise in motion extrapolation.
Melatonin limits obesity in rodents without affecting food intake and activity, suggesting a thermogenic effect. Identification of brown fat (beige/brite) in white adipose tissue (WAT) prompted us to investigate whether melatonin is a brown-fat inducer. We used Zcker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, a model of obesity-related type 2 diabetes and a strain in which melatonin reduces obesity and improves their metabolic profiles. At 5wk of age, ZDF rats and lean littermates (ZL) were subdivided into two groups, each composed of four rats: control and those treated with oral melatonin in the drinking water (10mg/kg/day) for 6wk. Melatonin induced browning of inguinal WAT in both ZDF and ZL rats. Hematoxylin-eosin staining showed patches of brown-like adipocytes in inguinal WAT in ZDF rats and also increased the amounts in ZL animals. Inguinal skin temperature was similar in untreated lean and obese rats. Melatonin increased inguinal temperature by 1.360.02C in ZL and by 0.550.04C in ZDF rats and sensitized the thermogenic effect of acute cold exposure in both groups. Melatonin increased the amounts of thermogenic proteins, uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) (by ~2-fold, P&lt;0.01) and PGC-1 (by 25%, P&lt;0.05) in extracts from beige inguinal areas in ZL rats. Melatonin also induced measurable amounts of UCP1 and stimulated by ~2-fold the levels of PGC-1 in ZDF animals. Locomotor activity and circulating irisin levels were not affected by melatonin. These results demonstrate that chronic oral melatonin drives WAT into a brown-fat-like function in ZDF rats. This may contribute to melatonin's control of body weight and its metabolic benefits.
The aim of this study was to further explore the properties of axis IV in the Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV). In a naturalistic cross-sectional design, a group (n = 163) of young (18-25 years old) Swedish psychiatric outpatients was assessed according to DSM-IV. Psychosocial and environmental problems/axis IV were evaluated through structured interviewing by a social worker and by self-assessment on a questionnaire. Reliability between professional assessment and self-assessment of axis IV was examined. Concurrent validity of axis IV was also examined. Reliability between professional and self-assessed axis IV was fair to almost perfect, 0.31-0.83, according to prevalence and bias-adjusted kappa. Categories of psychosocial stress and environmental problems were related to the presence of axis I disorders, co-morbidity, personality disorders and decreasing Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) values. The revised axis IV according to DSM-IV seems to have concurrent validity, but is still hampered by limited reliability.
Accumulating data suggest a causative link between immune stimulation, disturbed metabolism of tryptophan, and pathogenesis of bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. The goal of this study was to examine the production of kynurenic acid (KYNA), 3-hydroxykynurenine (3-HK) and the expression of kynurenine pathway enzymes involved in their synthesis and metabolism in cultured skin fibroblasts obtained from patients with bipolar disorder, schizophrenia or from healthy control individuals. The assessment was performed under basal conditions or following treatment with interferon (IFN)-, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-, interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, or their combinations, in cells exposed to exogenous kynurenine. In both groups of patients, the baseline production of KYNA and 3-HK was increased, as compared to control subjects. Case-treatment analyses revealed significant interactions between bipolar case status and IL-1, IL-6, IFN- + TNF-, or IFN- + IL-1, as well as between schizophrenia case status and IL-1, IFN- + TNF-, or IFN- + IL-1, in terms of higher 3-HK. Noteworthy, no case-treatment interactions in terms of KYNA production were found. Observed changes did not appear to correlate with the expression of genes encoding kynurenine aminotransferases (KATs), kynureninase (KYNU) or kynurenine-3-monooxygenase (KMO). The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs1053230 and rs2275163, in KMO influenced KYNA levels yet did not explain the case-treatment discrepancies. In conclusion, our present findings indicate the utility of skin-derived fibroblasts for kynurenines research and support the concept of kynurenine pathway alterations in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. The increase in ratio between neurotoxic 3-HK and neuroinhibitory/neuroprotective KYNA following exposure to cytokines may account for altered neurogenesis and structural abnormalities characteristic for both diseases.
Schizophrenia (SC) is marked by poor social-role performance and social-skill deficits that are well reflected in daily conversation. Although the mechanism underlying these impairments has been investigated by functional neuroimaging, technical limitations have prevented the investigation of brain activation during conversation in typical clinical situations. To fill this research gap, this study investigated and compared frontal and temporal lobe activation in patients with SC during face-to-face conversation. Frontal and temporal lobe activation in 29 patients and 31 normal controls (NC) (n = 60) were measured during 180-s conversation periods by using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The grand average values of oxyhemoglobin concentration ([oxy-Hb]) changes during task performance were analyzed to determine their correlation with clinical variables and Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) subscores. Compared to NCs, patients with SC exhibited decreased performance in the conversation task and decreased activation in both the temporal lobes and the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) during task performance, as indicated by the grand average of [oxy-Hb] changes. The decreased activation in the left temporal lobe was negatively correlated with the PANSS disorganization and negative symptoms subscores and that in the right IFG was negatively correlated with illness duration, PANSS disorganization, and negative symptom subscores. These findings indicate that brain dysfunction in SC during conversation is related to functional deficits in both the temporal lobes and the right IFG and manifests primarily in the form of disorganized thinking and negative symptomatology.

Genetic variants as well as increased serum levels of the neurotrophic factor S100B are associated with different psychiatric disorders. However, elevated S100B levels are also related to a better therapeutic outcome in psychiatric patients. The functional role of elevated S100B in psychiatric disorders is still unclear. Hence, this study was designed in order to elucidate the differential effects of S100B overexpression in interaction with chronic social stress during adolescence on emotional behavior and adult neurogenesis. S100B transgenic and wild-type mice were housed either in socially stable or unstable environments during adolescence, between postnatal days 28 and 77. In adulthood, anxiety-related behavior in the open field, dark-light, and novelty-induced suppression of feeding test as well as survival of proliferating hippocampal progenitor cells were assessed. S100B transgenic mice revealed significantly reduced anxiety-related behavior in the open field compared to wild-types when reared in stable social conditions. In contrast, when transgenic mice grew up in unstable social conditions, their level of anxiety-related behavior was comparable to the levels of wild-type mice. In addition, S100B overexpressing mice from unstable housing conditions displayed higher numbers of surviving newborn cells in the adult hippocampus which developed into mature neurons. In conclusion, elevated S100B levels increase the susceptibility to environmental stimuli during adolescence resulting in more variable behavioral and neural phenotypes in adulthood. In humans, this increased plasticity might lead to both, enhanced risk for psychiatric disorders in negative environments and improved therapeutic outcome in positive environments.
A number of studies have implicated disruptions in prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle response in both schizophrenia patients and animal models of this disorder. These disruptions are believed to reflect deficits in sensorimotor gating and are ascribed to aberrant filtering of sensory inputs leading to sensory overload and enhanced &quot;noise&quot; in neural structures. Here we examined auditory evoked potentials in a rodent model of schizophrenia (MAM-GD17) during an auditory PPI paradigm to better understand this phenomenon. MAM rats exhibited reductions in specific components of auditory evoked potentials in the orbitofrontal cortex and an abolition of the graded response to stimuli of differing intensities indicating deficient intensity processing in the orbitofrontal cortex. These data indicate that aberrant sensory information processing, rather than being attributable to enhanced noise in neural structures, may be better attributed to diminished evoked amplitudes resulting in a reduction in the &quot;signal-to-noise&quot; ratio. Therefore, the ability for sensory input to modulate the ongoing background activity may be severely disrupted in schizophrenia yielding an internal state which is insufficiently responsive to external input.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is a common genetic risk factor for the development of schizophrenia. We investigated two neurophysiological endophenotypes of schizophrenia - P50 sensory gating and mismatch negativity in 22q11.2DS subject and evaluated their association with catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) and proline dehydrogenase (PRODH) genetic variants. We also assessed the association of neurophysiological measures with schizophrenia-like symptomatology in 22q11.2DS. Fifty-nine subjects, 41 with 22q11.2DS and 18 typically developing controls, participated in the study. The participants with 22q11.2DS were genotyped for the COMT Val(158)Met (rs4680) and PRODH Gln(19)Pro (rs2008720) and Arg(185)Trp (rs4819756) polymorphisms. Following psychiatric evaluation, all the participants underwent neurophysiological recordings and executive function assessment. The 22q11.2DS group showed poorer sensory gating of the P50 response than the controls. Within the 22q11.2DS group, the COMT Met allele was associated with poorer sensory gating, while both the COMT Met allele and the PRODH Pro-Arg haplotype were associated with smaller mismatch negativity amplitudes. Smaller mismatch negativity amplitudes predicted greater impairment of executive functions and greater severity of schizophrenia-like negative symptoms in 22q11.2DS. The current study demonstrates that sensory gating impairments that are typical of schizophrenia are found in 22q11.2DS subjects. Our results further suggest that COMT and PRODH genetic variations contribute to sensory gating and mismatch negativity schizophrenia-like impairments in 22q11.2DS, possibly via dopaminergic/glutamatergic networks. The associations of mismatch negativity impairments with increased severity of schizophrenia-like negative symptoms and poorer executive functions performance in our 22q11.2DS sample suggest that mismatch negativity is a potential endophenotype for schizophrenia in 22q11.2DS.

Research on basic human motives (achievement, affiliation, and power) encoded at the emotional level recently returned to the forefront of scientific research. To date, there are only a few studies on the pattern of implicit motives of substance users, so the present study examined opiate users participating in methadone maintenance treatment (N = 80) along these dimensions, comparing them to 40 non-substance users. Participants were asked to create stories on the basis of the pictures of the Thematic Apperception Test. The stories were analyzed using the content analysis method of David Winter (1991). Like other substance user groups, opiate-dependent persons used less achievement and more affiliation notions in creating stories, while there was no significant difference between the two groups concerning power notions. The results proved to be independent of the presence of anxiety and depression symptoms, despite substance users reporting higher levels of these, and suggest that motivational factors are worth considering in treatment planning.






Glucocorticoids (GCs) have a significant role in the adaptive response of the brain to stress. Increasing evidence has demonstrated that an increase of GC levels may induce neuronal cell death via apoptotic pathways. There is a correlation between over-production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and an elevation in cytosolic calcium that causes a subsequent increase in the calcium-dependent death-process activation in GC-induced toxicity. Consequently, melatonin, via its antioxidant activity, exhibits a neuroprotective effect against apoptosis induced by intracellular calcium overload. Therefore, in the present study, we explored the protective effect of melatonin in GC-induced toxicity in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells. Cellular treatment with the synthetic GCs, dexamethasone (DEX), resulted in a marked decrease in cell viability and in the level of the calpain-inhibitor protein, calpastatin. DEX-induced toxicity also caused an increase in ROS production and the activation of the calcium-dependent cysteine protease, calpain, along with an increase in caspase-3 activation. Pretreatment of the cells with melatonin substantially prevented the decrease in cell viability, over-production of ROS and the activation of calpain and caspase-3, and reversed the depletion in calpastatin levels. These results suggest that melatonin may exert its protective effects against the calpain- and caspase-dependent death process in DEX-induced neurotoxicity.


A 32-year-old woman with infantile nephropathic cystinosis presented with cystinosis and recurrent ischemic stroke. The neuropathological description demonstrates that recurrent stroke was caused by intracranial stenosis and showed evidence of cystinosis brain involvement. There are few reports of cerebrovascular disease in patients with longstanding nephropathic cystinosis. This case reinforces that cerebrovascular disease can be a cause of neurological impairment and disability in patients with longstanding nephropathic cystinosis, with implications on primary stroke prevention strategies in these patients.






The frequency of cognitive dysfunction among community stroke survivors (SS) is not known in India. This prospective study investigated the prevalence of poststroke mild cognitive impairment (psMCI) and poststroke dementia (psDem), the annual progression rate to dementia, and pertinent risk factors in a sample population of SS in Kolkata, India between September 2006 and July 2010. From a community-based stroke registry, 281 SS were assessed at baseline year after excluding attrition due to various causes. Validated cognitive tools were applied by trained field workers under supervision of a neuropsychologist. The assessment was repeated annually for consecutive three years. The mean follow-up period was 1.89 years (range, 1-3 years). The period prevalence rate of psDem was 13.88% (95% confidence interval [CI], 9.91%-18.90%) at baseline, and the average annual progression rate to dementia was 3.53% (95% CI, 2.09%-5.58%). Compared with subjects without dementia, those with psDem were significantly older at first-ever stroke and more likely to have cortical atrophy. The period prevalence rate of psMCI was 6.05% (95% CI, 1.45%-13.64%) at baseline, and 10.6% (95% CI, 4.57%-20.88%) of these subjects converted to psDem annually. Survival analysis of psDem patients showed a greater risk of death in psDem SS as compared to nondemented SS (hazard ratio, 2.65; 95% CI, 1.72-6.15). Our data suggest that the overall prevalence of psDem is higher than that of psMCI, possibly related to nonexclusion of prestroke dementia, but that the average annual progression rate of SS to psDem and that of psMCI to psDem are comparable. Older age at first-ever stroke and cortical atrophy are associated with increased risk for dementia among SS.
Treatment of cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains a major therapeutic challenge. Systemic drug administration is the current treatment of choice, but patients often do not respond beneficially to this approach. Intrathecal (IT) drug administration has several anatomic and pharmacodynamic advantages over conventional systemic treatment of cerebral vasospasm. We reviewed the most recent literature describing IT administration of several drugs to treat aneurysm-induced SAH and cerebral vasospasm, including 16 clinical trials using IT fibrinolytic agents and 10 trials using several IT vasodilators. We evaluated the safety and effectiveness of these trials but made no attempt to perform a meta-analysis using these data. IT drug administration of fibrinolytic agents and vasodilators caused lysis of the subarachnoid clot burden and diminished cerebral vasospasm, respectively. The studies reviewed reported a wide range of drug doses, intervals between aneurysm hemorrhage and initiation of treatment, success of clot dissolution, and degree of vasodilation of vessels in vasospasm. Treatment of vasospasm by IT drug administration is safe and largely effective after the aneurysm has been secured. Our findings indicate that IT treatment effectively delivers a higher drug concentration to vessels in vasospasm with minimal systemic effects. Drugs administered by this route are reported to lyse subarachnoid clots, attenuate cerebral vasospasm, improve clinical outcomes, and decrease the incidence of hydrocephalus. With greater understanding of drug pharmacodynamics, the IT route of drug administration may provide a rational, alternative approach to treating aneurysm-induced cerebral vasospasm.
Elevated blood pressure is common in patients with acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). American Heart Association guidelines do not specify a blood pressure target, but limited data suggest that systolic blood pressure (SBP)160 mmHg is associated with increased risk of rebleeding and neurologic decline. In a population-based study, we determined the frequency of antihypertensive therapy in emergency department (ED) patients with SAH and the proportion of those patients with SBP160 mmHg who received this therapy. In 2005, nontraumatic SAH cases were retrospectively ascertained at 16 hospitals in our region by screening for International Classification of Diseases Ninth Revision diagnostic codes 430-436. Blood pressure was recorded at ED presentation and also before and after any treatment with antihypertensives. Hypotension was defined as SBP&lt;100 mmHg. The Mann-Whitney U test and 2 test were used for comparisons. Our cohort comprised 82 patients with SAH presenting to an ED; 4 patients were excluded. The median age of the included patients was 54 years, 74.4% were female, 29.5% were black, and 31 (39.7%) had SBP160 mmHg. Antihypertensive therapy was given to 22 of 31 patients (70.9%) with SBP160 mmHg and to 4 of 47 patients (8.5%) with SBP&lt;160 mmHg. No patients became hypotensive after receiving treatment. Age, sex, Glascow Coma Scale score, and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score were similar between treated and untreated patients. In the absence of definitive evidence, current blood pressure management in local EDs appears reasonable. Further studies of blood pressure management in acute SAH are warranted.






Intracranial atherosclerosis is one of the most common causes of stroke worldwide and is associated with a high risk of recurrent stroke. New therapeutic approaches to treat this high-risk disease include dual antiplatelet treatment, intensive management of risk factors, and endovascular therapy. Early data from randomised trials indicate that aggressive medical therapy is better than stenting for prevention of recurrent stroke in high-risk patients with atherosclerotic stenosis of a major intracranial artery. Nevertheless, there are subgroups of patients who remain at high risk of stroke despite aggressive medical therapy. Further research is needed to identify these high-risk subgroups and to develop more effective treatments. Non-invasive vascular imaging methods that could be used to identify high-risk patients include fractional flow on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), quantitative MRA, and high-resolution MRI of the atherosclerotic plaque. Alternative therapies to consider for future clinical trials include angioplasty alone, indirect surgical bypass procedures, ischaemic preconditioning, and new anticoagulants (direct thrombin or Xa inhibitors).



Brain banks are used to gather, store, and provide human brain tissue for research and have been fundamental to improving our knowledge of the brain in health and disease. To maintain this role, the legal and ethical issues relevant to the operations of brain banks need to be more widely understood. In recent years, researchers have reported that shortages of high-quality brain tissue samples from both healthy and diseased people have impaired their efforts. Closer collaborations between brain banks and improved strategies for brain donation programmes will be essential to overcome these problems as the demand for brain tissue increases and new research techniques become more widespread, with the potential for substantial scientific advances in increasingly common neurological disorders.
Despite widespread application to human imaging, voxel-based morphometry (VBM), where images are compared following grey matter (GM) segmentation, is seldom used in mice. Here VBM is performed for the R6/2 model of Huntington's disease, a progressive neurological disorder. This article discusses issues in translating the methods to mice and shows that its statistical basis is sound in mice as it is in human studies. Whole brain images from live transgenic and control mice are segmented into GM maps after processing and compared to produce statistical parametric maps of likely differences. To assess whether false positives were likely to occur, a large cohort of ex vivo magnetic resonance brain images were sampled with permutation testing. Differences were seen particularly in the striatum and cortex, in line with studies performed ex vivo and as seen in human patients. In validation, the rate of false positives is as expected and these have no discernible distribution through the brain. The study shows that VBM successfully detects differences in the Huntington's disease mouse brain. The method is rapid compared to manual delineation and reliable. The templates created here for the mouse brain are freely released for other users in addition to an open-source software toolbox for performing mouse VBM.
Stroke is an important cause of death and disability. However, about two thirds of cerebrovascular events are initially minor. They carry a high risk of potentially severe recurrent events, but they also offer an opportunity for secondary prevention to avoid such recurrences. As most recurrent events occur within a short time after the initial presentation, secondary prevention has to be started as soon as possible. Dramatic risk reduction can be achieved with well-established drugs if used in a timely manner. A standard secondary preventive regimen will address multiple vascular risk factors and will usually consist of an antiplatelet agent, a lipid lowering drug, and an antihypertensive agent. Depending on the risk factor profile of each patient, this will have to be adjusted individually, for example, taking into account the presence of cardioembolism or of stenotic disease of the brain-supplying arteries. In recent years, the approach to treating these risk factors has evolved. In addition to absolute blood pressure, blood pressure variability has emerged as an important contributing factor to stroke risk, which is affected differently by different antihypertensive agents. New oral anticoagulants reduce the risk of cerebral haemorrhage and the need for regular blood checks. The best antiplatelet regimen for stroke prevention is still uncertain, and treatment of dyslipidaemia may change if trials with cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitors, which increase levels of HDL-cholesterol, are successful. This article reviews the current evidence for drug treatments in the secondary prevention of ischaemic stroke.

Although problem crying in the first three to four months of life is usually self-limiting, it is not a trivial condition. Early intervention is important, yet families receive conflicting advice from health professionals. The past decade has seen significant advances in neuroscience, lactation science, and developmental psychology, including new insights into the significance of developmentally sensitive windows. We propose a neurobiological model to explain the mechanisms of cry-fuss problems in the first months of life, and the mechanisms which underlie effective intervention, with a view to facilitating research collaboration and consistency of advice across health disciplines. We hypothesise that crying in the first three to four neurodevelopmentally sensitive months signals activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and adrenergic neuronal circuitry in response to perceptions of discomfort or threat. Susceptible infants may be conditioned by early stress, for example, by unidentified feeding difficulties, into a sensitised stress response, which usually settles at three to four months of age with neurodevelopmental maturity. Bouts of prolonged and unsoothable crying result from positive feedback loops in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal and adrenergic systems. Importantly, epigenetic modulation of the infant's limbic neuronal circuitry may explain correlations between regulatory problems in the first months of life, and behavioural problems including feeding problems in later childhood.
The United States has a high rate of child maltreatment, with nearly 12 in 1000 children being victims of abuse or neglect. Child abuse strongly predicts negative life outcomes, especially in areas of emotional and mental health. Abused children are also more likely than their peers to engage in violence and enter the juvenile justice system, as well as to become abusive parents themselves. Research has shown that child abuse and trauma can lead to decreased hippocampal volume, which could be indicative of abnormal hippocampal development. Hippocampal development appears to directly affect the development of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a brain area responsible for emotion regulation, cognitive reappraisal, and general executive function. Therefore, I hypothesize that if child abuse results in abnormal hippocampal development, which leads to abnormal dorsolateral prefrontal cortex development, many of the correlated risk factors of child abuse, such as emotionally-laden parenting and unfavorable cognitive distortions regarding children's behaviors, may be in part caused by underdevelopment or abnormal functioning of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, as a function of the individual's own experiences with abuse during childhood. If this hypothesis is supported with future research, more targeted, successful, and cost-effective prevention and treatment protocols could ensue. For instance, programs that have been empirically shown to increase the activity of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, could be effective in decreasing the incidence of intergenerational transfer of abuse.
It is general accepted, that nerval excitement and conduction is caused by voltage changes. However, the influx of fluid into an elastical tube releases impulses or pressure waves. Therefore an influx of ion currents, respectively fluid motions into the elastic neuronal cells and fibres also induce impulses. This motion of charge carriers are measured by voltage devices as oscillations or action potentials, but the voltage changes may be an epiphenomenon of the (mechanical) impulses. Impulse waves can have a high speed. As stiffer or inelastic a tube wall, the greater is the speed of the impulse. Myelin sheaths cause a significant stiffening of the nerve fibre wall and myelinated fibres have a conduction velocity up to 120 m/s. The influx of fluid at the nodes of Ranvier intensifies periodically the impulse wave in the nerve fibres. The authors suggest that also the muscle end-plate acts as a conductor of axonal impulses to the inner of the muscle fibres and that the exocytosis of acetylcholine into the synaptic cleft may be an amplifier of the axonal impulse. It is discussed that intracellular actin filaments may also influence motions at the neuronal membrane. Many sensory nerve cells are excited due to exogenous or endogenous mechanical impulses. It may plausible that such impulses are conducted directly to the sensory nerve cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglia without the transformation in electric energy. Excitation conduction happens without noteworthy energy consumption because the flow of ion currents through the membranes takes place equivalent to the concentration gradient. Impulse waves cause short extensions of the lipid membranes of the cell- and fibres walls and therefore they can induce opening and closing of the included ion channels. This mechanism acts to &quot;voltage gated&quot; and &quot;ligand-gated&quot; channels likewise. The concept of neuronal impulses can be helpful to the understanding of other points of neurophysiology or neuronal diseases. This includes e.g., the brain concussion and pathohistological findings in Alzheimer dementia. To verify the concept of (mechanical) impulses in the nervous system it is necessary to carry out biophysical or mechanical investigations in very small dimensions and the authors hope to give for this a sufficient stimulus.
In France, cognitive science (e.g., eye-tracking) and neuroscience (e.g., functional neuroimaging) are not used to develop and test anti-tobacco strategies. The newly found knowledge in behavioral and brain sciences could provide valuable insights in the understanding of attentional, emotional, memorization and decision-making processes at play when tobacco addicts are exposed to prevention messages. We argue that neuroscientific methods should be used in the fight against tobacco to better design and evaluate the impact of measures such as combined text and graphic (shock) warnings, neutral packets and support to people who want to stop smoking.


Berberine is an isoquinoline alkaloid with anti-diabetic properties. Despite the central role of liver and thus hepatic mitochondria in whole-body metabolism, berberine effects on hepatic mitochondrial function in an obesity model are still unknown. Here, we demonstrate that berberine treatment recovers mitochondrial efficiency when altered by a high-fat feeding. Mitochondria isolated from the liver of high-fat fed rats exhibited decreased capacity to accumulate calcium and impaired oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) capacity, as shown by impaired mitochondrial membrane potential, oxygen consumption and cellular ATP levels. Interestingly, the recovery of mitochondrial function by berberine was associated with an increased activity of the mitochondrial sirtuin 3 (SirT3). In conclusion, berberine potent protective effects against metabolic syndrome may rely on increasing mitochondrial SirT3 activity, normalizing mitochondrial function and preventing a state of energetic deficit caused by impaired OXPHOS.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis. We analyzed the activity of mitochondrial complexes (Cx) I-IV, protein levels of selected Cx subunits and adenine nucleotides in platelet mitochondria from pre-symptomatic versus symptomatic HD human carriers and age-matched control individuals. Mitochondrial platelets exhibited reduced activity of citrate synthase in pre-symptomatic and Cx-I in pre-symptomatic and symptomatic HD carriers. Positive correlation between Cx activity and protein subunits was observed for Cx-I in symptomatic HD patient's mitochondria. Moreover, AMP increased in mitochondria from pre-symptomatic HD carriers. Results highlight mitochondrial changes occurring before the onset of HD clinical symptoms.
Lohith et al. (Mol Autism 4:15, 2013) recently identified increased metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) expression in the frontal cortex (FC) of subjects with fragile X syndrome. These results are consistent with postmortem findings in cerebellar vermis and FC of subjects with autism (Fatemi and Folsom, Mol Autism 2:6, 2011; Fatemi et al. Anat Rec 294:1635-1645, 2011), suggesting that increased mGluR5 signaling is common to multiple autism spectrum disorders. Increased mGluR5 signaling may be associated with reduced phosphorylation of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), which could result in the inactivation of this protein. In the current study, we report on reduced expression of phosphorylated FMRP in cerebellar vermis of adults and children with autism and in FC of adults with autism.
The present study was designed to evaluate whether microRNA-146a and its adapter proteins (TRAF6 and IRAK1) are involved in the pathogenesis of diabetes-induced kidney damage. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control and diabetic groups (n = 6 in each). Diabetes was induced by injection of streptozotocin (55 mg/kg; i.p.) in 12 h fasted rats. Diabetic kidney damage was diagnosed by renal hypertrophy, thickened glomerular basement membrane, widened filtration slits, mesangial expansion, as well as by elevated levels of blood urea and creatinine in diabetic rats 2 months after induction of diabetes. While the expression of NF-B mRNA and miR-146a were increased in diabetic kidney compared to the sham controls (p &lt; 0.01 for both comparisons), the mRNA levels of IRAK1 and TRAF6 did not statistically reduce. The NF-B activity and the concentrations of TNF-, IL-6 and IL-1 in the kidney of diabetic rats were higher than the kidney of controls (p &lt; 0.05 for TNF- and NF-B; p &lt; 0.01 for IL-6 and IL-1). Our results indicate that the upregulation of miR-146a was not accompanied by downregulation of inflammatory mediators in diabetic kidney. It is possible that a defect in the miR-146a-mediated negative loop provides a situation for sustained activation of NF-B and its targets to promote cells toward abnormalities.
Brain disturbances, like injuries or aberrant protein deposits, evoke nucleotide release or leakage from cells, leading to microglial chemotaxis and ingestion. Recent studies have identified P2Y12 purinergic receptors as triggers for microglial chemotaxis and P2Y6 receptors as mediators for phagocytosis. However, pinocytosis, known as the internalization of fluid-phase materials, has received much less attention. We found that ATP efficiently triggered pinocytosis in microglia. Pharmacological analysis and knockdown experiments demonstrated the involvement of P2Y4 receptors and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt cascade in the nucleotide-induced pinocytosis. Further evidence indicated that soluble amyloid beta peptide 1-42 induced self-uptake in microglia through pinocytosis, a process involving activation of P2Y4 receptors by autocrine ATP signaling. Our results demonstrate a previously unknown function of ATP as a &quot;drink me&quot; signal for microglia and P2Y4 receptors as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
In this study, we assayed the capability of four genes implicated in embryonic specification of the cortico-cerebral field, Foxg1, Pax6, Emx2 and Lhx2, to reprogramme mouse embryonic fibroblasts towards neural identities. Lentivirus-mediated, TetON-dependent overexpression of Pax6 and Foxg1 transgenes specifically activated the neural stem cell (NSC) reporter Sox1-EGFP in a substantial fraction of engineered cells. The efficiency of this process was enhanced up to ten times by simultaneous inactivation of Trp53 and co-administration of a specific drug mix inhibiting HDACs, H3K27-HMTase and H3K4m2-demethylase. Remarkably, a fraction of the reprogrammed population expressed other NSC markers and retained its new identity, even after switching off the reprogramming transgenes. When transferred into a pro-differentiative environment, Pax6/Foxg1-overexpressing cells activated the neuronal marker Tau-EGFP. Frequency of Tau-EGFP positive cells was almost doubled upon delayed delivery of Emx2 and Lhx2 transgenes. A further improvement of the neuron-like cell output was achieved by inhibition of the BMP and TGF pathways. Tau-EGFP positive cells were able to generate action potentials upon injection of depolarizing current pulses, further indicating their neuron-like phenotype.
In the adult central nervous system (CNS) subsets of neurons are enwrapped by densely organized extracellular matrix structures, called perineuronal nets (PNNs). PNNs are formed at the end of critical periods and contribute to synapse stabilization. Enzymatic degradation of PNNs or genetic deletion of specific PNN components leads to the prolongation of the plasticity period. PNNs consist of extracellular matrix molecules, including chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, hyaluronan, tenascins and link proteins. It has been recently shown that the chemorepulsive axon guidance protein semaphorin3A (Sema3A) is also a constituent of PNNs, binding with high affinity to the sugar chains of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. To elucidate whether the expression of Sema3A is modified in parallel with structural plasticity in the adult CNS, we examined Sema3A expression in the deep cerebellar nuclei of the adult mouse in a number of conditions associated with structural reorganization of the local connectivity. We found that Sema3A in PNNs is reduced during enhanced neuritic remodeling, in both physiological and injury-induced conditions. Moreover, we provide evidence that Sema3A is tightly associated with Purkinje axons and their terminals and its amount in the PNNs is related to Purkinje cell innervation of DCN neurons, but not to glutamatergic inputs. On the whole these data suggest that Sema3A may contribute to the growth-inhibitory properties of PNNs and Purkinje neurons may directly control their specific connection pattern through the release and capture of this guidance cue in the specialized ECM that surrounds their terminals.
In utero injection of a retroviral vector into the embryonic telencephalon aided by ultrasound backscatter microscopy permits introduction of a gene of interest at an early stage of development. In this study, we compared the tissue distribution of gene expression in adult mice injected with retroviral vectors at different embryonic ages in utero. Following ultrasound image-guided gene delivery (UIGD) into the embryonic telencephalon, adult mice were subjected to whole-body luciferase imaging and immunohistochemical analysis at 6 weeks and 1 year postinjection. Luciferase activity was observed in a wide range of tissues in animals injected at embryonic age 9.5 (E9.5), whereas animals injected at E10.5 showed brain-localized reporter gene expression. These results suggest that mouse embryonic brain creates a closed and impermeable structure around E10. Therefore, by injecting a transgene before or after E10, transgene expression can be manipulated to be local or systemic. Our results also provide information that widens the applicability of UIGD beyond neuroscience studies.
K(v)7.4 channel subunits are expressed in central auditory pathways and in inner ear sensory hair cells and skeletal and smooth muscle cells. Openers of K(v)7.4 channels have been suggested to improve hearing loss, systemic or pulmonary arterial hypertension, urinary incontinence, gastrointestinal and neuropsychiatric diseases, and skeletal muscle disorders. Scorpion venoms are a large source of peptides active on K channels. Therefore, we have optimized a combined purification/screening procedure to identify specific modulator(s) of K(v)7.4 channels from the venom of the North African scorpion Androctonus australis (Aa). We report the isolation and functional characterization of AaTXK, a novel variant of AaTXK, in a high-performance liquid chromatography fraction from Aa venom (named P8), which acts as the first peptide activator of K(v)7.4 channels. In particular, in both Xenopus oocytes and mammalian Chinese hamster ovary cells, AaTXK, but not AaTXK, hyperpolarized the threshold voltage of current activation and increased the maximal currents of heterologously expressed K(v)7.4 channels. AaTXK also activated K(v)7.3, K(v)7.2/3, and K(v)7.5/3 channels, whereas homomeric K(v)1.1, K(v)7.1, and K(v)7.2 channels were unaffected. We anticipate that these results may prove useful in unraveling the novel biologic roles of AaTXK-sensitive K(v)7 channels and developing novel pharmacologic tools that allow subtype-selective targeting of K(v)7 channels.
Transmembrane protein with unknown function 16/anoctamin-1 (ANO1) is a protein widely expressed in mammalian tissues, and it has the properties of the classic calcium-activated chloride channel (CaCC). This protein has been implicated in numerous major physiological functions. However, the lack of effective and selective blockers has hindered a detailed study of the physiological functions of this channel. In this study, we have developed a potent and selective blocker for endogenous ANO1 in Xenopus laevis oocytes (xANO1) using a drug screening method we previously established (Oh et al., 2008). We have synthesized a number of anthranilic acid derivatives and have determined the correlation between biological activity and the nature and position of substituents in these derived compounds. A structure-activity relationship revealed novel chemical classes of xANO1 blockers. The derivatives contain a --NO group on position 5 of a naphthyl group-substituted anthranilic acid, and they fully blocked xANO1 chloride currents with an IC &lt; 10 M. The most potent blocker, N-((4-methoxy)-2-naphthyl)-5-nitroanthranilic acid (MONNA), had an IC of 0.08 M for xANO1. Selectivity tests revealed that other chloride channels such as bestrophin-1, chloride channel protein 2, and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator were not appreciably blocked by 1030 M MONNA. The potent and selective blockers for ANO1 identified here should permit pharmacological dissection of ANO1/CaCC function and serve as potential candidates for drug therapy of related diseases such as hypertension, cystic fibrosis, bronchitis, asthma, and hyperalgesia.

Schizophrenia patients exhibit increased hippocampal activity that is correlated with positive symptoms. Although the cause of this hippocampal hyperactivity has not been demonstrated, it likely involves a decrease in GABAergic signaling. Thus, we posit that restoring GABAergic function may provide a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of schizophrenia. It has been demonstrated that transplanted GABAergic precursor cells from the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) can migrate and differentiate into mature interneurons. Here, we demonstrate that ventral hippocampal MGE transplants can restore hippocampal function and normalize downstream dopamine neuron activity in a rodent model of schizophrenia. Furthermore, MGE transplants also reverse the hyper-responsive locomotor response to amphetamine. Taken together, these data demonstrate that restoring interneuron function reverses neurophysiological and behavioral deficits in a rodent model of schizophrenia and moreover, demonstrate the feasibility of a neuronal transplant procedure as a potential novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of schizophrenia.
The endogenous opioid system, which alleviates physical pain, is also known to regulate social distress and reward in animal models. To test this hypothesis in humans (n=18), we used an -opioid receptor (MOR) radiotracer to measure changes in MOR availability in vivo with positron emission tomography during social rejection (not being liked by others) and acceptance (being liked by others). Social rejection significantly activated the MOR system (i.e., reduced receptor availability relative to baseline) in the ventral striatum, amygdala, midline thalamus and periaqueductal gray (PAG). This pattern of activation is consistent with the hypothesis that the endogenous opioids have a role in reducing the experience of social pain. Greater trait resiliency was positively correlated with MOR activation during rejection in the amygdala, PAG and subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC), suggesting that MOR activation in these areas is protective or adaptive. In addition, MOR activation in the pregenual ACC was correlated with reduced negative affect during rejection. In contrast, social acceptance resulted in MOR activation in the amygdala and anterior insula, and MOR deactivation in the midline thalamus and sgACC. In the left ventral striatum, MOR activation during acceptance predicted a greater desire for social interaction, suggesting a role for the MOR system in social reward. The ventral striatum, amygdala, midline thalamus, PAG, anterior insula and ACC are rich in MORs and comprise a pathway by which social cues may influence mood and motivation. MOR regulation of this pathway may preserve and promote emotional well being in the social environment.
Recently discovered genome-wide rare copy number variants (CNVs) have unprecedented levels of statistical association with many developmental neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disability and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. However, as CNVs often include multiple genes, causal genes responsible for CNV-associated diagnoses and traits are still poorly understood. Mouse models of CNVs are in use to delve into the precise mechanisms through which CNVs contribute to disorders and associated traits. Based on human and mouse model studies on rare CNVs within human chromosome 22q11.2, we propose that alterations of a distinct set of multiple, noncontiguous genes encoded in this chromosomal region, in concert with modulatory impacts of genetic background and environmental factors, variably shift the probabilities of phenotypes along a predetermined developmental trajectory. This model can be further extended to the study of other CNVs and may serve as a guide to help characterize the impact of genes in developmental neuropsychiatric disorders.
Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) produces behavior in healthy people that is similar to the psychotic symptoms and cognitive deficits of schizophrenia and can exacerbate symptoms in people with schizophrenia. However, an endogenous brain disruption of NMDARs has not been clearly established in schizophrenia. We measured mRNA transcripts for five NMDAR subunit mRNAs and protein for the NR1 subunit in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) of schizophrenia and control (n=74) brains. Five NMDAR single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) previously associated with schizophrenia were tested for association with NMDAR mRNAs in postmortem brain and for association with cognitive ability in an antemortem cohort of 101 healthy controls and 48 people with schizophrenia. The NR1 subunit (mRNA and protein) and NR2C mRNA were decreased in postmortem brain from people with schizophrenia (P=0.004, P=0.01 and P=0.01, respectively). In the antemortem cohort, the minor allele of NR2B rs1805502 (T5988C) was associated with significantly lower reasoning ability in schizophrenia. In the postmortem brain, the NR2B rs1805502 (T5988C) C allele was associated with reduced expression of NR1 mRNA and protein in schizophrenia. Reduction in NR1 and NR2C in the DLPFC of people with schizophrenia may lead to altered NMDAR stoichiometry and provides compelling evidence for an endogenous NMDAR deficit in schizophrenia. Genetic variation in the NR2B gene predicts reduced levels of the obligatory NR1 subunit, suggesting a novel mechanism by which the NR2B SNP may negatively influence other NMDAR subunit expression and reasoning ability in schizophrenia.



In the last quarter of a century, DBS has become an established neurosurgical treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD), dystonia, and tremors. Improved understanding of brain circuitries and their involvement in various neurological and psychiatric illnesses, coupled with the safety of DBS and its exquisite role as a tool for ethical study of the human brain, have unlocked new opportunities for this technology, both for future therapies and in research. Serendipitous discoveries and advances in structural and functional imaging are providing abundant &quot;new&quot; brain targets for an ever-increasing number of pathologies, leading to investigations of DBS in diverse neurological, psychiatric, behavioral, and cognitive conditions. Trials and &quot;proof of concept&quot; studies of DBS are underway in pain, epilepsy, tinnitus, OCD, depression, and Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, as well as in eating disorders, addiction, cognitive decline, consciousness, and autonomic states. In parallel, ongoing technological development will provide pulse generators with longer battery longevity, segmental electrode designs allowing a current steering, and the possibility to deliver &quot;on-demand&quot; stimulation based on closed-loop concepts. The future of brain stimulation is certainly promising, especially for movement disorders-that will remain the main indication for DBS for the foreseeable future-and probably for some psychiatric disorders. However, brain stimulation as a technique may be at risk of gliding down a slippery slope: Some reports indicate a disturbing trend with suggestions that future DBS may be proposed for enhancement of memory in healthy people, or as a tool for &quot;treatment&quot; of &quot;antisocial behavior&quot; and for improving &quot;morality.&quot;
Propriospinal myoclonus is a rare movement disorder that is hypothesized to arise from a spinal generator that transmits activity up and down the spinal cord via long propriospinal pathways. Polymyography is mandatory for the diagnosis, but the typical electrophysiological pattern described for propriospinal myoclonus has been also found in patients with psychogenic axial jerks, supported by the presence of a Bereitschaftspotential (BP; from German, &quot;readiness potential,&quot; also called the premotor potential). We evaluated polymyographic findings in 65 patients referred to us with a clinical diagnosis of propriospinal myoclonus and also looked for the presence of the BP, as detected by jerk-locked back-averaging. At clinical reassessment by a movement disorder specialist, nearly one-half of the patients had clinical clues suggestive of a psychogenic cause of the jerks. Electrophysiological studies were carried out on all 65 patients. Polymyography findings revealed an incongruent electromyographic pattern for propriospinal myoclonus in 84.6% of patients and the presence of the BP in 86.1% of the entire cohort. When taking into account either the presence of BP and/or incongruence of polymyographic features, all patients, including the approximately 50% clinically diagnosed as organic propriospinal myoclonus by a movement disorder expert, had strong neurophysiological evidence for a psychogenic origin of their jerks. The clinical distinction of propriospinal myoclonus from psychogenic axial jerks is unreliable. This is the largest cohort of patients with axial jerks reported so far and we suggest that most of the patients with a clinical picture that clinically resembles propriospinal myoclonus are likely to be psychogenic.







Neuroscience, in recent years, has started to look like a graveyard for drug development, with many large pharmaceutical companies either eliminating their brain disorder programs or cutting back heavily on such research. Novartis seemed to have made exactly this kind of drastic change two years ago when the company announced plans to shutter its neuroscience operations at its global headquarters in Basel, Switzerland. But the company made it known then that its intention was to ultimately set up a new neuroscience division at the company's US base in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The US site was initially picked to take advantage of the local academic strength in the field of psychiatric genetics. Now, it seems that Novartis is also looking to add stem cell technologies to the mix with the appointment in August of Ricardo Dolmetsch as the company's global head of neurosciences-the first new hire for the company's reincarnated division. As a professor at California's Stanford University School of Medicine for the past ten years, Dolmetsch made his name using induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells to study a rare form of autism known as Timothy syndrome. Elie Dolgin met with Dolmetsch at the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research in the Technology Square area of Cambridge to discuss how he plans to succeed where so many others have failed.
The K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter KCC2 is responsible for maintaining low Cl(-) concentration in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS), which is essential for postsynaptic inhibition through GABA(A) and glycine receptors. Although no CNS disorders have been associated with KCC2 mutations, loss of activity of this transporter has emerged as a key mechanism underlying several neurological and psychiatric disorders, including epilepsy, motor spasticity, stress, anxiety, schizophrenia, morphine-induced hyperalgesia and chronic pain. Recent reports indicate that enhancing KCC2 activity may be the favored therapeutic strategy to restore inhibition and normal function in pathological conditions involving impaired Cl(-) transport. We designed an assay for high-throughput screening that led to the identification of KCC2 activators that reduce intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl(-)]i). Optimization of a first-in-class arylmethylidine family of compounds resulted in a KCC2-selective analog (CLP257) that lowers [Cl(-)]i. CLP257 restored impaired Cl(-) transport in neurons with diminished KCC2 activity. The compound rescued KCC2 plasma membrane expression, renormalized stimulus-evoked responses in spinal nociceptive pathways sensitized after nerve injury and alleviated hypersensitivity in a rat model of neuropathic pain. Oral efficacy for analgesia equivalent to that of pregabalin but without motor impairment was achievable with a CLP257 prodrug. These results validate KCC2 as a druggable target for CNS diseases.
Acute manipulation of gene and protein function in the brain is essential for understanding the mechanisms of nervous system development, plasticity and information processing. Here we describe a technique based on a destabilized Cre recombinase (DD-Cre) whose activity is controlled by the antibiotic trimethoprim (TMP). We show that DD-Cre triggers rapid TMP-dependent recombination of loxP-flanked ('floxed') alleles in mouse neurons in vivo and validate the use of this system for neurobehavioral research.
The mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) acts as a highly conserved signaling &quot;hub&quot; that integrates neuronal activity and a variety of synaptic inputs. mTOR is found in two functionally distinct complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2, that crucially control long-term synaptic efficacy and memory storage. Dysregulation of mTOR signaling is associated with neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. In this Review, we describe the most recent advances in studies of mTOR signaling in the brain and the possible mechanisms underlying the many different functions of the mTOR complexes in neurological diseases. In addition, we discuss the medical relevance of these findings.
In the reward circuitry of the brain, -7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (7nAChRs) modulate effects of (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), marijuana's main psychoactive ingredient. Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is an endogenous negative allosteric modulator of 7nAChRs. Here we report that the kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) inhibitor Ro 61-8048 increases brain KYNA levels and attenuates cannabinoid-induced increases in extracellular dopamine in reward-related brain areas. In the self-administration model of drug abuse, Ro 61-8048 reduced the rewarding effects of THC and the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 in squirrel monkeys and rats, respectively, and it also prevented relapse to drug-seeking induced by reexposure to cannabinoids or cannabinoid-associated cues. The effects of enhancing endogenous KYNA levels with Ro 61-8048 were prevented by positive allosteric modulators of 7nAChRs. Despite a clear need, there are no medications approved for treatment of marijuana dependence. Modulation of KYNA offers a pharmacological strategy for achieving abstinence from marijuana and preventing relapse.
The influence of motor activity on sensory processing is crucial for perception and motor execution. However, the underlying circuits are not known. To unravel the circuit by which activity in the primary vibrissal motor cortex (vM1) modulates sensory processing in the primary somatosensory barrel cortex (S1), we used optogenetics to examine the long-range inputs from vM1 to the various neuronal elements in S1. We found that S1-projecting vM1 pyramidal neurons strongly recruited vasointestinal peptide (VIP)-expressing GABAergic interneurons, a subset of serotonin receptor-expressing interneurons. These VIP interneurons preferentially inhibited somatostatin-expressing interneurons, neurons that target the distal dendrites of pyramidal cells. Consistent with this vM1-mediated disinhibitory circuit, the activity of VIP interneurons in vivo increased and that of somatostatin interneurons decreased during whisking. These changes in firing rates during whisking depended on vM1 activity. Our results suggest previously unknown circuitry by which inputs from motor cortex influence sensory processing in sensory cortex.
In rat models of drug relapse and craving, cue-induced cocaine seeking progressively increases after withdrawal from the drug. This 'incubation of cocaine craving' is partially mediated by time-dependent adaptations at glutamatergic synapses in nucleus accumbens (NAc). However, the circuit-level adaptations mediating this plasticity remain elusive. We studied silent synapses, often regarded as immature synapses that express stable NMDA receptors with AMPA receptors being either absent or labile, in the projection from the basolateral amygdala to the NAc in incubation of cocaine craving. Silent synapses were detected in this projection during early withdrawal from cocaine. As the withdrawal period progressed, these silent synapses became unsilenced, a process that involved synaptic insertion of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs). In vivo optogenetic stimulation-induced downregulation of CP-AMPARs at amygdala-to-NAc synapses, which re-silenced some of the previously silent synapses after prolonged withdrawal, decreased incubation of cocaine craving. Our findings indicate that silent synapse-based reorganization of the amygdala-to-NAc projection is critical for persistent cocaine craving and relapse after withdrawal.


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a relentlessly progressive neurodegenerative disease of motor neurons, resulting in worsening weakness of voluntary muscles until death from respiratory failure occurs after about 3 years. Although great advances have been made in our understanding of the genetic causes of ALS, the contribution of environmental factors has been more difficult to assess. Large-scale studies of the clinical patterns of ALS, individual histories preceding the onset of ALS, and the rates of ALS in different populations and groups have led to improved patient care, but have not yet revealed a replicable, definitive environmental risk factor. In this Review, we outline what is currently known of the environmental and genetic epidemiology of ALS, describe the current state of the art with respect to the different types of ALS, and explore whether ALS should be considered a single disease or a syndrome. We examine the relationship between genetic and environmental risk factors, and propose a disease model in which ALS is considered to be the result of environmental risks and time acting on a pre-existing genetic load, followed by an automatic, self-perpetuating decline to death.
In Parkinson disease (PD), affected midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons lose specific dopaminergic properties before the neurons die. How the phenotype of DA neurons is normally established and the ways in which pathology affects the maintenance of cell identity are, therefore, important considerations. Orphan nuclear receptor NURR1 (NURR1, also known as NR4A2) is involved in the differentiation of midbrain DA neurons, but also has an important role in the adult brain. Emerging evidence indicates that impaired NURR1 function might contribute to the pathogenesis of PD: NURR1 and its transcriptional targets are downregulated in midbrain DA neurons that express high levels of the disease-causing protein -synuclein. Clinical and experimental data indicate that disrupted NURR1 function contributes to induction of DA neuron dysfunction, which is seen in early stages of PD. The likely involvement of NURR1 in the development and progression of PD makes this protein a potentially interesting target for therapeutic intervention.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD), a slowly propagated wave of depolarization followed by suppression of brain activity, is a remarkably complex event that involves dramatic changes in neural and vascular function. Since its original description in the 1940s, CSD has been hypothesized to be the underlying mechanism of the migraine aura. Substantial evidence from animal models provides indirect support for this hypothesis, and studies showing that CSD is common in humans with brain injury clearly demonstrate that the phenomenon can occur in the human brain. Considerable uncertainty about the role of CSD in migraine remains, however, and key questions about how this event is initiated, how it spreads, and how it might cause migraine symptoms remain unanswered. This Review summarizes current concepts of CSD and its potential roles in migraine, and addresses ongoing studies aimed at a clearer understanding of this fundamental brain phenomenon.
Neuroscience studies into psychiatric disorders generally rely on disease definitions that are based on the influential Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), the fifth edition of which (DSM-5) was released earlier this year. Designed as a purely diagnostic tool, the DSM considers different disorders as distinct entities. However, boundaries between disorders are often not as strict as the DSM suggests. To provide an alternative framework for research into psychiatric disorders, the US National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) has recently introduced its Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) project. In the RDoC, five 'domains' each reflect a brain system in which functioning is impaired, to different degrees, in different psychiatric conditions. Nature Reviews Neuroscience asked six leading investigators for their thoughts on how DSM-5 and the RDoC will influence neuroscience research into psychiatric disorders.
Conduct disorder is a childhood behaviour disorder that is characterized by persistent aggressive or antisocial behaviour that disrupts the child's environment and impairs his or her functioning. A proportion of children with conduct disorder have psychopathic traits. Psychopathic traits consist of a callous-unemotional component and an impulsive-antisocial component, which are associated with two core impairments. The first is a reduced empathic response to the distress of other individuals, which primarily reflects reduced amygdala responsiveness to distress cues; the second is deficits in decision making and in reinforcement learning, which reflects dysfunction in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and striatum. Genetic and prenatal factors contribute to the abnormal development of these neural systems, and social-environmental variables that affect motivation influence the probability that antisocial behaviour will be subsequently displayed.
Recent developments in functional neuroimaging have provided a number of new tools for assessing patients who clinically appear to be in a vegetative state. These techniques have been able to reveal awareness and even allow rudimentary communication in some patients who remain entirely behaviourally non-responsive. The implications of these results extend well beyond the immediate clinical and scientific findings to influencing legal proceedings, raising new ethical questions about the withdrawal of nutrition and hydration and providing new options for patients and families in that decision-making process. The findings have also motivated significant public discourse about the role of neuroscience research in society.

Identifying, formalizing, and combining biological mechanisms that implement known brain functions, such as prediction, is a main aspect of research in theoretical neuroscience. In this letter, the mechanisms of spike-timing-dependent plasticity and homeostatic plasticity, combined in an original mathematical formalism, are shown to shape recurrent neural networks into predictors. Following a rigorous mathematical treatment, we prove that they implement the online gradient descent of a distance between the network activity and its stimuli. The convergence to an equilibrium, where the network can spontaneously reproduce or predict its stimuli, does not suffer from bifurcation issues usually encountered in learning in recurrent neural networks.
The dynamic formation of groups of neurons--neuronal assemblies--is believed to mediate cognitive phenomena at many levels, but their detailed operation and mechanisms of interaction are still to be uncovered. One hypothesis suggests that synchronized oscillations underpin their formation and functioning, with a focus on the temporal structure of neuronal signals. In this context, we investigate neuronal assembly dynamics in two complementary scenarios: the first, a supervised spike pattern classification task, in which noisy variations of a collection of spikes have to be correctly labeled; the second, an unsupervised, minimally cognitive evolutionary robotics tasks, in which an evolved agent has to cope with multiple, possibly conflicting, objectives. In both cases, the more traditional dynamical analysis of the system's variables is paired with information-theoretic techniques in order to get a broader picture of the ongoing interactions with and within the network. The neural network model is inspired by the Kuramoto model of coupled phase oscillators and allows one to fine-tune the network synchronization dynamics and assembly configuration. The experiments explore the computational power, redundancy, and generalization capability of neuronal circuits, demonstrating that performance depends nonlinearly on the number of assemblies and neurons in the network and showing that the framework can be exploited to generate minimally cognitive behaviors, with dynamic assembly formation accounting for varying degrees of stimuli modulation of the sensorimotor interactions.
A stochastic model of the signaling network responsible for the induction of long-term depression (LTD) at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse is described. The model includes a PKC-ERK-cPLA2 positive feedback loop and mechanisms of AMPA receptor trafficking. It was tuned to replicate calcium uncaging experiments that cause LTD. The ultrasensitive activation of ERK makes the signaling network activity bistable, causing either LTD or not. Therefore, in single synapses only two discrete stable states (LTD and non-LTD) can be expressed. The stochastic properties of the signaling network causes threshold dithering and probabilistic expression of LTD, which allows at the macroscopic level for many different and stable mean magnitudes of depression. When the volume of a single spine is simulated no thresholds for the calcium input signal are present. Such thresholds appear only when the volume of simulation is increased by a factor 100 or more and the model output is then bistable. Similarly, deterministic solutions of the same model show only bistable behavior. LTD induction requires activation of the PKC-ERK-cPLA2 positive feedback loop but this activity is not constant: the activities of ERK and of cPLA2 fluctuate strongly. This is much less the case for PKC which is more constantly activated and thereby promotes a stable output of the pathway.
Several factors combine to make it feasible to build computer simulations of the cerebellum and to test them in biologically realistic ways. These simulations can be used to help understand the computational contributions of various cerebellar components, including the relevance of the enormous number of neurons in the granule cell layer. In previous work we have used a simulation containing 12000 granule cells to develop new predictions and to account for various aspects of eyelid conditioning, a form of motor learning mediated by the cerebellum. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of scaling up this simulation to over one million granule cells using parallel graphics processing unit (GPU) technology. We observe that this increase in number of granule cells requires only twice the execution time of the smaller simulation on the GPU. We demonstrate that this simulation, like its smaller predecessor, can emulate certain basic features of conditioned eyelid responses, with a slight improvement in performance in one measure. We also use this simulation to examine the generality of the computation properties that we have derived from studying eyelid conditioning. We demonstrate that this scaled up simulation can learn a high level of performance in a classic machine learning task, the cart-pole balancing task. These results suggest that this parallel GPU technology can be used to build very large-scale simulations whose connectivity ratios match those of the real cerebellum and that these simulations can be used guide future studies on cerebellar mediated tasks and on machine learning problems.

Despite the recent identification of several novel risk genes for Alzheimer's disease (AD), little is known about their influence on the age at onset (AAO) of AD. The AAO is a phenotype with a heritable component distinct from disease risk and may be a useful trait to study in the context of developing interventions for delaying the onset of AD. We studied the influence of 10 recently identified AD risk genes and APOE in relation to AAO in a large cohort of AD patients (N = 2569). We find that the novel AD risk gene, PICALM, exerts a small effect on the AAO of AD with earlier disease onset in risk allele carriers. In addition, we confirmed the previously reported association between the APOE 4 allele and earlier disease onset. None of the other AD risk genes influenced AAO of AD. Our results suggest that besides APOE, other genes associated with AD risk do not exert large effects on the AAO phenotype of AD.
Mutations in the prion-like domain (PrLD) of hnRNPA1 and A2/B1 genes were recently identified in 2 families with inclusion body myopathy associated with Paget disease of bone, frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and in ALS patients. These mutations were shown to increase the propensity of hnRNPA1 and A2/B1 proteins, which are TDP-43-binding partners, to self-aggregate. hnRNPA3 protein contains a similar PrLD and was recently described in the p62-positive/TDP-43-negative inclusions in affected tissues of C9orf72-mutated ALS/FTD patients. We screened hnRNPA1, A2/B1, and A3 genes in a cohort of 113 familial ALS (FALS) individuals without mutations in other known ALS-causative genes. We extended our analysis to 108 FALS with mutations in other ALS-associated genes and to 622 sporadic cases by screening specifically the PrLDs of hnRNPA1, A2/B1, and A3. We failed to find variants in each cohort. Our results suggest that mutations in hnRNPA1, A2/B1, and A3 genes are a rare finding in ALS.
The incidence of olfactory perceptual dysfunction increases substantially with aging. Putative mechanisms for olfactory sensory loss are surfacing, including neuroanatomical modifications within brain regions responsible for odor information processing. The islands of Calleja (IC) are dense cell clusters localized within the olfactory tubercle, a cortical structure receiving monosynaptic input from the olfactory bulb. The IC are hypothesized to be important for intra- and extra-olfactory tubercle information processing, and thus olfaction. However, whether the anatomy of the IC are affected throughout normal aging remains unclear. By examining the IC of C57bl/6 mice throughout adulthood and early aging (4-18 months of age), we found that the number of IC decreases significantly with aging. Stereological analysis revealed that the remaining IC in 18-month-old mice were significantly reduced in estimated volume compared with those in 4- month-old mice. We additionally found that whereas young adults (4 months of age) possess greater numbers of IC within the posterior parts of the olfactory tubercle, by 18 months of age, a greater percentage of IC are found within the anterior-most part of the olfactory tubercle, perhaps providing a substrate for the differential access of the IC to odor information throughout aging. These results show that the IC are highly plastic components of the olfactory cortex, changing in volume, localization, and even number throughout normal aging. We predict that modifications among the IC throughout aging and age-related neurodegenerative disorders might be a novel contributor to pathological changes in olfactory cortex function and olfactory perception.
We investigated whether microbleeds and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) associate more with conventional vascular risk factors or with risk factors that reflect amyloid burden. A total of 371 patients with probable AD were included. WMH (Fazekas 2 or 3) were present in 107 (29%) patients and microbleeds were seen in 98 (26%). Patients with both microbleeds and WMH were older and presented more frequently with lacunes and multiple microbleeds than patients with microbleeds in isolation (all p &lt; 0.05). Using multivariate regression models, we found that WMH presence showed independent associations with age, hypertension, current smoking, and lacune presence. Microbleeds were independently associated with male gender, higher blood pressure, lower cerebrospinal fluid A42, and apolipoprotein E 4 homozygosity. Separate analyses for microbleeds according to their location showed that these associations were driven by microbleeds in lobar locations. Our results suggest that, unlike WMH, microbleeds in AD are particularly associated with additional amyloid burden, and as such, may relate to cerebral amyloid angiopathy.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a clinical condition that often precedes Alzheimer disease (AD). Compared with apolipoprotein E-3 (APOE3), the apolipoprotein E-4 (APOE4) allele is associated with an increased risk of developing MCI and spatial navigation impairments. In MCI, the entorhinal cortex (EC), which is the main innervation source of the dentate gyrus, displays partial neuronal loss. We show that bilateral partial EC lesions lead to marked spatial memory deficits and reduced synaptic density in the dentate gyrus of APOE4 mice compared with APOE3 mice. Genotype and lesion status did not affect the performance in non-navigational tasks. Thus, partial EC lesions in APOE4 mice were sufficient to induce severe spatial memory impairments and synaptic loss in the dentate gyrus. In addition, lesioned APOE4 mice showed no evidence of reactional increase in cholinergic terminals density as opposed to APOE3 mice, suggesting that APOE4 interferes with the ability of the cholinergic system to respond to EC input loss. These findings provide a possible mechanism underlying the aggravating effect of APOE4 on the cognitive outcome of MCI patients.
We studied whether pharmacological blockade of the IL-1-mediated signaling, rapidly activated in forebrain by epileptogenic injuries, affords neuroprotection in two different rat models of status epilepticus (SE). As secondary outcome, we measured treatment's effect on SE-induced epileptogenesis. IL-1 signaling was blocked by systemic administration of two antiinflammatory drugs, namely human recombinant IL-1 receptor antagonist (anakinra), the naturally occurring and clinically used competitive IL-1 receptor type 1 antagonist, and VX-765 a specific non-peptide inhibitor of IL-1 cleavage and release. Antiinflammatory drugs were given 60min after antiepileptic (AED) drug-controlled SE induced by pilocarpine, or 180min after unrestrained electrical SE, for 7days using a protocol yielding therapeutic drug levels in brain. This drug combination significantly decreased both IL-1 expression in astrocytes and cell loss in rat forebrain. Neuroprotection and the antiinflammatory effect were more pronounced in the electrical SE model. Onset of epilepsy, and frequency and duration of seizures 3months after electrical SE were not significantly modified. Transcriptomic analysis in the hippocampus showed that the combined treatment did not affect the broad inflammatory response induced by SE during epileptogenesis. In particular, the treatment did not prevent the induction of the complement system and Toll-like receptors, both contributing to cell loss and seizure generation. We conclude that the IL-1 signaling represents an important target for reducing cell loss after SE. The data highlight a new class of clinically tested agents affording neuroprotection after a delayed post-injury intervention. Earlier blockade of this rapid onset inflammatory pathway during SE, or concomitant treatment with antiinflammatory drugs targeting additional components of the broad inflammatory response to SE, or co-treatment with AEDs, is likely to be required for optimizing beneficial outcomes.
Neuronal networks are reorganized following brain injury. At the structural level this is in part reflected by changes in the spine turnover of the denervated neurons. Using the entorhinal cortex lesion in vitro model, we recently showed that mouse dentate granule cells respond to entorhinal denervation with coordinated functional and structural changes: During the early phase after denervation spine density decreases, while excitatory synaptic strength increases in a homeostatic manner. At later stages spine density increases again, and synaptic strength decreases back to baseline. In the present study, we have addressed the question of whether the denervation-induced homeostatic strengthening of excitatory synapses could not only be a result of the deafferentation, but could, in turn, affect the dynamics of the spine reorganization process following entorhinal denervation in vitro. Using a computational approach, time-lapse imaging of neurons in organotypic slice cultures prepared from Thy1-GFP mice, and patch-clamp recordings we provide experimental evidence which suggests that the strengthening of surviving synapses can lead to the destabilization of spines formed after denervation. This activity-dependent pruning of newly formed spines requires the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDA-Rs), since pharmacological inhibition of NMDA-Rs resulted in a stabilization of spines and in an accelerated spine density recovery after denervation. Thus, NMDA-R inhibitors may restore the ability of neurons to form new stable synaptic contacts under conditions of denervation-induced homeostatic synaptic up-scaling, which may contribute to their beneficial effect seen in the context of some neurological diseases.
Axon injury is a central determinant of irreversible neurological deficit and disease progression in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). CD8(+) lymphocytes (CTLs) within inflammatory demyelinated MS lesions correlate with acute axon injury and neurological deficits. The mechanisms of these correlations are unknown. We interrogated CTL-mediated axon injury using the transgenic OT-I antigen-specific CTL model system in conjunction with a chambered cortical neuron culture platform that permitted the isolated manipulation of axons independent of neuron cell bodies and glia. Interferon gamma upregulated, through a dose dependent mechanism, the axonal expression of functional major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules competent to present immunologically-relevant antigens derived from endogenously expressed proteins. Antigen-specific CTLs formed cytotoxic immune synapses with and directly injured axons expressing antigen-loaded MHC I molecules. CTL-mediated axon injury was mechanistically dependent upon axonal MHC I antigen presentation, T cell receptor specificity and axoplasmic granzyme B activity. Despite extensive distal CTL-mediated axon injury, acute neuron cell body apoptosis was not observed. These findings present a novel model of immune-mediated axon injury and offer anti-axonal CTLs and granzyme B as targets for the therapeutic protection of axons and prevention of neurological deficits in MS patients.
Both alterations in neurodevelopment and aversive experiences during childhood and adolescence seem important risk factors for schizophrenia. Animal models reproducing these alterations mimic some of the symptoms, constituting a valid approach to study the etiopathology of this disorder. Among these models, the perinatal injection of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonists and the postweaning social isolation rearing are among the most widely used. Our aim is to combine them in a &quot;double hit&quot; model, which should produce a wider spectrum of alterations. Lister Hooded rats have been subjected to a single injection of MK-801 at postnatal day 7 and socially isolated from postweaning to adulthood. These animals presented increased body weight gain and volume reductions in their medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus. They also showed an increased number of activated pyramidal neurons and alterations in the numbers of parvalbumin and calbindin expressing interneurons in the mPFC. The expressions of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule and GAD67 are decreased in the mPFC. The mRNA level of calbindin was decreased, while that of calretinin was increased in the mPFC. The mRNA level of ERbB4, a gene associated to schizophrenia, was also altered in this region. All these structural and neurochemical alterations, specially in cortical inhibitory circuits, are similar to those found in schizophrenic patients and are more numerous than in each of the single models. Consequently, the present &quot;double hit&quot; model may be a better tool to study the neurobiological basis of schizophrenia and to explore new therapeutic approaches.
Vascular dementia ranks as the second leading cause of dementia in the United States. However, its underlying pathophysiological mechanism is not fully understood and no effective treatment is available. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate long-term cognitive deficits induced by transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) in rats and to investigate the underlying mechanism. Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to tMCAO or sham surgery. Behavior tests for locomotor activity and cognitive function were conducted at 7 or 30days after stroke. Hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP) and involvement of GABAergic neurotransmission were evaluated at 30days after sham surgery or stroke. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses were conducted to determine the effect of tMCAO on cell signaling in the hippocampus. Transient MCAO induced a progressive deficiency in spatial performance. At 30days after stroke, no neuron loss or synaptic marker change in the hippocampus were observed. LTP in both hippocampi was reduced at 30days after stroke. This LTP impairment was prevented by blocking GABAA receptors. In addition, ERK activity was significantly reduced in both hippocampi. In summary, we identified a progressive decline in spatial learning and memory after ischemic stroke that correlates with suppression of hippocampal LTP, elevation of GABAergic neurotransmission, and inhibition of ERK activation. Our results indicate that the attenuation of GABAergic activity or enhancement of ERK/MAPK activation in the hippocampus might be potential therapeutic approaches to prevent or attenuate cognitive impairment after ischemic stroke.
We have shown previously that feeding dietary cholesterol before learning can improve acquisition whereas feeding cholesterol after learning can degrade long term memory. To examine these different findings within a single paradigm, we fed groups of rabbits 2% cholesterol or normal chow with or without 0.12 ppm copper added to the drinking water following two-tone discrimination learning of the nictitating membrane response in which a 8-kHz tone (conditioned stimulus, CS+) was followed by air puff and a 1-kHz tone (CS-) was not. After eight weeks on the diet, we assessed the rabbits' conditioned responding during testing and retraining. We then reversed the two-tone discrimination and assessed responding to the 1-kHz tone CS+ and the 8-kHz CS-. During testing, rabbits given cholesterol without copper had lower levels of responding to CS+ than rabbits in the other groups suggesting they did not retain the discrimination as well. However, during a brief discrimination retraining session, their response levels to the CS+ returned to the level of the other groups, demonstrating a return of the memory of the original discrimination. At the end of discrimination reversal, these same rabbits exhibited superior discrimination indexed by lower response levels to CS- but similar levels to CS+, suggesting they were better able to acquire the new relationship between the two tones by inhibiting CS- responses. These results add to our previous data by showing cholesterol diet-induced degradation of an old memory and facilitation of a new memory can both be demonstrated within a discrimination reversal paradigm. Given discrimination reversal is a hippocampally-dependent form of learning, the data support the role of cholesterol in modifying hippocampal function as we have shown previously with in vitro brain slice recordings.
The transcription factor CREB is an important regulator of many adaptive processes in neurons, including sleep, cellular homeostasis, and memory formation. The Drosophila dCREB2 family includes multiple protein isoforms generated from a single gene. Overexpression of an activator or blocker isoform has been shown to enhance or block memory formation, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these phenomena remain unclear. In the present study, we generate isoform-specific antibodies and new transgenic flies to track and manipulate the activity of different dCREB2 isoforms during memory formation. We find that nuclear accumulation of a dCREB2 activator-related species, p35+, is dynamically regulated during memory formation. Furthermore, various dCREB2 genetic manipulations that enhance or block memory formation correspondingly increase or decrease p35+ levels in the nucleus. Finally, we show that overexpression of S6K can enhance memory formation and increase p35+ nuclear abundance. Taken together, these results suggest that regulation of dCREB2 localization may be a key molecular convergence point in the coordinated host of events that lead to memory formation.
Previous research reported that serotonin receptor 2A gene (HTR2A) polymorphisms were associated with memory. However, it is unknown whether these genetic variants were associated with both true and false memories. The current study of 336 Han Chinese subjects tested 30 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the HTR2A gene for potential associations with true and false memories. False memories were assessed using the Deese-Roediger-McDermott (DRM) paradigm, in which people falsely remember semantically related (but unpresented) words. We found that 11 SNPs within the HTR2A gene were associated with true memory (p=0.000076-0.043). The associations between true memory and seven adjacent SNPs (i.e., rs1923888, rs1745837, rs9567739, rs3742279, rs655888, rs655854, and rs2296972) were still significant after multiple testing corrections. Haplotype-based association analysis revealed that, true memory was positively associated with haplotype A-C-C-G-C-T-A for these seven adjacent SNPs (p=0.000075), which was still significant after multiple testing correction. Only one SNP rs655854 was associated with false memory (p=0.023), and it was not significant after multiple testing correction. This study replicates, in an Asian population, that genetic variation in HTR2A is associated with episodic memory, and also suggests that this association is restricted to true memory.
Acute stress induces short-term object recognition memory impairment and elicits endogenous opioid system activation. The aim of this study was thus to evaluate whether opiate system activation mediates the acute stress-induced object recognition memory changes. Adult male Wistar rats were trained in an object recognition task designed to test both short- and long-term memory. Subjects were randomly assigned to receive an intraperitoneal injection of saline, 1 mg/kg naltrexone or 3 mg/kg naltrexone, four and a half hours before the sample trial. Five minutes after the injection, half the subjects were submitted to movement restraint during four hours while the other half remained in their home cages. Non-stressed subjects receiving saline (control) performed adequately during the short-term memory test, while stressed subjects receiving saline displayed impaired performance. Naltrexone prevented such deleterious effect, in spite of the fact that it had no intrinsic effect on short-term object recognition memory. Stressed subjects receiving saline and non-stressed subjects receiving naltrexone performed adequately during the long-term memory test; however, control subjects as well as stressed subjects receiving a high dose of naltrexone performed poorly. Control subjects' dissociated performance during both memory tests suggests that the short-term memory test induced a retroactive interference effect mediated through light opioid system activation; such effect was prevented either by low dose naltrexone administration or by strongly activating the opioid system through acute stress. Both short-term memory retrieval impairment and long-term memory improvement observed in stressed subjects may have been mediated through strong opioid system activation, since they were prevented by high dose naltrexone administration. Therefore, the activation of the opioid system plays a dual modulating role in object recognition memory.
Repeated exposure to an auditory stimulus leads to habituation of the electrophysiological and immediate-early-gene (IEG) expression response in the auditory system. A novel auditory stimulus reinstates this response in a form of dishabituation. This has been interpreted as the start of new memory formation for this novel stimulus. Changes in the location of an otherwise identical auditory stimulus can also dishabituate the IEG expression response. This has been interpreted as an integration of stimulus identity and stimulus location into a single auditory object, encoded in the firing patterns of the auditory system. In this study, we further tested this hypothesis. Using chronic multi-electrode arrays to record multi-unit activity from the auditory system of awake and behaving zebra finches, we found that habituation occurs to repeated exposure to the same song and dishabituation with a novel song, similar to that described in head-fixed, restrained animals. A large proportion of recording sites also showed dishabituation when the same auditory stimulus was moved to a novel location. However, when the song was randomly moved among 8 interleaved locations, habituation occurred independently of the continuous changes in location. In contrast, when 8 different auditory stimuli were interleaved all from the same location, a separate habituation occurred to each stimulus. This result suggests that neuronal memories of the acoustic identity and spatial location are different, and that allocentric location of a stimulus is not encoded as part of the memory for an auditory object, while its acoustic properties are. We speculate that, instead, the dishabituation that occurs with a change from a stable location of a sound is due to the unexpectedness of the location change, and might be due to different underlying mechanisms than the dishabituation and separate habituations to different acoustic stimuli.
Recent findings suggest that as time passes, cortical networks become recruited for memory storage. In animal models, this has been studied by exposing rodents to one task, allowing them to form a memory representation for the task then waiting different periods of time to determine, either through brain imaging or region-specific inactivation, the location of the memory representation. A number of reports show that 30 days after a memory has been encoded, it comes to be stored in cortical areas such as the anterior cingulate cortex. The present study sought to determine what factors, in addition to the passage of time, would influence whether memory retrieval was associated with cortical activation. To this end, rats were assigned to one of three behavioural groups: (1) Training on one hippocampal-dependent memory task, the water maze (WM); (2) Training on two, different hippocampal-dependent memory tasks, the WM followed by the radial arm maze; (3) Training on one hippocampal-dependent memory task (WM) followed by training on one, non-hippocampal-dependent task, operant conditioning. After training, each group received a recent (2d) or remote (31d) water maze probe test. The group trained on two different hippocampal-dependent tasks and tested 2d later, showed the strongest preference for the platform location during the probe test. This group also displayed a pattern of c-Fos staining in the anterior cingulate cortex similar to the pattern of staining observed in the remotely-tested groups and different from that seen in the other recently-tested groups. These results suggest the formation of multiple hippocampal-dependent memories accelerate the speed at which cortical network recruitment is seen and leads to enhanced behavioural performance in the recent term.
Daily experiences are represented by networks of neurons distributed across the neocortex, bound together for rapid storage and later retrieval by the hippocampus. While the hippocampus is necessary for retrieving recent episode-based memory associations, over time, consolidation processes take place that enable many of these associations to be expressed independent of the hippocampus. It is generally thought that mechanisms of consolidation involve synaptic weight changes between cortical regions; or, in other words, the formation of &quot;horizontal&quot; cortico-cortical connections. Here, we review anatomical, behavioral, and physiological data which suggest that the connections in and between the entorhinal and cingulate cortices may be uniquely important for the long-term storage of memories that initially depend on the hippocampus. We propose that current theories of consolidation that divide memory into dual systems of hippocampus and neocortex might be improved by introducing a third, middle layer of entorhinal and cingulate allocortex, the synaptic weights within which are necessary and potentially sufficient for maintaining initially hippocampus-dependent associations over long time periods. This hypothesis makes a number of still untested predictions, and future experiments designed to address these will help to fill gaps in the current understanding of the cortical structure of consolidated memory.
Mounting evidence suggests that long-lasting, protein synthesis-dependent changes in synaptic strength accompany both the initial acquisition and subsequent recall of specific memories. Within brain areas thought to be important for learning and memory, including the hippocampus, learning-related plasticity is likely mediated in part by NMDA receptor activation and experience-dependent changes in gene expression. In the present study, we examined the role of activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) expression in the acquisition, recall, and reconsolidation of memory in a trace fear conditioning paradigm. First, we show that the expression of Arc protein in ventral hippocampus (VH) is dramatically enhanced by memory recall 24h after the acquisition of trace fear conditioning, and that both memory recall and the associated recall-induced enhancement of Arc expression are blocked by pre-training administration of 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV). Next, we show that while infusion of Arc antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) into VH prior to testing had little effect on memory recall, it significantly reduced both Arc protein expression and freezing behavior during subsequent testing sessions. Collectively, these results suggest that Arc/Arg3.1 protein plays an important functional role in both the initial acquisition of hippocampal-dependent memory and the reconsolidation of these memories after recall.
Systems consolidation is the process by which memories become independent of the hippocampus and stored in regions of the neocortex. This process is commonly studied in rodents using context fear conditioning. It is becoming increasingly clear, however, that context memories do not always undergo systems consolidation. To explain this fact, the current review describes a number of factors that determine whether or not context fear can be retrieved without the hippocampus during remote memory tests. These include neurogenesis, the presentation of reminder cues after learning, the quality of the memory that is retrieved during testing and the method that is used to inactivate the hippocampus. Based on these data, we propose that remote context fear memories can be retrieved by either the hippocampus or the neocortex. Tests of memory quality (e.g. context discrimination) can typically be used to determine which system is engaged during retrieval. The same is not true of recently formed context fear memories, which appear to always require the hippocampus during retrieval.
While a number of early studies demonstrated that hippocampal damage attenuates the expression of recent, but not remotely trained tasks, an emerging body of evidence has shown that damage to, or inactivation of, the hippocampus often impairs recall across a wide range of training-testing intervals. Collectively, these data suggest that the time course of hippocampal involvement in the storage or recall of previously-acquired memories may differ according to hippocampal subregion and the particular learning task under consideration. The present study examined the contributions of dorsal (DH) and ventral (VH) hippocampus to the expression of previously-acquired trace fear conditioning, a form of Pavlovian conditioning in which the offset of an initially neutral cue or cues and the onset of an aversive stimulus is separated by a temporal (trace) interval. Specifically, either saline or the GABA-A agonist muscimol was infused into DH or VH prior to testing either 1, 7, 28, or 42 days after trace fear conditioning. The results revealed a marked dissociation: pre-testing inactivation of DH failed to impair performance at any time-point, while pre-testing inactivation of VH impaired performance at all time-points. Importantly, pre-testing inactivation of VH had no effect on the performance of previously-acquired delay conditioning, suggesting that the deficits observed in trace conditioning cannot be attributed to a deficit in performance of the freezing response. Collectively, these data suggest that VH, but not DH, remains a neuroanatomical locus critical to the recall or expression of trace fear conditioning over an extended period of time.
There are still basic uncertainties concerning the role of the hippocampus (HPC) in maintaining long-term context memories. All experiments examining the effects of extensive HPC damage on context memory for a single learning episode find that damage soon after learning results in robust retrograde amnesia. Some experiments find that if the learning-to-damage interval is extended, remote context memories are spared. In contrast, other experiments fail to find spared remote context memory. One possible explanation for inconsistency might be the potency of the context memory conditioning procedure, as the experiments showing spared remote memory used a greater number of context-shock pairings, likely creating a stronger context fear memory. We designed an experiment to directly test the question: does increasing the number of context-shock pairings result in sparing of remote context memory after HPC damage? Six independent groups of rats received either 3 or 12 context-shock pairings during a single conditioning session and then either received extensive HPC damage or Control surgery at 1-week, 2-months, or 4-months after conditioning. 10 days after surgery rats were tested for memory of the shock context. Consistent with all relevant studies, HPC damage at the shortest training-surgery interval produced robust retrograde amnesia for both 3- and 12-shock groups whereas the Control rats expressed significantly high levels of memory. At the longer training-surgery interval, HPC damage produced similarly robust retrograde amnesia in the rats in both the 3- and 12-shock groups. These results clearly demonstrate that increasing the number of context-shock pairings within a single learning session does not change the dependence of the memory on the HPC. Current evidence from our group on retrograde amnesia has now shown that partial damage, dorsal vs. ventral damage, discrete cue+context conditioning, time after training, and number of context-shock pairings do not affect HPC dependence of context fear memories. When taken together, the evidence strongly supports a permanent role of the HPC in context memory.
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a well-known toxic gas that has the smell of rotten eggs. This pungent gas was considered as a physiological mediator, after the identification of endogenous sulfides in the mammalian brain. H2S is produced from L-cysteine by enzymes such as cystathionine -synthase (CBS), cystathionine -lyase (CSE), and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT). We recently identified a fourth pathway, where H2S is produced from D-cysteine by the enzyme D-amino acid oxidase (DAO) along with 3MST. We demonstrated that H2S is a neuromodulator that facilitates hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) by enhancing the activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. It also induces Ca(2+) influx in the astrocytes by activating the transient receptor potential ankyrin-1 (TRPA1) channels. In addition to being a signaling molecule, it also functions as a neuroprotective agent by enhancing the production of glutathione, a major intracellular antioxidant that scavenges the reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the mitochondria. H2S regulates the activity of the enzymes by incorporating the bound sulfane sulfur to cysteine residues. This modification is known as sulfhydration or sulfuration. The neuroprotective ubiquitin E3 ligase, parkin, enhances its neuroprotective activity by this modification. This review is focused on the functional role of H2S as a signaling molecule and as a cytoprotectant in the nervous system. In addition, this review shows the recent findings that indicate that the H2S-derived polysulfides found in the brain activate TRPA1 channels more potently than parental H2S.
Mild hypothermia is a promising neuroprotective therapy in stroke management. However, little is known about its effects on the global protein expression patterns in brain regions affected by ischemic stroke. We investigated protein expression changes associated with the neuroprotective effects of hypothermia via a functional proteomics approach through the analysis of the core (striatum) and the penumbra (cortex) after an ischemic insult in rats induced by endothelin-1 (Et-1). Functional outcome, infarct volume and related global protein expression changes were assessed 24h after the insult using two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis. Mild hypothermia, induced 20 min after endothelin-1 infusion, improved the neurological outcome, reflected by a 36% reduction in infarct volume and a significantly better neurological deficit score. Hypothermia was typically associated with opposite protein expression changes inthe cortex to those induced by stroke under normothermic conditions, but not in the striatum. The main cellular processes rescued by hypothermia and potentially involved in the protection of the cortex are cellular assembly and organization, followed by cell signaling, thereby confirming that hypothermia is neuroprotective through multiple molecular and cellular pathways.
In this study we examined the impact of systemic treatment with the long-acting brain penetrant 2-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol on NFB activity and IB expression in rat brain. Clenbuterol decreased NFB activity (p65 DNA binding) in nuclear extracts prepared from rat cortex and hippocampus for up to 8h following a single treatment. This was accompanied by increased expression of IB mRNA and protein. The temporal increase in IB protein expression paralleled the suppression of NFB activity, suggesting that IB mediates the suppression NFB activity observed. These actions of clenbuterol were prevented by pre-treatment with the non-selective -adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol, the 2-adrenoceptor antagonist ICI-118,551, but not the 1-adrenoceptor antagonist metoprolol, suggesting that the effects of clenbuterol on IB expression and NFB activity are mediated specifically by the 2-adrenoceptor. In addition, the actions of clenbuterol were mimicked by systemic administration of another highly selective long-acting 2-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol. As neurodegenerative diseases are associated with inflammation we determined if clenbuterol could suppress NFB activation that occurs in response to an inflammatory stimulus. In this regard we demonstrate that clenbuterol inhibited IB phosphorylation and IB degradation and inhibited NFB activity in hippocampus and cortex of rats following a central injection of the inflammagen bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In tandem, clenbuterol blocked expression of the NFB-inducible genes TNF- and ICAM-1 following LPS administration. Our finding that clenbuterol and formoterol inhibit NFB activity in the CNS further supports the idea that 2-adrenoceptors may be an attractive target for treating neuroinflammation and combating inflammation-related neurodegeneration.
Ghrelin is the endogenous ligand for the growth hormone secretagogue-1a receptor and is a potential target for treatment of gastroparesis. This viewpoint assesses the potential role of ghrelin agonists in the treatment of gastroparesis through a review of the early phase, randomized, controlled trials of ghrelin agonists in patients with diabetes and, either, delayed gastric emptying at the time of the trial or symptoms at the time of the trial, and prior documentation of delayed gastric emptying of solids. Whereas recent experience with ghrelin agonists that have a macrocycle structure (TZP-101, TZP-102) has not confirmed earlier promising results, there is little evidence that ghrelin receptors downregulate with repeated treatment, in contrast to motilin receptors. Phase IIa clinical trials performed with a different agent (RM-131, which is a small molecule ghrelin agonist) suggest that, as a class, ghrelin agonists may be efficacious in stimulating gastric emptying. It is premature to dismiss ghrelin agonists as potential therapies for gastroparesis.
Whole exome sequencing in two-generational kindred from Bangladesh with early onset spasticity, mild intellectual disability, distal amyotrophy, and cerebellar atrophy transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait identified the following two missense mutations in the EXOSC3 gene: a novel p.V80F mutation and a known p.D132A change previously associated with mild variants of pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1. This study confirms the involvement of RNA processing proteins in disorders with motor neuron and cerebellar degeneration overlapping with spinocerebellar ataxia 36 and rare forms of hereditary spastic paraplegia with cerebellar features.

Practice-dependent changes in brain structure can occur in task relevant brain regions as a result of extensive training in complex motor tasks and long-term cognitive training but little is known about the impact of visual perceptual learning on brain structure. Here we studied the effect of five days of visual perceptual learning in a motion-color conjunction search task using anatomical MRI. We found rapid changes in gray matter volume in the right posterior superior temporal sulcus, an area sensitive to coherently moving stimuli, that predicted the degree to which an individual's performance improved with training. Furthermore, behavioral improvements were also predicted by volumetric changes in an extended white matter region underlying the visual cortex. These findings point towards quick and efficient plastic neural mechanisms that enable the visual brain to deal effectively with changing environmental demands.
The right temporo-parietal junction (RTPJ) is consistently implicated in two cognitive domains, attention and social cognitions. We conducted multi-modal connectivity-based parcellation to investigate potentially separate functional modules within RTPJ implementing this cognitive dualism. Both task-constrained meta-analytic coactivation mapping and task-free resting-state connectivity analysis independently identified two distinct clusters within RTPJ, subsequently characterized by network mapping and functional forward/reverse inference. Coactivation mapping and resting-state correlations revealed that the anterior cluster increased neural activity concomitantly with a midcingulate-motor-insular network, functionally associated with attention, and decreased neural activity concomitantly with a parietal network, functionally associated with social cognition and memory retrieval. The posterior cluster showed the exact opposite association pattern. Our data thus suggest that RTPJ links two antagonistic brain networks processing external versus internal information.
The moral force of impartiality (i.e. the equal treatment of all human beings) is imperative for providing justice and fairness. Yet, in reality many people become partial during intergroup interactions; they demonstrate a preferential treatment of ingroup members and a discriminatory treatment of outgroup members. Some people, however, do not show this intergroup bias. The underlying sources of these inter-individual differences are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that the larger the gray matter volume and thickness of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex (DMPFC), the more individuals in the role of an uninvolved third-party impartially punish outgroup and ingroup perpetrators. Moreover, we show evidence for a possible mechanism that explains the impact of DMPFC's gray matter volume on impartiality, namely perspective-taking. Large gray matter volume of DMPFC seems to facilitate equal perspective-taking of all sides, which in turn leads to impartial behavior. This is the first evidence demonstrating that brain structure of the DMPFC constitutes an important source underlying an individual's propensity for impartiality.
Visual stimuli can &quot;pop out&quot; if they are different to their background. There has been considerable debate as to the role of primary visual cortex (V1) versus higher visual areas (esp. V4) in pop-out processing. Here we parametrically modulated the relative orientation of stimuli and their backgrounds to investigate the neural correlates of pop-out in visual cortex while subjects were performing a demanding fixation task in a scanner. Whole brain and region of interest analyses confirmed a representation of orientation contrast in extrastriate visual cortex (V4), but not in striate visual cortex (V1). Thus, although previous studies have shown that human V1 can be involved in orientation pop-out, our findings demonstrate that there are cases where V1 is &quot;blind&quot; and pop-out detection is restricted to higher visual areas. Pop-out processing is presumably a distributed process across multiple visual regions.
Visual cortical plasticity induced by overt retinal lesions (scotomas) has remained a controversial phenomenon. Here we studied cortical plasticity in a silent model of retinal ganglion cell loss, documented by in vivo optical biopsy using coherence tomography. The cortical impact of non-scotomatous subtle retinal ganglion cell functional and structural loss was investigated in carriers of the mitochondrial DNA 11778G&gt;A mutation causing Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure cortical thickness and fMRI to define retinotopic cortical visual areas V1, V2 and V3 in silent carriers and matched control groups. Repeated Measures analysis of variance revealed a surprising increase in cortical thickness in the younger carrier group (below 21 years of age). This effect dominated in extrastriate cortex, and notably V2. This form of structural plasticity suggests enhanced plastic developmental mechanisms in extrastriate retinotopic regions close to V1 and not receiving direct retinocortical input.
Recent advances in brain imaging have improved the measure of neural processes related to perceptual, cognitive and affective functions, yet the relation between brain activity and subjective experience remains poorly characterized. In part, it is a challenge to obtain reliable accounts of participant's experience in such studies. Here we addressed this limitation by utilizing experienced meditators who are expert in introspection. We tested a novel method to link objective and subjective data, using real-time fMRI (rt-fMRI) to provide participants with feedback of their own brain activity during an ongoing task. We provided real-time feedback during a focused attention task from the posterior cingulate cortex, a hub of the default mode network shown to be activated during mind-wandering and deactivated during meditation. In a first experiment, both meditators and non-meditators reported significant correspondence between the feedback graph and their subjective experience of focused attention and mind-wandering. When instructed to volitionally decrease the feedback graph, meditators, but not non-meditators, showed significant deactivation of the posterior cingulate cortex. We were able to replicate these results in a separate group of meditators using a novel step-wise rt-fMRI discovery protocol in which participants were not provided with prior knowledge of the expected relationship between their experience and the feedback graph (i.e., focused attention versus mind-wandering). These findings support the feasibility of using rt-fMRI to link objective measures of brain activity with reports of ongoing subjective experience in cognitive neuroscience research, and demonstrate the generalization of expertise in introspective awareness to novel contexts.
Substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA) subregions, defined by dopaminergic projections to the striatum, are differentially affected by health (e.g. normal aging) and disease (e.g. Parkinson's disease). This may have an impact on reward processing which relies on dopaminergic regions and circuits. We acquired diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) with probabilistic tractography in 30 healthy older adults to determine whether subregions of the SN/VTA could be delineated based on anatomical connectivity to the striatum. We found that a dorsomedial region of the SN/VTA preferentially connected to the ventral striatum whereas a more ventrolateral region connected to the dorsal striatum. These SN/VTA subregions could be characterised by differences in quantitative structural imaging parameters, suggesting different underlying tissue properties. We also observed that these connectivity patterns differentially mapped onto reward dependence personality trait. We show that tractography can be used to parcellate the SN/VTA into anatomically plausible and behaviourally meaningful compartments, an approach that may help future studies to provide a more fine-grained synopsis of pathological changes in the dopaminergic midbrain and their functional impact.
Isolating the neural correlates of object recognition and studying their fine temporal dynamics have been a great challenge in neuroscience. A major obstacle has been the difficulty to dissociate low-level feature extraction from the actual object recognition activity. Here we present a new technique called semantic wavelet-induced frequency-tagging (SWIFT), where cyclic wavelet-scrambling allowed us to isolate neural correlates of object recognition from low-level feature extraction in humans using EEG. We show that SWIFT is insensitive to unrecognized visual objects in natural images, which were presented up to 30s, but is highly selective to the recognition of the same objects after their identity has been revealed. The enhancement of object representations by top-down attention was particularly strong with SWIFT due to its selectivity for high-level representations. Finally, we determined the temporal dynamics of object representations tracked by SWIFT and found that SWIFT can follow a maximum of between 4 and 7 different object representations per second. This result is consistent with a reduction in temporal capacity processing from low to high-level brain areas.
The brain is frequently confronted with sensory information that elicits conflicting response choices. While much research has addressed the top down control mechanisms associated with detection and resolution of response competition, the effects of response competition on sensory processing in the primary visual cortex remain unclear. To address this question we modified a typical 'flanker task' (Eriksen and Eriksen, 1974) so that the effects of response competition on human early retinotopic visual cortex could be assessed. Healthy human participants were scanned using fMRI while making a speeded choice response that classified a target object image into one of two categories (e.g. fruits, animals). An irrelevant distractor image that was either congruent (same image as target), incongruent (image from opposite category as target), or neutral (image from task-irrelevant category, e.g. household items) was also present on each trial, but in a different quadrant of the visual field relative to the target. Retinotopic V1 areas responding to the target stimuli showed increased response to targets in the presence of response-incongruent (compared to response-neutral) distractors. A negative correlation with behavioral response competition effects indicated that an increased primary visual cortical response to targets in the incongruent (vs. neutral) trials is associated with a reduced response competition effect on behavior. These results suggest a novel conflict resolution mechanism in the primary visual cortex.
Dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) are arteriovenous shunts from a dural arterial supply to a dural venous channel, typically supplied by pachymeningeal arteries and located near a major venous sinus. Pial arteriovenous fistulas (PAVFs) are composed of one or more arterial feeders draining into a single vein in the absence of an intervening nidus. Fistulas manifesting features of high risk for rupture should be treated aggressively, the spectrum of treatment varies from endovascular, surgical resection, and stereotactic radiosurgery. This article describes the natural history, clinical presentation, and treatment of dural and pial fistulas, with emphasis on endovascular treatment.

In this report, we describe a new mutation located in the coiled 1B domain of desmin and associated with a predominant cardiac involvement and a high degree of cardiac sudden death in a large Indian pedigree with 12 affected members. The index cases was 38-year-old man who presented with progressive difficulty in gripping footwear of 5 years duration with the onset in the left lower limb followed by right lower limb in 6 months. 3 years from onset, he developed lower limb proximal and truncal muscle weakness. There was mild atrophy of the shoulder girdle muscles with grade 3 weakness, moderate wasting of thigh and anterior leg muscles with proximal muscle weakness and foot drop. At 40 years, he had a pacemaker implanted. The 9 exons and intronic boundaries of the desmin gene were sequenced and a heterozygous nucleotide change c. 734A &gt; G in exon 3 was identified.


The G2385R and R1628P polymorphisms of the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene have been reported to be associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), but no data are available on Han-Chinese population of south-eastern China. This study aimed to investigate whether G2385R and R1628P variants are associated with sporadic PD in this population. Total 1,060 subjects were enrolled; including 550 unrelated healthy controls and 510 patients with sporadic PD. Genotyping of polymorphisms was performed by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. All variant samples were sequenced for further confirmation. The results showed that the A allele of the G2385R variant was significantly enriched in sporadic PD patient group (4.8%) when compared with control group [1.1%; odds ratio (OR) 4.58, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.42-8.65, P &lt; 0.01]. However, no significant difference in the frequency of the C allele of R1628P polymorphism variant was observed between cases and controls (2.8 vs. 1.7%, OR 1.67, 95% CI 0.93-2.99, P = 0.08). In conclusion, this study provides the first evidence that G2385R polymorphism is a risk factor for sporadic PD in Han-Chinese population of south-eastern China.

Although both behavioral disturbances and executive impairments of patients with the behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) seem to depend on early neurodegenerative damages to the prefrontal cortex, the relationship between these two distinct clinical features has been only partially established and represents the focus of the current preliminary neuropsychological study. Ten subsequent bvFTD patients underwent a neuropsychiatric assessment with the Frontal Behavior Inventory and a neuropsychological battery focused on prefrontal functions. Significant correlations were found only between negative symptoms and measures of prevalent medial prefrontal functioning, i.e. decision making under ambiguity (Iowa gambling task) (r = -0.887; p = 0.018) and affective theory of mind (reading the mind in the eyes task) (r = -0.982; p = 0.017). This finding could preliminary support a &quot;frontal lobe syndrome&quot; hypothesis for negative symptoms of bvFTD patients, as proposed for negative symptoms of schizophrenia; the small sample size represents a limit and empirical findings need replication in larger samples of bvFTD patients.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) is the most common inherited neuropathy. The phenotype of patients affected by CMT1A is highly variable and may be influenced by several conditions. We evaluated how comorbidities such as diabetes, hypothyroidism, exposure to toxins and obesity can modify or exacerbate the clinical and neurophysiological phenotype of CMT1A patients. Disability was measured using the classic CMT neuropathy score. Compared to controls, all groups of CMT1A patients with comorbidities had higher CMT neuropathy score. In particular, patients with CMT1A and diabetes mellitus show motor subscores which are significantly higher than in control CMT1A. Amplitudes of ulnar CMAP are lower in patients with CMT1A and diabetes mellitus, but not at a significant level. As expected, motor nerve conduction velocity is not influenced by any of the comorbidities. The presence of concomitant diseases shows a tendency to worsen the clinical and neurophysiological CMT1A phenotype, especially in patients with CMT1A and diabetes mellitus, where higher values in the CMT neuropathy score and clinical motor subscore have been observed.
Here we report what is to our knowledge the first identified Japanese family afflicted by X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy. The index case is a 52-year-old man with almost 40years of progressive proximal muscle weakness. High urinary 2 microglobulin, normal serum 2 microglobulin, autophagic vacuoles with sarcolemmal features, and a hemizygous c.164-7T&gt;G mutation in the VMA21 gene were found. His two maternal uncles had similar clinicopathological findings. High urinary 2 microglobulin without obvious renal dysfunction might result from decreased urine acidification in the distal convoluted tubules caused by the VMA21 gene mutation. These findings might prove to be useful as a preliminary marker suggestive of X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), which is the eponym for hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN), affects 1 in 2500 individuals. The most common subtype of X-linked CMT, CMTX1, is caused by mutations in GJB1, the gene encoding connexin 32, a gap junction protein in myelinated Schwann cells. We report a woman, who presented at the age of 56 years with gait unsteadiness and tingling in her feet. Clinical investigation revealed impaired sensation to pinprick, light touch and vibration in her distal lower limbs. Ankle reflexes were bilaterally absent. Sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous c.712C&gt;T (p.R238C) mutation in the GJB1 gene. This mutation is predicted to result in the loss of disulfide bonds and thus in abnormal protein structure. In this woman, the reported novel GJB1 mutation resulted in sensory abnormalities, slowly progressive loss of distal lower limb strength, and notable loss of balance, with onset of symptoms late in adult age.
NMDA receptors are a family of glutamate-gated ion channels that regulate various CNS functions such assynaptic plasticity and learning. However hypo- or hyper-activation of NMDA receptors is critically involved in many neurological and psychiatric conditions such as pain, stroke, epilepsy, neurodegeneration, schizophrenia, and depression. Thus, it is important to identify mechanisms (such as by targeted ubiquitination) that regulate the levels of individual subtypes of NMDA receptors. In this study, we used a series of tagged, carboxy terminal constructs of GluN2D to identify associating proteins from rat brain. Of seven different GluN2D C-terminal fragments used as bait, only the construct containing amino acids 983-1097 associated with an E3 ubiquitin ligase, Nedd4. A direct interaction between GluN2D and Nedd4 was confirmed both invivo and invitro. This association is mediated by an interaction between GluN2D's C-terminal PPXY motif and the 2nd and 3rd WW domains of Nedd4. Of the four GluN2 subunits, Nedd4 directly interacted with GluN2D and also weakly with GluN2A. Nedd4 coexpression with GluN2D enhances GluN2D ubiquitination and reduces GluN1/GluN2D NMDA receptor responses. These results identify Nedd4 as a novel binding partner for GluN2D and suggest a mechanism for the regulation of NMDA receptors that contain GluN2D subunits through ubiquitination-dependent downregulation. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Glutamate Receptor-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity'.
It is humbling to think that 30 years have passed since the paper by Collingridge, Kehl and McLennan showing that one of Jeff Watkins most interesting compounds, R-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (d-AP5), blocked the induction of long-term potentiation invitro at synapses from area CA3 of the hippocampus to CA1 without apparent effect on baseline synaptic transmission (Collingridge etal., 1983). This dissociation was one of the key triggers for an explosion of interest in glutamate receptors, and much has been discovered since that collectively contributes to our contemporary understanding of glutamatergic synapses - their biophysics and subunit composition, of the agonists and antagonists acting on them, and their diverse functions in different networks of the brain and spinal cord. It can be fairly said that Collingridge etal.'s (1983) observation was the stimulus that has led, on the one hand, to structural biological work at the atomic scale describing the key features of NMDA receptors that enables their coincidence function to happen; and, on the other, to work with whole animals investigating the contributions that calcium signalling via this receptor can have on rhythmical activities controlled by spinalcircuits, memory encoding in the hippocampus (the topic of this article), visual cortical plasticity, sensitization in pain, and other functions. In this article, I lay out how my then interest in long-termpotentiation (LTP) as a model of memory enabled me to recognise the importance of Collingridge etal.'s discovery - and how I and my colleagues endeavoured to take things forward in the area of learning and memory. This is in some respects a personal story, and I tell it as such. The idea that NMDA receptor activation is essential for memory encoding, though not for storage, took time to develop and to be accepted. Along the way, there have been confusions, challenges, and surprises surrounding the idea that activation of NMDA receptors can trigger memory. Some of these are described and how they have been addressed and resolved. Last, I touch on some new directions of interest with respect to the functional role of the NMDA receptor in cognition. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Glutamate Receptor-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity'.
In human populations, there is a well-defined sequence of involvement in drugs of abuse, in which the use of nicotine or alcohol precedes the use of marijuana, which in turn, precedes the use of cocaine. The term &quot;Gateway Hypothesis&quot; describes this developmental sequence of drug involvement. In prior work, we have developed a mouse model to study the underlying metaplastic behavioral, cellular and molecular mechanisms by which exposure to one drug, namely nicotine, affects the response to another drug, namely cocaine. We found that nicotine enhances significantly the changes in synaptic plasticity in the striatum induced by cocaine (Levine etal., 2011). Here we ask: does the metaplastic effect of nicotine on cocaine also apply in the amygdala, a brain region that is involved in the orchestration of emotions and in drug addiction? We find that pretreatment with nicotine enhances long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) in response to cocaine in the amygdala. Both short-term (1 day) and long-term (7 days) pre-exposure to nicotine facilitate the induction of LTP by cocaine. The effect of nicotine on LTP is unidirectional; exposure to nicotine following treatment with cocaine is ineffective. This metaplastic effect of nicotine on cocaine is long lasting but reversible. The facilitation of LTP can be obtained for 24 but not 40 days after cessation of nicotine. As is the case in the striatum, pretreatment with Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor, simulates the priming effect of nicotine. These results provide further evidence that the priming effect of nicotine may be achieved, at least partially, by the inhibition of histone acetylation and indicate that the amygdala appears to be an important brain structure for the processing of the metaplastic effect of nicotine on cocaine. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Glutamate Receptor-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity'.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction has emerged as a common theme in several major nervous system disorders, including ischemic brain injury, chronic neurodegenerative diseases, pain, depression and schizophrenia. Either hyperactivity or hypofunction of NMDARs could contribute to disease pathophysiology. It is likely that distinct subtypes of NMDARs (as defined by subunit composition and/or subsynaptic location) are differentially involved in central nervous system diseases. Here we focus on a few examples of nervous system diseases where the contribution of NMDARs is relatively well characterized and discuss the implications for potential treatment of these illnesses. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Glutamate Receptor-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity'.
The inclusion of GluA2 subunits has a profound impact on the channel properties of AMPA receptors (AMPARs), in particular rendering them impermeable to calcium. While GluA2-containing AMPARs are the most abundant in the central nervous system, GluA2-lacking calcium-permeable AMPARs are also expressed in wide variety of neurons and glia. Accumulating evidence suggests that the dynamic control of the GluA2 content of AMPARs plays a critical role in development, synaptic plasticity, and diverse neurological conditions ranging from ischemia-induced brain damage to drug addiction. It is thus important to understand the molecular mechanisms involved in regulating the balance of AMPAR subtypes, particularly the role of their co-assembled auxiliary subunits. The discovery of transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs), initially within the cerebellum, has transformed the field of AMPAR research. It is now clear that these auxiliary subunits play a key role in multiple aspects of AMPAR trafficking and function in the brain. Yet, their precise role in AMPAR subtype-specific regulation has only recently received particular attention. Here we review recent findings on the differential regulation of calcium-permeable (CP-) and -impermeable (CI-) AMPARs in cerebellar neurons and glial cells, and discuss the critical involvement of TARPs in this process. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Glutamate Receptor-Dependent Synaptic Plasticity'.
Successful multitasking requires subjects to flexibly activate task goals important to accomplish the task at hand. However, the neural mechanisms underlying goal activation in multitasking are unknown. Based on neurobiological models of action selection, we expected that the extent to which task-goals are processed with some overlap that strongly depends on striatal structures. Therefore, we applied a stop-change paradigm to examine multitasking using fMRI and manipulated the delay between the stop stimulus and the subsequently following change signal towards a new GO response (stop-change delay; SCD). The manipulation of the SCD was introduced to achieve varying amounts of overlap of the two task-goals (stop goal, change goal). This manipulation allowed the calculation of a stop-change delay-reaction time function (SCD-RT function), with the slope of this function, reflecting on the degree of overlap between the stop and the change goal. Data analysis revealed that change trials, independent of their SCD, showed an activation pattern encompassing frontal and parietal cortical regions. Contrasting the two main SCD (long vs. short SCD) conditions with each other showed a stronger BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) signal activation of the caudate and the right inferior frontal gyrus in trials with a long SCD compared to trials with a short SCD. Follow-up analyses showed that activation differences of the caudate between the two SCDs drive the effect. Integrating the fMRI data with the slope of the SCD-RT function indicated that the degree of overlap of stop and change processes is determined by the degree of striatal activation on a serial-to-parallel continuum. In conclusion, the findings acknowledge the role of the basal ganglia as an important structure determining action selection processes via a network of neocortical and striatal structures, in terms of an extended multiple demand system.
Asymmetry in human spatial attention has long been documented. In the general population the majority of individuals tend to misbisect horizontal lines to the left of veridical centre. Nonetheless in virtually all previously reported studies on healthy participants, there have been subsets of people displaying rightward biases. In this study, we report differential time-on task effects depending on participants' initial pseudoneglect bias: participants with an initial left bias in a landmark task (in which they had to judge whether a transection mark appeared closer to the right or left end of a line) showed a significant rightward shift over the course of the experimental session, whereas participants with an initial right bias shifted leftwards. We argue that these differences in initial biases as well as the differential shifts with time-on task reflect genuine observer subtypes displaying diverging behavioural patterns. These observer subtypes could be driven by differences in brain organisation and/or lateralisation such as varying anatomical pathway asymmetries (Thiebaut de Schotten et al., 2011).
Motion-induced blindness (MIB) is a bistable visual phenomenon in which stationary disks surrounded by a moving pattern intermittently disappear from the viewer's awareness. We explored the cortical network that subserves the MIB phenomenon by targeting its constituent parts with disruptive transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), in the form of continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS). Previous neuroimaging and TMS studies have implicated the right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC) in perceptual transitions such as binocular rivalry, while the visual area V5/MT has been suggested to play a key role in MIB. In this study, we found that cTBS applied to the rPPC lengthened the duration of disappearance in MIB, while cTBS applied to V5/MT shortened the duration of disappearance and decreased the frequency of disappearance in MIB. These results demonstrate a causal role for both the rPPC and V5/MT in MIB, and suggest that the rPPC is involved in shifting resources between competing functional areas, while V5/MT processing initiates and maintains MIB.
Rapid auditory processing and auditory change detection abilities are crucial aspects of speech and language development, particularly in the first year of life. Animal models and adult studies suggest that oscillatory synchrony, and in particular low-frequency oscillations play key roles in this process. We hypothesize that infant perception of rapid pitch and timing changes is mediated, at least in part, by oscillatory mechanisms. Using event-related potentials (ERPs), source localization and time-frequency analysis of event-related oscillations (EROs), we examined the neural substrates of rapid auditory processing in 4-month-olds. During a standard oddball paradigm, infants listened to tone pairs with invariant standard (STD, 800-800 Hz) and variant deviant (DEV, 800-1200 Hz) pitch. STD and DEV tone pairs were first presented in a block with a short inter-stimulus interval (ISI) (Rapid Rate: 70 ms ISI), followed by a block of stimuli with a longer ISI (Control Rate: 300 ms ISI). Results showed greater ERP peak amplitude in response to the DEV tone in both conditions and later and larger peaks during Rapid Rate presentation, compared to the Control condition. Sources of neural activity, localized to right and left auditory regions, showed larger and faster activation in the right hemisphere for both rate conditions. Time-frequency analysis of the source activity revealed clusters of theta band enhancement to the DEV tone in right auditory cortex for both conditions. Left auditory activity was enhanced only during Rapid Rate presentation. These data suggest that local low-frequency oscillatory synchrony underlies rapid processing and can robustly index auditory perception in young infants. Furthermore, left hemisphere recruitment during rapid frequency change discrimination suggests a difference in the spectral and temporal resolution of right and left hemispheres at a very young age.
According to recent findings, intentional motor actions are controlled by resetting the referent position, R, at which neuromuscular elements, including reflexes, begin to act. It is suggested that somatosensory afferents inform the brain about the deviation (P) of body segments from the centrally set referent position. To perceive the actual position (Q) of body segments and form the position sense (PS), the central and afferent signals are combined: Q=R+P. In previous studies, the R has been shown to remain invariant during involuntary changes in the wrist position elicited by sudden unloading of muscles, suggesting that only the afferent component is responsible for the PS during this reflex. In contrast, the central PS component, R, is predominantly responsible for PS during intentional motion in isotonic conditions. We tested the hypothesis that the R and P are interchangeable PS components such that involuntary changes in wrist position elicited by the unloading reflex can easily be reproduced by making intentional changes in wrist position in isotonic conditions, in the absence of vision. The PS rule also suggests that PS is independent of sense of effort, which was tested by asking subjects to reproduce elbow joint angles under different constant loads. We also tested the hypothesis that tendon vibration may elicit motion that may not be perceived by subjects (no-motion illusion). These hypotheses were confirmed in three experiments. It is concluded that the R and P are additive components of PS and that, contrary to the conventional view, PS is independent of the sense of effort or efference copy. The PS rule also explains kinesthetic illusions and the phantom limb phenomenon. This study advances the understanding of action-perception coupling in kinesthesia.
Paying selective attention to a word in a multi-word utterance results in a decreased probability of error on that word (benefit), but an increased probability of error on the other words (cost). We ask whether excitation of the prefrontal cortex helps or hurts this cost. One hypothesis (the resource hypothesis) predicts a decrease in the cost due to the deployment of more attentional resources, while another (the focus hypothesis) predicts even greater costs due to further fine-tuning of selective attention. Our results are more consistent with the focus hypothesis: prefrontal stimulation caused a reliable increase in the benefit and a marginal increase in the cost of selective attention. To ensure that the effects are due to changes to the prefrontal cortex, we provide two checks: We show that the pattern of results is quite different if, instead, the primary motor cortex is stimulated. We also show that the stimulation-related benefits in the verbal task correlate with the stimulation-related benefits in an N-back task, which is known to tap into a prefrontal function. Our results shed light on how selective attention affects language production, and more generally, on how selective attention affects production of a sequence over time.
What is the stimulus presentation rate at which the human brain can discriminate each exemplar of a familiar visual category? We presented faces at 14 frequency rates (1.0-16.66 Hz) to human observers while recording high-density electroencephalogram (EEG). Different face exemplars elicited a larger steady-state visual evoked (ssVEP) response than when the same face was repeated, but only for stimulation frequencies between 4 and 8.33 Hz, with a maximal difference at 5.88 Hz (170 ms cycle). The effect was confined to the exact stimulation frequency and localized over the right occipito-temporal cortex. At high frequency rates (&gt;10 Hz), the response to different and identical exemplars did not differ, suggesting that the fine-grained analysis needed for individual face discrimination cannot be completed before the next face interrupts, or competes, with the processed face. At low rates (&lt;3 Hz), repetition suppression could not be identified at the stimulation frequency, suggesting that the neural response to an individual face is temporally dispersed and distributed over different processes. These observations indicate that at a temporal rate of 170 ms (6 faces/s) the face perception network is able to fully discriminate between each individual face presented, providing information about the temporal bottleneck of individual face discrimination in humans. These results also have important practical implications for optimizing paradigms that rely on repetition suppression, and open an avenue for investigating complex visual processes at an optimal range of stimulation frequency rates.
Previous research has reported that the perception of written language symbols activates the cortical motor hand representation of the dominant hemisphere also found to be activated during the writing of these symbols. It has been suggested that such motor activation supports reading. Nevertheless, the precise circumstances leading to such activation are still unknown. For instance, several studies suggested that motor activation necessarily depends on specific sensory-motor experience with the stimuli. Some results, however, also indicated that untrained stimuli can elicit the response. Moreover, due to the methods used so far, little is known about the temporal course of the motor activity. Our study explored these open questions using high-density EEG. We measured central alpha event-related desynchronization (ERD) as a marker of cortical motor activation during the observation of Roman letters (alphabet of participants' mother language), Chinese characters (not familiar to participants), and scribbles. Our results show that the cortical motor system is activated during the perception of all three stimuli in both hemispheres, with ERD stronger in the left (dominant) hemisphere. A significant difference of ERD time-course was observed in the left hemisphere between the observation of symbols (letters and characters) and scribbles. Scribbles elicited significantly faster resynchronization of central alpha than symbols. We suggest that ERD results are due to recognizing all stimuli as traces of hand gestures. Furthermore, differences in ERD found between symbols and scribbles might depend either on visuo-motor training, separating symbols from scribbles, or on stimuli specific features marking their status as either language symbols or scribbles.

Regular marijuana use during adolescence, but not adulthood, may permanently impair cognition and increase the risk for psychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia. Cortical oscillations are integral for cognitive processes and are abnormal in patients with schizophrenia. We test the hypothesis that adolescence is a sensitive period because of the active development of cortical oscillations and neuromodulatory systems that underlie them. The endocannabinoid system upon which marijuana acts is one such system. Here we test the prediction that adolescent cannabinoid exposure alters cortical oscillations in adults. Using in vitro local field potential, in vivo electrocorticogram recordings and cognitive behavioral testing in adult mice, we demonstrate that chronic adolescent, but not adult, cannabinoid exposure suppresses pharmacologically evoked cortical oscillations and impairs working memory performance in adults. The later-maturing prefrontal cortex is more sensitive to adolescent exposure than the earlier-maturing, primary somatosensory cortex. These data establish a link between chronic adolescent cannabinoid exposure and alterations in adult cortical network activity that underlie cognitive processes.
The lateral habenula (LHb) is an epithalamic structure connected with both the basal ganglia and the limbic system and that exerts a major influence on midbrain monoaminergic nuclei. The current view is that LHb receives and processes cortical information in order to select proper strategies in a variety of behavior. Recent evidence indicates that LHb might also be implicated in hippocampus-dependent memory processes. However, if and how LHb functionally interacts with the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) is still unknown. We therefore performed simultaneous recordings within LHb and dHPC in both anesthetized and freely moving rats. We first showed that a subset of LHb cells were phase-locked to hippocampal theta oscillations. Furthermore, LHb generated spontaneous theta oscillatory activity, which was highly coherent with hippocampal theta oscillations. Using reversible LHb inactivation, we found that LHb might regulate dHPC theta oscillations. In addition, we showed that LHb silencing altered performance in a hippocampus-dependent spatial recognition task. Finally, increased coherence between LHb and dHPC was positively correlated to the memory performance in this test. Collectively, these results suggest that LHb functionally interacts with the hippocampus and is involved in hippocampus-dependent spatial information processing.
The human brain is capable of differentiating between new and already stored information rapidly to allow optimal behavior and decision-making. Although the neural mechanisms of novelty discrimination were often described as temporally constant (ie, with specific latencies), recent electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that the onset of neural novelty signals (ie, differences in event-related responses to new and old items) can be accelerated by reward motivation. While the precise physiological mechanisms underlying this acceleration remain unclear, the involvement of the neurotransmitter dopamine in both novelty and reward processing suggests that enhanced dopamine levels in the context of reward prospect may have a role. To investigate this hypothesis, we used magnetoencephalography (MEG) in combination with an old/new recognition memory task in which correct discrimination between old and new items was rewarded. Importantly, before the task, human subjects received either 150mg of the dopamine precursor levodopa or placebo. For the placebo group, old/new signals peaked at 100ms after stimulus onset over left temporal/occipital sensors. In contrast, after levodopa administration earliest old/new effects only emerged after 400ms and retrieval accuracy was reduced as expressed in lower d' values. As such, our results point towards a previously unreported role of dopamine in controlling the chronometry of neural processes underlying the distinction between old and new information. They also suggest that this relationship follows a nonlinear function whereby slightly enhanced dopamine levels accelerate neural/cognitive processes and excessive dopamine levels impair them.
Mice with a mutation in the Clock gene (Clock19) exhibit increased preference for stimulant rewards and sucrose. They also have an increase in dopaminergic activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and a general increase in glutamatergic tone that might underlie these behaviors. However, it is unclear if their phenotype would extend to a very different class of drug (ethanol), and if so, whether these systems might be involved in their response. Continuous access voluntary ethanol intake was evaluated in Clock19 mutants and wild-type (WT) mice. We found that Clock19 mice exhibited significantly increased ethanol intake in a two-bottle choice paradigm. Interestingly, this effect was more robust in female mice. Moreover, chronic ethanol experience resulted in a long-lasting decrease in VTA Clock expression. To determine the importance of VTA Clock expression in ethanol intake, we knocked down Clock expression in the VTA of WT mice via RNA interference. We found that reducing Clock expression in the VTA resulted in significantly increased ethanol intake similar to the Clock19 mice. Interestingly, we also discovered that Clock19 mice exhibit significantly augmented responses to the sedative effects of ethanol and ketamine, but not pentobarbital. However, their drinking behavior was not affected by acamprosate, an FDA-approved drug for the treatment of alcoholism, suggesting that their increased glutamatergic tone might underlie the increased sensitivity to the sedative/hypnotic properties of ethanol but not the rewarding properties of ethanol. Taken together, we have identified a significant role for Clock in the VTA as a negative regulator of ethanol intake and implicate the VTA dopamine system in this response.
Dual orexin receptor antagonists (DORAs) induce sleep by blocking orexin 1 and orexin 2 receptor-mediated activities responsible for regulating wakefulness. DORAs represent a potential alternative mechanism to the current standard of care that includes the -aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor-positive allosteric modulators, eszopiclone and zolpidem. This work uses an innovative method to analyze electroencephalogram (EEG) spectral frequencies within sleep/wake states to differentiate the effects of GABAA modulators from DORA-22, an analog of the DORA MK-6096, in Sprague-Dawley rats. The effects of low, intermediate, and high doses of eszopiclone, zolpidem, and DORA-22 were examined after first defining each compound's ability to promote sleep during active-phase dosing. The EEG spectral frequency power within specific sleep stages was calculated in 1-Hz intervals from 1 to 100Hz within each sleep/wake state for the first 4h after the dose. Eszopiclone and zolpidem produced marked, dose-responsive disruptions in sleep stage-specific EEG spectral profiles compared with vehicle treatment. In marked contrast, DORA-22 exhibited marginal changes in the spectral profile, observed only during rapid eye movement sleep, and only at the highest dose tested. Moreover, while eszopiclone- and zolpidem-induced changes were evident in the inactive period, the EEG spectral responses to DORA-22 were absent during this phase. These results suggest that DORA-22 differs from eszopiclone and zolpidem whereby DORA-22 promotes somnolence without altering the neuronal network EEG activity observed during normal sleep.
Anecdotal reports have surfaced concerning misuse of the HIV antiretroviral medication efavirenz ((4S)-6-chloro-4-(2-cyclopropylethynyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl)-2,4-dihydro-1H-3,1-benzoxazin-2-one) by HIV patients and non-infected teens who crush the pills and smoke the powder for its psychoactive effects. Molecular profiling of the receptor pharmacology of efavirenz pinpointed interactions with multiple established sites of action for other known drugs of abuse including catecholamine and indolamine transporters, and GABAA and 5-HT(2A) receptors. In rodents, interaction with the 5-HT(2A) receptor, a primary site of action of lysergic acid diethylamine (LSD), appears to dominate efavirenz's behavioral profile. Both LSD and efavirenz reduce ambulation in a novel open-field environment. Efavirenz occasions drug-lever responding in rats discriminating LSD from saline, and this effect is abolished by selective blockade of the 5-HT(2A) receptor. Similar to LSD, efavirenz induces head-twitch responses in wild-type, but not in 5-HT(2A)-knockout, mice. Despite having GABAA-potentiating effects (like benzodiazepines and barbiturates), and interactions with dopamine transporter, serotonin transporter, and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (like cocaine and methamphetamine), efavirenz fails to maintain responding in rats that self-administer cocaine, and it fails to produce a conditioned place preference. Although its molecular pharmacology is multifarious, efavirenz's prevailing behavioral effect in rodents is consistent with LSD-like activity mediated via the 5-HT(2A) receptor. This finding correlates, in part, with the subjective experiences in humans who abuse efavirenz and with specific dose-dependent adverse neuropsychiatric events, such as hallucinations and night terrors, reported by HIV patients taking it as a medication.

Experience-related changes induced by modification of environment, physical exercise, or cognitive training affect brain structure and function. Research on brain plasticity and its relationship to experiential changes gathers momentum and attracts significant public interest. This collection of papers is based on presentation at the First International Conference on Life-Span Plasticity of Brain and Behavior: A Cognitive Neuroscience Perspective that took place in Detroit, MI, on October 12-14, 2011. The conference honored Margret M. and Paul B. Baltes, the pioneers of life-span developmental psychology who initiated some of the first studies on experience- and training-related changes in cognition across the life span.
Over the past two decades, the awareness of the disabling and treatment-refractory effects of impaired cognition in schizophrenia has increased dramatically. In response to this still unmet need in the treatment of schizophrenia, the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative was developed. The goal of CNTRICS is to harness cognitive neuroscience to develop a brain-based set of tools for measuring cognition in schizophrenia and to test new treatments. CNTRICS meetings focused on development of tasks with cognitive construct validity for use in both human and animal model studies. This special issue presents papers discussing the cognitive testing paradigms selected by CNTRICS for animal model systems. These paradigms are designed to measure cognitive constructs within the domains of perception, attention, executive function, working memory, object/relational long-term memory, and social/affective processes.
Social cognition refers to processes used to monitor and interpret social signals from others, to decipher their state of mind, emotional status and intentions, and select appropriate social behaviour. Social cognition is sophisticated in humans, being embedded with verbal language and enacted in a complex cultural environment. Its disruption characterises the entire course of schizophrenia and is correlated with poor functional outcome. Further, deficits in social cognition are related to impairment in other cognitive domains, positive symptoms (paranoia and delusions) and negative symptoms (social withdrawal and reduced motivation). In light of the significance and inadequate management of social cognition deficits, there is a need for translatable experimental procedures for their study, and identification of effective pharmacotherapy. No single paradigm captures the multi-dimensional nature of social cognition, and procedures for assessing ability to infer mental states are not well-developed for experimental therapeutic settings. Accordingly, a recent CNTRICS meeting prioritised procedures for measuring a specific construct: &quot;acquisition and recognition of affective (emotional) states&quot;, coupled to individual recognition. Two complementary paradigms for refinement were identified: social recognition/preference in rodents, and visual tracking of social scenes in non-human primates (NHPs). Social recognition is disrupted in genetic, developmental or pharmacological disease models for schizophrenia, and performance in both procedures is improved by the neuropeptide oxytocin. The present article surveys a broad range of procedures for studying social cognition in rodents and NHPs, discusses advantages and drawbacks, and focuses on development of social recognition/preference and gaze-following paradigms for improved study of social cognition deficits in schizophrenia and their potential treatment.
The present review article summarizes and expands upon the discussions that were initiated during a meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS; http://cntrics.ucdavis.edu) meeting. A major goal of the CNTRICS meeting was to identify experimental procedures and measures that can be used in laboratory animals to assess psychological constructs that are related to the psychopathology of schizophrenia. The issues discussed in this review reflect the deliberations of the Motivation Working Group of the CNTRICS meeting, which included most of the authors of this article as well as additional participants. After receiving task nominations from the general research community, this working group was asked to identify experimental procedures in laboratory animals that can assess aspects of reinforcement learning and motivation that may be relevant for research on the negative symptoms of schizophrenia, as well as other disorders characterized by deficits in reinforcement learning and motivation. The tasks described here that assess reinforcement learning are the Autoshaping Task, Probabilistic Reward Learning Tasks, and the Response Bias Probabilistic Reward Task. The tasks described here that assess motivation are Outcome Devaluation and Contingency Degradation Tasks and Effort-Based Tasks. In addition to describing such methods and procedures, the present article provides a working vocabulary for research and theory in this field, as well as an industry perspective about how such tasks may be used in drug discovery. It is hoped that this review can aid investigators who are conducting research in this complex area, promote translational studies by highlighting shared research goals and fostering a common vocabulary across basic and clinical fields, and facilitate the development of medications for the treatment of symptoms mediated by reinforcement learning and motivational deficits.
Behavioral, cognitive, and motivational development entails co-constructive interactions between the environmental and social influences from the developmental context, on the one hand, and the individual's neurobiological inheritance, on the other hand. Key brain networks underlying cognition, emotion, and motivation are innervated by major transmitter systems (e.g., the catecholamines and acetylcholine). Thus, the maturation and senescence of neurotransmitter systems have direct implications for lifespan development. In addition to reviewing evidence on life age differences in dopaminergic modulation and cognitive development, this brief review selectively highlights recent findings on how important influences from the developmental context, such as reward-mediated motivational processes, transgenerational stress transmission, psychosocial stress, and cognitive interventions, may, in part, exert their effects on brain and behavioral development through their effects on neuromodulatory mechanisms.
This paper summarizes the discussions regarding animal paradigms for assessing perception at the seventh meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS). A breakout group at the meeting addressed candidate tests in animals that might best parallel the human paradigms selected previously in the CNTRICS program to assess two constructs in the domain of perception: gain control and visual integration. The perception breakout group evaluated the degree to which each of the nominated tasks met pre-specified criteria: comparability of tasks across multiple species; construct validity; neuroanatomical homology between species; and dynamic range across parametric variation.
This paper reports the results of discussions at the fourth meeting of Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) meeting, held over two days in Washington, DC in April 2011. The meeting focused on animal paradigms for assessing the cognitive constructs relevant to schizophrenia identified in previous CNTRICS meetings. This report focuses on the outcome of discussions in the general area of long-term memory. A number of candidate animal paradigms were discussed. Two of these - one for rodents and one for non-human primates - were recommended as particularly promising for further development.
The absence or loss of rewards or reinforcers holds a major role in the development of depression in humans. In spite of the prevalence of extinction-induced depression (EID) in humans, few attempts have been made to establish animal models thereof. Here we present the concept of extinction-related depression and summarize the results of two sets of studies in our attempt to create animal models of EID, one set based on extinction after positive reinforcement in the Skinner-box, the other on extinction after negative reinforcement - escape from water. We found various behaviors emitted during the extinction trials that responded to treatment with antidepressant drugs: Accordingly, the important behavioral marker for EID during extinction of escape from the water was immobility. During extinction after positive reinforcement the important indices for extinction-induced depression are the withdrawal from the former site of reward, biting behavior and rearing up on the hind legs. Avoidance behavior and biting may model aspects of human depressive behavior, which may include withdrawal or avoidance as well as aggressive-like behaviors.
Circuits that participate in specific subcomponents of feeding (e.g., gustatory perception, peripheral feedback relevant to satiety and energy balance, reward coding, etc.) are found at all levels of the neural axis. Further complexity is conferred by the wide variety of feeding-modulatory neurotransmitters and neuropeptides that act within these circuits. An ongoing challenge has been to refine the understanding of the functional specificity of these neurotransmitters and circuits, and there have been exciting advances in recent years. We focus here on foundational work of Dr. Ann Kelley that identified distinguishable actions of striatal opioid peptide modulation and dopamine transmission in subcomponents of reward processing. We also discuss her work in overlaying these neuropharmacological effects upon anatomical pathways that link the telencephalon (cortex and basal ganglia) with feeding-control circuits in the hypothalamus. Using these seminal contributions as a starting point, we will discuss new findings that expand our understanding of (1) the specific, differentiable motivational processes that are governed by central dopamine and opioid transmission, (2) the manner in which other striatal neuromodulators, specifically acetylcholine, endocannabinoids and adenosine, modulate these motivational processes (including via interactions with opioid systems), and (3) the organization of the cortical-subcortical network that subserves opioid-driven feeding. The findings discussed here strengthen the view that incentive-motivational properties of food are coded by substrates and neural circuits that are distinguishable from those that mediate the acute hedonic experience of food reward. Striatal opioid transmission modulates reward processing by engaging frontotemporal circuits, possibly via a hypothalamic-thalamic axis, that ultimately impinges upon hypothalamic modules dedicated to autonomic function and motor pattern control. We will conclude by discussing implications for understanding disorders of &quot;non-homeostatic&quot; feeding.
We revisit our hypothesis that drug addiction can be viewed as the endpoint of a series of transitions from initial voluntarily drug use to habitual, and ultimately compulsive drug use. We especially focus on the transitions in striatal control over drug seeking behaviour that underlie these transitions since functional heterogeneity of the striatum was a key area of Ann Kelley's research interests and one in which she made enormous contributions. We also discuss the hypothesis in light of recent data that the emergence of a compulsive drug seeking habit both reflects a shift to dorsal striatal control over behaviour and impaired prefontal cortical inhibitory control mechanisms. We further discuss aspects of the vulnerability to compulsive drug use and in particular the impact of impulsivity. In writing this review we acknowledge the untimely death of an outstanding scientist and a dear personal friend.
Ann Kelley was a scientific pioneer in reward neuroscience. Her many notable discoveries included demonstrations of accumbens/striatal circuitry roles in eating behavior and in food reward, explorations of limbic interactions with hypothalamic regulatory circuits, and additional interactions of motivation circuits with learning functions. Ann Kelley's accomplishments inspired other researchers to follow in her footsteps, including our own laboratory group. Here we describe results from several lines of our research that sprang in part from earlier findings by Kelley and colleagues. We describe hedonic hotspots for generating intense pleasure 'liking', separate identities of 'wanting' versus 'liking' systems, a novel role for dorsal neostriatum in generating motivation to eat, a limbic keyboard mechanism in nucleus accumbens for generating intense desire versus intense dread, and dynamic limbic transformations of learned memories into motivation. We describe how origins for each of these themes can be traced to fundamental contributions by Ann Kelley.
One of the defining characteristics of the research of Ann E. Kelley was her recognition that the neuroscience underlying basic learning and motivation processes also shed significant light upon mechanisms underlying drug addiction and maladaptive eating patterns. In this review, we examine the parallels that exist in the neural pathways that process both food and drug reward, as determined by recent studies in animal models and human neuroimaging experiments. We discuss contemporary research that suggests that hyperphagia leading to obesity is associated with substantial neurochemical changes in the brain. These findings verify the relevance of reward pathways for promoting consumption of palatable, calorically dense foods, and lead to the important question of whether changes in reward circuitry in response to intake of such foods serve a causal role in the development and maintenance of some cases of obesity. Finally, we discuss the potential value for future studies at the intersection of the obesity epidemic and the neuroscience of motivation, as well as the potential concerns that arise from viewing excessive food intake as an &quot;addiction&quot;. We suggest that it might be more useful to focus on overeating that results in frank obesity, and multiple health, interpersonal, and occupational negative consequences as a form of food &quot;abuse&quot;.
Schizophrenia is associated with impaired attention. The top-down control of attention, defined as the ability to guide and refocus attention in accordance with internal goals and representations, was identified by the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative as an important construct for task development and research. A recent CNTRICS meeting identified three tasks commonly used with rodent models as having high construct validity and promise for further development: The 5-choice serial reaction time task, the 5-choice continuous performance task, and the distractor condition sustained attention task. Here we describe their current status, including data on their neural substrates, evidence for sensitivity to neuropharmacological manipulations and genetic influences, and data from animal models of the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia. A common strength is the development of parallel human tasks to facilitate connections to the neural circuitry and drug development research done in these animal models. We conclude with recommendations for the steps needed to improve testing so that it better represents the complex biological and behavioral picture presented by schizophrenia.
Executive control is an aspect of cognitive function known to be impaired in schizophrenia. Previous meetings of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) group have more precisely defined executive control in terms of two constructs: &quot;rule generation and selection&quot;, and &quot;dynamic adjustments of control&quot;. Next, human cognitive tasks that may effectively measure performance with regard to these constructs were identified to be developed into practical and reliable measures for use in treatment development. The aim of this round of CNTRICS meetings was to define animal paradigms that have sufficient promise to warrant further investigation for their utility in measuring these constructs. Accordingly, &quot;reversal learning&quot; and the &quot;attentional set-shifting task&quot; were nominated to assess the construct of rule generation and selection, and the &quot;stop signal task&quot; for the construct of dynamic adjustments of control. These tasks are described in more detail here, with a particular focus on their utility for drug discovery efforts. Presently, each assay has strengths and weaknesses with regard to this point and increased emphasis on improving practical aspects of testing, understanding predictive validity, and defining biomarkers of performance represent important objectives in attaining confidence in translational validity here.
The Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) meeting on &quot;Selecting Promising Animal Paradigms&quot; focused on a consideration of valid tasks for drug discovery in non-humans. This consensus review is based on a break-out session with experts from academia and industry which considered tasks that tap working memory in animals. The specific focus of the session was on tasks measuring goal maintenance, memory capacity, and interference control. Of the tasks nominated for goal maintenance, the most developed paradigms were operant delayed-non-matching-to-position tasks, and touch-screen variants of these may hold particular promise. For memory capacity, the task recommended for further development was the span task, although it is recognized that more work on its neural substrates is required. For interference control, versions of the n-back task were felt to resemble the deficits found in schizophrenia, although additional development of these tasks is also required.
Children with spastic diplegia from cerebral palsy (CP) experience measurable improvement in their spasticity and motor function following selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR). The role of this operation in the treatment of other spasticity causes is less well defined. A literature review was undertaken to survey outcomes from SDRs performed outside the CP population. Multiple sclerosis was the most common diagnosis found, accounting for 74 of 145 patients described. Selective dorsal rhizotomies have also been reported in patients with traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, neurodegenerative disease, hypoxic encephalopathy, and other causes of spasticity. Outcomes from surgery are generally described as favorable, although postoperative assessments and follow-up times are not standardized across reports. Long-term outcomes are sparsely reported. Larger numbers of patients and more detailed outcomes data have the potential to form a basis for expanding the inclusion criteria for SDR.

Vittorio Marchi was an Italian neuroscientist who lived during the second half of the 19th century. He is generally remembered for developing a novel staining method to trace the degeneration of nervous fibers in lesions of the central nervous system. This osmium-based method was used worldwide for approximately a century and continues to be cited in modern textbooks. Despite several important original scientific contributions, Marchi was never awarded a university chair. Discouraged, he left to practice neurology in a rural area but continued to write outstanding articles, and in 1897, he became a pioneer of meningioma surgery. Today, he is remembered only in specialized contexts. We hope this article can provide the recognition that Marchi deserves.
Toluene is a frequently abused solvent. Previous studies have suggested that toluene acts like other drugs of abuse, specifically on the dopaminergic system in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the mesolimbic pathway. Although changes in dopamine (DA) levels and c-Fos have been observed in both acute and repeated exposure paradigms, the extent to which c-Fos is localized to catecholaminergic cells is unknown. The present study tested the effects of repeated toluene exposure (1000-4000ppm) on locomotor activity and cells containing c-Fos, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), or both in the core and shell of the NAc, as well as the anterior and posterior VTA. We focused our study on adolescents, since adolescence is a time of great neural change and a time when individuals tend to be more susceptible to drug abuse. In early tests, toluene dose-dependently increased locomotor activity. Repeated exposure to the highest concentration of toluene resulted in sensitization to toluene's effects on locomotor activity. Although the number of cells immunopositive for c-Fos or TH did not significantly differ across groups, cells immunopositive for TH+c-Fos were higher in the NAc shell of animals exposed to 4000ppm than in animals exposed to air (control) or 1000ppm. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that repeated high dose toluene exposure increases locomotor activity as well as activation of catecholaminergic cells in the shell of the NAc.
Spectroscopic signals which emanate from complexes between paramagnetic lanthanide (III) ions (e.g. Tm(3+)) and macrocyclic chelates (e.g. 1,4,7,10-tetramethyl-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetate, or DOTMA(4-)) are sensitive to physiology (e.g. temperature). Because nonexchanging protons from these lanthanide-based macrocyclic agents have relaxation times on the order of a few milliseconds, rapid data acquisition is possible with chemical shift imaging (CSI). Thus, Biosensor Imaging of Redundant Deviation in Shifts (BIRDS) which originate from nonexchanging protons of these paramagnetic agents, but exclude water proton detection, can allow molecular imaging. Previous two-dimensional CSI experiments with such lanthanide-based macrocyclics allowed acquisition from ~12-L voxels in rat brain within 5 min using rectangular encoding of k space. Because cubical encoding of k space in three dimensions for whole-brain coverage increases the CSI acquisition time to several tens of minutes or more, a faster CSI technique is required for BIRDS to be of practical use. Here, we demonstrate a CSI acquisition method to improve three-dimensional molecular imaging capabilities with lanthanide-based macrocyclics. Using TmDOTMA(-), we show datasets from a 20  20  20-mm(3) field of view with voxels of ~1 L effective volume acquired within 5 min (at 11.7 T) for temperature mapping. By employing reduced spherical encoding with Gaussian weighting (RESEGAW) instead of cubical encoding of k space, a significant increase in CSI signal is obtained. In vitro and in vivo three-dimensional CSI data with TmDOTMA(-), and presumably similar lanthanide-based macrocyclics, suggest that acquisition using RESEGAW can be used for high spatiotemporal resolution molecular mapping with BIRDS.
The macaque monkey is an important model for cognitive and sensory neuroscience that has been used extensively in behavioral, electrophysiological, molecular and, more recently, neuroimaging studies. However, macaque MRI has unique technical differences relative to human MRI, such as the geometry of highly parallel receive arrays, which must be addressed to optimize imaging performance. A 22-channel receive coil array was constructed specifically for rapid high-resolution anesthetized macaque monkey MRI at 3 T. A local Helmholtz transmit coil was used for excitation. Signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) and noise amplification for parallel imaging were compared with those of single- and four-channel receive coils routinely used for macaque MRI. The 22-channel coil yielded significant improvements in SNR throughout the brain. Using this coil, the SNR in peripheral brain was 2.4 and 1.7 times greater than that obtained with single- or four-channel coils, respectively. In the central brain, the SNR gain was 1.5 times that of both the single- and four-channel coils. Finally, the performance of the array for functional, anatomical and diffusion-weighted imaging was evaluated. For all three modalities, the use of the 22-channel array allowed for high-resolution and accelerated image acquisition.
fMRI has established itself as the main research tool in neuroscience and brain cognitive research. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a non-human primate model of increasing interest in biomedical research. However, commercial MRI coils for marmosets are not generally available. The present work describes the design and construction of a four-channel receive-only surface RF coil array with excellent signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) specifically optimized for fMRI experiments in awake marmosets in response to somatosensory stimulation. The array was designed as part of a helmet-based head restraint system used to prevent motion during the scans. High SNR was obtained by building the coil array using a thin and flexible substrate glued to the inner surface of the restraint helmet, so as to minimize the distance between the array elements and the somatosensory cortex. Decoupling between coil elements was achieved by partial geometrical overlapping and by connecting them to home-built low-input-impedance preamplifiers. In vivo images show excellent coverage of the brain cortical surface with high sensitivity near the somatosensory cortex. Embedding the coil elements within the restraint helmet allowed fMRI data in response to somatosensory stimulation to be collected with high sensitivity and reproducibility in conscious, awake marmosets.
Short-TE MRS has been proposed recently as a method for the in vivo detection and quantification of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the human brain at 3 T. In this study, we investigated the accuracy and reproducibility of short-TE MRS measurements of GABA at 3 T using both simulations and experiments. LCModel analysis was performed on a large number of simulated spectra with known metabolite input concentrations. Simulated spectra were generated using a range of spectral linewidths and signal-to-noise ratios to investigate the effect of varying experimental conditions, and analyses were performed using two different baseline models to investigate the effect of an inaccurate baseline model on GABA quantification. The results of these analyses indicated that, under experimental conditions corresponding to those typically observed in the occipital cortex, GABA concentration estimates are reproducible (mean reproducibility error, &lt;20%), even when an incorrect baseline model is used. However, simulations indicate that the accuracy of GABA concentration estimates depends strongly on the experimental conditions (linewidth and signal-to-noise ratio). In addition to simulations, in vivo GABA measurements were performed using both spectral editing and short-TE MRS in the occipital cortex of 14 healthy volunteers. Short-TE MRS measurements of GABA exhibited a significant positive correlation with edited GABA measurements (R = 0.58, p &lt; 0.05), suggesting that short-TE measurements of GABA correspond well with measurements made using spectral editing techniques. Finally, within-session reproducibility was assessed in the same 14 subjects using four consecutive short-TE GABA measurements in the occipital cortex. Across all subjects, the average coefficient of variation of these four GABA measurements was 8.7  4.9%. This study demonstrates that, under some experimental conditions, short-TE MRS can be employed for the reproducible detection of GABA at 3 T, but that the technique should be used with caution, as the results are dependent on the experimental conditions.
Physiological and pathological changes to the anisotropic mechanical properties of skeletal muscle are still largely unknown, with only a few studies quantifying changes in vivo. This study used the noninvasive MR elastography (MRE) technique, in combination with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), to measure shear modulus anisotropy in the human skeletal muscle in the lower leg. Shear modulus measurements parallel and perpendicular to the fibre direction were made in 10 healthy subjects in the medial gastrocnemius, soleus and tibialis anterior muscles. The results showed significant differences in the medial gastrocnemius ( = 0.86  0.15 kPa;  = 0.66  0.19 kPa, P &lt; 0.001), soleus ( = 0.83  0.22 kPa;  = 0.65  0.13 kPa, P &lt; 0.001) and the tibialis anterior ( = 0.78  0.24 kPa;  = 0.66  0.16 kPa, P = 0.03) muscles, where the shear modulus measured in the direction parallel is greater than that measured in the direction perpendicular to the muscle fibres. No significant differences were measured across muscle groups. This study provides the first direct estimates of the anisotropic shear modulus in the triceps surae muscle group, and shows that the technique may be useful for the probing of mechanical anisotropy changes caused by disease, aging and injury.

The clinical effects of motor cortex stimulation (MCS) for neuropathic pain (NP) is thought to be mediated primarily by the secretion of endogenous opioids in humans and in animal models. Because opioid receptor density is itself decreased in patients with NP, we investigated whether the magnitude and distribution of the remaining opioid receptors in patients with NP could be biological predictors of the pain-relieving effects of MCS. Using (11)C-diprenorphine positron emission tomography scans, opioid receptor availability was assessed in 15 patients suffering refractory NP, who subsequently received chronically implanted MCS. All patients underwent 2 preoperative baseline scans at 2-wk intervals and were clinically assessed after 7mo of chronic MCS. The levels of preoperative opioid-binding in the insula, thalamus, periaqueductal gray, anterior cingulate, and orbitofrontal cortex were significantly and positively correlated with postoperative pain relief at 7mo. Patients with receptor density values below the lower limits in age-matched controls in the thalamus, periaqueductal gray and contralateral insula were the least likely to benefit from MCS. Opioid-receptor availability as shown in preoperative positron emission tomography scans appears to be related to the efficacy of MCS in NP and may help clinicians to select the candidates most likely to benefit from this procedure.
The aim of this study was to assess the function of the thermo-nociceptive system in 25 patients with long-lasting, medium-to-severe refractory complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS)-1 using behavioral (detection rates and reaction times) and electrophysiological (event-related brain potentials) responses to brief (50 milliseconds) and intense (suprathreshold for A-nociceptors) carbon dioxide laser stimuli delivered to the affected and contralateral limbs, and by comparing these responses to the responses obtained in the left and right limbs of age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Compared with healthy controls and compared with the contralateral limb, the detection rate of pricking pain related to the activation of A-fibers was markedly reduced at the affected limb. Furthermore, reaction times were substantially prolonged (&gt;100 milliseconds in 84% of patients and &gt;300milliseconds in 50% of patients). Finally, the N2 and P2 waves of laser-evoked brain potentials were significantly reduced in amplitude, and their latencies were significantly increased. Taken together, our results show that in the majority of patients with chronic CRPS-1, thermo-nociceptive pathways are dysfunctional. A number of pathological mechanisms involving the peripheral nervous system and/or the central nervous system could explain our results. However, the primary or secondary nature of these observed changes remains an open question.
In unilateral upper-limb complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), the temperature of the hands is modulated by where the arms are located relative to the body midline. We hypothesized that this effect depends on the perceived location of the hands, not on their actual location, nor on their anatomical alignment. In 2 separate cross-sectional randomized experiments, 10 (6 female) unilateral CRPS patients wore prism glasses that laterally shifted the visual field by 20. Skin temperature was measured before and after 9-minute periods in which the position of one hand was changed. Placing the affected hand on the healthy side of the body midline increased its temperature (C=+0.47  0.14C), but not if prism glasses made the hand appear to be on the body midline (C=+0.07  0.06C). Similarly, when prism glasses made the affected hand appear to be on the healthy side of the body midline, even though it was not, the affected hand warmed up (C=+0.28  0.14C). When prism glasses made the healthy hand appear to be on the affected side of the body midline, even though it was not, the healthy hand cooled down (C=-0.30  0.15C). Friedman's analysis of variance and Wilcoxon pairs tests upheld the results (P&lt;0.01 for all). We conclude that, in CRPS, cortical mechanisms responsible for encoding the perceived location of the limbs in space modulate the temperature of the hands.
One feature of neuropathic pain is a reduced spinal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic inhibitory function. However, the mechanisms behind this attenuation remain to be elucidated. This study investigated the involvement of reactive oxygen species in the spinal GABA neuron loss and reduced GABA neuron excitability in spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model of neuropathic pain in mice. The importance of spinal GABAergic inhibition in neuropathic pain was tested by examining the effects of intrathecally administered GABA receptor agonists and antagonists in SNL and nave mice, respectively. The effects of SNL and antioxidant treatment on GABA neuron loss and functional changes were examined in transgenic GAD67-enhanced green fluorescent protein positive (EGFP+) mice. GABA receptor agonists transiently reversed mechanical hypersensitivity of the hind paw in SNL mice. On the other hand, GABA receptor antagonists made nave mice mechanically hypersensitive. Stereological analysis showed that the numbers of enhanced green fluorescent protein positive (EGFP+) GABA neurons were significantly decreased in the lateral superficial laminae (I-II) on the ipsilateral L5 spinal cord after SNL. Repeated antioxidant treatments significantly reduced the pain behaviors and prevented the reduction in EGFP+ GABA neurons. The response rate of the tonic firing GABA neurons recorded from SNL mice increased with antioxidant treatment, whereas no change was seen in those recorded from nave mice, which suggested that oxidative stress impaired some spinal GABA neuron activity in the neuropathic pain condition. Together the data suggest that neuropathic pain, at least partially, is attributed to oxidative stress, which induces both a GABA neuron loss and dysfunction of surviving GABA neurons.
Intramuscular injection of nerve growth factor (NGF) is known to induce deep-tissue mechanical hyperalgesia. In this study it was hypothesised that daily intramuscular injections of NGF produce a progressive manifestation of soreness, mechanical hyperalgesia, and temporal summation of pain. In a double-blind placebo-controlled design, 12 healthy subjects were injected on 3 days with NGF into the tibialis anterior muscle and with isotonic saline on the contralateral side. Assessments were performed before and after the injections on days 0, 1, and 2, and repeated on days 3, 6, and 10. The self-perceived muscle soreness was assessed on a Likert scale. Computer-controlled pressure algometry was used to assess the pressure pain thresholds (PPTs). Temporal summation of pain after repeated pressure stimulations was assessed by computer-controlled pressure algometry. The pain distribution following painful pressure stimulation was also recorded. Compared with baseline and isotonic saline, the NGF injections caused (P&lt;0.05): (1) progressively increasing soreness scores from 3 hours after the first injection until day 2, after which it remained increased; (2) decreased PPTs at days 1 to 3; (3) facilitated temporal summation of pressure pain at days 1 to 10; and (4) enlarged pressure-induced pain area after the injection on day 1 to day 6. The daily injections of NGF produced a progressive manifestation of muscle soreness, mechanical hyperalgesia, temporal summation of pressure pain, and pressure-induced pain distribution. These data illustrate that the prolonged NGF application affects peripheral and central mechanisms and may reflect process in musculoskeletal pain conditions.

Patients receiving opioids for pain may experience decreased effectiveness of the drug and even abnormal pain sensitivity-hyperalgesia and/or allodynia. We hypothesized that peripheral nociceptor hyperexcitability contributes to opioid-induced hyperalgesia and tested this using an in vitro mouse glabrous skin-nerve preparation. Mice were injected intraperitoneally with escalating doses of morphine (5, 8, 10, 15 mg/kg) or saline every 12 hours for 48 hours and killed approximately 12 hours after the last injection. Receptive fields of nociceptors were tested for mechanical, heat, and cold sensitivity. Activity was also measured during an initial 2-minute period and during 5-minute periods between stimuli. Aberrant activity was common in fibers from morphine-treated mice but rare in saline-treated mice. Resting background activity was elevated in C-fibers from morphine-treated mice. Both C- and A-fibers had afterdischarge in response to mechanical, heat, and/or cold stimulation of the skin as well as spontaneous, unevoked activity. Compared to saline, morphine treatment increased the proportion of fibers displaying polymodal rather than mechanical-only responses. A significant increase in A-mechanoreceptive fibers responding to cold accounted for most of this change. In agreement with this, morphine-treated mice showed increased sensitivity in the cold tail flick test. In morphine-treated mice, aberrant activity and hyperexcitability of nociceptors could contribute to increased pain sensitivity. Importantly, this activity is likely driving central sensitization, a phenomenon contributing to abnormal sensory processing and chronic pain. If similar changes occur in human patients, aberrant nociceptor activity is likely to be interpreted as pain and could contribute to opioid-induced hyperalgesia.



The timber rattlesnake, also known as Crotalus horridus, is well known to cause significant injury from toxins stored within its venom. During envenomation, toxic systemic effects immediately begin to cause damage to many organ systems including cardiovascular, hematologic, musculoskeletal, respiratory, and neurologic. One defining characteristic of the timber rattlesnake is a specific neurotoxin called crotoxin, or the &quot;canebrake toxin,&quot; which is a potent -neurotoxin affecting presynaptic nerves that can cause paralysis by inhibiting appropriate neuromuscular transmission. We present an unusual case of an 8-year-old boy bitten twice on his calf by a timber rattlesnake, who presented with a life-threatening envenomation and suffered multisystem organ failure as well as a prominent presynaptic neurotoxicity resulting in facial diplegia, pharyngeal paralysis, and ophthalmoplegia.



Home visiting is an important mechanism for minimizing the lifelong effects of early childhood adversity. To do so, it must be informed by the biology of early brain and child development. Advances in neuroscience, epigenetics, and the physiology of stress are revealing the biological mechanisms underlying well-established associations between early childhood adversity and suboptimal life-course trajectories. Left unchecked, mediators of physiologic stress become toxic, alter both genome and brain, and lead to a vicious cycle of chronic stress. This so-called &quot;toxic stress&quot; results a wide array of behavioral attempts to blunt the stress response, a process known as &quot;behavioral allostasis.&quot; Although behaviors like smoking, overeating, promiscuity, and substance abuse decrease stress transiently, over time they become maladaptive and result in the unhealthy lifestyles and noncommunicable diseases that are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality. The biology of toxic stress and the concept of behavioral allostasis shed new light on the developmental origins of lifelong disease and highlight opportunities for early intervention and prevention. Future efforts to minimize the effects of childhood adversity should focus on expanding the capacity of caregivers and communities to promote (1) the safe, stable, and nurturing relationships that buffer toxic stress, and (2) the rudimentary but foundational social-emotional, language, and cognitive skills needed to develop healthy, adaptive coping skills. Building these critical caregiver and community capacities will require a public health approach with unprecedented levels of collaboration and coordination between the healthcare, childcare, early education, early intervention, and home visiting sectors.
SLC26A11 (human)/Slc26a11 (mouse), also known as kidney brain anion transporter (KBAT), is a member of the SLC26 anion transporter family and shows abundant mRNA expression in the brain. However, its exact cellular distribution and subcellular localization in the brain and its functional identity and possible physiological roles remain unknown. Expression and immunostaining studies demonstrated that Slc26a11 is abundantly expressed in the cerebellum, with a predominant expression in Purkinje cells. Lower expression levels were detected in hippocampus, olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, and subcortical structures. Patch clamp studies in HEK293 cells transfected with mouse cDNA demonstrated that Slc26a11 can function as a chloride channel that is active under basal conditions and is not regulated by calcium, forskolin, or co-expression with cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator. Single and double immunofluorescent labeling studies demonstrated the localization of vacuolar (V) H-ATPase and Slc26a11 (KBAT) in the plasma membrane in Purkinje cells. Functional studies in HEK293 cells indicated that transfection with Slc26a11 stimulated acid transport via endogenous V H-ATPase. We conclude that Slc26a11 (KBAT) is prominently distributed in output neurons of various subcortical and cortical structures in the central nervous system, with specific expression in Purkinje cells and that it may operate as a chloride channel regulating acid translocation by H-ATPase across the plasma membrane and in intracellular compartments.

Patients affected by malignant brain tumors present an extremely poor prognosis, notwithstanding improvements in surgery techniques and therapeutic protocols. Brain tumor treatment has been principally hampered by limited drug delivery across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). An efficacious chemotherapeutic treatment requires a pharmacological agent that can penetrate the BBB and target neoplastic cells. Nanotechnology involves the design, synthesis and characterization of materials that have a functional organization in at least one dimension on the nanometer scale. Nanoparticle systems can represent optimal devices for delivery of various drugs into the brain across the BBB. Nanoparticle drug-delivery systems can also be used to provide targeted delivery of drugs, improve bioavailability and sustain release of drugs for systemic delivery. In this patent review, the recent studies of certain nanoparticle systems in treatment of brain tumors are summarized. Common nanoparticles systems include polymeric nanoparticles, lipid nanoparticles and inorganic nanoparticles. Various patents of nanoparticle systems able to across the BBB to target brain tumors are also reported and discussed.

Chronic pain is a disabling condition that persists even after normal healing processes are complete and presents considerable physical, psychological and financial burdens for patients globally. However, current analgesic treatments do not meet clinical needs. Here, we review genomic and pharmacogenomic studies of pain in humans and nociception in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, and provide evidence supporting the use of fly genetics to compliment genome-wide and pharmacogenomic studies of human conditions, such as pain. Combining genomic and pharmacogenomic techniques to study chronic pain in humans with functional genomic assessment in model organisms may provide molecular rationale for developing more personalized or improving generalized chronic pain therapies.
Schizophrenia pathophysiology is associated with alterations in several neurotransmitter systems, particularly dopamine, glutamate and serotonin (5-HT). Schizophrenia patients also have disruptions in sensory gating, a brain information filtering mechanism in response to repeated sensory stimuli. Dopamine and glutamate have been implicated in sensory gating; however, little is known about the contribution of serotonin. We therefore investigated the effects of several psychoactive compounds that alter serotonergic neuronal activity on event-related potentials (ERP) to paired auditory pulses. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with cortical surface electrodes to measure ERPs to 150 presentations of two 85 dB bursts of white noise, 500 ms apart (S1 and S2). Saline-treated animals suppressed the response to S2 to less than 50% of S1. In contrast, treatment with the serotonin releaser, MDMA (ecstasy; 2.0mg/kg), the 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist, DOI (0.5mg/kg), or the 5-HT1A/7 receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (0.5mg/kg), caused an increase in S2/S1 ratios. Analysis of waveform components suggested that the S2/S1 ratio disruption by MDMA was due to subtle effects on the ERPs to S1 and S2; DOI caused the disruption primarily by reducing the ERP to S1; 8-OH-DPAT-induced disruptions were due to an increase in the ERP to S2. These results show that 5-HT receptor stimulation alters S2/S1 ERP ratios in rats. These results may help to elucidate the sensory gating deficits observed in schizophrenia patients.
Sex differences in the neurobehavioral effects of chronic cannabinoid exposure suggest that gonadal hormones may modify cannabinoid activity. The current experiment assessed the impact of combined cannabinoid and estradiol treatment in ovariectomized, adolescent female rats on subsequent adult sexual behavior. Female Long-Evans rats were administered daily injections of either the cannabinoid agonist, CP 55,940 (0.4 mg/kg), or vehicle from post-natal day (PND) 40-49. Half of each treatment group also received daily injections of estradiol (50 g/kg) or sesame oil vehicle from PND 39-49. Beginning on PND 74, subjects' reproductive behavior, including receptivity, proceptivity, and pacing, was assessed via a fifteen-minute paced mating test. There were significant main effects of estradiol treatment on rate of hop-darts emitted, number of arena crossings, and ejaculations received during the paced mating test. Overall, estradiol-treated females produced higher and more typical levels of sexual behavior. There were significant interactions between hormone and cannabinoid treatment on lordosis quotient, percentage of exits following male sexual stimulation, and contact-return latency for intromissions. Adolescent cannabinoid treatment detrimentally impacted the display of female receptivity and pacing, but only within estradiol-treated subjects. We discuss possible interpretations of these results, including potential mechanisms by which adolescent cannabinoid exposure might disrupt the normal development of female reproductive behavior.
An association between chronic pain conditions and alcohol dependence has been revealed in numerous studies with episodes of alcohol abuse antedating chronic pain in some people and alcohol dependence emerging after the onset of chronic pain in others. Alcohol dependence and chronic pain share common neural circuits giving rise to the possibility that chronic pain states could significantly affect alcohol use patterns and that alcohol dependence could influence pain sensitivity. The reward and emotional pathways that regulate drug/alcohol addiction also mediate chronic pain. For example, pain-evoked activation of brain learning and brain reward circuitry may modulate cortical processing of pain and central sensitization mediated by mesocorticolimbic circuitry. Imbalance and reorganization of amygdala-mPFC interactions may not only be important for persistent pain, but also for disorders characterized by the abnormal persistence of emotional-affective states such as drug and alcohol addiction. Further studies are necessary to understand how these neural circuits are regulated in comorbid conditions of alcoholism and chronic pain. In addition, long term alcohol use could induce pain symptoms and may exacerbate chronic pain arising from other sources. While prior studies have established a role of neuroendocrine stress axis mediators in alcohol abuse and neurotoxic effects, these studies have not explored the distinction between the individual impact of alcohol and stress hormones. Future studies should explore the mechanisms mediating the contribution of alcohol and stress axis hormones on pain, an important question in our understanding of the neurobiology of alcohol abuse and chronic pain.
Stress increases vulnerability to addiction while drugs of abuse impair coping responses and pre-dispose to depression. Pre-clinical research shows that stress exposure augments locomotor sensitization effects of drugs of abuse and impairs behavioral tolerance to repeated stress. The present study investigates relationship between behavioral tolerance to repeated immobilization stress and apomorphine-induced sensitization. Apomorphine was injected either before exposure or after the termination of immobilization, daily for 5 days, to monitor drug-induced behavioral sensitization and tolerance in immobilization stress-induced anorexia. We find that apomorphine-induced sensitization is enhanced and tolerance to repeated immobilization is impaired if the drug is administered before exposure to stress episode. Conversely, apomorphine-induced sensitization is inhibited and adaptation to stress is facilitated if the drug is administered after the termination of stress episode. It shows that apomorphine, if experienced during stress, produces greater sensitization and impairs stress tolerance. Conversely, sensitization effects of apomorphine are blocked and tolerance to stress is facilitated in animals receiving drug after the termination of stress episode. It is suggested that additive effects of stress and apomorphine on mesocorticolimbic dopamine neurotransmission and 5-HT-1A influences on dopamine neurotransmission may have a role in the modulation of apomorphine sensitization and tolerance to repeated immobilization stress. The results may help develop potential pharmacotherapies when substance abuse/dependence disorder and depression occur together.
Recently, the imidazolinone derivative imepitoin has been approved for treatment of canine epilepsy. Imepitoin acts as a low-affinity partial agonist at the benzodiazepine (BZD) site of the GABAA receptor and is the first compound with such mechanism that has been developed as an antiepileptic drug (AED). This mechanism offers several advantages compared to full agonists, including less severe adverse effects and a lack of tolerance and dependence liability, which has been demonstrated in rodents, dogs, and nonhuman primates. In clinical trials in epileptic dogs, imepitoin was shown to be an effective and safe AED. Recently, seizures in dogs have been proposed as a translational platform for human therapeutic trials on new epilepsy treatments. In the present study, we compared the anticonvulsant efficacy of imepitoin, phenobarbital and the high-affinity partial BZD agonist abecarnil in the timed i.v. pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) seizure threshold test in dogs and, for comparison, in mice. Furthermore, adverse effects of treatments were compared in both species. All drugs dose-dependently increased the PTZ threshold in both species, but anticonvulsant efficacy was higher in dogs than mice. At the doses selected for this study, imepitoin was slightly less potent than phenobarbital in increasing seizure threshold, but markedly more tolerable in both species. Effective doses of imepitoin in the PTZ seizure model were in the same range as those suppressing spontaneous recurrent seizures in epileptic dogs. The study demonstrates that low-affinity partial agonists at the benzodiazepine site of the GABAA receptor, such as imepitoin, offer advantages as a new category of AEDs.
Hydroxytyrosol (HT), one of the major polyphenols present in olive oil, is known to possess a high antioxidant capacity. The aim of the present study was to investigate dose dependent (0, 1, 10 and 100 mg/kg) alterations in the metabolism of HT in rats since it has been reported that metabolites may contribute to biological effects. Special attention was paid to the activation of the semiquinone-quinone oxidative cycle and the formation of adducts with potential deleterious effects. Thus, we developed a novel analytical methodology to monitor the in vivo formation of the HT mercapturate, N-acetyl-5-S-cysteinyl-hydroxytyrosol in urine samples. Biomarkers of hepatic and renal toxicity were evaluated within the dose range tested. Following HT administration, dose-dependent effects were observed for the recovery of all the metabolites studied. At the lowest dose of 1 mg/kg, the glucuronidation pathway was the most relevant (25-30%), with lower recoveries for sulfation (14%), while at the highest dose of 100 mg/kg, sulfation was the most prevalent (75%). In addition, we report for the first time the formation of the mercapturate conjugate of HT in a dose-dependent manner. The biochemical data did not reveal significant toxic effects of HT at any of the doses studied. An increase in the GSH/GSSG ratio at the highest dose was observed indicating that the products of HT autoxidation are counteracted by glutathione, resulting in their detoxification. These results indicate that the metabolic disposition of HT is highly dependent on the dose ingested.
Diazoxide has been identified over the past 50years to have a number of physiological effects, including lowering the blood pressure and rectifying hypoglycemia. Today it is used clinically to treat these conditions. More recently, another important mode of action emerged: diazoxide has powerful protective properties against cardiac ischemia. The heart has intrinsic protective mechanisms against ischemia injury; one of which is ischemic preconditioning. Diazoxide mimics ischemic preconditioning. The purpose of this treatise is to review the literature in an attempt to identify the many effectors of diazoxide and discuss how they may contribute to diazoxide's cardioprotective properties. Particular emphasis is placed on the concentration ranges in which diazoxide affects its different targets and how this compares with the concentrations commonly used to study cardioprotection. It is concluded that diazoxide may have several potential effectors that may potentially contribute to cardioprotection, including KATP channels in the pancreas, smooth muscle, endothelium, neurons and the mitochondrial inner membrane. Diazoxide may also affect other ion channels and ATPases and may directly regulate mitochondrial energetics. It is possible that the success of diazoxide lies in this promiscuity and that the compound acts to rebalance multiple physiological processes during cardiac ischemia.

The aim of this study is to examine construct validity, internal consistency, and test-retest reliability of the Dutch translation of the Assessment of Preschool Children's Participation (APCP) a participation measure for children aged 2 to 5 years and 11 months with and without physical disabilities. Parents of 126 preschool children participated. Sixty-seven of the children had no physical disabilities (mean age three years two months, SD 1.2) and 59 children had physical disabilities (mean age two years nine months, SD 1.8). Validity was tested using three hypotheses regarding having a physical disability, gender and age differences. Most, but not all hypotheses were confirmed. Children with a physical disability participated in fewer activities and with lower intensity than children without physical disabilities (p &lt; .001). Boys and girls participated in an equally wide variety of activities and with similar intensity except for skill development. Four- to five-year-old children in general participated in more activities than two- to three-year-old children and had a higher intensity score (p &lt; .001). For activity types, age differences were found for skill development (p &lt; .001) and social activities (p &lt; .001). Internal consistency was sufficient for four out of 10 activity types. Intra Class Correlations for test-retest reliability ranged from 63 to .91. Our findings indicate that the Dutch APCP shows sufficient psychometric properties for some but not all aspects of the measure.
Neuronal membrane potentials fluctuate stochastically due to conductance changes caused by random transitions between the open and closed states of ion channels. Although it has previously been shown that channel noise can nontrivially affect neuronal dynamics, it is unknown whether ion-channel noise is strong enough to act as a noise source for hypothesized noise-enhanced information processing in real neuronal systems, i.e., &quot;stochastic facilitation&quot;. Here we demonstrate that biophysical models of channel noise can give rise to two kinds of recently discovered stochastic facilitation effects in a Hodgkin-Huxley-like model of auditory brainstem neurons. The first, known as slope-based stochastic resonance (SBSR), enables phasic neurons to emit action potentials that can encode the slope of inputs that vary slowly relative to key time constants in the model. The second, known as inverse stochastic resonance (ISR), occurs in tonically firing neurons when small levels of noise inhibit tonic firing and replace it with burstlike dynamics. Consistent with previous work, we conclude that channel noise can provide significant variability in firing dynamics, even for large numbers of channels. Moreover, our results show that possible associated computational benefits may occur due to channel noise in neurons of the auditory brainstem. This holds whether the firing dynamics in the model are phasic (SBSR can occur due to channel noise) or tonic (ISR can occur due to channel noise).
We study Kuramoto phase oscillators with temporal fluctuations in the frequencies. The infinite-dimensional system can be reduced in a Gaussian approximation to two first-order differential equations. This yields a solution for the time-dependent order parameter, which characterizes the synchronization between the oscillators. The known critical coupling strength is exactly recovered by the Gaussian theory. Extensive numerical experiments further show that the analytical results are very accurate below and sufficiently above the critical value. We obtain the asymptotic order parameter in closed form, which suggests a tighter upper bound for the corresponding scaling. As a last point, we elaborate the Gaussian approximation in complex networks with distributed degrees.
The baroreceptor reflex dampens the short-term fluctuations in blood pressure by feedback modulation of heart rate (HR) and vascular resistance. Impairment of this reflex has been observed in hypertension and heart failure. Angiotensin II, a blood borne hormone, acts via its type 1A receptor to attenuate the baroreceptor reflex and this reflex is reported to be dramatically altered in angiotensin type 1A receptor knockout mice. This study sought to further investigate changes in the arterial and cardiopulmonary baroreceptor reflex control of HR in angiotensin II type 1A receptor knocked out mice. In artificially ventilated, isoflurane anesthetized mice, the arterial and cardiopulmonary baroreceptor reflexes were activated via injection or slow infusions, respectively, of phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside through the jugular vein. We observed no impairment of either the arterial or cardiopulmonary baroreceptor reflex control of HR in angiotensin type 1A receptor knockout mice.
Renshaw cells are widely distributed in all segments of the spinal cord, but detailed morphological studies of these cells and their axonal branching patterns have only been made for lumbosacral segments. For these, a characteristic distribution of terminals was reported, including extensive collateralization within 1-2 mm of the soma, but then more restricted collaterals given off at intervals from the funicular axon. Previous authors have suggested that the projections close to the soma serve inhibition of motoneurons (known to be greatest for the motor nuclei providing the Renshaw cell excitation) but that the distant projections serve mainly the inhibition of other neurons. However, in thoracic segments, inhibition of motoneurons is known to occur over two to three segments (20-40 mm) from the presumed somatic locations of the Renshaw cells. Here, we report the first detailed morphological study of Renshaw cell axons outside the lumbosacral segments, which investigated whether this different distribution of motoneuron inhibition is reflected in a different pattern of Renshaw cell terminations. Four Renshaw cells in T7 or T8 segments were intracellularly labeled with neurobiotin in anesthetized cats and their axons traced for distances 6 mm from the somata. The only morphological difference detected within this distance in comparison with Renshaw cells in the lumbosacral cord was a minimal taper in the funicular axons, where in the lumbosacral cord this is pronounced. Patterns of termination were virtually identical to those in the lumbosacral segments, so we conclude that these patterns are unrelated to the pattern of motoneuronal inhibition.
Fetal brain hypoxic injury remains a concern in high-risk delivery. There is significant clinical interest in agents that may diminish neuronal damage during birth asphyxia, such as in allopurinol, an inhibitor of the prooxidant enzyme xanthine oxidase. Here, we established in a rodent model the capacity of allopurinol to be taken up by the mother, cross the placenta, rise to therapeutic levels, and suppress xanthine oxidase activity in the fetus. On day 20 of pregnancy, Wistar dams were given 30 or 100 mg kg(-1) allopurinol orally. Maternal and fetal plasma allopurinol and oxypurinol concentrations were measured, and xanthine oxidase activity in the placenta and maternal and fetal tissues determined. There were significant strong positive correlations between maternal and fetal plasma allopurinol (r = 0.97, P &lt; 0.05) and oxypurinol (r = 0.88, P &lt; 0.05) levels. Under baseline conditions, maternal heart (2.18  0.62 mU mg(-1)), maternal liver (0.29  0.08 mU mg(-1)), placenta (1.36  0.42 mU mg(-1)), fetal heart (1.64  0.59 mU mg(-1)), and fetal liver (0.14  0.08 mU mg(-1)) samples all showed significant xanthine oxidase activity. This activity was suppressed in all tissues 2 h after allopurinol administration and remained suppressed 24 h later (P &lt; 0.05), despite allopurinol and oxypurinol levels returning toward baseline. The data establish a mammalian model of xanthine oxidase inhibition in the mother, placenta, and fetus, allowing investigation of the role of xanthine oxidase-derived reactive oxygen species in the maternal, placental, and fetal physiology during healthy and complicated pregnancy.
In cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNGA1) channels, in the presence of symmetrical ionic conditions, current-voltage (I-V) relationship depends, in a complex way, on the radius of permeating ion. It has been suggested that both the pore and S4 helix contribute to the observed rectification. In the present manuscript, using tail and gating current measurements from homotetrameric CNGA1 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes, we clarify and quantify the role of the pore and of the S4 helix. We show that in symmetrical Rb(+) and Cs(+) single-channel current rectification dominates macroscopic currents while voltage-dependent gating becomes larger in symmetrical ethylammonium and dimethylammonium, where the open probability strongly depends on voltage. Isochronal tail currents analysis in dimethylammonium shows that at least two voltage-dependent transitions underlie the observed rectification. Only the first voltage-dependent transition is sensible to mutation of charge residues in the S4 helix. Moreover, analysis of tail and gating currents indicates that the number of elementary charges per channel moving across the membrane is less than 2, when they are about 12 in K(+) channels. These results indicate the existence of distinct mechanisms underlying rectification in CNG channels. A restricted motion of the S4 helix together with an inefficient coupling to the channel gate render CNGA1 channels poorly sensitive to voltage in the presence of physiological Na(+) and K(+).
The generalized anxiety is characterized by long-term psychological and physiological discomfort. Pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions have been extensively examined, whereas knowledge is scant regarding other professional perspectives. This article focuses on the physiotherapeutic perspective on anxiety, exploring physiotherapists' perceptions of their treatment for patients with generalized anxiety. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 10 physiotherapists working in psychiatry or primary health care. Data were analysed using qualitative content analysis, resulting in one main category and five subcategories. The main category &quot;To sense and make sense of one's anxiety&quot; reflects the idea that physiotherapy works through immediate, tangible bodily experiences to help a person understand and handle his or her anxiety better. Five subcategories reflected different aspects of this main category: (1) the body is the arena of anxiety, (2) to get in touch with oneself, (3) to get down-to-earth with oneself, (4) to make sense of bodily sensations, and (5) to gain trust in one's capability to handle anxiety. In conclusion, the gradual bodily awareness of sensations, to sense and make sense of anxiety in physiotherapy treatment, becomes an opportunity to find ways to withstand and to manage symptoms of anxiety, encouraging an embodied self-trust. The emphasis on the immediately lived body involves the potential to learn how to endure anxiety instead of running away from it, to discern and to understand different sensations, leading to an integration of anxiety as being part of oneself rather than overflowing oneself.


Genome-wide studies of circadian transcription or mRNA translation have been hindered by the presence of heterogeneous cell populations in complex tissues such as the nervous system. We describe here the use of a Drosophila cell-specific translational profiling approach to document the rhythmic &quot;translatome&quot; of neural clock cells for the first time in any organism. Unexpectedly, translation of most clock-regulated transcripts--as assayed by mRNA ribosome association--occurs at one of two predominant circadian phases, midday or mid-night, times of behavioral quiescence; mRNAs encoding similar cellular functions are translated at the same time of day. Our analysis also indicates that fundamental cellular processes--metabolism, energy production, redox state (e.g., the thioredoxin system), cell growth, signaling and others--are rhythmically modulated within clock cells via synchronized protein synthesis. Our approach is validated by the identification of mRNAs known to exhibit circadian changes in abundance and the discovery of hundreds of novel mRNAs that show translational rhythms. This includes Tdc2, encoding a neurotransmitter synthetic enzyme, which we demonstrate is required within clock neurons for normal circadian locomotor activity.
Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) are neurotransmitter-activated receptors that mediate fast synaptic transmission. In pLGICs, binding of agonist to the extracellular domain triggers a structural rearrangement that leads to the opening of an ion-conducting pore in the transmembrane domain and, in the continued presence of neurotransmitter, the channels desensitize (close). The flexible loops in each subunit that connect the extracellular binding domain (loops 2, 7, and 9) to the transmembrane channel domain (M2-M3 loop) are essential for coupling ligand binding to channel gating. Comparing the crystal structures of two bacterial pLGIC homologues, ELIC and the proton-activated GLIC, suggests channel gating is associated with rearrangements in these loops, but whether these motions accurately predict the motions in functional lipid-embedded pLGICs is unknown. Here, using site-directed spin labeling (SDSL) electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy and functional GLIC channels reconstituted into liposomes, we examined if, and how far, the loops at the ECD/TMD gating interface move during proton-dependent gating transitions from the resting to desensitized state. Loop 9 moves 9  inward toward the channel lumen in response to proton-induced desensitization. Loop 9 motions were not observed when GLIC was in detergent micelles, suggesting detergent solubilization traps the protein in a nonactivatable state and lipids are required for functional gating transitions. Proton-induced desensitization immobilizes loop 2 with little change in position. Proton-induced motion of the M2-M3 loop was not observed, suggesting its conformation is nearly identical in closed and desensitized states. Our experimentally derived distance measurements of spin-labeled GLIC suggest ELIC is not a good model for the functional resting state of GLIC, and that the crystal structure of GLIC does not correspond to a desensitized state. These findings advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying pLGIC gating.
Generalized linear models (GLMs) represent a popular choice for the probabilistic characterization of neural spike responses. While GLMs are attractive for their computational tractability, they also impose strong assumptions and thus only allow for a limited range of stimulus-response relationships to be discovered. Alternative approaches exist that make only very weak assumptions but scale poorly to high-dimensional stimulus spaces. Here we seek an approach which can gracefully interpolate between the two extremes. We extend two frequently used special cases of the GLM-a linear and a quadratic model-by assuming that the spike-triggered and non-spike-triggered distributions can be adequately represented using Gaussian mixtures. Because we derive the model from a generative perspective, its components are easy to interpret as they correspond to, for example, the spike-triggered distribution and the interspike interval distribution. The model is able to capture complex dependencies on high-dimensional stimuli with far fewer parameters than other approaches such as histogram-based methods. The added flexibility comes at the cost of a non-concave log-likelihood. We show that in practice this does not have to be an issue and the mixture-based model is able to outperform generalized linear and quadratic models.
The nature of the neural codes for pitch and loudness, two basic auditory attributes, has been a key question in neuroscience for over century. A currently widespread view is that sound intensity (subjectively, loudness) is encoded in spike rates, whereas sound frequency (subjectively, pitch) is encoded in precise spike timing. Here, using information-theoretic analyses, we show that the spike rates of a population of virtual neural units with frequency-tuning and spike-count correlation characteristics similar to those measured in the primary auditory cortex of primates, contain sufficient statistical information to account for the smallest frequency-discrimination thresholds measured in human listeners. The same population, and the same spike-rate code, can also account for the intensity-discrimination thresholds of humans. These results demonstrate the viability of a unified rate-based cortical population code for both sound frequency (pitch) and sound intensity (loudness), and thus suggest a resolution to a long-standing puzzle in auditory neuroscience.
Experimental data from neuroscience suggest that a substantial amount of knowledge is stored in the brain in the form of probability distributions over network states and trajectories of network states. We provide a theoretical foundation for this hypothesis by showing that even very detailed models for cortical microcircuits, with data-based diverse nonlinear neurons and synapses, have a stationary distribution of network states and trajectories of network states to which they converge exponentially fast from any initial state. We demonstrate that this convergence holds in spite of the non-reversibility of the stochastic dynamics of cortical microcircuits. We further show that, in the presence of background network oscillations, separate stationary distributions emerge for different phases of the oscillation, in accordance with experimentally reported phase-specific codes. We complement these theoretical results by computer simulations that investigate resulting computation times for typical probabilistic inference tasks on these internally stored distributions, such as marginalization or marginal maximum-a-posteriori estimation. Furthermore, we show that the inherent stochastic dynamics of generic cortical microcircuits enables them to quickly generate approximate solutions to difficult constraint satisfaction problems, where stored knowledge and current inputs jointly constrain possible solutions. This provides a powerful new computing paradigm for networks of spiking neurons, that also throws new light on how networks of neurons in the brain could carry out complex computational tasks such as prediction, imagination, memory recall and problem solving.
The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region is strongly associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility. HLA-DRB1*15:01 has the strongest effect, and several other alleles have been reported at different levels of validation. Using SNP data from genome-wide studies, we imputed and tested classical alleles and amino acid polymorphisms in 8 classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes in 5,091 cases and 9,595 controls. We identified 11 statistically independent effects overall: 6 HLA-DRB1 and one DPB1 alleles in class II, one HLA-A and two B alleles in class I, and one signal in a region spanning from MICB to LST1. This genomic segment does not contain any HLA class I or II genes and provides robust evidence for the involvement of a non-HLA risk allele within the MHC. Interestingly, this region contains the TNF gene, the cognate ligand of the well-validated TNFRSF1A MS susceptibility gene. The classical HLA effects can be explained to some extent by polymorphic amino acid positions in the peptide-binding grooves. This study dissects the independent effects in the MHC, a critical region for MS susceptibility that harbors multiple risk alleles.
Forward genetic screens are important tools for exploring the genetic requirements for neuronal function. However, conventional forward screens often have difficulty identifying genes whose relevant functions are masked by pleiotropy. In particular, if loss of gene function results in sterility, lethality, or other severe pleiotropy, neuronal-specific functions cannot be readily analyzed. Here we describe a method in C. elegans for generating cell-specific knockdown in neurons using feeding RNAi and its application in a screen for the role of essential genes in GABAergic neurons. We combine manipulations that increase the sensitivity of select neurons to RNAi with manipulations that block RNAi in other cells. We produce animal strains in which feeding RNAi results in restricted gene knockdown in either GABA-, acetylcholine-, dopamine-, or glutamate-releasing neurons. In these strains, we observe neuron cell-type specific behavioral changes when we knock down genes required for these neurons to function, including genes encoding the basal neurotransmission machinery. These reagents enable high-throughput, cell-specific knockdown in the nervous system, facilitating rapid dissection of the site of gene action and screening for neuronal functions of essential genes. Using the GABA-specific RNAi strain, we screened 1,320 RNAi clones targeting essential genes on chromosomes I, II, and III for their effect on GABA neuron function. We identified 48 genes whose GABA cell-specific knockdown resulted in reduced GABA motor output. This screen extends our understanding of the genetic requirements for continued neuronal function in a mature organism.

In the absence of disease modifying therapies for dementia, the question rises what the benefits are of an early dementia diagnosis for patients and their caregivers. This paper reviews the caregiver perspective in dementia and addresses the question what the consequences are of promoting earlier dementia diagnosis. An early diagnosis offers caregivers the opportunity to advance the process of adaptation to the caregiver role. Caregivers that are better able to adapt to the changes that characterize dementia, feel more competent to care and experience less psychological problems. However, drawbacks of an early diagnosis may outweigh the benefits if people are left with a diagnosis but little support. There is convincing evidence that multicomponent caregiver interventions in the mild to moderate dementia stages are effective to improve caregiver well-being and delay institutionalization. However, there still exist a gap between the improved possibilities to diagnose people in the predementia stage versus the scarce knowledge on intervention effects in this very early stage. This stresses the urgent need for more research on early caregiver interventions that enhance role adaptation and that include long-term follow-up and cost-effectiveness evaluation. Early interventions may help caregivers in anticipating and accepting the future care role and transitions, with the increased possibility that caregivers can still involve the patient in the decision making process. As levels of stress and burden are still low in the predementia stage it provides excellent opportunities to empower the resources of caregivers.
Should patients with Parkinson's disease participate in research involving stem cell treatments? Are induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) the ethical solution to the moral issues regarding embryonic stem cells? How can we adapt trial designs to best assess small numbers of patients in receipt of invasive experimental therapies? Over the last 20 years there has been a revolution in our ability to make stem cells from different sources and use them for therapeutic gain in disorders of the brain. These cells, which are defined by their capacity to proliferate indefinitely as well as differentiate into selective phenotypic cell types, are viewed as being especially attractive for studying disease processes and for grafting in patients with chronic incurable neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS such as Parkinson's disease (PD). In this review we briefly discuss and summarise where our understanding of stem cell biology has taken us relative to the clinic and patients, before dealing with some of the major ethical issues that work of this nature generates. This includes issues to do with the source of the cells, their ownership and exploitation along with questions about patient recruitment, consent and trial design when they translate to the clinic for therapeutic use.
There is great interest in the ethical issues associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias given the prevalence of AD and the evolving neuroscience landscape in matters of diagnoses and therapeutics. Much of the ethics discussion arises in the tension between the principle of not doing harm (principle of non-maleficence) in this vulnerable population and the development of effective treatments (principle of beneficence). Autonomy and capacity issues are also numerous, wide-ranging, and concern (1) day to day affairs such as driving safely and spending money wisely, (2) life-time events such as designating a legal representative in case of incapacity, making a will, (3) consenting to treatment and diagnostic procedures, (4) participating in research. The latter issue is particularly thorny and illustrates well the complexity of tackling concerns related to capacity. The impetus to protect AD patients has partly led to ethics regulation and policies making research on inapt patients more difficult because of stringent requirements for signed informed consent or for showing the value of the research to this specific patient population. New issues are arising that relate to earlier diagnosis using biomarkers and (possibly soon) the use of drugs that modify disease progression. We here summarize and discuss the different ethical issues associated with AD from a historical perspective, with emphasis on diagnostic and treatments issues.
Primary open angle glaucoma (POAG) is a complex progressive optic nerve neuropathy triggered by both environmental and genetic risk factors. Several ocular tissues, including the ciliary body, trabecular meshwork and optic nerve head, and perhaps even brain tissues, are involved in a chain of pathological events leading to POAG. Genetic risk evidence for POAG came from family linkage-studies implicating a small number of disease genes (MYOC, OPTN, WDR36). Recent Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) identified a large number of new POAG loci and disease genes, such as CAV1, CDKN2B and GAS7. In the current study, we reviewed over 120 family and GWA studies. We selected in total 65 (candidate) POAG disease genes and proceeded to assess their function, mRNA expression in POAG relevant eye tissues and possible changes in disease state. We found that the proteins corresponding to these 65 (candidate) POAG disease genes take part in as few as four common functional molecular networks. Functions attributed to these 4 networks were developmental (dys)function, lipid metabolism, and inflammatory processes. For the 65 POAG disease genes, we reviewed the available (transgenic) mouse models of POAG, which may be useful for future functional studies. Finally, we showed that the 65 (candidate) POAG genes substantially increased the specificity and sensitivity of a discriminative POAG risk test. This suggests that personal risk assessment and personalized medicine for POAG are on the horizon. Taken together, the data presented are essential to comprehend the role of genetic variation in POAG, and may provide leads to understand the pathophysiology of POAG as well as other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease.




Past studies have suggested important links between valence and perception and action in physical space. The present study aimed to test the associations between emotional valance for words or faces and manual responses in left- and right-handers. We employed a divided output (bimanual) reaction time paradigm in which participants had to discriminate emotional valance of words or faces presented on the center of the screen. The results revealed that right-handers were faster when responding to positive words or faces with their right hand and to negative words or faces with the left hand, whereas left-handers showed the opposite pattern. These results suggest that the association between space and valence depends on handedness, providing further evidence for the body-specificity hypothesis.
There are biologically based sex differences in verbal abilities and in neuropsychological systems of verbal processing. Measurement of observable behaviour, however, does not say much about sex differences in the internal, semantic processing of verbal material. The present study, which was conducted in Canada, China and Russia, investigated sex differences in connotative meaning attribution to the most common concepts using an object scale symmetry in the choice of the nouns and bipolar adjectives (projective semantic method). The results showed that males had a tendency to estimate reality- and work-related concepts more negatively and social- and physical attractors more positively than women. The paper hypothesizes that at the level of the most fundamental semantic processing men favour more exceptional objects than women, and women favour more predictable objects, including rules and routines.
Central (aortic) blood pressures differ from brachial pressures and may be more relevant to the study of cognitive function, given that blood is delivered to the brain through the central large arteries. Pulse-pressure amplification reflects the augmentation of blood pressure between the central and peripheral arteries, which diminishes with aging. We aimed to determine the association between central blood pressure and cognitive function in independently living adults aged 20 to 82 years (N = 493). In adjusted regression models, higher central systolic pressure and higher central pulse pressure were each associated with poorer processing speed, Stroop processing, and recognition memory. Lower amplification was associated with poorer Stroop processing, working memory, and recognition memory. Higher brachial systolic pressure and brachial pulse pressure were both associated with poorer Stroop processing. In summary, central pressures and amplification were sensitive indicators of cognitive aging, predicting aspects of cognitive performance not predicted by brachial blood pressure.
Based on clinical and animal studies, this review suggests a tri-phasic effect of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) on circulating ghrelin levels: an initial increase exerted by the acute effect of SGAs; followed by a secondary decrease possibly due to the negative feedback from the SGA-induced body weight gain or hyperphagia; and a final re-increase to reach the new equilibrium. Moreover, the results can also vary depending on individual SGAs, other hormonal states, dietary choices, and other confounding factors including medical history, co-treatments, age, gender, and ghrelin measurement techniques. Interestingly, rats treated with olanzapine, an SGA with high weight gain liabilities, are associated with increased hypothalamic ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1a) levels. In addition, expressions of downstream ghrelin signalling parameters at the hypothalamus, including neuropeptide Y (NPY)/agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) are also altered under SGA treatments. Thus, understanding the role of ghrelin signalling in antipsychotic drug-induced weight gain should offer potential novel pharmacological targets for tackling the obesity side-effect of SGAs and its associated metabolic syndrome.
Exposure to early-life stress is a risk factor for the development of cognitive and emotional disorders later in life. We previously demonstrated that prenatal stress (PNS) in rats results in long-term, stable changes in central stress-response systems and impairs the ability to extinguish conditioned fear responding, a component of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Maternal corticosterone (CORT), released during prenatal stress, is a possible mediator of these effects. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether fetal exposure to CORT at levels induced by PNS is sufficient to alter the development of adult stress neurobiology and fear extinction behavior. Pregnant dams were subject to either PNS (60 min immobilization/day from ED 14-21) or a daily injection of CORT (10mg/kg), which approximated both fetal and maternal plasma CORT levels elicited during PNS. Control dams were given injections of oil vehicle. Male offspring were allowed to grow to adulthood undisturbed, at which point they were sacrificed and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), hippocampus, hypothalamus, and a section of the rostral pons containing the locus coeruleus (LC) were dissected. PNS and prenatal CORT treatment decreased glucocorticoid receptor protein levels in the mPFC, hippocampus, and hypothalamus when compared to control offspring. Both treatments also decreased tyrosine hydroxylase levels in the LC. Finally, the effect of prenatal CORT exposure on fear extinction behavior was examined following chronic stress. Prenatal CORT impaired both acquisition and recall of cue-conditioned fear extinction. This effect was additive to the impairment induced by previous chronic stress. Thus, these data suggest that fetal exposure to high levels of maternal CORT is responsible for many of the lasting neurobiological consequences of PNS as they relate to the processes underlying extinction of learned fear. The data further suggest that adverse prenatal environments constitute a risk factor for PTSD-like symptomatology, especially when combined with chronic stressors later in life.
Sex differences in psychiatric disorders are common, which is particularly striking in autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) that are four times more prevalent in boys. High levels of testosterone during early development have been hypothesized to be a risk factor for ASDs, supported by several studies showing fetal testosterone levels, as well as indirect measures of prenatal androgenization, to be associated with ASDs and autistic-like traits (ALTs). Further, the importance of sex steroid related genes in ASDs is supported by studies reporting associations between polymorphisms in genes involved in sex steroid synthesis/metabolism and ASDs and ALTs. The aim of the present study was to investigate possible associations between 29 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in eight genes related to sex steroids and autistic features. Individuals included in the study belong to a subset (n=1771) from The Child and Adolescent Twin Study in Sweden (CATSS), which are all assessed for ALTs. For two SNPs, rs2747648 located in the 3'-UTR of ESR1 encoding the estrogen receptor alpha and rs523349 (Leu89Val) located in SRD5A2 encoding 5-alpha-reductase, type 2, highly significant associations with ALTs were found in boys and girls, respectively. The results of the present study suggest that SNPs in sex steroid related genes, known to affect gene expression (rs2747648 in ESR1) and enzymatic activity (Leu89Val in SRD5A2), seem to be associated with ALTs in a general population. In conclusion, the current findings provide further support for a role of sex steroids in the pathophysiology of ASDs.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs such as Olanzapine (Ola) induce weight gain and metabolic changes associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. The mechanisms underlying these undesired side-effects are currently unknown. Chagnon et al. showed that the common allele rs7973796 of the prepro-melanin-concentrating hormone (PMCH) gene is associated with a greater body mass index in Ola-treated schizophrenic patients. As PMCH encodes for the orexigenic neuropeptide melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), it was hypothesized that MCH is involved in Ola-induced metabolic changes. We have recently reported that the intragastric infusion of Ola results in hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance in male rats. In order to test in vivo the possible involvement of the PMCH gene in the pathogenesis of Ola side-effects, we administered Ola intragastrically in wild-type (WT) and PMCH knock-out (KO) rats. Our results show that glucose and corticosterone levels, as well as endogenous glucose production, are elevated by the infusion of Ola in both WT and KO animals. Thus, the lack of MCH does not seem to affect the acute effects of Ola on glucose metabolism. On the other hand, these effects might be obliterated by compensatory changes in other hypothalamic systems. In addition, possible modulatory effects of the MCH KO on the long term effects of Ola, i.e. increased adiposity, body weight gain, have not been investigated yet.
Schedules of intermittent food delivery induce excessive fluid intake, termed schedule-induced polydipsia (SIP), and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation is important for the expression and maintenance of this adjunctive behavior. Previous work has focused on examining the relationship between water intake and plasma corticosterone (CORT) in rats at a single or a limited range of fixed time (FT) intervals. However, little remains known regarding SIP and the corresponding stress response (1) across the bitonic function that epitomizes adjunctive behavior, (2) when ethanol is the available fluid, and (3) when a species other than rat or multiple strains are studied. Here we report the findings from ethanol-preferring C57BL/6J (B6) and non-preferring DBA/2J (D2) mice serially exposed to progressively larger FT intervals (0  60 min) and given access to either water or a 5% (v/v) ethanol solution. Following 2 weeks of experience with each schedule, blood samples were collected at the conclusion of the last 60-min session to evaluate CORT and the blood ethanol concentration (BEC) achieved. While both strains exhibited a bitonic function of ethanol intake and BEC that peaked at or near a 5-min interval, only D2 mice showed a similar response with water. In contrast, CORT levels rose monotonically with incremental increases in the FT interval regardless of the strain examined or fluid type offered, indicating that glucocorticoid release likely reflects the aversive aspects of increasing intervals between reinforcement rather than engagement in adjunctive behavior. These findings also caution against the use of a single intensity stressor to evaluate the relationship between stress and ethanol intake, as the magnitude of stress appears to affect ethanol consumption in a non-linear fashion.
Stress and fear conditioning processes are both important vulnerability factors in the development of psychiatric disorders. In behavioral studies considerable sex differences in fear learning have been observed after increases of the stress hormone cortisol. But neuroimaging experiments, which give insights into the neurobiological correlates of stress  sex interactions in fear conditioning, are lacking so far. In the current functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we tested whether a psychosocial stressor (Trier Social Stress Test) compared to a control condition influenced subsequent fear conditioning in 48 men and 48 women taking oral contraceptives (OCs). One of two pictures of a geometrical figure was always paired (conditioned stimulus, CS+) or never paired (CS-) with an electrical stimulation (unconditioned stimulus). BOLD responses as well as skin conductance responses were assessed. Sex-independently, stress enhanced the CS+/CS- differentiation in the hippocampus in early acquisition but attenuated conditioned responses in the medial frontal cortex in late acquisition. In early acquisition, stress reduced the CS+/CS- differentiation in the nucleus accumbens in men, but enhanced it in OC women. In late acquisition, the same pattern (reduction in men, enhancement in OC women) was found in the amygdala as well as in the anterior cingulate. Thus, psychosocial stress impaired the neuronal correlates of fear learning and expression in men, but facilitated them in OC women. A sex-specific modulation of fear conditioning after stress might contribute to the divergent prevalence of men and women in developing psychiatric disorders.





In two ERP experiments, we examined whether active inhibition is involved in intentional forgetting. Both experiments consisted of a nondirected-forgetting (nDF) and a directed-forgetting (DF) block. Participants were sequentially presented with a prime, an R/F (remember/forget) cue, and a target. Participants made lexical decisions to both the primes and targets (Experiment 1) or only to the targets (Experiment 2). They were also instructed to remember or to forget the primes in response to the R/F cues in the DF block but to ignore these cues in the nDF block. The N400 semantic priming effect was observed when comparing the ERPs elicited by semantically unrelated and related targets in the DF block. In comparison to the nDF block, the N400 effect was greatly reduced for targets preceded by F cues in the DF block. These findings suggest that semantic processing is reduced by the instruction to forget and active inhibition is involved in intentional forgetting.
To investigate the influence of cognitive reappraisal, one important kind of emotion regulation strategy, on psychological and electrophysiological responses to gains and losses, a monetary gambling task was performed in two conditions, that is, spontaneity and regulation. Event-related potentials (ERP) and self-rating emotional experiences to outcome feedback were recorded during the task. Cognitive reappraisal reduced self-rating emotional experience to both gains and losses and the amplitudes of the feedback-related negativity (FRN) and the P3 of ERPs. According to these results, we suggest that the application of cognitive reappraisal strategy significantly modulated the motivational salience of current outcomes, thus weakening the subjective emotional experience elicited. In addition, cognitive reappraisal might have changed the allocation of cognitive resources during outcome evaluation. This study extends emotion regulation studies by applying monetary outcomes as emotional stimuli, and also implicates the significance of emotion regulation in decision-making processes.





Cochlear implants have a significant positive effect on spoken language development in severely hearing impaired children. Previous work in this population has focused mostly on the emergence of early-developing language skills, such as vocabulary. The current study aims at comparing narratives, which are more complex and later-developing spoken language skills, of a contemporary group of profoundly deaf school-aged children using cochlear implants (n=66, median age=8 years 3 months) with matched normal hearing peers. Results show that children with cochlear implants demonstrate good results on quantity and coherence of the utterances, but problematic outcomes on quality, content and efficiency of retold stories. However, for a subgroup (n=20, median age=8 years 1 month) of deaf children without additional disabilities who receive cochlear implantation before the age of 2 years, use two implants, and are raised with one spoken language, age-adequate spoken narrative skills at school-age are feasible. This is the first study to set the goals regarding spoken narrative skills for deaf children using cochlear implants.
Asperger Syndrome (AS) and High Functioning Autism (HFA) are psychiatric conditions belonging to the Autistic Spectrum Disorders (ASDs), characterized by social dysfunction and focused interest, in the absence of mental retardation. Previous reports suggest that AS/HFA may be associated with important psychiatric comorbidities. Among the psychiatric internalizing disorders, depression and anxiety are probably the most common disorders. The aim of this study is to evaluate the prevalence of mood disorders and identifying peculiar clinical features in subjects suffering from AS and HFA. 30 male patients with AS/HFA, 30 male patients affected by Major Depression (MD) and 35 male Typically Developing (TD) comparison were assessed with the CDI and the CDRS-R. Participants' parents were invited to complete the CBCL and the P-YMRS. Moreover, the CGAS was rated by the clinicians. The evaluation of depressive symptoms showed that AS/HFA group reported higher depressive symptoms, as showed by CDI total, CBCL internalizing and CDRS-R total, compared to the TD group. No significant difference of depressive symptoms was found between the AS/HFA and the MD group, with the exception of CDRS-R total score. Moreover, linear regression analysis in the AS/HFA group between CGAS and depressive symptoms revealed that a higher level of depressive symptoms increased the risk of poorer global functioning. These results suggest that the depressive symptoms in AS/HFA patients may be associated with poorer global functioning, with a consequent impairment in their psychological profile and social adjustment, and should alert clinicians to the importance of assessing mood disorders in order to choose the appropriate treatment.
It has been proposed that an impairment of procedural memory underlies a range of linguistic, cognitive and motor impairments observed in developmental dyslexia (DD). However, studies designed to test this hypothesis using the implicit sequence learning paradigm have yielded inconsistent results. A fundamental aspect of procedural learning is that it takes place over an extended time-period that may be divided into distinct stages based on both behavioural characteristics and neural correlates of performance. Yet, no study of implicit sequence learning in children with DD has included learning stages beyond a single practice session. The present study was designed to fill this important gap by extending the investigation to include the effects of overnight consolidation as well as those of further practice on a subsequent day. The results suggest that the most pronounced procedural learning impairment in DD may emerge only after extended practice, in learning stages beyond a single practice session.
Developmental coordination disorder (DCD) is a neurodevelopmental condition, affecting approximately 5-6% of children. Previous research has consistently found children with DCD being less physically active compared to typically-developing (TD) children; however, the psychosocial factors associated with physical activity for children with DCD are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to examine how theory-based physical activity cognitions impacts physical activity behaviors for children with and without DCD. Participants included a sample of boys (N=61, Mage=13.25 .46) with DCD (n=19) and without DCD (n=42), drawn from a larger prospective cohort study. A questionnaire with psychosocial measures was first administered, and accelerometers were used to assess their physical activity behavior over the subsequent week. Findings indicate that DCD was significantly associated with lower physical activity (F(1,58)=6.51, p&lt;.05), and poorer physical activity cognitions (F(4,56) Wilks Lambda=2.78, p&lt;.05). Meditational analyses found attitudes (B=.23, p&lt;.05) and subjective norms (B=.31, p&lt;.05) partially mediating the relationship between DCD and physical activity. Overall, this study further confirms that the activity deficit that exists among boys with DCD, and that the relationship is partially mediated through some physical activity cognitions. Interventions should target the perceived approval of influential people, and the personal evaluations of physical activity for boys with motoric difficulties. These findings further emphasizes the discrepancy in physical activity that exist between boys with DCD and TD boys, and highlight the need to better understand the psychological factors related to physical activity for children with DCD.
Respiratory dysfunction is one of the most devastating consequences of cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) with impaired breathing being a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in this population. However, there is mounting experimental and clinical evidence for moderate spontaneous respiratory recovery, or &quot;plasticity&quot;, after some spinal cord injuries. Pre-clinical models of respiratory dysfunction following SCI have demonstrated plasticity at neural and behavioral levels that result in progressive recovery of function. Temporal changes in respiration after human SCI have revealed some functional improvements suggesting plasticity paralleling that seen in experimental models-a concept that has been previously under-appreciated. While the extent of spontaneous recovery remains limited, it is possible that enhancing or facilitating neuroplastic mechanisms may have significant therapeutic potential. The next generation of treatment strategies for SCI and related respiratory dysfunction should aim to optimize these recovery processes of the injured spinal cord for lasting functional restoration.
This review outlines research that has advanced our understanding of the pathogenesis and etiology of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The majority of CDH cases involve incomplete formation of the posterolateral portion of the diaphragm, clinically referred to as a Bochdalek hernia. The hole in the diaphragm allows the abdominal viscera to invade the thoracic cavity, thereby impeding normal lung development. As a result, newborns with CDH suffer from a combination of severe pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. Despite advances in neonatal intensive care, mortality and serious morbidity remain high. Systematic studies using rat and transgenic mouse models in conjunction with analyses of human tissue are providing insights into the embryological origins of the diaphragmatic defect associated with CDH and abnormalities of developmentally regulated signaling cascades.




Social cognitive impairment is prominent in schizophrenia, and it is closely related to functional outcome. Partly for these reasons, it has rapidly become a target for both training and psychopharmacological interventions. However, there is a paucity of reliable and valid social cognitive endpoints that can be used to evaluate treatment response in clinical trials. Also, clinical studies in schizophrenia have benefited rather little from the surge of activity and knowledge in nonclinical social neuroscience. The National Institute of Mental Health-sponsored study, &quot;Social Cognition and Functioning in Schizophrenia&quot; (SCAF), attempted to address this translational challenge by selecting paradigms from social neuroscience that could be adapted for use in schizophrenia. The project also evaluated the psychometric properties and external validity of the tasks to determine their suitability for multisite clinical trials. This first article in the theme section presents the goals, conceptual background, and rationale for the SCAF project.
The goals of the project Social Cognition and Functioning in Schizophrenia (SCAF) were to (1) identify the domains to target from social neuroscience for translation to clinical schizophrenia research, (2) identify the paradigms that represent these domains for which the neural substrates are well documented, (3) adapt these paradigms for use in schizophrenia clinical trials, (4) assess the psychometric properties of these measures, and (5) assess the external validity of these measures. The articles in this theme section present the initial findings from the SCAF project. As more training and psychopharmacological studies evaluate interventions for social cognition, the articles in this theme section are intended to serve as a guide for informed design decisions about possible endpoints in clinical trials.
It is unknown whether measures adapted from social neuroscience linked to specific neural systems will demonstrate relationships to external variables. Four paradigms adapted from social neuroscience were administered to 173 clinically stable outpatients with schizophrenia to determine their relationships to functionally meaningful variables and to investigate their incremental validity beyond standard measures of social and nonsocial cognition. The 4 paradigms included 2 that assess perception of nonverbal social and action cues (basic biological motion and emotion in biological motion) and 2 that involve higher level inferences about self and others' mental states (self-referential memory and empathic accuracy). Overall, social neuroscience paradigms showed significant relationships to functional capacity but weak relationships to community functioning; the paradigms also showed weak correlations to clinical symptoms. Evidence for incremental validity beyond standard measures of social and nonsocial cognition was mixed with additional predictive power shown for functional capacity but not community functioning. Of the newly adapted paradigms, the empathic accuracy task had the broadest external validity. These results underscore the difficulty of translating developments from neuroscience into clinically useful tasks with functional significance.
The psychometric properties of 4 paradigms adapted from the social neuroscience literature were evaluated to determine their suitability for use in clinical trials of schizophrenia. This 2-site study (University of California, Los Angeles and University of North Carolina) included 173 clinically stable schizophrenia outpatients and 88 healthy controls. The social cognition battery was administered twice to the schizophrenia group (baseline, 4-week retest) and once to the control group. The 4 paradigms included 2 that assess perception of nonverbal social and action cues (basic biological motion and emotion in biological motion) and 2 that involve higher level inferences about self and others' mental states (self-referential memory and empathic accuracy). Each paradigm was evaluated on (1) patient vs healthy control group differences, (2) test-retest reliability, (3) utility as a repeated measure, and (4) tolerability. Of the 4 paradigms, empathic accuracy demonstrated the strongest characteristics, including large between-group differences, adequate test-retest reliability (.72), negligible practice effects, and good tolerability ratings. The other paradigms showed weaker psychometric characteristics in their current forms. These findings highlight challenges in adapting social neuroscience paradigms for use in clinical trials.
The &quot;aberrant salience&quot; model proposes that psychotic symptoms first emerge when chaotic brain dopamine transmission leads to the attribution of significance to stimuli that would normally be considered irrelevant. This is thought to occur during the prodromal phase of psychotic disorders, but this prediction has not been tested previously. In the present study, we tested this model in 18 healthy volunteers and 18 unmedicated individuals at ultra-high risk of psychosis. Subjects performed the Salience Attribution Test, which provides behavioral measures of adaptive and aberrant motivational salience, during functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess neural responses to relevant and irrelevant stimulus features. On a separate occasion, the same subjects were also studied with [(18)F]fluorodopa positron emission tomography to measure dopamine synthesis capacity. Individuals at ultra-high risk of psychosis were more likely to attribute motivational salience to irrelevant stimulus features (t(26.7) = 2.8, P = .008), and this bias was related to the severity of their delusion-like symptoms (r = .62, P = .008). Ventral striatal responses to irrelevant stimulus features were also correlated with delusion-like symptoms in the ultra-high risk group (r = .59, P = .017). Striatal dopamine synthesis capacity correlated negatively with hippocampal responses to irrelevant stimulus features in ultra-high risk individuals, but this relationship was positive in controls. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that aberrant salience processing underlies psychotic symptoms and involves functional alterations in the striatum, hippocampus, and the subcortical dopamine system.
Genetic variability within the ZNF804A gene has been recently found to be associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, although the pathways by which this gene may confer risk remain largely unknown. We set out to investigate whether common ZNF804A variants affect psychosis-related intermediate phenotypes such as cognitive performance dependent on prefrontal and frontotemporal brain function, schizotypal traits, and attenuated psychotic experiences in a large young male population. Association analyses were performed using all 4 available self-rated schizotypy questionnaires and cognitive data retrospectively drawn from the Athens Study of Psychosis Proneness and Incidence of Schizophrenia (ASPIS). DNA samples from 1507 healthy young men undergoing induction to military training were genotyped for 4 previously studied polymorphic markers in the ZNF804A gene locus. Single-marker analysis revealed significant associations between 2 recently identified candidate schizophrenia susceptibility variants (rs1344706 and rs7597593) and a refined positive schizotypy phenotype characterized primarily by self-rated paranoia/ideas of reference. Nominal associations were noted with all positive, but not negative, schizotypy related factors. ZNF804A genotype effect on paranoia was confirmed at the haplotype level. No significant associations were noted with central indexes of sustained attention or working memory performance. In this study, ZNF804A variation was associated with a population-based self-rated schizotypy phenotype previously suggested to preferentially reflect genetic liability to psychosis and defined by a tendency to misinterpret otherwise neutral social cues and perceptual experiences in one's immediate environment, as personally relevant and significant information. This suggests a novel route by which schizophrenia-implicated ZNF804A genetic variation may confer risk to clinical psychosis at the general population level.

Emerging evidence points to proteoglycan abnormalities in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (SZ). In particular, markedly abnormal expression of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), key components of the extracellular matrix, was observed in the medial temporal lobe. CSPG functions, including regulation of neuronal differentiation and migration, are highly relevant to the pathophysiology of SZ. CSPGs may exert similar functions in the olfactory epithelium (OE), a continuously regenerating neural tissue that shows cell and molecular abnormalities in SZ. We tested the hypothesis that CSPG expression in OE may be altered in SZ. CSPG-positive cells in postmortem OE from non-psychiatric control (n=9) and SZ (n=10) subjects were counted using computer-assisted light microscopy. 'Cytoplasmic' CSPG (c-CSPG) labeling was detected in sustentacular cells and some olfactory receptor neurons (c-CSPG+ORNs), while 'pericellular' CSPG (p-CSPG) labeling was found in basal cells and some ORNs (p-CSPG+ORNs). Dual labeling for CSPG and markers for mature and immature ORNs suggests that c-CSPG+ORNs correspond to mature ORNs, and p-CSPG+ORNs to immature ORNs. Previous studies in the same cohort demonstrated that densities of mature ORNs were unaltered (Arnold et al., 2001). In the present study, numerical densities of c-CSPG+ORNs were significantly decreased in SZ (p&lt;0.025; 99.32% decrease), suggesting a reduction of CSPG expression in mature ORNs. Previous studies showed a striking increase in the ratios of immature neurons with respect to basal cells. In this study, we find that the ratio of p-CSPG+ORNs/CSPG+basal cells was significantly increased (p=0.03) in SZ, while numerical density changes of p-CSPG+ORNs (110.71% increase) or CSPG+basal cells (53.71% decrease), did not reach statistical significance. Together, these results indicate that CSPG abnormalities are present in the OE of SZ and specifically point to a reduction of CSPG expression in mature ORNs in SZ. Given the role CSPGs play in OE cell differentiation and axon guidance, we suggest that altered CSPG expression may contribute to ORN lineage dysregulation, and olfactory identification abnormalities, observed in SZ.
