Choosing an appropriate set of stimuli is essential to characterize the response of a sensory system to a particular functional dimension, such as the eye movement following the motion of a visual scene. Here, we describe a framework to generate random texture movies with controlled information content, i.e., Motion Clouds. These stimuli are defined using a generative model that is based on controlled experimental parametrization. We show that Motion Clouds correspond to dense mixing of localized moving gratings with random positions. Their global envelope is similar to natural-like stimulation with an approximate full-field translation corresponding to a retinal slip. We describe the construction of these stimuli mathematically and propose an open-source Python-based implementation. Examples of the use of this framework are shown. We also propose extensions to other modalities such as color vision, touch, and audition.
Adaptation, the prolonged presentation of stimuli, has been used to probe mechanisms of visual processing in physiological, imaging, and perceptual studies. Previous neurophysiological studies have measured adaptation effects by using stimuli tailored to evoke robust responses in individual neurons. This approach provides an incomplete view of how an adapter alters the representation of sensory stimuli by a population of neurons with diverse functional properties. We implanted microelectrode arrays in primary visual cortex (V1) of macaque monkeys and measured orientation tuning and contrast sensitivity in populations of neurons before and after prolonged adaptation. Whereas previous studies in V1 have reported that adaptation causes stimulus-specific suppression of responsivity and repulsive shifts in tuning preference, we have found that adaptation can also lead to response facilitation and shifts in tuning toward the adapter. To explain this range of effects, we have proposed and tested a simple model that employs stimulus-specific suppression in both the receptive field and the spatial surround. The predicted effects on tuning depend on the relative drive provided by the adapter to these two receptive field components. Our data reveal that adaptation can have a much richer repertoire of effects on neuronal responsivity and tuning than previously considered and suggest an intimate mechanistic relationship between spatial and temporal contextual effects.
Amplitude modulation (AM) is a common feature of natural sounds, and its detection is biologically important. Even though most sounds are not fully modulated, the majority of physiological studies have focused on fully modulated (100% modulation depth) sounds. We presented AM noise at a range of modulation depths to awake macaque monkeys while recording from neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1). The ability of neurons to detect partial AM with rate and temporal codes was assessed with signal detection methods. On average, single-cell synchrony was as or more sensitive than spike count in modulation detection. Cells are less sensitive to modulation depth if tested away from their best modulation frequency, particularly for temporal measures. Mean neural modulation detection thresholds in A1 are not as sensitive as behavioral thresholds, but with phase locking the most sensitive neurons are more sensitive, suggesting that for temporal measures the lower-envelope principle cannot account for thresholds. Three methods of preanalysis pooling of spike trains (multiunit, similar to convergence from a cortical column; within cell, similar to convergence of cells with matched response properties; across cell, similar to indiscriminate convergence of cells) all result in an increase in neural sensitivity to modulation depth for both temporal and rate codes. For the across-cell method, pooling of a few dozen cells can result in detection thresholds that approximate those of the behaving animal. With synchrony measures, indiscriminate pooling results in sensitive detection of modulation frequencies between 20 and 60 Hz, suggesting that differences in AM response phase are minor in A1.
In quadrupeds, the dorsal-side-up body orientation during standing is maintained due to a postural system that is driven by feedback signals coming mainly from limb mechanoreceptors. In caudally decerebrated (postmammillary) rabbits, the efficacy of this system is considerably reduced. In this paper, we report that the efficacy of postural control in these animals can be restored with galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) applied transcutaneously to the labyrinths. In standing intact rabbits, GVS causes a lateral body sway towards the positive electrode. We used this GVS-caused sway to counteract the lateral body sway resulting from a mechanical perturbation of posture. Experiments were performed on postmammillary rabbits that stood on the tilting platform with their hindlimbs. To make the GVS value dependent on the postural perturbation (i.e., on the lateral body sway caused by tilt of the platform), an artificial feedback loop was formed in the following ways: 1) Information about the body sway was provided by a mechanical sensor; 2) The GVS current was applied when the sway exceeded a threshold value; the polarity of the current was determined by the sway direction. This simple algorithm allowed the &quot;hybrid&quot; postural system to maintain the dorsal-side-up orientation of the hindquarters when the platform was tilted by  20. Thus, an important postural function, i.e., securing lateral stability during standing, can be restored in decerebrate rabbits with the GVS-based artificial feedback. We suggest that such a control system can compensate for the loss of lateral stability of various etiologies, and can be used for restoration of balance control in patients with impaired postural functions.
We have developed a compact and lightweight microfluidic cooling device to reversibly deactivate one or more areas of the neocortex to examine its functional macrocircuitry as well as behavioral and cortical plasticity. The device, which we term the &quot;cooling chip,&quot; consists of thin silicone tubing (through which chilled ethanol is circulated) embedded in mechanically compliant polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). PDMS is tailored to compact device dimensions (as small as 21 mm(3)) that precisely accommodate the geometry of the targeted cortical area. The biocompatible design makes it suitable for both acute preparations and chronic implantation for long-term behavioral studies. The cooling chip accommodates an in-cortex microthermocouple measuring local cortical temperature. A microelectrode may be used to record simultaneous neural responses at the same location. Cortex temperature is controlled by computer regulation of the coolant flow, which can achieve a localized cortical temperature drop from 37 to 20C in less than 3 min and maintain target temperature to within 0.3C indefinitely. Here we describe cooling chip fabrication and performance in mediating cessation of neural signaling in acute preparations of rodents, ferrets, and primates.
Previous developmental research examining sensorimotor control of the arm in school-age children has demonstrated age-related improvements in movement kinematics. However, the mechanisms that underlie these age-related improvements are still unclear. This study hypothesized that changes in sensorimotor performance across childhood can be attributed, in part, to the development of state estimation, defined as estimates computed by the central nervous system, which specify both current and future hand positions and velocities (i.e., hand &quot;state&quot;). Two behavioral experiments were conducted, in which 6- to 12-year-old children and young adults executed goal-directed arm movements. Results from Experiment 1 revealed that young children (i.e., 6-8 years) have less precise proprioceptive feedback for static (i.e., stationary) hand state estimation compared with older children (i.e., 10-12 years), resulting in increased variability of target-directed reaching movements. Experiment 2 demonstrated that young children rely on delayed and unreliable state estimates during the execution of goal-directed hand movements (i.e., dynamic state estimation), resulting in both increased movement errors and directional variability. Collectively, these results suggest that improvements in sensorimotor behavior across childhood can be attributed, at least partially, to the development of both static and dynamic state estimation.
Transition from student to novice nurse can be especially challenging, and a weak orientation can further complicate this difficult time for new graduate nurses. The neuroscience field is complex, and orientation can cause new nurses to lack a comprehensive understanding of their specialty, resulting in a task-focused approach to bedside care. Using a convenience sample and both qualitative and quantitative data, this study implements a disease-specific orientation track for new graduate nurses to spotlight the most common neurological diagnoses and disorders while concentrating on building an understanding of how to provide the best care possible to these patients. This article reports the outcomes achieved from the first phase of the study including improved clinical competence, readiness and retention of knowledge, overall satisfaction with orientation, and increased comfort level in caring for the neurological patient. In addition, the feedback and information gathered have provided a foundation for the project to be tailored and continued to further improve these results with future new graduate nurses on the neuroscience unit.
The purpose of the study was to compare changes in oral health during intubation until 48 hours after extubation in neuroscience intensive care unit (ICU) patients enrolled in a standard or a comprehensive oral care protocol. The effects of manual toothbrushing (standard group, n = 31) were compared with those of tongue scraping, electric toothbrushing, and moisturizing (comprehensive group, n = 25) in intubated patients in a neuroscience ICU in a 2-year randomized clinical trial. Oral health was evaluated based on the Oral Assessment Guide (OAG) on enrollment, the day of extubation, and 48 hours after extubation. There were no significant differences in the frequency of the oral care protocol. Protocol compliance exceeded 91% in both groups. The total OAG score and all eight categories significantly deteriorated (Friedman test, p &lt; .001, Bonferroni corrected) in the standard oral care group and did not return to baseline after extubation. Large effect sizes were present at all three points in this group. The total OAG score deteriorated during intubation within the comprehensive protocol group (Friedman test, p &lt; .004) but returned to baseline status after extubation. In four categories, the ratings on tongue, mucous membranes, gingiva, and teeth did not deteriorate significantly over time. Published oral care protocols are substandard in promoting and maintaining oral health in intubated patients. A comprehensive oral care protocol, using a tongue scraper, an electrical toothbrush, and pharmacological moisturizers, was more effective for oral hygiene throughout intubation and after extubation than manual toothbrushing alone.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) are differentially expressed throughout the olfactory neuroepithelium (ON), with NPY expression present in sustentacular cells, olfactory ensheathing cells, and olfactory receptor neurons and PYY expressed only in sustentacular cells. Examination of the anatomical morphology of the ON in NPY knockout (NPY/) and PYY knockout (PYY/) mice shows that there are significantly more neurons in PYY/ mice and significantly fewer neurons in NPY/ mice. Interestingly, the mature neurons of NPY/ mice were undergoing apoptosis. The transcription factor Mash1, which is critical in the production of olfactory precursors, is also differentially expressed in NPY/ and PYY/ ON. It is upregulated in the neurons of NPY/ mice and unchanged in PYY/ mice. Furthermore, significantly fewer olfactory neurospheres are present in cultures prepared from PYY/ mice in the first 2 weeks compared with NPY/ and wild-type mice. Together these results suggest that, during olfactory neurogenesis, NPY acts as a trophic factor for the maturation and survival of olfactory receptor neurons, whereas PYY has an important role in the regulation of olfactory neuron differentiation.




Muscle weakness in childhood can be caused by a lesion at any point extending from the motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord to the anterior horn cell, peripheral nerve, neuromuscular junction and muscle. A comprehensive history and physical examination is essential to aid classification of the neuromuscular disorder and direct gene testing. The more common disorders such as spinal muscular atrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy and facioscapulohumeral dystrophy may be diagnosed on direct gene testing based on the history and clinical examination. The congenital myopathies are classified based on structural abnormalities on muscle biopsy, while protein abnormalities on immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting aid classification of the muscular dystrophies. In this review, we provide an approach to diagnosis of a child with weakness, with a focus on the inherited neuromuscular disorders, and the features on history, examination and investigation that help to distinguish between them.
Mutations in Bcl-2 associated athanogene-3 (BAG3) are a rare cause of myofibrillar myopathy, characterised by rapidly progressive proximal and axial myopathy, cardiomyopathy and respiratory compromise. Neuropathy has been documented neurophysiologically in previously reported cases of BAG3-associated myofibrillar myopathy and in some cases giant axons were observed on nerve biopsies; however, neuropathy was not thought to be a dominant feature of the disease. In the context of inherited neuropathy, giant axons are typically associated with autosomal recessive giant axonal neuropathy caused by gigaxonin mutations but have also been reported in association with NEFL- and SH3TC2-associated Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Here, we describe four patients with heterozygous BAG3 mutations with clinical evidence of a sensorimotor neuropathy, with predominantly axonal features on neurophysiology. Three patients presented with a significant neuropathy. Muscle magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in one patient revealed mild to moderate atrophy without prominent selectivity. Examination of sural nerve biopsies in two patients demonstrated giant axons. This report confirms the association of giant axonal neuropathy with BAG3-associated myofibrillar myopathy, and highlights that neuropathy may be a significant feature.
Catamenial epilepsy is caused by fluctuations in progesterone-derived GABA(A) receptor-modulating anticonvulsant neurosteroids, such as allopregnanolone, that play a significant role in the pathophysiology of epilepsy. However, there is no specific mouse model of catamenial epilepsy. In this study, we developed and characterized a mouse model of catamenial epilepsy by using the neurosteroid-withdrawal paradigm. It is hypothesized that seizure susceptibility decreases when neurosteroid levels are high (midluteal phase) and increases during their withdrawal (perimenstrual periods) in close association with GABA(A) receptor plasticity. A chronic seizure condition was created by using the hippocampus kindling model in female mice. Elevated neurosteroid levels were induced by sequential gonadotropin treatment, and withdrawal was induced by the neurosteroid synthesis inhibitor finasteride. Elevated neurosteroid exposure reduced seizure expression in fully kindled mice. Fully kindled mice subjected to neurosteroid withdrawal showed increased generalized seizure frequency and intensity and enhanced seizure susceptibility. They also showed reduced benzodiazepine sensitivity and enhanced neurosteroid potency, similar to the clinical catamenial seizure phenotype. The increased susceptibility to seizures and alterations in antiseizure drug responses are associated with increased abundance of the 4 and  subunits of GABA(A) receptors in the hippocampus. These findings demonstrate that endogenous neurosteroids protect against seizure susceptibility and their withdrawal, such as that which occurs during menstruation, leads to exacerbation of seizure activity. This is possibly caused by specific changes in GABA(A) receptor-subunit plasticity and function, therefore providing a novel mouse model of human perimenstrual catamenial epilepsy that can be used for the investigation of disease mechanisms and new therapeutic approaches.
5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(4) receptor agonists reportedly stimulate brain acetylcholine (ACh) release, a property that might provide a new pharmacological approach for treating cognitive deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study was to compare the binding affinities, functional activities, and effects on neuropharmacological responses associated with cognition of two highly selective 5-HT(4) receptor agonists, prucalopride and 6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-7-isopropyl-6-oxo-N-[3-(piperidin-1-yl)propyl]thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxamide (PRX-03140). In vitro, prucalopride and PRX-03140 bound to native rat brain 5-HT(4) receptors with K(i) values of 30 nM and 110 nM, respectively, and increased cAMP production in human embryonic kidney-293 cells expressing recombinant rat 5-HT(4) receptors. In vivo receptor occupancy studies established that prucalopride and PRX-03140 were able to penetrate the brain and bound to 5-HT(4) receptors in rat brain, achieving 50% receptor occupancy at free brain exposures of 330 nM and 130 nM, respectively. Rat microdialysis studies revealed that prucalopride maximally increased ACh and histamine levels in the prefrontal cortex at 5 and 10 mg/kg, whereas PRX-03140 significantly increased cortical histamine levels at 50 mg/kg, failing to affect ACh release at doses lower than 150 mg/kg. In combination studies, donepezil-induced increases in cortical ACh levels were potentiated by prucalopride and PRX-03140. Electrophysiological studies in rats demonstrated that both compounds increased the power of brainstem-stimulated hippocampal  oscillations at 5.6 mg/kg. These findings show for the first time that the 5-HT(4) receptor agonists prucalopride and PRX-03140 can increase cortical ACh and histamine levels, augment donepezil-induced ACh increases, and increase stimulated-hippocampal  power, all neuropharmacological parameters consistent with potential positive effects on cognitive processes.

Across individuals within a population, several levels of variability are observed, from the differential expression of ion channels at the molecular level, to the various action potential morphologies observed at the cellular level, to divergent responses to drugs at the organismal level. However, the limited ability of experiments to probe complex interactions between components has hitherto hindered our understanding of the factors that cause a range of behaviours within a population. Variability is a challenging issue that is encountered in all physiological disciplines, but recent work suggests that novel methods for analysing mathematical models can assist in illuminating its causes. In this review, we discuss mathematical modelling studies in cardiac electrophysiology and neuroscience that have enhanced our understanding of variability in a number of key areas. Specifically, we discuss parameter sensitivity analysis techniques that may be applied to generate quantitative predictions based on considering behaviours within a population of models, thereby providing novel insight into variability. Our discussion focuses on four issues that have benefited from the utilization of these methods: (1) the comparison of different electrophysiological models of cardiac myocytes, (2) the determination of the individual contributions of different molecular changes in complex disease phenotypes, (3) the identification of the factors responsible for the variable response to drugs, and (4) the constraining of free parameters in electrophysiological models of heart cells. Together, the studies that we discuss suggest that rigorous analyses of mathematical models can generate quantitative predictions regarding how molecular-level variations contribute to functional differences between experimental samples. These strategies may be applicable not just in cardiac electrophysiology, but in a wide range of disciplines.
There is emerging consensus that P2X and P2X ionotropic purinoceptors (P2XR and P2XR) are critical players in regulating [Ca]i dynamics and fluid secretion in the salivary gland. In contrast, details regarding their compartmentalization and selective activation, contributions to the spatiotemporal properties of intracellular signals and roles in regulating protein exocytosis and ion channel activity have remained largely undefined. To address these concerns, we profiled mouse parotid acinar cells using live-cell imaging to follow the spatial and temporal features of ATP-evoked Ca dynamics and exocytotic activity. Selective activation of P2X7Rs revealed an apical-to-basal [Ca]i signal that initiated at the sub-luminal border and propagated with a wave speed estimated at 17.3  4.3 m s (n =6). The evoked Ca spike consisted of Ca influx and Ca-induced Ca release from intracellular Ca channels. In contrast, selective activation of P2XRs induced a Ca signal that initiated basally and propagated toward the lumen with a wave speed of 4.3  0.2 m s (n =8) that was largely independent of intracellular Ca channel blockade. Consistent with these observations, P2XR expression was enriched in the sub-luminal regions of acinar cells while P2XR appeared localized to basal areas. In addition, we showed that P2XR and P2XR activation evokes exocytosis in parotid acinar cells. Our studies also demonstrate that the P2XR-mediated [Ca]i rise and subsequent protein exocytosis was enhanced by ivermectin (IVR). Thus, in addition to furthering our understanding of salivary gland physiology, this study identifies P2XR as a potential target for treatment of salivary hypofunction diseases.
In the six decades that have followed the work of Hodgkin and Huxley, multiple generations of neuroscientists and biophysicists have built upon their pivotal contributions. It is now clear that, in mammals, nine genes encode nine distinct voltage-gated sodium channels with different amino acid sequences and different physiological and pharmacological properties. The different sodium channel isoforms produce a multiplicity of distinct sodium currents with different time-dependent characteristics and voltage dependencies, which interact with each other and with the currents produced by other channels (including calcium and potassium channels) to shape neuronal firing patterns. Expression of these sodium channel isoforms is highly dynamic, both in the normal nervous system, and in the injured nervous system. Recent research has shed light on the roles of sodium channels in human disease, a development that may open up new therapeutic strategies. This article examines the pain-signalling system as an example of a neuronal network where multiple sodium channel isoforms play complementary roles in electrogenesis and a strong link with human disease has been established. Recent research suggests that it may be possible to target specific sodium channel isoforms that drive hyperexcitability in pain-signalling neurons, thereby providing new therapeutic strategies for chronic pain, and providing an illustration of the impact of the Hodgkin-Huxley legacy in the clinical domain.
M1476I, a French Canadian founder mutation of Na channel Nav1.4, causes potassium-aggravated myotonia, with cold-induced myotonia as the most distinctive clinical feature. Mexiletine, a class 1B local anaesthetic, relieves the myotonic symptoms of patients carrying the M1476I mutation. We used the patch-clamp method to investigate the functional characteristics of this mutation by heterologous expression in tsA201 cells. The M1476I mutation caused an increased persistent Na current, a 2- to 3-fold slower fast inactivation, a 6.4 mV depolarizing shift in the midpoint of steady-state inactivation, and an accelerated recovery from fast inactivation compared to the wild-type (WT) channel. Cooling slowed the kinetics of both channel types and increased the amplitude of the persistent current in M1476I channels.Mexiletine suppressed the persistent Na current generated by the M1476I mutation and blocked both WT and M1476I channels in a use- dependent manner. The inactivation-deficient M1476I channels were less susceptible to mexiletine during repetitive pulses. The decreased use-dependent block of M1476I channels might have resulted from the slower onset of mexiletine block, and/or the faster recovery from mexiletine block, given that the affinity of mexiletine for the inactivated state of the WT and mutant channels was similar. Increased extracellular concentrations of potassium had no effect on either M1476I or WT currents. These results indicated that cooling can augment the disruption of the voltage dependence of fast inactivation by M1476I channels.
The present study was designed to elucidate the outcome of subchronic co-administration of black tea and nicotine on cardiovascular performance and whether these substances could modulate the isoproterenol-induced cardiac injury. Animal groups were control, black tea, nicotine and black tea plus nicotine. Test groups received nicotine (2 mg/kg s.c.) and black tea brewed (p.o.) each alone and in combination for 4 weeks. On the 28th day, myocardial damage was induced by isoproterenol (50 mg/kg i.p.), and blood samples were taken. On day 29, after hemodynamic parameters recording, hearts were removed for histopathological evaluation. Tea or nicotine consumption had no significant effects on hemodynamic indices of animals without heart damage. When the cardiac injury was induced, tea consumption maintained the maximum dp/dt, and nicotine significantly decreased the pressure-rate product. Moreover, severity of heart lesions was lower in the presence of nicotine or black tea. Concomitant use of these materials did not show extra effects on mentioned parameters more than the effect of each of them alone. The results suggest that subchronic administration of black tea or nicotine for a period of 4 weeks may have a mild cardioprotective effect, while concomitant use of these materials cannot intensify this beneficial effect.
Quantitative proteomics analysis of cortical samples of 10 Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains versus 10 normally aged brains was performed by following the accurate mass and time tag (AMT) approach with the high resolution LTQ Orbitrap mass spectrometer. More than 1400 proteins were identified and quantitated. A conservative approach of selecting only the consensus results of four normalization methods was suggested and used. A total of 197 proteins were shown to be significantly differentially abundant (p-values &lt;0.05, corrected for multiplicity of testing) in AD versus control brain samples. Thirty-seven of these proteins were reported as differentially abundant or modified in AD in previous proteomics and transcriptomics publications. The rest to the best of our knowledge are new. Mapping of the discovered proteins with bioinformatic tools revealed significant enrichment with differentially abundant proteins of pathways and processes known to be important in AD, including signal transduction, regulation of protein phosphorylation, immune response, cytoskeleton organization, lipid metabolism, energy production, and cell death.
We previously demonstrated that ammonium- or guanidinium-phosphate interactions are key to forming noncovalent complexes (NCXs) through salt bridge formation with G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR), which are immersed in the cell membrane's lipids. The present work highlights MALDI ion mobility coupled to orthogonal time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI IM oTOF MS) as a method to determine qualitative and relative quantitative affinity of drugs to form NCXs with targeted GPCRs' epitopes in a model system using, bis-quaternary amine based drugs, - and - subunit epitopes of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor' (nAChR) and phospholipids. Bis-quaternary amines proved to have a strong affinity for all nAChR epitopes and negatively charged phospholipids, even in the presence of the physiological neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Ion mobility baseline separated isobaric phosphatidyl ethanolamine and a matrix cluster, providing an accurate estimate for phospholipid counts. Overall this technique is a powerful method for screening drugs' interactions with targeted lipids and protein respectively containing quaternary amines and guanidinium moieties.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurobehavioral disorder affecting approximately 4-7% of children and persisting in 2-5% of adults. The core symptoms include pervasive inattention and inappropriate levels of hyperactivity-impulsivity. High-frequency gamma activity has been implicated in the temporal binding of stimulus properties across cortical areas, and is known to be crucial for complex information processing and attentional processes in particular. Thus, we evaluated the amplitude of gamma-frequency neural responses in adults with and those without ADHD, and tested whether stimulant medications, the most common treatment for ADHD, modulate gamma activity in affected adults. Participants underwent two sessions (~75 min apart) of auditory stimulation using stimuli known to elicit 40 Hz gamma-band responses as magnetoencephalography data were acquired. Between sessions, the ADHD group (who were in maintenance therapy) were administered their daily stimulant medication and both groups were told to relax. The primary results indicated that gamma activity was weaker in the ADHD group during session one (pre-drug), but not session two (post-drug), and that gamma activity significantly increased following stimulant administration in adults with ADHD. These results suggest that ADHD is associated with reduced cortical gamma activity and that stimulants may ameliorate this abnormality.
We report about a clinical observation in a well-characterized group of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) during an experimental medicine study in which a single dose of amisulpride (a selective D/ antagonist) was administered. Almost half of the OCD patients, in particular those with less severe obsessive-compulsive symptoms, experienced acute akathisia in response to the amisulpride challenge. This unexpectedly high incidence of akathisia in the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-treated patients with OCD suggests that individual differences in dopamine-serotonin interactions underlie the clinical heterogeneity of OCD, and may thus explain the insufficiency of SSRI monotherapy in those patients not experiencing a satisfactory outcome in symptom reduction. We further speculate about the neuropathology possibly underlying this clinical observation and outline a testable hypothesis for future molecular imaging studies.




Members of the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors (n = 231) participated in a survey concerning their view of the role of personal responsibility in addictions treatment and its relation to their exposure to neuroscience (i.e., the amount to which members considered themselves familiar with current neuroscience research). We used the two-dimensional model of responsibility (Responsible/not responsible for development  Responsible/not responsible for recovery) proposed by P. Brickman et al. (1982) to guide our assessment of responsibility, thus inquiring about counselors' views of clients' responsibility for both the development of a substance-related addiction and its resolution. Findings suggest that counselors rate biological factors as most influential in the development of an addiction and assign clients less personal responsibility for the development of an addiction than for recovery from an addiction. Counselors' level of neuroscience exposure was negatively correlated with their ratings of client responsibility for the development of an addiction but positively correlated to ratings of client responsibility for recovery. This suggests that counselors are integrating neuroscientific findings with what is learned from other modes of enquiry in a way that diminishes the view that clients are responsible for addiction development but accentuates the view that clients are responsible for recovery. We explore reasons for why this is and why this approach may be beneficial.
The role of environmental factors in the etiology of neurodegenerative disorders, such as in Parkinson's disease (PD), has become increasingly imperative for examination, as genetics can only partially account for most cases. The heavy metal manganese (Mn) falls into this category of environmental contributors, as it is both essential but also neurotoxic upon overexposure and produces Parkinsonian symptomatology. In order to understand its toxicity, this review focuses on the various aspects of improper Mn homeostasis and its consequences using the genetically amenable Caenorhabditis elegans model. Namely, the roles of Mn transporter homologs for the divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) will be discussed, as Mn homeostasis is initially governed by proper cellular transport. Mn dyshomeostasis can result in enhanced oxidative stress through synergistic actions of dopamine oxidation that is dependent on the C. elegans dual oxidase BLI-3. Finally, neuroprotection conferred by the antioxidant transcription factor Nrf2 (C. elegans SKN-1) may signify a potential therapeutic approach against Mn toxicity.
The involvement of body copper metabolism in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) - the most common form of dementia - is a deeply investigated issue in recent years. Copper is essential for life, but in excess it can be toxic. Recently, it has been hypothesized that copper toxicity may be a contributory factor in the etiology of the neurodegenerative disease AD. Studies on copper evaluation in AD vs. healthy controls collected in the latest 30 years and merged in a meta-analysis demonstrate that serum copper is slightly increased in AD. A specific form of copper, the copper non-bound to ceruloplasmin, or 'free' copper, seems to best characterize this increase in copper in AD patients. Clinical studies from us and other groups have demonstrated that free copper is associated with the typical deficits of AD, incipient AD and mild cognitive impairment, and specific cerebrospinal markers. Moreover, very recent data addressing molecular processes underlying copper dysfunction in AD have indicated that genetic variations of K832R and R952K Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) of the Wilson's disease gene ATP7B are associated also with sporadic AD. Specifically, ATP7B encodes for the protein ATPase 7B which controls free copper status in the body, and both R allele in K832R and K allele in R952K ATP7B SNPs are associated with an increased risk of having AD. Even though copper dysfunction cannot be assumed as a determinant of the disease, its causative, rather than associated, role in AD pathology as risk factor can be claimed.


Saccadic inhibition refers to the strong temporary decrease in saccadic initiation observed when a visual distractor appears shortly after the onset of a saccadic target. Here, to gain a better understanding of this phenomenon, we assessed whether saccade amplitude changes could accompany these modulations of latency distributions. As previous studies on the saccadic system using visual backward masking--a protocol in which the mask appears shortly after the target--showed latency increases and amplitude changes, we suspected that this could be a condition in which amplitude changes would accompany saccadic inhibition. We show here that visual backward masking produces a strong saccadic inhibition. In addition, this saccadic inhibition was accompanied by large and complex amplitude changes: a first phase of gain decrease occurred before the saccadic inhibition; when saccades reappeared after the inhibition, they were accurate before rapidly entering into a second phase of gain decrease. We observed changes in saccade kinematics that were consistent with the possibility of saccades being interrupted during these two phases of gain decrease. These results show that the onset of a large stimulus shortly after a first one induces the previously reported saccadic inhibition, but also induces a complex pattern of amplitude changes resulting from a dual amplitude perturbation mechanism with fast and slow components.
Given the inherent difference in judgment required to complete visual detection and identification tasks, it is unknown whether task selection differentially affects visual performance as a function of development. The aim of the present study is therefore to systematically assess and contrast visual performance using these two types of paradigms in order to determine whether paradigm-contingent differences in performance exist across different periods of development. To do so, we assessed sensitivity to both luminance- and texture-defined stationary and dynamic gratings using both detection and identification paradigms. Results demonstrated a relatively unchanged pattern of performance from the school ages through adolescence, suggesting that sensitivity was not differentially affected by choice of paradigm as a function of development. However, when averaged across age groups, a paradigm-contingent difference in sensitivity was evidenced for dynamic, texture-defined gratings only; it was easier to detect the spatial location of the gratings compared with identifying the direction of their motion. Paradigm-contingent differences were not evidenced for luminance-defined stimuli (whether stationary or dynamic), or for stationary, texture-defined gratings. In general, visual performance measured using either detection or identification paradigms is comparable across ages, particularly when information is stationary and defined by more simple visual attributes, such as luminance. Therefore, the use of detection paradigms might be advantageous under most circumstances when assessing visual abilities of very young and/or clinical populations in order to minimize potential challenges not related to visual perception (i.e., attentional) in these populations. Finally, paradigm-contingent differences in performance specific to dynamic, texture-defined information will be discussed.

Understanding how the b-wave of the electroretinogram (ERG) is generated by full-field light stimulation is still a challenge in visual neuroscience. To understand more about the origin of the b-wave, we studied the contributions of gap junctions to the ERG b-wave. Many types of retinal neurons are connected to similar and different neighboring neurons through gap junctions. The photopic (cone-dominated) ERG, stimulated by a small light beam, was recorded from goldfish (Carassius auratus) using a corneal electrode. Data were obtained before and after intravitreal injection of agents into the eye under a photopic illumination level. Several agents were used to affect gap junctions, such as dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists and antagonists, a nitric oxide (NO) donor, a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, the gap junction blocker meclofenamic acid (MFA), and mixtures of these agents. The ERG b-waves, which were enhanced by MFA, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), SKF 38393, and sulpiride, remained following application of a further injection of a mixture with MFA. The ERG b-waves decreased following N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), SCH 23390, and quinpirole administration but were enhanced by further injection of a mixture with MFA. These results indicate that gap junction activity influences b-waves of the ERG related to NO and dopamine actions.
Genetically modified mice have been an invaluable tool for the study of gene function in an intact biological system. Researchers frequently obtain genetically modified mice from other academic institutions. This form of collaboration between laboratories comes with a unique set of challenges, and a clear set of guidelines for navigating the process has yet to be defined. The author provides suggestions for how to initiate an exchange of animal resources and steps for ensuring a successful collaboration. Both parties should be clear about their expectations. The importing lab should prepare in advance for potential animal health considerations and breeding and colony management strategies prior to importation. The number, gender, age and genotype of the imported animals should be confirmed as soon as possible by the importing lab. It is in the best interest of all parties to be courteous, forthright and thorough when sharing animal resources so that everyone can benefit from the resulting research.
The non-fluent/agrammatic variant of primary progressive aphasia (naPPA) is a young-onset neurodegenerative disorder characterised by poor grammatical comprehension and expression and a disorder of speech sound production. In an era of disease-modifying treatments, the identification of naPPA might be an important step in establishing a specific cause of neurodegenerative disease. However, difficulties in defining the characteristic language deficits and heterogeneity in the anatomical distribution of disease in naPPA have led to controversy. Findings from imaging studies have linked an impairment of this uniquely human language capacity with disruption of large-scale neural networks centred in left inferior frontal and anterior superior temporal regions. Accordingly, the pathological burden of disease in naPPA is anatomically focused in these regions. Most cases of naPPA are associated with the spectrum of pathological changes found in frontotemporal lobar degeneration involving the microtubule-associated protein tau. Knowledge of these unique clinical-pathological associations should advance care for patients with this important class of neurodegenerative diseases while supplementing our knowledge of human cognitive neuroscience.

Parallelism effects refer to the facilitated processing of a target structure when it follows a similar, parallel structure. In coordination, a parallelism-related conjunction triggers the expectation that a second conjunct with the same structure as the first conjunct should occur. It has been proposed that parallelism effects reflect the use of the first structure as a template that guides the processing of the second. In this study, we examined the role of parallelism in real-time anaphora resolution by charting activation patterns in coordinated constructions containing anaphora, Verb-Phrase Ellipsis (VPE) and Noun-Phrase Traces (NP-traces). Specifically, we hypothesised that an expectation of parallelism would incite the parser to assume a structure similar to the first conjunct in the second, anaphora-containing conjunct. The speculation of a similar structure would result in early postulation of covert anaphora. Experiment 1 confirms that following a parallelism-related conjunction, first-conjunct material is activated in the second conjunct. Experiment 2 reveals that an NP-trace in the second conjunct is posited immediately where licensed, which is earlier than previously reported in the literature. In light of our findings, we propose an intricate relation between structural expectations and anaphor resolution.


In this paper, we aimed to present a hypothesis that would explain the mechanism of auditory hallucinations, one of the main symptoms of schizophrenia. We propose that auditory hallucinations arise from abnormalities in the predictive coding which underlies normal perception, specifically, from the absence or attenuation of prediction error. The suggested deficiencies in processing prediction error could arise from (1) abnormal modulation of thalamus by prefrontal cortex, (2) absence or impaired transmission of external input, (3) dysfunction of the auditory and association cortex, (4) neurotransmitter dysfunction and abnormal connectivity, and (5) hyperactivity activity in auditory cortex and broad prior probability. If there is no prediction error, the initially vague prior probability develops into an explicit percept in the absence of external input, as a result of a recursive pathological exchange between auditory and prefrontal cortex. Unlike existing explanations of auditory hallucinations, we propose concrete mechanisms which underlie the imbalance between perceptual expectation and external input. Impaired processing of prediction error is reflected in reduced mismatch negativity and increased tendency to report non-existing meaningful language stimuli in white noise, shown by those suffering from auditory hallucinations. We believe that the expectation-perception model of auditory hallucinations offers a comprehensive explanation of the underpinnings of auditory hallucinations in both patients and those not diagnosed with mental illness. Therefore, our hypothesis has the potential to fill the gaps in the existing knowledge about this distressing phenomenon and contribute to improved effectiveness of treatments, targeting specific mechanisms.
A number of preclinical and clinical studies indicate multiple types of interaction between ethanol intake and the mood-related neurotransmitter, norepinephrine (NE). For example, ethanol interacts with dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), an enzyme that plays an essential role in the only well-established endogenous synthetic pathway for NE, whereby dopamine is hydroxylated to form NE. While the DBH pathway may indeed be the only endogenous mechanism for producing NE, another possibility is that multiple means have evolved for the biosynthesis of this very important neurotransmitter, where some pathways may be independent of DBH. If so, such redundancy would provide greater assurance that enough NE is available for the body to use in this neurotransmitter's various physiological roles. This paper puts forth the hypothesis ethanol is a substrate in a novel, endogenous synthetic pathway for NE, consistent with some studies showing that intake of ethanol increases the concentration of endogenous NE. Also consistent with this hypothesis, the molecular structure of ethanol is a physical subset of the structure of NE itself. If the hypothesis is correct, it may have important implications for understanding the physiological basis of alcohol use, abuse, and dependence in humans, as well as modeling these phenomena in animals. Importantly, the hypothesis is directly testable in rodents by presenting ethanol to DBH knockout mice, which are thought to lack NE, and then measuring if NE is synthesized in these animals.
A complex disease with an inheritable component is polygenic, meaning that several different changes in DNA are the genetic basis for the disease. Such a disease may also be genetically heterogeneous, meaning that independent changes in DNA, i.e. various genotypes, can be the genetic basis for the disease. Each of these genotypes may be characterized by specific combinations of key genetic changes. It is suggested that even if all key changes are found in genes related to the biology of a certain disease, the number of combinations may be so large that the number of different genotypes may be close to the number of patients suffering from the disease. This hypothesis is based on a study of bipolar disorder.
This was a prospective observational study done to evaluate the role of a repeat head CT in patients with mild traumatic brain injury. The aim was to evaluate wether the repeat head CT were useful in providing information that leads to any neurosurgical intervention. 279 adult patients with a mild head injury (GCS 13-15) were enrolled, and these comprised of patients with an initial traumatic intracranial haemorrhage not warranting any surgical intervention. All patients were subjected to a repeat head CT within 48 hours of admission and these showed no change or improvements of the brain lesion in 217 patients (79.2%) and worsening in 62 patients (20.8%). In thirty-one patients, surgical intervention was done following the repeat head CT. All of these patients had a clinical deterioration prior to the repeat head CT. Even if a repeat head CT had not been ordered on these patients, they would have had a repeat head CT due to deteriorating neurological status. When the 62 patients with a worsening repeat head CT were compared with the 217 patients with an improved or unchanged repeat head CT, they were found to have older age, lower GCS on admission, presenting symptoms of headache, higher incidence of multiple traumatic intracranial pathology and lower haemoglobin level on admission. On stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis, three factors were found to independently predict a worse repeat head CT (Table IV). This includes age of 65 years or older, GCS score of less than 15 and multiple traumatic intracranial lesion on initial head CT. As a conclusion, we recommend that, in patients with a MTBI and a normal neurological examination, a repeat cranial CT is not indicated, as it resulted in no change in management or neurosurgical intervention. Close monitoring is warranted in a subset of patients with risk factors for a worsening repeat head CT.

Prostate cancer is rarely associated with leptomeningeal metastasis. An 87-year-old man with a history of prostate cancer presented with leptomeningeal metastasis. He received hormonal therapy with leuprolide. Subsequently, he achieved an impressive response, indicated by a constant fall in his PSA levels and by the stabilization of leptomeningeal disease and clinical improvement. Hormonal therapy may be effective in inducing remission in hormone-sensitive prostate cancer with leptomeningeal metastasis.
We present an 80-year-old lady with a history of ovarian cancer, who manifested with seizure and left upper extremity weakness. The imaging revealed a multilobulated mass within right parietal lobe. She underwent surgical resection and the pathology was compatible with metastasis from ovarian adenocarcinoma. She received a whole brain radiation therapy and she has been in remission for more than 2 years.
Nuclear factor (NF)-kappa-B is a pleiotropic transcriptional regulator that plays important roles in cell differentiation, growth, tumorigenesis, and apoptosis. Constitutive NF-kappa-B is overexpressed and activated in various tumors, including gliomas. Here, we investigated the expression of NF-kappa-B inhibitor interacting ras-like protein 1 (B-Ras1), which is one of the most important negative modulators of NF-kappa-B, and a well-known proliferation biomarker survivin protein. We performed immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis on 154 glioma specimens and 3 non-neoplastic brain parenchyma specimens. Immunohistochemistry showed a strong-to-weak range of B-Ras1 staining with increasing pathologic grade of glioma (P = 0.000). Immunoreactivity scores of B-Ras1 were 8.15  0.72 in non-neoplastic brain parenchyma, 5.00  0.29 in low-grade gliomas, 3.89  0.30 in anaplasia astrocytomas, and 2.78  0.25 in glioblastomas. In contrast, the immunoreactivity of survivin increased with pathological grade in gliomas. The immunohistochemical data were in line with the results from western blot analysis. Moreover, a non-parametric analysis revealed that the attenuated B-Ras1 expression was correlated with elevated survivin expression, large tumor diameter, frequent intra-tumor necrosis, and worse overall survival. These results indicated that B-Ras1 was down-regulated in gliomas compared to non-neoplastic brain parenchyma, and the expression was even lower in glioblastomas. In addition, multivariate analysis showed that B-Ras1 expression and intra-tumor necrosis were two important prognostic factors identified by the Cox proportional hazards model. Taken together, our study suggests that glioma patients with lower B-Ras1 expression have a worse prognosis, which is partly due to NF-kappa-B pathway-mediated aberrant proliferation of tumor cells.

Axonal growth from both intact and severed fibers is limited after adult mammalian CNS injury. Myelin proteins contribute to inhibition of axonal growth. Semaphorin6A protein inhibits the extension of developing axons and is highly expressed in adult oligodendrocytes. This expression pattern suggests that a developmental axon guidance cue contributes to the restriction of adult CNS growth. Here, we assessed the role of a Sema6A receptor, PlexinA2, in recovery from adult trauma. Adult sensory neuron inhibition by Sema6A requires PlexinA2, with complete protection in PlexinA2-/- cultures. Mice lacking another myelin inhibitor receptor, NgR1, are known to exhibit greater axonal sprouting and functional recovery after lesions of the corticospinal tract at the medullary pyramid, so we investigated PlexinA2 in this lesion. Without injury, the corticofugal projection into the cervical spinal cord is normal in adult PlexinA2 null mice. After unilateral pyramidotomy, unlesioned PlexinA2-/- corticospinal fibers sprout across the midline to innervate the contralateral gray matter of the spinal cord to a significantly greater extent than do fibers in wild type mice. Sprouted fibers display frequent synaptophysin-positive synaptic puncta. The increased axonal growth in PlexinA2-/- mice after injury is accompanied by improved behavioral recovery in a pellet retrieval task using the impaired forelimb, and in a tape removal task. Thus, PlexinA2, as a receptor for oligodendrocyte-derived Sema6A and for secreted class 3 Semaphorins, plays a role in limiting adult axon growth and recovery after trauma.
Exploiting molecules and pathways important in developmental axon behaviour may offer new insights into regenerative behaviour of adult peripheral neurons after injury. In previous work, we have provided evidence that inhibition or knockdown of PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten) dramatically increases adult peripheral axon outgrowth, especially in preconditioned neurons (Christie et al., 2010). PTEN appears to operate as an endogenous brake to regeneration. Recent reports from Drinjakovic et al. (2010) have highlighted a role for the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) during neurite outgrowth in developing Xenopus retinal ganglion cells. Specifically, disruption of the UPS E3 ligase Nedd4 (neural precursor cell-expressed developmentally down-regulated protein 4) inhibited neurite branching through up-regulation of PTEN. We explored the potential role of Nedd4 in the peripheral neurons of adult rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG), particularly its impact on regenerative behaviour. Global inhibition of the UPS in vitro was associated with a severe decrease in neurite branching, both in preconditioned (injured) and control DRG sensory neurons. These involved neurons however maintained or qualitatively increased their PTEN expression, suggesting ongoing PTEN activity during UPS inhibition. Considering component's of UPS more specifically, Nedd4 co-localized with PTEN within sensory neurons in vivo and in vitro. Nedd4 also co-localized with PTEN and NF200 labelled regenerating axons at the injury site in the periphery following a 3 day sciatic nerve cut. A significant role for this unique co-expression was observed with fluorescently tagged siRNA inhibition of Nedd4, which decreased neurite outgrowth, an impact associated with greater expression of PTEN and that was completely reversed with application of a PTEN inhibitor. Overall, our results suggest an important role for Nedd4 regulation of PTEN in the response of peripheral neurons to injury. By degrading PTEN among other potential actions, Nedd4 supports axonal outgrowth whereas its inhibition facilitates PTEN inhibition of regeneration.
Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of endopeptidases known to process extracellular proteins. In the last decade, studies carried out mainly on the Schaffer collateral-CA1 hippocampal projection have provided solid evidence that MMPs regulate synaptic plasticity and learning. Recently, our group has shown that MMP blockade disrupts LTP maintenance also in the mossy fiber-CA3 (mf-CA3) projection (Wojtowicz and Mozrzymas, 2010), where LTP mechanisms are profoundly different (NMDAR-independent and presynaptic expression site). However, how plasticity of this pathway correlates with activity and expression of MMPs remains unknown. Interestingly, several potential MMP substrates (especially of gelatinases) are localized intracellularly but little is known about MMP activity in this compartment. In the present study we have asked whether LTP is associated with the expression and activity of gelatinases in apparent intra- and extracellular compartments along mf-CA3 projection. In situ zymography showed that LTP induction was associated with increased gelatinases activity in the cytoplasm of the hilar and CA3 neurons. Using gelatin zymography, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescent staining we found that this effect was due to de novo synthesis and activation of MMP-9 which, 2-3h after LTP induction was particularly evident in the cytoplasm. In contrast, MMP-2 was localized preferentially in the nuclei and was not affected by LTP induction. In conclusion, we demonstrate that LTP induction in the mf-CA3 pathway correlates with increased expression and activity of MMP-9 and provide the first evidence that this increase is particularly evident in the neuronal cytoplasm and nucleus.

High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) is widely expressed in cells of vertebrates in two forms: a nuclear &quot;architectural&quot; factor and a secreted inflammatory factor. During early brain development, HMGB1 displays a complex temporal and spatial distribution pattern in the central nervous system. It facilitates neurite outgrowth and cell migration critical for processes, such as forebrain development. During adulthood, HMGB1 serves to induce neuroinflammation after injury, such as lesions in the spinal cord and brain. Receptor for advanced glycation end products and Toll-like receptors signal transduction pathways mediate HMGB1-induced neuroinflammation and necrosis. Increased levels of endogenous HMGB1 have also been detected in neurodegenerative diseases. However, in Huntington's disease, HMGB1 has been reported to protect neurons through activation of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease and 5'-flap endonuclease-1, whereas in other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis, HMGB1 serves as a risk factor for memory impairment, chronic neurodegeneration, and progression of neuroinflammation. Thus, HMGB1 plays important and double-edged roles during neural development and neurodegeneration. The HMGB1-mediated pathological mechanisms have remained largely elusive. Knowledge of these mechanisms is likely to lead to therapeutic targets for neurological diseases.
Discovering the etiology of pathophysiologies and aberrant behavior in many central nervous system (CNS) disorders has proven elusive because susceptibility to these diseases can be a product of multiple factors such as genetics, epigenetics, and environment. Advances in molecular biology and wide-scale genomics have shown that a large heterogeneity of genetic mutations are potentially responsible for the neuronal pathologies and dysfunctional behaviors seen in CNS disorders. Despite this seemingly complex array of genetic and physiological factors, many disorders of the CNS converge on common dysfunctions in memory. In this review, we propose that mechanisms underlying the development of many CNS disorders may share an underlying cause involving abnormal dendritic integration of synaptic signals. Through understanding the relationship between molecular genetics and dendritic computation, future research may uncover important links between neuronal physiology at the cellular level and higher-order circuit and network abnormalities observed in CNS disorders, and their subsequent affect on memory.
Abnormal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling seems to have a central role in the course and development of various neurological and psychiatric disorders. In addition, positive effects of psychotropic drugs are known to activate BDNF-mediated signaling. Although the BDNF gene has been associated with several diseases, molecular mechanisms other than functional genetic variations can impact on the regulation of BDNF gene expression and lead to disturbed BDNF signaling and associated pathology. Thus, epigenetic modifications, representing key mechanisms by which environmental factors induce enduring changes in gene expression, are suspected to participate in the onset of various psychiatric disorders. More specifically, various environmental factors, particularly when occurring during development, have been claimed to produce long-lasting epigenetic changes at the BDNF gene, thereby affecting availability and function of the BDNF protein. Such stabile imprints on the BDNF gene might explain, at least in part, the delayed efficacy of treatments as well as the high degree of relapses observed in psychiatric disorders. Moreover, BDNF gene has a complex structure displaying differential exon regulation and usage, suggesting a subcellular- and brain region-specific distribution. As such, developing drugs that modify epigenetic regulation at specific BDNF exons represents a promising strategy for the treatment of psychiatric disorders. Here, we present an overview of the current literature on epigenetic modifications at the BDNF locus in psychiatric disorders and related animal models.

Proposal Never underestimate the pervasive, powerful influence of constructive chaos in medical progress.

The aim of this study was to assess the electrodiagnostic (EDx) sensitivity of proximal lower extremity muscles, including tensor fascia lata (TFL) and gluteus medius (GMED), in the diagnosis of L5 radiculopathy.Eleven EDx recordings with L5 radiculopathy were collected. The motor unit action potentials were assessed for morphology, stability, and firing characteristics. A descriptive analysis was performed. In proximal L5-supplied muscles, 4 of 11 recordings were abnormal in TFL only, with normal GMED; 4 of 11 recordings had similar findings in both muscles; 2 of 11 had abnormal findings in both muscles, but TFL had more noticeable findings; and 1 had abnormal findings in both muscles, but GMED findings were more noticeable. No patient had abnormalities limited to GMED. TFL was more sensitive than GMED in detecting L5 radiculopathy. Knowing which muscles are more likely to show abnormalities can improve the efficiency of EMG and reduce patient discomfort. Muscle Nerve 45: 891-893, 2012.



Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have emerged as a potential therapy for a range of neural insults. In animal models of multiple sclerosis, an autoimmune disease that targets oligodendrocytes and myelin, treatment with human MSCs results in functional improvement that reflects both modulation of the immune response and myelin repair. Here we demonstrate that conditioned medium from human MSCs (MSC-CM) reduces functional deficits in mouse MOG3555-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and promotes the development of oligodendrocytes and neurons. Functional assays identified hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its primary receptor cMet as critical in MSC-stimulated recovery in EAE, neural cell development and remyelination. Active MSC-CM contained HGF, and exogenously supplied HGF promoted recovery in EAE, whereas cMet and antibodies to HGF blocked the functional recovery mediated by HGF and MSC-CM. Systemic treatment with HGF markedly accelerated remyelination in lysolecithin-induced rat dorsal spinal cord lesions and in slice cultures. Together these data strongly implicate HGF in mediating MSC-stimulated functional recovery in animal models of multiple sclerosis.
Dynamic regulation of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) is important for normal synaptic transmission, plasticity and pathological changes. Although the involvement of transmembrane AMPAR regulatory proteins (TARPs) in trafficking of calcium-impermeable AMPARs (CI-AMPARs) has been extensively studied, their role in the surface expression and function of CP-AMPARs remains unclear. We examined AMPAR-mediated currents in cerebellar stellate cells from stargazer mice, which lack the prototypical TARP stargazin (g-2). We found a marked increase in the contribution of CP-AMPARs to synaptic responses, indicating that, unlike CI-AMPARs, these can localize at synapses in the absence of g-2. In contrast with CP-AMPARs in extrasynaptic regions, synaptic CP-AMPARs displayed an unexpectedly low channel conductance and strong block by intracellular spermine, suggesting that they were TARPless. As a proof of principle that TARP association is not an absolute requirement for AMPAR clustering at synapses, miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by TARPless AMPARs were readily detected in stargazer granule cells following knockdown of their only other TARP, g-7.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), including mGluR1 and mGluR5, are G proteincoupled receptors (GPCRs) that are expressed at excitatory synapses in brain and spinal cord. GPCRs are often negatively regulated by specific G proteincoupled receptor kinases and subsequent binding of arrestin-like molecules. Here we demonstrate an alternative mechanism in which group I mGluRs are negatively regulated by proline-directed kinases that phosphorylate the binding site for the adaptor protein Homer, and thereby enhance mGluRHomer binding to reduce signaling. This mechanism is dependent on a multidomain scaffolding protein, Preso1, that binds mGluR, Homer and proline-directed kinases and that is required for their phosphorylation of mGluR at the Homer binding site. Genetic ablation of Preso1 prevents dynamic phosphorylation of mGluR5, and Preso1(/) mice exhibit sustained, mGluR5-dependent inflammatory pain that is linked to enhanced mGluR signaling. Preso1 creates a microdomain for proline-directed kinases with broad substrate specificity to phosphorylate mGluR and to mediate negative regulation.
Fic domains can catalyze the addition of adenosine monophosphate to target proteins. To date, the function of Fic domain proteins in eukaryotic physiology remains unknown. We generated genetic models of the single Drosophila Fic domaincontaining protein, Fic. Flies lacking Fic were viable and fertile, but blind. Photoreceptor cells depolarized normally following light stimulation, but failed to activate postsynaptic neurons, as indicated by the loss of ON transients in electroretinograms, consistent with a neurotransmission defect. Functional rescue of neurotransmission required expression of enzymatically active Fic on capitate projections of glia cells, but not neurons, supporting a role in the recycling of the visual neurotransmitter histamine. Histamine levels were reduced in the lamina of Fic null flies, and dietary histamine partially restored ON transients. These findings establish a previously unknown regulatory mechanism in visual neurotransmission and provide, to the best of our knowledge, the first evidence for a role of glial capitate projections in neurotransmitter recycling.
Repeated cocaine administration increases the dendritic arborization of nucleus accumbens neurons, but the underlying signaling events remain unknown. Here we show that repeated exposure to cocaine negatively regulates the active form of Rac1, a small GTPase that controls actin remodeling in other systems. Further, we show, using viral-mediated gene transfer, that overexpression of a dominant negative mutant of Rac1 or local knockout of Rac1 is sufficient to increase the density of immature dendritic spines on nucleus accumbens neurons, whereas overexpression of a constitutively active Rac1 or light activation of a photoactivatable form of Rac1 blocks the ability of repeated cocaine exposure to produce this effect. Downregulation of Rac1 activity likewise promotes behavioral responses to cocaine exposure, with activation of Rac1 producing the opposite effect. These findings establish that Rac1 signaling mediates structural and behavioral plasticity in response to cocaine exposure.
Psychiatric drug discovery needs to close the systems neuroscience gap to improve the clinical success rates of candidate drugs with novel mechanisms of action.
In a previous paper (Rudolph &amp; Destexhe, 2006), we proposed various models, the gIF neuron models, of analytical integrate-and-fire (IF) neurons with conductance-based (COBA) dynamics for use in event-driven simulations. These models are based on an analytical approximation of the differential equation describing the IF neuron with exponential synaptic conductances and were successfully tested with respect to their response to random and oscillating inputs. Because they are analytical and mathematically simple, the gIF models are best suited for fast event-driven simulation strategies. However, the drawback of such models is they rely on a nonrealistic postsynaptic potential (PSP) time course, consisting of a discontinuous jump followed by a decay governed by the membrane time constant. Here, we address this limitation by conceiving an analytical approximation of the COBA IF neuron model with the full PSP time course. The subthreshold and suprathreshold response of this gIF4 model reproduces remarkably well the postsynaptic responses of the numerically solved passive membrane equation subject to conductance noise, while gaining at least two orders of magnitude in computational performance. Although the analytical structure of the gIF4 model is more complex than that of its predecessors due to the necessity of calculating future spike times, a simple and fast algorithmic implementation for use in large-scale neural network simulations is proposed.
The successor representation was introduced into reinforcement learning by Dayan ( 1993 ) as a means of facilitating generalization between states with similar successors. Although reinforcement learning in general has been used extensively as a model of psychological and neural processes, the psychological validity of the successor representation has yet to be explored. An interesting possibility is that the successor representation can be used not only for reinforcement learning but for episodic learning as well. Our main contribution is to show that a variant of the temporal context model (TCM; Howard &amp; Kahana, 2002 ), an influential model of episodic memory, can be understood as directly estimating the successor representation using the temporal difference learning algorithm (Sutton &amp; Barto, 1998 ). This insight leads to a generalization of TCM and new experimental predictions. In addition to casting a new normative light on TCM, this equivalence suggests a previously unexplored point of contact between different learning systems.
A prominent finding in psychophysical experiments on time perception is Weber's law, the linear scaling of timing errors with duration. The ability to reproduce this scaling has been taken as a criterion for the validity of neurocomputational models of time perception. However, the origin of Weber's law remains unknown, and currently only a few models generically reproduce it. Here, we use an information-theoretical framework that considers the neuronal mechanisms of time perception as stochastic processes to investigate the statistical origin of Weber's law in time perception and also its frequently observed deviations. Under the assumption that the brain is able to compute optimal estimates of time, we find that Weber's law only holds exactly if the estimate is based on temporal changes in the variance of the process. In contrast, the timing errors scale sublinearly with time if the systematic changes in the mean of a process are used for estimation, as is the case in the majority of time perception models, while estimates based on temporal correlations result in a superlinear scaling. This hierarchy of temporal information is preserved if several sources of temporal information are available. Furthermore, we consider the case of multiple stochastic processes and study the examples of a covariance-based model and a model based on synfire chains. This approach reveals that existing neurocomputational models of time perception can be classified as mean-, variance- and correlation-based processes and allows predictions about the scaling of the resulting timing errors.
Evidence has emerged that the initiation and growth of gliomas is sustained by a subpopulation of cancer-initiating cells (CICs). Because of the difficulty of using markers to tag CICs in gliomas, we have previously exploited more robust phenotypic characteristics, including a specific morphology and intrincic autofluorescence, to identify and isolate a subpopulation of glioma CICs, called FL1(+). The objective of this study was to further validate our method in a large cohort of human glioma and a mouse model of glioma. Seventy-four human gliomas of all grades and the GFAP-V(12)HA-ras B8 mouse model were analyzed for in vitro self-renewal capacity and their content of FL1(+). Nonneoplastic brain tissue and embryonic mouse brain were used as control. Genetic traceability along passages was assessed with microsatellite analysis. We found that FL1(+) cells from low-grade gliomas and from control nonneoplasic brain tissue show a lower level of autofluorescence and undergo a restricted number of cell divisions before dying in culture. In contrast, we found that FL1(+) cells derived from many but not all high-grade gliomas acquire high levels of autofluorescence and can be propagated in long-term cultures. Moreover, FL1(+) cells show a remarkable traceability over time in vitro and in vivo. Our results show that FL1(+) cells can be found in all specimens of a large cohort of human gliomas of different grades and in a model of genetically induced mouse glioma as well as nonneoplastic brain. However, their self-renewal capacity is variable and seems to be dependent on the tumor grade.
Glioma cell lines are an important tool for research in basic and translational neuro-oncology. Documentation of their genetic identity has become a requirement for scientific journals and grant applications to exclude cross-contamination and misidentification that lead to misinterpretation of results. Here, we report the standard 16 marker short tandem repeat (STR) DNA fingerprints for a panel of 39 widely used glioma cell lines as reference. Comparison of the fingerprints among themselves and with the large DSMZ database comprising 9 marker STRs for 2278 cell lines uncovered 3 misidentified cell lines and confirmed previously known cross-contaminations. Furthermore, 2 glioma cell lines exhibited identity scores of 0.8, which is proposed as the cutoff for detecting cross-contamination. Additional characteristics, comprising lack of a B-raf mutation in one line and a similarity score of 1 with the original tumor tissue in the other, excluded a cross-contamination. Subsequent simulation procedures suggested that, when using DNA fingerprints comprising only 9 STR markers, the commonly used similarity score of 0.8 is not sufficiently stringent to unambiguously differentiate the origin. DNA fingerprints are confounded by frequent genetic alterations in cancer cell lines, particularly loss of heterozygosity, that reduce the informativeness of STR markers and, thereby, the overall power for distinction. The similarity score depends on the number of markers measured; thus, more markers or additional cell line characteristics, such as information on specific mutations, may be necessary to clarify the origin.
Subtle cognitive impairment can be detected in early Parkinson's disease (PD). In a consecutive series of de novo, drug-naive PD patients, we applied stepwise regression analysis to assess which clinical, neuropsychological, and functional neuroimaging (dopamine transporter [DAT] and perfusion single photon emission computed tomography [SPECT]) characteristics at baseline was predictive of cognitive decline during an average follow-up time of about 4 years. Decline both in executive (R(2) = 0.54; p = 0.0001) and visuospatial (R(2) = 0.56; p = 0.0001) functions was predicted by the couple of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)-III score and caudate dopamine transporter (DAT) uptake in the less affected hemisphere (LAH). Verbal memory and language decline was predicted instead by caudate DAT uptake and brain perfusion in a posterior parieto-temporal area of the less affected hemisphere (R(2) = 0.42; p = 0.0005). No significant effect was shown for age, baseline neuropsychological scores, and levodopa equivalent dose at follow-up. The combined use of clinical structured examination and brain functional assessment by means of dual single photon emission computed tomography imaging appears as a powerful approach to predict cognitive decline in de novo PD patients.
In Alzheimer's disease, amyloid beta peptide (A) accumulation is associated with hippocampal network dysfunction. Intrahippocampal injections of A induce aberrant inhibitory septohippocampal (SH) network activity in vivo and impairment of memory processing. In the present study, we observed, after hippocampal A treatment, a selective loss of neurons projecting to the medial septum (MS) and containing calbindin (CB) and/or somatostatin (SOM). Other GABAergic neuronal subpopulations were not altered. Thus, the present study identifies hippocamposeptal neuron populations as specific targets for A deposits. We observed that in A-treated rats but not in controls, glutamate agonist application induced rhythmic bursting in 55% of the slow-firing neurons in the medial septum. This suggests that hippocampal A can trigger modifications of the septohippocampal pathway via the alteration of a specific neuronal population. Long-range hippocamposeptal GABA/calbindin neurons, targets of hippocampal amyloid deposits, are implicated in supporting network synchronization. By identifying this target, we contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms underlying deleterious effects of A, one of the main agents of dementia in Alzheimer's disease.
Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptors (GABA(B)Rs) have been linked to a wide range of physiological and cognitive processes and are of interest for treating a number of neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. As many of these diseases are associated with advanced age, it is important to understand how the normal aging process impacts GABA(B)R expression and signaling. Thus, we investigated GABA(B)R expression and function in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus of young and aged rats characterized in a spatial learning task. Baclofen-stimulated GTP-binding and GABA(B)R1 and GABA(B)R2 proteins were reduced in the prefrontal cortex of aged rats but these reductions were not associated with spatial learning abilities. In contrast, hippocampal GTP-binding was comparable between young and aged rats but reduced hippocampal GABA(B)R1 expression was observed in aged rats with spatial learning impairment. These data demonstrate marked regional differences in GABA(B)R complexes in the adult and aged brain and could have implications for both understanding the role of GABAergic processes in normal brain function and the development of putative interventions that target this system.
Understanding the molecular sequence of events that culminate in multiple abnormalities in brains from patients that died with Alzheimer's disease (AD) will help to reveal the mechanisms of the disease and identify upstream events as therapeutic targets. The activity of the mitochondrial -ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) in homogenates from autopsy brain declines with AD. Experimental reductions in KGDHC in mouse models of AD promote plaque and tangle formation, the hallmark pathologies of AD. We hypothesize that deficits in KGDHC also lead to the abnormalities in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium stores and cytosolic calcium following K(+) depolarization that occurs in cells from AD patients and transgenic models of AD. The activity of the mitochondrial enzyme KGDHC was diminished acutely (minutes), long-term (days), or chronically (weeks). Acute inhibition of KGDHC produced effects on calcium opposite to those in AD, while the chronic or long-term inhibition of KGDHC mimicked the AD-related changes in calcium. Divergent changes in proteins released from the mitochondria that affect endoplasmic reticulum calcium channels may underlie the selective cellular consequences of acute versus longer term inhibition of KGDHC. The results suggest that the mitochondrial abnormalities in AD can be upstream of those in calcium.
In middle-aged female rats, focal ischemia leads to a larger cortical infarction as compared with younger females. To determine if stroke-induced cytotoxicity in middle-aged females was associated with impaired astrocyte function, astrocytes were harvested and cultured from the ischemic cortex of young and middle-aged female rats. Middle-aged astrocytes cleared significantly less glutamate from media as compared with young female astrocytes. Furthermore, astrocyte-conditioned media from middle-aged female astrocytes induced greater migration of peripheral blood monocyte cells (PBMCs) and expressed higher levels of the chemoattractant macrophage inflammatory protein-1 (MIP-1). Middle-aged astrocytes also induced greater migration of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), however, their ability to promote neuronal differentiation of neural progenitor cells was similar to young astrocytes. In males, where cortical infarct volume is similar in young and middle-aged animals, no age-related impairment was observed in astrocyte function. These studies show that the aging astrocyte may directly contribute to infarct severity by inefficient glutamate clearance and enhanced cytokine production and suggest a cellular target for improved stroke therapy among older females.
We investigated patterns of white matter (WM) loss in 18 early onset (EO) and 24 late onset (LO) Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients compared with 42 healthy controls (HC), and explored relationships of WM atrophy and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype. Subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Patterns of WM were assessed using voxel-based morphometry. Compared with healthy controls, LOAD patients had a selective parahippocampal WM loss, while EOAD patients experienced a more widespread pattern of posterior WM atrophy. The distinct regional distribution of WM atrophy reflected the topography of gray matter (GM) loss. ApoE 4 status was associated with a greater parahippocampal WM loss in both AD groups. The greater WM atrophy in EOAD than LOAD fits with the evidence that EOAD is a more aggressive form of the disease. The ApoE 4 effect on WM damage in AD is restricted to specific WM regions and does not seem to be related to age of onset.
Psychiatric illnesses, such as schizophrenia, are most likely caused by an interaction between genetic predisposition and environmental factors, including stress during development. The neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in this illness as BDNF levels are decreased in the brain of patients with schizophrenia. The aim of the present study was to assess the combined effect of reduced BDNF levels and postnatal stress, simulated by chronic young-adult treatment with the stress hormone, corticosterone. From 6 weeks of age, female and male BDNF heterozygous mice and their wild-type controls were chronically treated with corticosterone in their drinking water for 3 weeks. At 11 weeks of age, male, but not female BDNF heterozygous mice treated with corticosterone exhibited a profound memory deficit in the Y-maze. There were no differences between the groups in baseline prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of sensorimotor gating, or its disruption by treatment with MK-801. However, an increase in startle caused by MK-801 treatment was absent in male, but not female BDNF heterozygous mice, irrespective of corticosterone treatment. Analysis of protein levels of the NMDA receptor subunits NR1, NR2A, NR2B and NR2C, showed a marked increase of NR2B levels in the dorsal hippocampus of male BDNF heterozygous mice treated with corticosterone. In the ventral hippocampus, significantly reduced levels of NR2A, NR2B and NR2C were observed in male BDNF heterozygous mice. The NMDA receptor effects in hippocampal sub-regions could be related to the spatial memory deficits and the loss of the effect of MK-801 on startle in these mice, respectively. No significant changes in NMDA receptor subunit levels were observed in any of the female groups. Similarly, no significant changes in levels of BDNF or its receptor, TrkB, were found other than the expected reduced levels of BDNF in heterozygous mice. In conclusion, the data show differential interactive effects of reduced levels of BDNF expression and corticosterone treatment on spatial memory and startle in male and female mice, accompanied by significant, but region-specific changes in NMDA receptor subunit levels in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. These results could be important for our understanding of the interaction of neurodevelopmental stress and BDNF deficiency in cognitive and anxiety-related symptoms of psychiatric illnesses, such as schizophrenia.
Several studies have implicated the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) as well as several biometals in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A multifunctional molecule, the hybrid tacrine-8-hydroxyquinoline (named IQM-622), displays cholinergic, antioxidant, copper-complexing and neuroprotective properties. Using in vitro and in vivo models, we investigated the modulating effects of IQM-622 on amyloid -protein (A)-induced pathology as well as on chemically induced neurodegeneration by domoic acid. In the first experimental model, we observed a significant decrease in brain A deposits in IQM-622-treated APP/Ps1 mice for four weeks. Moreover, IQM-622 promoted the degradation of intracellular A in astrocytes, and protected against A toxicity in cultured astrocytes and neurons. These findings suggest that the neuroprotective effect of IQM-622 is not only related to AChE inhibition, but also involves other mechanisms, including the modulation of A-degradation pathways in AD brain. In this study we also compare the neuronal loss in CA1 hippocampal field of AD patients and of mice treated with domoic acid, giving similar patterns. Thus, we used a second experimental model by killing hippocampal neurons by domoic acid damage, in which IQM-622 increased survival in the CA1 and dentate gyrus regions of the hippocampus. Our observations suggest that administration of IQM-622 may have significant beneficial effects in neurodegenerative diseases, including AD, which course with acute or progressive neuronal death.
d-Serine is a co-agonist of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. It has been implicated in the etiology of schizophrenia and has shown efficacy as an adjuvant to reduce positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In addition, d-serine can modulate cognition in animals when administered alone. However, the neurochemical effects of exogenous d-serine on extra- and intra-cellular d-serine brain levels are poorly understood. In this study, we used both high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and enzyme-based microelectrode biosensors to quantify d-serine in the rat brain. We demonstrated levels of 2.3-2.8M in the extracellular medium, 4M in plasma and 188pmol/mg in brain tissue samples. An intraperitoneal (i.p.) d-serine injection (1g/kg) produced a slow increase in extracellular d-serine concentration in the cortex despite a surge in d-serine up to 13mM in the plasma, indicating poor diffusion through the blood-brain barrier. Using the respective volume fractions of blood, extracellular and intracellular spaces published in the literature, we estimated that d-serine intracellular stores represented more than 99% of total d-serine. These intracellular stores almost doubled 3h after d-serine administration. Overall, our data indicate that d-serine administration increases brain extra- and intra-cellular concentrations despite weak diffusion through the blood-brain barrier. These results pave the way for a better understanding of the neurochemical mechanisms by which d-serine administration modulates cognition.
Acute liver failure (ALF) is characterized neuropathologically by cytotoxic brain edema and biochemically by increased brain ammonia and its detoxification product, glutamine. The osmotic actions of increased glutamine synthesis in astrocytes are considered to be causally related to brain edema and its complications (intracranial hypertension, brain herniation) in ALF. However studies using multinuclear (1)H- and (13)C-NMR spectroscopy demonstrate that neither brain glutamine concentrations per se nor brain glutamine synthesis rates correlate with encephalopathy grade or the presence of brain edema in ALF. An alternative mechanism is now proposed whereby the newly synthesized glutamine is trapped within the astrocyte as a consequence of down-regulation of its high affinity glutamine transporter SNAT5 in ALF. Restricted transfer out of the cell rather than increased synthesis within the cell could potentially explain the cell swelling/brain edema in ALF. Moreover, the restricted transfer of glutamine from the astrocyte to the adjacent glutamatergic nerve terminal (where glutamine serves as immediate precursor for the releasable/transmitter pool of glutamate) could result in decreased excitatory transmission and excessive neuroinhibition that is characteristic of encephalopathy in ALF. Paradoxically, in spite of renewed interest in arterial ammonia as a predictor of raised intracranial pressure and brain herniation in ALF, ammonia-lowering agents aimed at reduction of ammonia production in the gut have so far been shown to be of limited value in the prevention of these cerebral consequences. Mild hypothermia, shown to prevent brain edema and intracranial hypertension in both experimental and human ALF, does so independent of effects on brain glutamine synthesis; whether or not hypothermia restores expression levels of SNAT5 in ALF awaits further studies. While inhibitors of brain glutamine synthesis such as methionine sulfoximine, have been proposed for the prevention of brain edema in ALF, potential adverse effects have so far limited their applicability.

Acute liver failure (ALF) or fulminant hepatic failure represents a serious life-threatening condition. ALF is characterized by a significant liver injury that leads to a rapid onset of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). In ALF, patients manifest rapid deterioration in consciousness leading to hepatic coma together with an onset of brain edema which induces high intracranial pressure that frequently leads to herniation and death. It is well accepted that hyperammonemia is a cardinal, but not the sole, mediator in the pathophysiology of ALF. There is increasing evidence that neurosteroids, including the parent neurosteroid pregnenolone, and the progesterone metabolites tetrahydroprogesterone (allopregnanolone) and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC) accumulate in brain in experimental models of ALF. Neurosteroids in ALF represent good candidates to explain the phenomenon of &quot;increased GABAergic tone&quot; in chronic and ALF, and the beneficial effects of benzodiazepine drugs. The mechanisms that trigger brain neurosteroid changes in ALF are not yet well known, but could involve partially de novo neurosteroidogenesis following activation of the translocator protein (TSPO). The factors that contribute to TSPO changes in ALF may include ammonia and cytokines. It is possible that increases in brain levels of neurosteroids in ALF may result in auto-regulatory mechanisms where hypothermia may play a significant role. Possible mechanisms that may involve neurosteroids in the pathophysiology of HE, and more speculatively in brain edema, and inflammatory processes in ALF are suggested.

Gangliosides are sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids that are most abundant in the nervous system. They are localized primarily in the outer leaflets of plasma membranes and participated in cell-cell recognition, adhesion, and signal transduction and are integral components of cell surface microdomains or lipid rafts along with proteins, sphingomyelin and cholesterol. Ganglioside-rich lipid rafts play an important role in signaling events affecting neural development and the pathogenesis of certain diseases. Disruption of gangloside synthase genes in mice induces developmental defects and neural degeneration. Targeting ganglioside metabolism may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for intervention in certain diseases. In this review, we focus on recent advances on metabolic and functional studies of gangliosides in normal brain development and in certain neurological disorders.
Pannexin1 (Panx1), a protein related to the gap junction proteins of invertebrates, forms nonjunctional channels that open upon depolarization and in response to mechanical stretch and purinergic receptor stimulation. Importantly, ATP can be released through Panx1 channels, providing a possible role for these channels in non-vesicular signal transmission. In this study we expressed exogenous human and mouse Panx1 in the gap junction deficient Neuro2A neuroblastoma cell line and explored the contribution of Panx1 channels to cell-cell communication as sites of ATP release. Electrophysiological (patch clamp) recordings from Panx1 transfected Neuro2A cells revealed membrane conductance that increased beyond 0 mV when applying voltage ramps from -60 to +100 mV; threshold was correlated with extracellular K+, so that at 10 mM K+, channels began to open at -30 mV. Evaluation of cell-cell communication using dual whole cell recordings from cell pairs revealed that activation of Panx1 current in one cell of the pair induced an inward current in the second cell after a latency of 10-20 s. This paracrine response was amplified by an ATPase inhibitor (ARL67156, 100 M) and was blocked by the ATP-degrading enzyme apyrase (6.7 U/ml), by the P2 receptor antagonist suramin (50 M) and by the Panx1 channel blocker carbenoxolone. These results provide additional evidence that ATP release through Panx1 channels can mediate nonsynaptic bidirectional intercellular communication. Furthermore, current potentiation by elevated K+ provides a mechanism for enhancement of ATP release under pathological conditions.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is recognized as the most common and lethal form of central nervous system cancer. Currently used surgical techniques, chemotherapeutic agents, and radiotherapy strategies have done very little in extending the life expectancies of patients diagnosed with GBM. The difficulty in treating this malignant disease lies both in its inherent complexity and numerous mechanisms of drug resistance. In this review, we summarize several of the primary mechanisms of drug resistance. We reviewed available published literature in the English language regarding drug resistance in glioblastoma. The reasons for drug resistance in glioblastoma include drug efflux, hypoxic areas of tumor cells, cancer stem cells, DNA damage repair, and miRNAs. Many potential therapies target these mechanisms, including a series of investigated alternative and plant-derived agents. Future research and clinical trials in glioblastoma patients should pursue combination of therapies to help combat drug resistance. The emerging new data on the potential of plant-derived therapeutics should also be closely considered and further investigated.
Decompressive craniectomy (DC) is used for patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), malignant edema from middle cerebral artery infarction, aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, and non-traumatic intracerebral or cerebellar hemorrhage. The objective of the procedure is to relieve intractable intracranial hypertension and/or to prevent or reverse cerebral herniation. Decompressive craniectomy has been shown to decrease mortality in selected patients with large hemispheric infarction and to control intracranial pressure in addition to improving pressure-volume compensatory reserve after TBI. The clinical effectiveness of DC in patients with TBI is under evaluation in ongoing randomized clinical trials. There are several unresolved controversies regarding optimal candidate selection, timing, technique, and post-operative management and complications. The nature and temporal progression of alterations in cerebral blood flow, brain tissue oxygen, and microdialysis markers have only recently been researched. Elucidating the pathophysiology of pressure-flow and cerebral hemodynamic consequences of DC could assist in optimizing clinical decision making and further defining the role of decompressive craniectomy.


Unequivocally, pedicle screw instrumentation has evolved as a primary construct for the treatment of both common and complex spinal disorders. However an inevitable and potentially major complication associated with this type of surgery is misplacement of a pedicle screw(s) which may result in neural and vascular complications, as well as impair the biomechanical stability of the spinal instrumentation resulting in loss of fixation. In light of these potential surgical complications, critical reviews of outcome data for treatment of chronic, low-back pain using pedicle screw instrumentation concluded that &quot;pedicle screw fixation improves radiographically demonstrated fusion rates;&quot; however the expense and complication rates for such constructs are considerable in light of the clinical benefit (Resnick et al. 2005a). Currently, neuromonitoring using free-run and evoked (triggered) electromyography (EMG) is widely used and advocated for safer and more accurate placement of pedicle screws during open instrumentation procedures, and more recently, guiding percutaneous placement (minimally invasive) where the pedicle cannot be easily inspected visually. The latter technique, evoked or triggered EMG when applied to pedicle screw instrumentation surgeries, has been referred to as the pedicle screw stimulation technique. As concluded in the Position Statement by the American Society of Neurophysiological Monitoring (ASNM), multimodality neuromonitoring using free-run EMG and the pedicle screw stimulation technique was considered a practice option and not yet a standard of care (Leppanen 2005). Subsequently, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of Neurological Surgeons (AANS/CNS) Joint Section on Disorders of the Spine and Peripheral Nerves published their &quot;Guidelines for the Performance of Fusion Procedures for Degenerative Disease of the Lumbar Spine&quot; (Heary 2005, Resnick et al. 2005a, Resnick et al. 2005b). It was concluded that the &quot;primary justification&quot; of intraoperative neuromonitoring&quot;... is the perception that the safety and efficacy of pedicle screw fixation are enhanced...&quot; (Resnick et al. 2005b). However in summarizing a massive (over 1000 papers taken from the National Library of Medicine), contemporary, literature review spanning nearly a decade (1996 to 2003), this invited panel (Resnick et al. 2005b) recognized that the evidence-based documents contributing to the parts related to pedicle screw fixation and neuromonitoring were &quot;... full of potential sources of error ...&quot; and lacked appropriate, randomized, prospective studies for formulating rigid standards and guidelines. Nevertheless, current trends support the routine use and clinical utility of these neuromonitoring techniques. In particular free-run and triggered EMG have been well recognized in numerous publications for improving both the accuracy and safety of pedicle screw implantation. Currently, treatment with pedicle screw instrumentation routinely involves all levels of the spine - lumbosacral, thoracic, and cervical. Significant historical events, various neuromonitoring modalities, intraoperative alarm criteria, clinical efficacy, current trends, and caveats related to pedicle screw stimulation along the entire vertebral column will be reviewed.
Defects in intestinal barrier function are associated with diseases of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. There is growing evidence that increases in intestinal permeability plays a pathogenic role in diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and celiac disease, and functional bowel disorders, such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). This review takes a unique translational approach to discuss the physiological and pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the regulation of intestinal barrier function in IBS. The review summarizes the components of the intestinal barrier including the tight junction complex within the epithelium, and the methods used to assess gut permeability both in vitro and in vivo. Throughout the review, the authors have attempted to critically review the latest research from both experimental animal models and human studies to appraise whether intestinal barrier dysfunction is a primary cause of functional GI disorders, such as IBS.

The history of social cognitive neuroscience (SCN) began with isolated islands of research in Europe and the United States in the 1990s. In the decade between 1995 and 2004 most of the major areas of current SCN research were identified in a series of high profile first studies. This paper reviews the timeline as well as the geography of important moments in the short history of this field. Of note is the different focus seen in European contributions (theory of mind, mirror neurons, and empathy) and the more self-focused U.S. contributions (self-knowledge, emotion regulation, implicit attitudes).
This review provides an overview of the field of social neuroscience from a European perspective and focuses mainly on outlining research topics which originated in European laboratories. After a brief historical synopsis of the emergence of this young field, the most relevant findings related to the investigation of the neural networks underlying our capacity to understand the minds of others are summarized. More specifically, three routes of social cognition are distinguished: (1) our capacity to mentalize, or to infer intentions and beliefs of others, (2) our capacity to mimic and understand other's motor actions, and (3) our capacity to empathize, or to share and understand the feelings of others. More recent studies focusing on social emotions such as love, compassion, revenge or our sense of fairness will be discussed linking the field of social neuroscience to the even younger field of neuroeconomics, with the focus on the study of human social interactions using game theoretical paradigms. Finally, the use of a multi-method and multi-disciplinary research approach combining genetic, pharmacological, computational and developmental aspects is advocated and future directions for the study of interactive minds are discussed.
After more than twenty years busily mapping the human brain, what have we learned from neuroimaging? This review (coda) considers this question from the point of view of structure-function relationships and the two cornerstones of functional neuroimaging; functional segregation and integration. Despite remarkable advances and insights into the brain's functional architecture, the earliest and simplest challenge in human brain mapping remains unresolved: We do not have a principled way to map brain function onto its structure in a way that speaks directly to cognitive neuroscience. Having said this, there are distinct clues about how this might be done: First, there is a growing appreciation of the role of functional integration in the distributed nature of neuronal processing. Second, there is an emerging interest in data-driven cognitive ontologies, i.e., that are internally consistent with functional anatomy. We will focus this review on the growing momentum in the fields of functional connectivity and distributed brain responses and consider this in the light of meta-analyses that use very large data sets to disclose large-scale structure-function mappings in the human brain.
Proton NMR spectroscopy is emerging from translational and preclinical neuroscience research as an important tool for evidence based diagnosis and therapy monitoring. It provides biomarkers that offer fingerprints of neurological disorders even in cases where a lesion is not yet observed in MR images. The collection of molecules used as cerebral biomarkers that are detectable by (1)H NMR spectroscopy define the so-called &quot;neurochemical profile&quot;. The non-invasive quality of this technique makes it suitable not only for diagnostic purposes but also for therapy monitoring paralleling an eventual neuroprotection. The application of (1)H NMR spectroscopy in basic and translational neuroscience research is discussed here.
Recent advances in signal analysis have engendered EEG with the status of a true brain mapping and brain imaging method capable of providing spatio-temporal information regarding brain (dys)function. Because of the increasing interest in the temporal dynamics of brain networks, and because of the straightforward compatibility of the EEG with other brain imaging techniques, EEG is increasingly used in the neuroimaging community. However, the full capability of EEG is highly underestimated. Many combined EEG-fMRI studies use the EEG only as a spike-counter or an oscilloscope. Many cognitive and clinical EEG studies use the EEG still in its traditional way and analyze grapho-elements at certain electrodes and latencies. We here show that this way of using the EEG is not only dangerous because it leads to misinterpretations, but it is also largely ignoring the spatial aspects of the signals. In fact, EEG primarily measures the electric potential field at the scalp surface in the same way as MEG measures the magnetic field. By properly sampling and correctly analyzing this electric field, EEG can provide reliable information about the neuronal activity in the brain and the temporal dynamics of this activity in the millisecond range. This review explains some of these analysis methods and illustrates their potential in clinical and experimental applications.
The motor system has been intensively studied using the emerging neuroimaging technologies over the last twenty years. These include early applications of positron emission tomography of brain perfusion, metabolic rate and receptor function, as well as functional magnetic resonance imaging, tractography from diffusion weighted imaging, and transcranial magnetic stimulation. Motor system research has the advantage of the existence of extensive electrophysiological and anatomical information from comparative studies which enables cross-validation of new methods. We review the impact of neuroimaging on the understanding of diverse motor functions, including motor learning, decision making, inhibition and the mirror neuron system. In addition, we show how imaging of the motor system has supported a powerful platform for bidirectional translational neuroscience. In one direction, it has provided the opportunity to study safely the processes of neuroplasticity, neural networks and neuropharmacology in stroke and movement disorders and offers a sensitive tool to assess novel therapeutics. In the reverse direction, imaging of clinical populations has promoted innovations in cognitive theory, experimental design and analysis. We highlight recent developments in the analysis of structural and functional connectivity in the motor system; the advantages of integration of multiple methodologies; and new approaches to experimental design using formal models of cognitive-motor processes.
Oxygen utilization is central to the human brain's high metabolic rate. Measurement of this fundamental process, in both disease and health, has been a focus of research attention over the last 35 years. This review plots the course of the use of oxygen-15 to study regional cerebral oxygen extraction and metabolism using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) in disease and in health. The scientific discoveries and resulting conceptual changes to both basic and clinical neuroscience, as well as the new methodological approaches brought about by this area of research, are also summarized. We conclude with a brief overview of the current status of oxygen-15 PET in neuroscience, along with our visions for future developments and applications.
The past 15 years have seen a rapid expansion in the number of studies using neuroimaging techniques to investigate maturational changes in the human brain. In this paper, I review MRI studies on structural changes in the developing brain, and fMRI studies on functional changes in the social brain during adolescence. Both MRI and fMRI studies point to adolescence as a period of continued neural development. In the final section, I discuss a number of areas of research that are just beginning and may be the subject of developmental neuroimaging in the next twenty years. Future studies might focus on complex questions including the development of functional connectivity; how gender and puberty influence adolescent brain development; the effects of genes, environment and culture on the adolescent brain; development of the atypical adolescent brain; and implications for policy of the study of the adolescent brain.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG), with its direct view to the cortex through the magnetically transparent skull, has developed from its conception in physics laboratories to a powerful tool of basic and clinical neuroscience. MEG provides millisecond time resolution and allows real-time tracking of brain activation sequences during sensory processing, motor planning and action, cognition, language perception and production, social interaction, and various brain disorders. Current-day neuromagnetometers house hundreds of SQUIDs, superconducting quantum interference devices, to pick up signals generated by concerted action of cortical neurons. Complementary MEG measures of neuronal involvement include evoked responses, modulation of cortical rhythms, properties of the on-going neural activity, and interareal connectivity. Future MEG breakthroughs in understanding brain dynamics are expected through advanced signal analysis and combined use of MEG with hemodynamic imaging (fMRI). Methodological development progresses most efficiently when linked with insightful neuroscientific questions.
Diffusion MRI (or dMRI) came into existence in the mid-1980s. During the last 25 years, diffusion MRI has been extraordinarily successful (with more than 300,000 entries on Google Scholar for diffusion MRI). Its main clinical domain of application has been neurological disorders, especially for the management of patients with acute stroke. It is also rapidly becoming a standard for white matter disorders, as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) can reveal abnormalities in white matter fiber structure and provide outstanding maps of brain connectivity. The ability to visualize anatomical connections between different parts of the brain, non-invasively and on an individual basis, has emerged as a major breakthrough for neurosciences. The driving force of dMRI is to monitor microscopic, natural displacements of water molecules that occur in brain tissues as part of the physical diffusion process. Water molecules are thus used as a probe that can reveal microscopic details about tissue architecture, either normal or in a diseased state.
Several movement disorders may occur during nocturnal rest disrupting sleep. A part of these complaints is characterized by relatively simple, non-purposeful and usually stereotyped movements. The last version of the International Classification of Sleep Disorders includes these clinical conditions (i.e. restless legs syndrome, periodic limb movement disorder, sleep-related leg cramps, sleep-related bruxism and sleep-related rhythmic movement disorder) under the category entitled sleep-related movement disorders. Moreover, apparently physiological movements (e.g. alternating leg muscle activation and excessive hypnic fragmentary myoclonus) can show a high frequency and severity impairing sleep quality. Clinical and, in specific cases, neurophysiological assessments are required to detect the presence of nocturnal movement complaints. Patients reporting poor sleep due to these abnormal movements should undergo non-pharmacological or pharmacological treatments.
Filippo Lussana's scientific activities are neglected in neurological field. His activity could be divided into two phases: as a medical practitioner and the academic period, as a clinical neurophysiologist. The focus of his various research studies was the central nervous system, including balance disorders (the role of the cerebellum and semicircular canals), taste innervation, pain and speech disorders (theories of brain localisation). Lussana's clinical method and direct dealings with patients laid the groundwork for his subsequent academic activities as a neurophysiologist, in Parma and later in Padua. Influenced by phrenological theories, he also conducted interesting studies on synaesthesia for which he determined a brain site. He contributed to the neurophysiology of taste, emphasising the role of the facial nerve. With his study on muscle sense, he also joined the debate on the role of the cerebellum in balance, setting the foundation for later studies on this organ by Luigi Luciani.
Patient involvement in the improvement of health care is important for the best long-term treatment outcomes. Our objective is to assess patient satisfaction with offered care service and to identify parameters which influence the adherence to long-term therapy. A prospective single-center study based on the administration of a structured interview to multiple sclerosis (MS) patients attending our MS Centre with mild and moderate disabilities. The interview regarding clinical parameters, quality of life and satisfaction of care service was structured in three parts with multiple-choice answers to close- or open-ended questions. Patient satisfaction was evaluated by the concordance between the level of patient attention and judgment regarding the services offered. The impact of all variables on the adherence to therapy and on the perceived utility of treatment was evaluated. The concordance between patient attention and judgment on health care services resulted statistically significant for almost all parameters. The perceived utility of treatment was significantly correlated to patients feeling confident in the clinical staff, to their perception of being involved in therapeutic decision (p&lt;0.05), and associated to therapy adherence (p=0.0001). In a multivariate model, the adherence to therapy resulted associated to possibility of choosing the physician (p=0.037) and inversely to therapy duration (p=0.001). Our conclusion reveals that, to improve the adherence to long-term therapy and the perceived utility of treatment, a particular attention should be devoted to physician-patient relationship.
We report the first case of a heterozygous T78M mutation in the caveolin-3 gene (CAV3) associated with rippling muscle disease and proximal myopathy. The patient displayed also bilateral winged scapula with limited abduction of upper arms and marked asymmetric atrophy of leg muscles shown by magnetic resonance imaging. Immunohistochemistry on the patient's muscle biopsy demonstrated a reduction of caveolin-3 staining, compatible with the diagnosis of caveolinopathy. Interestingly, consistent with the possible diagnosis of FSHD, the patient carried a 35 kb D4Z4 allele on chromosome 4q35. We discuss the hypothesis that the two genetic mutations may exert a synergistic effect in determining the phenotype observed in this patient.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of thyroid dysfunction during valproic acid (VPA) therapy in children and adolescents with epilepsy. The serum levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine, and triiodothyronine were evaluated in 61 children with epilepsy who received VPA monotherapy for more than 6 months and in 144 controls. We analyzed the effect of age, seizure type, duration of VPA treatment, dose of VPA, and serum level of VPA on thyroid function. The incidence of subclinical hypothyroidism was significantly higher in patients with VPA therapy than in controls (52.4 vs. 16.7%; p &lt; 0.001). In addition, of the 61 patients, 5 (8.1%) exhibited TSH levels that were &gt;10 IU/mL. However, none of the patients and controls showed overt hypothyroidism. Serum VPA level and daily dose of VPA were correlated with TSH level. Subclinical hypothyroidism developed frequently in children and adolescents during VPA therapy.
Amblyopia is one of the most common forms of visual impairment, arising from an early functional imbalance between the two eyes. It is currently accepted that, due to a lack of neural plasticity,amblyopia is an untreatable pathology in adults. Environmental enrichment (EE) emerged as a strategy highly effective in restoring plasticity in adult animals, eliciting recovery from amblyopia through a reduction of intracortical inhibition. It is unknown whether single EE components are able to promote plasticity in the adult brain, crucial information for designing new protocols of environmental stimulation suitable for amblyopic human subjects. Here, we assessed the effects of enhanced physical exercise,increased social interaction, visual enrichment or perceptual learning on visual function recovery in adult amblyopic rats. We report a complete rescue of both visual acuity and ocular dominance in exercised rats, in animals exposed to visual enrichment and in animals engaged in perceptual learning.These effects were accompanied by a reduced inhibition/excitation balance in the visual cortex. In contrast, we did not detect any sign of recovery in socially enriched rats or in animals practicing a purely associative visual task. These findings could have a bearing in orienting clinical research in the field of amblyopia therapy.
It is generally assumed that cannabinoids induce transient modulations of dopamine transmission through indirect regulation of its release. However, we previously described a direct cannabinoid-mediated control of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression, in vitro. We herein report on the influence of cannabinoid agonists on the expression of this key enzyme in catecholamine synthesis as well as on the modification of dopamine content in adult rats. As expected for cannabinoid agonists, the exposure to either (9)-THC, HU 210 or CP 55,940 induced both catalepsy and hypolocomotion. Supporting a possible long-lasting control on dopaminergic activity, we noticed a significant HU 210-mediated increase in TH expression in the striatum that was concomitant with an increase in striatal dopamine content. Surprisingly, while a similar trend was reported with (9)-THC, CP 55,940 completely failed to modulate TH expression or dopamine content. Nevertheless, the access of CP 55,940 to brain structures was validated by determinations of drug concentrations in the tissue and by ex vivo binding experiments. Furthermore, confirming the central activity of CP 55,940, the analysis of dopamine metabolites revealed a reduction in striatal DOPAC concentrations. Consistent with the involvement of the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor in these different responses, both HU 210- and CP 55,940-mediated effects were prevented by SR 141716A. Therefore, the present data suggest that both HU 210 and CP 55,940 cause a delayed/persistent regulation of the dopamine neurotransmission system. Nevertheless, these commonly used cannabinoid agonists endowed with similar pharmacodynamic properties clearly triggered distinct biochemical responses highlighting the existence of functional selectivity in vivo.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) represents a complex interaction between the inherent vulnerability of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, a possible genetic predisposition, and exposure to environmental toxins including inflammatory triggers. Evidence now suggests that chronic neuroinflammation is consistently associated with the pathophysiology of PD. Activation of microglia and increased levels of pro-inflammatory mediators such as TNF-, IL-1 and IL-6, reactive oxygen species and eicosanoids has been reported after post-mortem analysis of the substantia nigra from PD patients and in animal models of PD. It is hypothesised that chronically activated microglia secrete high levels of pro-inflammatory mediators which damage neurons and further activate microglia, resulting in a feed forward cycle promoting further inflammation and neurodegeneration. Moreover, nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons are more vulnerable to pro-inflammatory and oxidative mediators than other cell types because of their low intracellular glutathione concentration. Systemic inflammation has also been suggested to contribute to neurodegeneration in PD, as lymphocyte infiltration has been observed in brains of PD patients and in animal models of PD, substantiating the current theory of a fundamental role of inflammation in neurodegeneration. We will examine the current evidence in the literature which offers insight into the premise that both central and systemic inflammation may contribute to neurodegeneration in PD. We will discuss the emerging possibility of the use of diagnostic tools such as imaging technologies for PD patients. Finally, we will present the immunomodulatory therapeutic strategies that are now under investigation and in clinical trials as potential neuroprotective drugs for PD.

Dopamine, serotonin and glutamate play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In the brain a functional crosstalk between the serotonin receptor 5-HT(2A) and the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGlu(2) has been demonstrated. Such a crosstalk may be mediated indirectly through neuronal networks or directly by receptor oligomerization. A direct link of the 5-HT(2A)-mGlu(2) heterocomplex formation to receptor function, i.e. to intracellular signaling, has not been fully demonstrated yet. Here we confirm the formation of 5-HT(2A)-mGlu(2) heterocomplexes using quantitative Snap/Clip-tag based HTRF methods. Additionally, mGlu(2) formed complexes with 5-HT(2B) and mGlu(5) but not 5-HT(2C) indicating that complex formation is not specific to the 5-HT(2A)-mGlu(2) pair. We studied the functional consequences of the 5-HT(2A)-mGlu(2) heterocomplex addressing cellular signaling pathways. Co-expression of receptors in HEK-293 cells had no relevant effects on signaling mediated by the individual receptors when mGlu(2) agonists, antagonists and PAMs, or 5-HT(2A) hallucinogenic and non-hallucinogenic agonists and antagonists were used. Hallucinogenic 5-HT(2A) agonists induced signaling through G(q/11), but not G(i) and thus did not lead to modulation of intracellular cAMP levels. In membranes of the medial prefrontal cortex [(3)H]-LY341495 binding competition of mGlu(2/3) agonist LY354740 was not influenced by 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI). Taken together, the formation of GPCR heterocomplexes does not necessarily translate into second messenger effects. These results do not put into question the well-documented functional cross-talk of the two receptors in the brain, but do challenge the biological relevance of the 5-HT(2A)-mGlu(2) heterocomplex.
Memantine is an uncompetitive, low-affinity NMDA receptor antagonist clinically used for the treatment of cognitive deficits in moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. Both neurophysiological and behavioral studies in rodents have suggested a beneficial effect of memantine on synaptic plasticity and learning performances. In the present study, we investigated the effect of memantine on pedonculopontine-elicited theta oscillations in the hippocampus of urethane anesthetized mice, a model shown to be sensitive to several pharmacological agents exhibiting cognitive-enhancing properties. We found that a low dose of memantine potentiated elicited theta power while a high dose was disruptive. The low dose of memantine used was shown to yield an unbound brain concentration well within the range of therapeutic concentrations reported in rodent brain extracellular fluid and human cerebrospinal fluid. For further comparison, the effect of another uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist with higher affinity, i.e. MK-801, was also investigated. MK-801 was at a low dose devoid of effect on elicited theta power, while a high dose, within the range of doses reported to induce cognitive deficits in a variety of hippocampal-dependent learning paradigms in mice, was found disruptive on elicited theta waves. Taken together, our results suggest that clinically relevant doses of memantine promote neuronal network synchronization in the hippocampus, which may represent an underlying mechanism for the reported cognitive-enhancing properties in both preclinical and clinical studies.
Sensitivity to reinforcement from methamphetamine (MA) likely influences risk for MA addiction, and genetic differences are one source of individual variation. Generation of two sets of selectively bred mouse lines for high and low MA drinking has shown that genetic factors influence MA intake, and pronounced differences in sensitivity to rewarding and aversive effects of MA play a significant role. Further validation of these lines as a unique genetic model relevant to MA addiction was obtained using operant methods to study MA reinforcement. High and low MA drinking line mice were used to test the hypotheses that: 1) oral and intracerebroventricular (ICV) MA serve as behavioral reinforcers, and 2) MA exhibits greater reinforcing efficacy in high than low MA drinking mice. Operant responses resulted in access to an MA or non-MA drinking tube or intracranial delivery of MA. Behavioral activation consequent to orally consumed MA was determined. MA available for consumption maintained higher levels of reinforced instrumental responding in high than low MA drinking line mice, and MA intake in the oral operant procedure was greater in high than low MA drinking line mice. Behavioral activation was associated with amount of MA consumed during operant sessions. High line mice delivered more MA via ICV infusion than did low line mice across a range of doses. Thus, genetic risk factors play a critical role in the reinforcing efficacy of MA and the oral self-administration procedure is suitable for delineating genetic contributions to MA reinforcement.
Neurophysiological techniques help in diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of chronic pain, and are particularly useful to determine its neuropathic origin. According to current standards, the diagnosis of definite neuropathic pain (NP) needs objective confirmation of a lesion or disease of somatosensory systems, which can be provided by neurophysiological testing. Lesions causing NP mostly concern the pain-temperature pathways, and therefore neurophysiological procedures allowing the specific testing of these pathways (i.e., A-delta and C-fibres, spino-thalamo-cortical tracts) are essential for objective diagnosis. Different techniques to stimulate selectively pain-temperature pathways are discussed. Of these, laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) appear as the easiest and most reliable neurophysiological method of assessing nociceptive function, and their coupling with autonomic responses (e.g., galvanic skin response) and psychophysics (quantitative sensory testing - QST) can still enhance their diagnostic yield. Neurophysiological techniques not exploring specifically nociception, such as standard nerve conduction velocities (NCV) and SEPs to non-noxious stimulation, should be associated to the exploration of nociceptive systems, not only because both may be simultaneously affected to different degrees, but also because some specific painful symptoms, such as paroxysmal discharges, may depend on specific alteration of highly myelinated A-beta fibres. The choice of techniques is determined after anamnesis and clinical exam, and tries to answer a number of questions: (a) is the pain-related to injury of somatosensory pathways?; (b) to what extent are different subsystems affected?; (c) are mechanisms and lesion site in accordance with imaging data?; (d) are results of use for diagnostic or therapeutic follow-up? Neuropathic pain (NP) affects more than 15 million people in Western countries, and its belated diagnosis leads to insufficient or delayed therapy. The use of neurofunctional approaches to obtain a &quot;physiological photograph&quot; of somatosensory function is therefore highly relevant, as it yields significant clues about the type and mechanisms of pain, thus prompting rapid and optimised therapy.

A profound anterograde memory deficit for information, regardless of the nature of the material, is the hallmark of Korsakoff syndrome, an amnesic condition resulting from severe thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency. Since the late nineteenth century when the Russian physician, S. S. Korsakoff, initially described this syndrome associated with &quot;polyneuropathy,&quot; the observed global amnesia has been a primary focus of neuroscience and neuropsychology. In this review we highlight the historical studies that examined anterograde episodic memory processes in KS, present a timeline and evidence supporting the myriad theories proffered to account for this memory dysfunction, and summarize what is known about the neuroanatomical correlates and neural systems presumed affected in KS. Rigorous study of KS amnesia and associated memory disorders of other etiologies provide evidence for distinct mnemonic component processes and neural networks imperative for normal declarative and nondeclarative memory abilities and for mnemonic processes spared in KS, from whence emerged the appreciation that memory is not a unitary function. Debate continues regarding the qualitative and quantitative differences between KS and other amnesias and what brain regions and neural pathways are necessary and sufficient to produce KS amnesia.
Although the neuropathology of Korsakoff's syndrome (KS) was first described well over a century ago and the characteristic brain pathology does not pose a diagnostic challenge to pathologists, there is still controversy over the neuroanatomical substrate of the distinctive memory impairment in these patients. Cohort studies of KS suggest a central role for the mammillary bodies and mediodorsal thalamus, and quantitative studies suggest additional damage to the anterior thalamus is required. Rare cases of KS caused by pathologies other than those of nutritional origin provide support for the role of the anterior thalamus and mammillary bodies. Taken together the evidence to date shows that damage to the thalamus and hypothalamus is required, in particular the anterior thalamic nucleus and the medial mammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus. As these nuclei form part of wider memory circuits, damage to the inter-connecting white matter tracts can also result in a similar deficit as direct damage to the nuclei. Although these nuclei and their connections appear to be the primary site of damage, input from other brain regions within the circuits, such as the frontal cortex and hippocampus, or more distant regions, including the cerebellum and amygdala, may have a modulatory role on memory function. Further studies to confirm the precise site(s) and extend of brain damage necessary for the memory impairment of KS are required.
Investigation of the amnesic disorder Korsakoff Syndrome (KS) has been vital in elucidating the critical brain regions involved in learning and memory. Although the thalamus and mammillary bodies are the primary sites of neuropathology in KS, functional deactivation of the hippocampus and certain cortical regions also contributes to the chronic cognitive dysfunction reported in KS. The rodent pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD) model has been used to study the extent of hippocampal and cortical neuroadaptations in KS. In the PTD model, the hippocampus, frontal and retrosplenial cortical regions display loss of cholinergic innervation, decreases in behaviorally stimulated acetylcholine release and reductions in neurotrophins. While PTD treatment results in significant impairment in measures of spatial learning and memory, other cognitive processes are left intact and may be recruited to improve cognitive outcome. In addition, behavioral recovery can be stimulated in the PTD model by increasing acetylcholine levels in the medial septum, hippocampus and frontal cortex, but not in the retrosplenial cortex. These data indicate that although the hippocampus and frontal cortex are involved in the pathogenesis of KS, these regions retain neuroplasticity and may be critical targets for improving cognitive outcome in KS.
Visual perception depends not only on local stimulus features but also on their relationship to the surrounding stimulus context, as evident in both local and contextual influences on figure-ground segmentation. Intermediate visual areas may play a role in such contextual influences, as we tested here by examining LG, a rare case of developmental visual agnosia. LG has no evident abnormality of brain structure and functional neuroimaging showed relatively normal V1 function, but his intermediate visual areas (V2/V3) function abnormally. We found that contextual influences on figure-ground organization were selectively disrupted in LG, while local sources of figure-ground influences were preserved. Effects of object knowledge and familiarity on figure-ground organization were also significantly diminished. Our results suggest that the mechanisms mediating contextual and familiarity influences on figure-ground organization are dissociable from those mediating local influences on figure-ground assignment. The disruption of contextual processing in intermediate visual areas may play a role in the substantial object recognition difficulties experienced by LG.
Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a rare clinical dementia syndrome affecting predominantly language abilities. Word-finding difficulties and comprehension deficits despite relatively preserved cognitive functions are characteristic symptoms during the first two years, and distinguish PPA from other dementia types like Alzheimer's disease. However, the dynamics of changes in language and non-linguistic abilities are not well understood. Most studies on progression used cross-sectional designs, which provide only limited insight into the course of the disease. Here we report the results of a longitudinal study in three cases of logopenic PPA over a period of 18 months, with exemplary longitudinal data from one patient even over 46 months. A comprehensive battery of neurolinguistic and neuropsychological tests was applied four times at intervals of six months. Over this period, deterioration of verbal abilities such as picture naming, story retelling, and semantic word recall was found, and the individual decline was quantified and compared between the three patients. Furthermore, decrease in non-verbal skills such as divided attention and increasing apraxia was observed in all three patients. In addition, inter-subject variability in the progression with different focuses was observed, with one patient developing a non-fluent PPA variant. The longitudinal, multivariate investigation of logopenic PPA thus provides novel insights into the progressive deterioration of verbal as well as non-verbal abilities. These deficits may further interact and thus form a multi-causal basis for the patients' problems in every-day life which need to be considered when planning individually targeted intervention in PPA.
Williams syndrome (WS) is a rare genetic disorder associated with unusually hyper-social demeanor and ease with strangers. These personality traits are accompanied by difficulties in social interactions, possibly related, at least in part, to a difficulty in understanding others' mental states. Studies on mentalizing capacities in individuals with WS have often led to contrasting results, some studies revealing specific impairments, others highlighting spared mentalizing capacities. So far, however, no study investigated the performance of individuals with WS in non-inferential understanding of others' motor intentions. In the present study we investigated this capacity by using a computer-based behavioral task using pictures of hand-object interactions. We asked individuals with WS first to describe what the other was doing (i.e. a task implying no kind of intention reading), and secondly, if successful in answering the first question, to describe the motor intention underlying the observed motor acts (i.e. why an act was being done, a task requiring non-inferential motor intention understanding). Results showed that individuals with WS made more errors in understanding what the other was doing (i.e. understanding a motor act) compared to both mental-age matched controls and chronological-age matched peers with typical development, while showing mental-age appropriate performance in understanding why an individual was acting (i.e. understanding a motor intention). These findings suggest novel perspectives for understanding impairments in social behavior in WS.
The primary visual cortex (V1) has been shown to be critical for visual awareness, but the importance of other low-level visual areas has remained unclear. To clarify the role of human cortical area V2 in visual awareness, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over V2 while participants were carrying out a visual discrimination task and rating their subjective awareness. Individual retinotopic maps and modelling of the TMS-induced electric field in V1, V2 and V3d ensured that the electric field was at or under the phosphene threshold level in V1 and V3d, whereas in V2 it was at the higher suppressive level. As earlier shown for the V1, our results imply that also V2 is necessary for conscious visual experience. Visual awareness of stimulus presence was completely suppressed when the TMS pulse was delivered 44-84 ms after the onset of visual stimulus. Visual discrimination and awareness of stimulus features was impaired when the TMS pulse was delivered 44-104 ms after the visual stimulus onset. These results suggest that visual awareness cannot be generated without an intact V2.
Developmental dyslexia is associated with impaired speech-in-noise perception. The goal of the present research was to further characterize this deficit in dyslexic adults. In order to specify the mechanisms and processing strategies used by adults with dyslexia during speech-in-noise perception, we explored the influence of background type, presenting single target-words against backgrounds made of cocktail party sounds, modulated speech-derived noise or stationary noise. We also evaluated the effect of three listening configurations differing in terms of the amount of spatial processing required. In a monaural condition, signal and noise were presented to the same ear while in a dichotic situation, target and concurrent sound were presented to two different ears, finally in a spatialised configuration, target and competing signals were presented as if they originated from slightly differing positions in the auditory scene. Our results confirm the presence of a speech-in-noise perception deficit in dyslexic adults, in particular when the competing signal is also speech, and when both signals are presented to the same ear, an observation potentially relating to phonological accounts of dyslexia. However, adult dyslexics demonstrated better levels of spatial release of masking than normal reading controls when the background was speech, suggesting that they are well able to rely on denoising strategies based on spatial auditory scene analysis strategies.
Planning is essential for normal daily activities. Although the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) is thought to be crucially involved in planning, it remains to be understood whether this contribution is attributable to working memory requirements of the tasks and when it occurs, whether during initial planning or during subsequent plan execution. Here, we compared patterns of activation observed when participants planned and executed their plans to solve Tower of Hanoi problems to when they had to memorize and reproduce externally presented sequences of moves. The DLPFC was preferentially active during initial planning relative to both plan execution and initial memorization of sequences of moves. By contrast, plan execution relied on posterior temporal areas, inferior frontal regions and the dorsolateral premotor cortex. We attribute activation in DLPFC to generation and evaluation of abstract sequences of responses, and activation in the regions underlying plan execution to rehearsal of planned sequences of moves.
Musicians' skills in auditory processing depend highly on instrument, performance practice, and on level of expertise. Yet, it is not known though whether the style/genre of music might shape auditory processing in the brains of musicians. Here, we aimed at tackling the role of musical style/genre on modulating neural and behavioral responses to changes in musical features. Using a novel, fast and musical sounding multi-feature paradigm, we measured the mismatch negativity (MMN), a pre-attentive brain response, to six types of musical feature change in musicians playing three distinct styles of music (classical, jazz, rock/pop) and in non-musicians. Jazz and classical musicians scored higher in the musical aptitude test than band musicians and non-musicians, especially with regards to tonal abilities. These results were extended by the MMN findings: jazz musicians had larger MMN-amplitude than all other experimental groups across the six different sound features, indicating a greater overall sensitivity to auditory outliers. In particular, we found enhanced processing of pith and sliding up to pitches in jazz musicians only. Furthermore, we observed a more frontal MMN to pitch and location compared to the other deviants in jazz musicians and left lateralization of the MMN to timbre in classical musicians. These findings indicate that the characteristics of the style/genre of music played by musicians influence their perceptual skills and the brain processing of sound features embedded in a musical context. Musicians' brain is hence shaped by the type of training, musical style/genre, and listening experiences.
Contrary to what was originally thought (Hassabis, Kumaran, Vann, &amp; Maguire, 2007) recent data have shown that imagining the future is not entirely dependent on the hippocampus (Squire et al., 2010) and neuroimaging studies have demonstrated a frontopolar activation during future thinking tasks (Okuda et al., 2003). The present study investigated whether the performance of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) on future simulation tasks was dependent on memory or executive control. Thirty-one PD patients, asked to imagine possible future scenarios, generated fewer future episodic details than matched controls. The seven patients who clearly performed below the range of controls in future thinking, were also significantly poorer on the Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB), a battery assessing executive control, but showed no deficits in immediate or delayed memory tests. These results suggest that poor performance in the future thinking task is associated with poor executive control and less so with memory impairment. Flexible searching activities of past details might be crucial capacities for envisaging one's own future.
Patients with letter-by-letter alexia may have residual access to lexical or semantic representations of words despite severely impaired overt word recognition (reading). Here, we report a multilingual patient with severe letter-by-letter alexia who rapidly identified the language of written words and sentences in French and English while he had great difficulty in reading them, judging their lexical status or extracting semantic information. Lexical decision was strongly influenced by the orthographic structure of stimuli: whereas he easily determined the lexical status of illegal nonwords (e.g., 'rsdo'), he had random performance with legal pseudowords (e.g., 'binus'). When asked to determine the language of meaningless letter trigrams with high frequency in the English or French orthography (e.g., 'oth' or 'iqu') his performance was significantly above chance. In contrast, similarly to healthy participants his language decision was at chance with low-frequency trigrams. These findings suggest that written language identification relies on sublexical processing of orthographic rules specific to each language.
Interest in sex-related differences in psychological functioning has again come to the foreground with new findings about their possible functional basis in the brain. Sex differences may be one way how evolution has capitalized on the capacity of homologous brain regions to process social information between men and women differently. This paper focuses specifically on the effects of emotional valence, sex of the observed and sex of the observer on regional brain activations. We also discuss the effects of and interactions between environment, hormones, genes and structural differences of the brain in the context of differential brain activity patterns between men and women following exposure to seen expressions of emotion and in this context we outline a number of methodological considerations for future research. Importantly, results show that although women are better at recognizing emotions and express themselves more easily, men show greater responses to threatening cues (dominant, violent or aggressive) and this may reflect different behavioral response tendencies between men and women as well as evolutionary effects. We conclude that sex differences must not be ignored in affective research and more specifically in affective neuroscience.

We previously showed that mice that selectively and reversibly overexpress striatal D2 receptors (D2R-OE) model the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Specifically, D2R-OE mice display a deficit in incentive motivation. The present studies investigated the basis for this deficit. First, we assessed whether hedonic reaction to reward is intact in D2R-OE mice. We assessed licking behavior and video-scored positive hedonic facial reactions to increasing concentrations of sucrose in control and D2R-OE mice. We found no difference between D2R-OE mice and controls in hedonic reactions. To further understand the basis of the motivational deficit, mice were given a choice between pressing a lever for access to a preferred reward (evaporated milk) or consuming a freely available less preferred reward (home-cage chow). D2R-OE mice pressed less for the preferred milk and consumed more of the freely available less preferred chow, indicating that striatal overexpression of postsynaptic D2Rs can alter cost/benefit computations, leading to a motivational deficit. This motivational impairment was ameliorated when the transgene was turned off and D2R levels were normalized. Such a deficit may arise from impaired ability to represent the value of future rewards. To test this, we used operant concurrent schedules and found reduced sensitivity to the value of future outcomes in D2R-OE mice. These results demonstrate for the first time in a transgenic animal model of schizophrenia a dissociation between hedonic reaction to reward and incentive motivation, and show a striking parallel to the proposed neurobiological and psychological mechanisms of impaired incentive motivation in schizophrenia.
Life experiences, especially during critical periods of maturation, such as adolescence, can dramatically affect vulnerability to diseases at adulthood. Early exposure to positive environmental conditions such as environmental enrichment (EE) has been shown to reduce the occurrence and the intensity of neurological and psychiatric disorders including drug addiction. However, whether or not exposure to EE during early stages of life would protect from addiction when, at adulthood, individuals may find themselves in non-enriched conditions has not been investigated. Here we show that switching mice from EE to non-enriched standard environments not only results in the loss of the preventive effects of EE but also increases the rewarding effects of cocaine. This enhanced vulnerability is associated with emotional distress and with increased levels in the mRNA levels of corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), as well as with increases in CREB phosphorylation in the BNST and in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. The increased sensitivity to the rewarding effects of cocaine is completely blocked by the CRF antagonist antalarmin, confirming a major role of the CRF system in the negative consequences of this environmental switch. These results indicate that positive life conditions during early stages of life, if they are not maintained at adulthood, may have negative emotional consequences and increase the risks to develop drug addiction.
Compulsive drug seeking, which is characterized by continued instrumental effort despite contingent punishment, has been shown to emerge after extended drug self-administration. Exactly what aspect of drug self-administration drives the appearance of addictive behavior is unclear, but the mechanistic explanations that have been offered differ in one key respect. On one hand, it has been suggested that dysfunctional conditioning during self-administration drives unrealistic reward expectations, ultimately producing resistance to punishment. If this is indeed the pathological process that drives compulsive behavior, then compulsivity should be apparent only in the presence of the pavlovian and instrumental stimuli that underwent frequent pairing with the drug reward. On the other hand, it has also been suggested that extended drug intake produces general changes to reward and decision-making circuits that manifest as compulsive drug seeking. Unfortunately, conditioning history and drug intake are generally intrinsically intertwined. However, here we used an animal model of compulsive cocaine seeking to selectively manipulate drug intake and the degree of conditioning in the test context, to investigate which of the two is more important for the emergence of compulsive cocaine seeking. The results show that extended drug intake alone is sufficient, but extended conditioning in the test context is not necessary for the emergence of compulsive cocaine seeking, resolving a fundamental question in addiction research.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is encoded by multiple BDNF transcripts, whose function is unclear. We recently showed that a subset of BDNF transcripts can traffic into distal dendrites in response to electrical activity, while others are segregated into the somatoproximal domains. Physical exercise and antidepressant treatments exert their beneficial effects through upregulation of BDNF, which is required to support survival and differentiation of newborn dentate gyrus (DG) neurons. While these DG processes are required for the antidepressant effect, a role for CA1 in antidepressant action has been excluded, and the effect on CA3 neurons remains unclear. Here, we show for the first time that physical exercise and antidepressants induce local increase of BDNF in CA3. Voluntary physical exercise for 28 consecutive days, or 2-week treatment with 10mg/kg per day fluoxetine or reboxetine, produced a global increase of BDNF mRNA and protein in the neuronal somata of the whole hippocampus and a specific increase of BDNF in dendrites of CA3 neurons. This increase was accounted for by BDNF exon 6 variant. In cultured hippocampal neurons, application of serotonin or norepinephrine (10-50M) induced increase in synaptic transmission and targeting of BDNF mRNA in dendrites. The increased expression of BDNF in CA3 dendrites following antidepressants or exercise further supports the neurotrophin hypothesis of antidepressants action and confirms that the differential subcellular localization of BDNF mRNA splice variants provides a spatial code for a selective expression of BDNF in specific subcellular districts. This selective expression may be exploited to design more specific antidepressants.
Cocaine (benzoylmethylecgonine), a natural alkaloid, is a powerful psychostimulant and a highly addictive drug. Unfortunately, the relationships between its behavioral and electrophysiological effects are not clear. We investigated the effects of cocaine on the firing of midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons, both in anesthetized and awake rats, using pre-implanted multielectrode arrays and a recently developed telemetric recording system. In anesthetized animals, cocaine (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) produced a general decrease of the firing rate and bursting of DA neurons, sometimes preceded by a transient increase in both parameters, as previously reported by others. In awake rats, however, injection of cocaine led to a very different pattern of changes in firing. A decrease in firing rate and bursting was observed in only 14% of DA neurons. Most of the other DA neurons underwent increases in firing rate and bursting: these changes were correlated with locomotor activity in 52% of the neurons, but were uncorrelated in 29% of them. Drug concentration measurements indicated that the observed differences between the two conditions did not have a pharmacokinetic origin. Taken together, our results demonstrate that cocaine injection differentially affects the electrical activity of DA neurons in awake and anesthetized states. The observed increases in neuronal activity may in part reflect the cocaine-induced synaptic potentiation found ex vivo in these neurons. Our observations also show that electrophysiological recordings in awake animals can uncover drug effects, which are masked by general anesthesia.
The present study investigated whether the rotation rate induced by amphetamine in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats was predictive of development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) and success of the lesion procedure in our experimental settings. We collected data from 312 6-OHDA-lesioned rats (from different sets of experiments). Rats were subjected to the amphetamine-induced rotation test (2.5mg/kg) and chronically treated with L-DOPA (6 mg/kg) to establish dyskinesia. A poor correlation was present between amphetamine-induced rotation and LID. Moreover, no correlation was found between amphetamine-induced rotation and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive cell number in the lesioned substantia nigra pars compacta, while there was a weak correlation between the percentage of TH positive cell number and LID. These results indicate that the amphetamine-induced rotation test is a poor predictor of the 6-OHDA-lesion success, as well as of the development of LID at the dose of amphetamine used here. Our data also suggest that all rats with amphetamine-induced rotation  3 turns/min should be included in dyskinesia studies, as they showed the same propensity to develop dyskinesia. Moreover, SERT expression levels suggest that reduced striatal and pallidal serotonin innervation might have contributed to the lower dyskinesia levels observed in a subset of amphetamine-responsive rats.
Major limitations to the pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease (PD) are the motor complications resulting from L-DOPA treatment. Abnormal involuntary movements (dyskinesia) affect a majority of the patients after a few years of L-DOPA treatment and can become troublesome and debilitating. Once dyskinesia has debuted, an irreversible process seems to have occurred, and the movement disorder becomes almost impossible to eliminate with adjustments in peroral pharmacotherapy. There is a great need to find new pharmacological interventions for PD that will alleviate parkinsonian symptoms without inducing dyskinesia. The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned non-human primate model is an excellent symptomatic model of PD and was the first model used to reproduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia experimentally. As it recapitulates the motor features of human dyskinesia, that is, chorea and dystonia, it is considered a reliable animal model to define novel therapies. Over the last decade, rodent models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia have been developed, having both face validity and predictive validity. These models have now become the first-line experimental tool for therapeutic screening purposes. The application of classical 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion procedures to produce rodent models of dyskinesia has provided the field with more dynamic tools, since the versatility of toxin doses and injection coordinates allows for mimicking different stages of PD. This article will review models developed in non-human primate and rodents to reproduce motor complications induced by dopamine replacement therapy. The recent breakthroughs represented by mouse models and the relevance of rodents in relation to non-human primate models will be discussed.
Feeding is a fundamental process for basic survival and is influenced by genetics and environmental stressors. Recent advances in our understanding of behavioral genetics have provided a profound insight on several components regulating eating patterns. However, our understanding of eating disorders, such as anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating, is still poor. The animal model is an essential tool in the investigation of eating behaviors and their pathological forms, yet development of an appropriate animal model for eating disorders still remains challenging due to our limited knowledge and some of the more ambiguous clinical diagnostic measures. Therefore, this review will serve to focus on the basic clinical features of eating disorders and the current advances in animal models of eating disorders.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) mediates higher-order cognitive and executive functions that subserve various complex, adaptable behaviors, such as cognitive flexibility, attention, and working memory. Deficits in these functions typify multiple neuropsychiatric disorders that are caused or exacerbated by exposure to psychological stress. Here we review recent evidence examining the effects of stress on executive and cognitive functions in rodents and discuss an emerging body of evidence that implicates the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) as a potentially critical molecular mechanism mediating these effects. Future work in this area could open up new avenues for developing pharmacotherapies for ameliorating cognitive dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disease.
Nociception and pain is a large field of both neuroscience and medical research. Over time, various tests and models were developed in rodents to provide tools for fundamental and translational research on the topic. Tests using thermal, mechanical, and chemical stimuli, measures of hyperalgesia and allodynia, models of inflammatory or neuropathic pain, constitute a toolbox available to researchers. These tests and models allowed rapid progress on the anatomo-molecular basis of physiological and pathological pain, even though they have yet to translate into new analgesic drugs. More recently, a growing effort has been put forth trying to assess pain in rats or mice, rather than nociceptive reflexes, or at studying complex states affected by chronic pain. This aids to further improve the translational value of preclinical research in a field with balanced research efforts between fundamental research, preclinical work, and human studies. This review describes classical tests and models of nociception and pain in rodents. It also presents some recent and ongoing developments in nociceptive tests, recent trends for pain evaluation, and raises the question of the appropriateness between tests, models, and procedures.
Animal experimentation in the Parkinson's disease (PD) field is a classic example of how the use of animal models to study diseases can have a significant impact on human health. Among the different neurotoxin-based animal models of PD that are presently available, the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) models have been established and validated as useful models for the development of therapeutic strategies aimed to treat motor symptoms and to study alterations of the basal ganglia that occur in this disease. The 6-OHDA rat model and the MPTP primate model have contributed enormously to translate animal experimentation into clinical practice, including pharmacological treatments and deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. These models, along with the MPTP mouse model, are helping to elucidate the pathogenic mechanism of neurodegeneration in PD. The roles of oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammation, and impairment of the protein degradation pathways have also come under careful consideration thanks to these models. The more recently developed paraquat and rotenone rodent models are also contributing to our understanding of neuronal cell death. However, none of the neuroprotective strategies that have worked in the pre-clinical stage have thus far been successfully translated to a clinical setting to treat PD patients. At the same time, the lack of any effective neuroprotective strategy for PD is preventing the validation of any one particular model as a screening tool for such neuroprotective strategies. Therefore, it seems that we are trapped in a vicious circle that casts doubt on the suitability of the neurotoxin-based models for this purpose. Here, we discuss how epidemiological data may help to validate a specific model with data linking a lower risk of developing PD with nutritional/consumption habits or with a specific chronic drug therapy.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a sporadic adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder clinically characterized by a variable combination of dysautonomia, levodopa-unresponsive parkinsonian and cerebellar symptoms. Neurodegeneration in MSA occurs in the substantia nigra, putamen, inferior olive, pontine and brainstem nuclei, as well as intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord. MSA is recognized as a synucleinopathy due to the accumulation of insoluble alpha-synuclein in oligodendroglial cytoplasmic inclusions. Several animal models have been developed in order to reproduce various clinical and pathological features of MSA. Using &quot;double toxin-double lesion&quot; or &quot;single toxin-double lesion&quot;, neurotoxin-based models were designed in rats, mice and non-human primates to reproduce the neuropathology of MSA in the nigrostriatal system while gene-based models were developed in mice to reproduce the accumulation of insoluble alpha-synuclein in oligodendrocytes. Both approaches have then been merged to create optimized, dual-hit models. This review describes the different animal models of MSA, their respective advantages and limitations and their usefulness to decipher the pathophysiology of MSA then to define efficient symptomatic and disease-modifying therapies. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Neuroscience Disease Models.
During the last 30 years there have been many attempts to develop animal models of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), in the hope that they may provide a route for furthering our understanding and treatment of this disorder. The present review provides the reader with an overview of the currently active animal models of OCD, their strengths and limitations, so that the reader can use the review as a guide for establishing new animal models of OCD, evaluating existing animal models and choosing among them according to one's needs. We review current genetic, pharmacological, neurodevelopmental and behavioral animal models of OCD, and evaluate their face validity (derived from phenomenological similarity between the behavior in the animal model and the specific symptoms of the human condition), predictive validity (derived from similarity in response to treatment) and construct validity (derived from similarity in the underlying mechanisms [physiological or psychological]). On the basis of this evaluation we discuss the usefulness of the different models for screening drugs for anti-compulsive activity, detecting new targets for high frequency stimulation, studying the neural mechanisms of OCD and unraveling the role of gonadal hormones. We then describe potential new treatment strategies that emerge from the convergence of data obtained in different models on the one hand, and how different models can be used to model different subtypes or dimensions of OCD, on the other hand.
Research involving animal models of drug addiction can be viewed as a sort of reverse psychiatry. Contrary to clinicians who seek to treat addicted people to become and remain abstinent, researchers seek to make drug-nave animals addicted to a drug with known addictive properties in humans. The goals of this research are to better understand the neuroscience of drug addiction and, ultimately, to translate this knowledge into effective treatments for people with addiction. The present review will not cover the vast literature that has accumulated over the past 50 years on animal models of drug addiction. It is instead more modestly devoted to recent research spanning the past decade on drug self-administration-based models of addiction in the rat (the animal species most frequently used in the field), with a special focus on current efforts to model compulsive cocaine use as opposed to nonaddictive use. Surprisingly, it turns out that modeling compulsive cocaine use in rats is possible but more difficult than previously thought. In fact, it appears that resilience to cocaine addiction is the norm in rats. As in human cocaine users, only few individual rats would be vulnerable. This conclusion has several important implications for future research on the neuroscience of cocaine addiction and on preclinical medication development.
In the recent past, the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) has evolved from a neurodegenerative disorder considered entirely sporadic to a disease with an unequivocal genetic component. Indeed, different inherited forms of PD have been discovered and characterized, although the functional roles of the gene products identified are still under intense investigation. To gain a better understanding of the cellular and molecular pathogenic mechanisms of hereditary forms of PD, different animal models have been generated. Although most of the rodent models display neither obvious behavioral impairment nor evidence for neurodegeneration, remarkable abnormalities of dopamine-mediated neurotransmission and corticostriatal synaptic plasticity have been described, indicative of a fundamental distortion of network function within the basal ganglia. The picture emerging from a critical review of recent data on monogenic parkinsonisms suggests that mutations in PD genes might cause developmental rearrangements in the corticobasal ganglia circuitry, compensating the dopaminergic dysfunction observed both in mice and humans, in order to maintain proper motor function.
Schizophrenia is one of the most common psychiatric disorders, but despite progress in identifying the genetic factors implicated in its development, the mechanisms underlying its etiology and pathogenesis remain poorly understood. Development of mouse models is critical for expanding our understanding of the causes of schizophrenia. However, translation of disease pathology into mouse models has proven to be challenging, primarily due to the complex genetic architecture of schizophrenia and the difficulties in the re-creation of susceptibility alleles in the mouse genome. In this review we highlight current research on models of major susceptibility loci and the information accrued from their analysis. We describe and compare the different approaches that are necessitated by diverse susceptibility alleles, and discuss their advantages and drawbacks. Finally, we discuss emerging mouse models, such as second-generation pathophysiology models based on innovative approaches that are facilitated by the information gathered from the current genetic mouse models.
Mutant huntingtin (mhtt) causes loss of synaptic plasticity and selective degeneration of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs), a core pathological feature of Huntington's disease (HD). However, projecting neurons become dysfunctional in the very early stages, long before death and this dysfunctional state may contribute to disease. Interneurons appear to be more resistant to the effects of mhtt and play important roles in supporting the activity of projecting neurons. Therefore, early modifications in the plasticity or in the pattern of cortical and striatal interneuronal activity may also be a factor in the alteration of the corticostriatal pathway in HD. While new models of HD provide information on the onset of complex behavioral changes, the mechanisms underlying alterations of the striatal microcircuit and their role in HD pathogenesis are still unclear. As a consequence, despite the development of new compounds, no adequate treatment is so far available to stop or reverse HD. Electrophysiological studies provide crucial information on neuronal dysfunction and circuit changes that underlie or precede symptoms. Here we review recent papers in which HD models have been used to study various aspects of neuronal physiology of corticostriatal pathway. We will also discuss advantages and limitations of rodent models compared to primate models and current challenges of therapies aimed at rescuing striatal function in HD.
Synapses represent the main junctures of communication between neurons in the nervous system. In many neurotransmitter systems, a fraction of presynaptic terminals fails to release vesicles in response to action potential stimulation and strong calcium influx. These silent presynaptic terminals exhibit a reversible functional dormancy beyond low vesicle release probability, and dormancy status may have important implications in neural function. Recent advances have implicated presynaptic proteins interacting with vesicles downstream of cAMP and protein kinase A signaling cascades in modulating the number of these mute presynaptic terminals, and dormancy induction may represent a homeostatic neuroprotective mechanism active during pathological insults involving excitotoxicity. Interestingly, dormancy reversal may also be induced during Hebbian plasticity. Here, details of synaptic dormancy, recent insights into the molecular signaling cascades involved, and potential clinical and mechanistic implications of this form of synaptic plasticity are described.
How are excitatory (glutamatergic) and inhibitory (GABAergic) synapses established? Do distinct molecular mechanisms direct differentiation of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses? In the brain, glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic connections are formed with specific patterns. To establish such precise synaptic patterns, neurons pass through multiple checkpoints during development, such as cell fate determination, cell migration and localization, axonal guidance and target recognition, and synapse formation. Each stage offers key molecules for neurons/synapses to obtain glutamatergic or GABAergic specificity. Some mechanisms are based on intrinsic systems to induce gene expression, whereas others are based on extrinsic systems mediated by cell-cell or axon-target interactions. Recent studies indicate that specific formation of glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses is controlled by the expression or activation of different sets of molecules during development. In this review, the authors outline stages critical to the determination of glutamatergic or GABAergic specificity and describe molecules that act as determinants of specificities in each stage, with a particular focus on the synapse formation stage. They also discuss possible mechanisms underlying glutamatergic and GABAergic synapse formation via synapse-type specific synaptic organizers.
Theories about the neural correlates and functional relevance of consciousness have traditionally assigned a crucial role to the prefrontal cortex in generating consciousness as well as in orchestrating high-level conscious control over behavior. However, recent neuroscientific findings show that prefrontal cortex can be activated unconsciously. The depth, direction, and scope of these activations depend on several top-down factors such as the task being probed (task-set, strategy) and on (temporal/spatial) attention. Regardless, such activations-when mediated by feedforward activation only-do not lead to a conscious sensation. Although unconscious, these prefrontal activations are functional, in the sense that they are associated with behavioral effects of cognitive control, such as response inhibition, task switching, conflict monitoring, and error detection. These findings challenge the pivotal role of the prefrontal cortex in consciousness. Instead, it appears that specific brain areas (or cognitive modules) may support specific cognitive functions but that consciousness is independent of this. Conscious sensations arise only when the brain areas involved engage in recurrent interactions enabling the long-lasting exchange of information between brain regions. Moreover, recent evidence suggests that also the state of consciousness, for example, in vegetative state patients or during sleep and anesthesia, is closely related to the scope and extent of residual recurrent interactions among brain regions.



Hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons remain unaffected in Parkinson disease (PD) while there is significant degeneration of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons. A similar pattern of susceptibility is observed in acute and chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse and rotenone rat models of degeneration. It is not known if the resistance of TIDA neurons is a constitutive or induced cell-autonomous phenotype for this unique subset of DA neurons. In the present study, treatment with a single injection of MPTP (20 mg/kg; s.c.) was employed to examine the response of TIDA versus NSDA neurons to acute injury. An acute single dose of MPTP caused an initial loss of DA from axon terminals of both TIDA and NSDA neurons, with recovery occurring solely in TIDA neurons by 16 h post-treatment. Initial loss of DA from axon terminals was dependent on a functional dopamine transporter (DAT) in NSDA neurons but DAT-independent in TIDA neurons. The active metabolite of MPTP, 1-methyl, 4-phenylpyradinium (MPP+), reached higher concentration and was eliminated slower in TIDA compared to NSDA neurons, which indicates that impaired toxicant bioactivation or distribution is an unlikely explanation for the observed resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP exposure. Inhibition of protein synthesis prevented TIDA neuron recovery, suggesting that the ability to recover from injury was dependent on an induced, rather than a constitutive cellular mechanism. Further, there were no changes in total tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression following MPTP, indicating that up-regulation of the rate-limiting enzyme in DA synthesis does not account for TIDA neuronal recovery. Differential candidate gene expression analysis revealed a time-dependent increase in parkin and ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase-L1 (UCH-L1) expression (mRNA and protein) in TIDA neurons during recovery from injury. Parkin expression was also found to increase with incremental doses of MPTP. The increase in parkin expression occurred specifically within TIDA neurons, suggesting that these neurons have an intrinsic ability to up-regulate parkin in response to MPTP-induced injury. These data suggest that TIDA neurons have a compensatory mechanism to deal with toxicant exposure and increased oxidative stress, and this unique TIDA neuron phenotype provides a platform for dissecting the mechanisms involved in the natural resistance of central DA neurons following toxic insult.

Muscle stiffness has been reported to increase following eccentric muscle exercise, but to date only indirect methods have been used to measure it. This study aimed to use Magnetic Resonance Elastography (MRE), a noninvasive imaging technique, to assess the time-course of passive elasticity changes in the medial gastrocnemius and soleus muscles before and after a bout of eccentric exercise. Shear storage modulus (G') and loss modulus (G'') measurements were made in eight healthy subjects for both muscles in vivo before, one hour after, 48 hours after and 1week after eccentric exercise. The results show a 21% increase in medial gastrocnemius storage modulus following eccentric exercise with a peak occurring ~48 hours after exercise (before exercise 1.150.23kPa, 48 hours after 1.380.27kPa). No significant changes in soleus muscle storage modulus were measured for the exercise protocol used in this study, and no significant changes in loss modulus were observed. This study provides the first direct measurements in skeletal muscle before and after eccentric exercise damage and suggests that MRE can be used to detect the time course of changes to muscle properties.
Multiple pulsed field gradient diffusion sequences have received renewed interest in recent years as a potentially new type of MRI contrast. This attention is largely a result of the ability to measure pore sizes using low-amplitude diffusion gradients, and to distinguish between macroscopically isotropic systems of anisotropic pores and systems of isotropic pores. In this article, it is shown that, under many circumstances, the same type of information can be obtained by combining two or more standard single pulse diffusion-weighted experiments acquired at different diffusion times. Similarly, information from multiple pulsed field gradient diffusion can be reconstructed from several single pulsed diffusion experiments. This possibility is rooted in the information contained in the time dependence of the diffusion tensor, which provides a complete description of the diffusion-weighted MR signal at low gradient amplitudes. The new information arising at the fourth order in the cumulant expansion is discussed. The coupling of the wave vectors at long mixing times is found to be controlled by the variance of the single pore mean displacement tensor. In particular, a discussion is given concerning the way in which the sensitivity of the fourth-order term to the pore shape anisotropy is modulated by pore orientation anisotropy and vanishes in coherently oriented homogeneous ensembles. For macroscopically isotropic systems, a new index of pore shape anisotropy is proposed.

Research suggests that loss of control (LOC) while eating (the sense that one cannot control what or how much one is eating) is a more salient feature of binge eating than the amount of food consumed. This study examined the unique contributions of LOC and episode size to negative affect surrounding eating episodes in binge eating disorder (BED) and obesity. Twenty-two obese adults with (n = 9) and without (n = 13) BED completed daily records of eating patterns and mood using ecological momentary assessment (EMA). Linear mixed modeling revealed that across groups, greater premeal self-reported LOC was associated with higher premeal negative affect independent of episode size. For individuals with BED, greater premeal self-reported LOC was associated with higher postmeal negative affect, regardless of the amount of food eaten, whereas for obese controls, the combination of LOC and consumption of large amounts of food was associated with lower postmeal negative affect. Results indicate that LOC, but not the quantity of food consumed, is associated with momentary distress related to aberrant eating in BED. Findings also highlight the need for further research investigating the emotional context surrounding aberrant eating in obese individuals without BED.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common intracranial tumor, with a dismal prognosis. Although temozolomide (TMZ)-based chemotherapy following neurosurgery has been proven to be effective, not all patients benefit clinically because of TMZ resistance. Given that protein expression of O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) is the most important determinant of TMZ resistance, great efforts have been made to suppress it by regulating MGMT-related transcription factors. The study presented here demonstrates that resveratrol, a natural polyphenol, is able to reverse TMZ resistance of glioblastoma T98G cells which have relatively high MGMT activity. The data showed that combination treatment with TMZ and resveratrol resulted in an enhanced antitumor potential of TMZ, decreased the 50% inhibiting concentration (IC50) of TMZ and increased the induction of apoptosis in TMZ-resistant T98G cells. Hoechst 33258 staining revealed increased apoptotic morphology, such as chromatin aggregation and nuclear and cytoplasmic condensation, in cells receiving combination treatment. Western blot analysis manifested a significant decreased intracellular content and nuclear translocation of NF-B and increased cleavage of caspase-3 in cells exposed to combination treatment, compared to those in cells treated with TMZ alone. In addition, recombinant expression of NF-B subunit p65 remarkably promoted nuclear translocation of NF-B and abolished the TMZ-resistance reversal induced by combination treatment, suggesting an underlying NF-B-dependent mechanism. Our study improved the knowledge on the mechanism of TMZ resistance and suggested a novel strategy for TMZ-based chemotherapy in glioblastoma patients.
A complex of stomatin-family proteins and acid-sensing (proton-gated) ion channel (ASIC) family members participate in sensory transduction in invertebrates and vertebrates. Here, we have examined the role of the stomatin-family protein stomatin-like protein-3 (STOML3) in this process. We demonstrate that STOML3 interacts with stomatin and ASIC subunits and that this occurs in a highly mobile vesicle pool in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and Chinese hamster ovary cells. We identify a hydrophobic region in the N-terminus of STOML3 that is required for vesicular localization of STOML3 and regulates physical and functional interaction with ASICs. We further characterize STOML3-containing vesicles in DRG neurons and show that they are Rab11-positive, but not part of the early-endosomal, lysosomal or Rab14-dependent biosynthetic compartment. Moreover, uncoupling of vesicles from microtubules leads to incorporation of STOML3 into the plasma membrane and increased acid-gated currents. Thus, STOML3 defines a vesicle pool in which it associates with molecules that have critical roles in sensory transduction. We suggest that the molecular features of this vesicular pool may be characteristic of a 'transducosome' in sensory neurons.
Much of our knowledge on the roles of intra-axonal translation derives from the characterization of a small number of individual mRNAs that were found to be localized in axons. However, two recent studies, using large-scale approaches to provide a more comprehensive characterization of the axonal transcriptome, have led to the discovery of thousands of axonal mRNAs. The apparent abundance of mRNAs in axons raises the possibility that local translation has many more functions than previously thought. Here, we review the recent studies that have profiled axonal mRNAs and discuss how the identification of axonal transcripts might point to unappreciated roles for local translation in axons.
Experience-dependent plasticity is closely linked with the development of sensory function. Beyond this sensitive period, developmental plasticity is actively limited; however, new studies provide growing evidence for plasticity in the adult visual system. The amblyopic visual system is an excellent model for examining the &quot;brakes&quot; that limit recovery of function beyond the critical period. While amblyopia can often be reversed when treated early, conventional treatment is generally not undertaken in older children and adults. However, new clinical and experimental studies in both animals and humans provide evidence for neural plasticity beyond the critical period. The results suggest that perceptual learning and video game play may be effective in improving a range of visual performance measures and importantly the improvements may transfer to better visual acuity and stereopsis. These findings, along with the results of new clinical trials, suggest that it might be time to reconsider our notions about neural plasticity in amblyopia.
Cancer is common in the elderly, who may also be frail, which can complicate the choice of the best therapeutic approach. We sought to examine whether the serine-threonine kinase mTOR, a &quot;master switch&quot; in cancer cells that modulates metabolism, the cell cycle, and apoptosis, might help in clinical decision-making. The aim of the present study was thus to assess the potential prognostic role of mTOR in elderly patients with laryngeal carcinoma (LSCC). mTOR expression was determined immunohistochemically in 54 consecutive elderly (65 years old) patients with LSCC. On univariate analysis, nodal involvement and pathological stage correlated strongly with the elderly LSCC patients' prognosis in terms of disease recurrence rate and disease-free survival (DFS). Patients whose mTOR expression was &gt;35.3% had a significantly higher recurrence rate (p=0.003) and shorter DFS (p=0.013). In the multivariate model, N status (p=0.001) and mTOR expression (p=0.026) maintained an independent prognostic significance in relation to DFS. mTOR probably influences the aggressive LSCC phenotype in elderly patients and its expression in elderly LSCC cases can be considered a prognostic marker potentially useful for identifying patients at higher risk of disease recurrence, and N0 patients at higher risk of recurrence who may benefit from more aggressive treatment. Since rapalogs (as mTOR inhibitors) might have an effect on LSCC, further investigations are needed to ascertain these agents' role in therapeutic strategies for advanced LSCC in elderly patients.
This review describes important aspects of the most commonly encountered craniofacial syndromes. The goal is to provide otolaryngologists and other health care providers with critical information necessary to manage these patients appropriately. The algorithm provided in this article should be helpful in guiding the treatment of craniofacial patients based on their unique otolaryngologic characteristics. The principles highlighted in the algorithm can be applied to other craniofacial syndromes not addressed here, including Pierre Robin sequence and Down syndrome.

Laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) are acknowledged as the most reliable laboratory tool for assessing thermal and pain pathways. Electrical stimulation with a newly developed planar concentric electrode, delivering stimuli limited to the superficial skin layers, has been suggested to provide selective activation of A fibres without the inconveniences linked to laser stimulation. The aim of our study was to compare the scalp and intracranial responses to planar concentric electrode stimulation (CE-SEPs) with those of LEPs and standard somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs). Sixteen healthy subjects, 6 patients with intracortical electrodes, and 2 patients with selective lesions of the spinothalamic pathway were submitted to Neodymium:Yttrium-Aluminium-Perovskite laser stimulations, and electrical stimulations using standard electrodes or planar concentric electrodes (CE). In both healthy controls and epileptic implanted patients, CE- and standard SEPs showed significantly shorter latencies than LEPs. This is consistent with A-fibre activation, peripheral activation time being unable to account for longer LEP latencies. In the patients with spinothalamic lesions, LEPs were absent after stimulation of the affected territory, while CE-SEPs were still present. For these 2 reasons, we conclude that the planar CE does not selectively activate the A and C fibers, but coexcites a significant proportion of large myelinated A fibres that dominate the ensuing cortical response. The use of CE-SEPs for the detection of spinothalamic system lesions is therefore not warranted; the planar electrode can, however, represent a useful tool to study nociceptive reflexes, which can be reliably elicited even in the presence of A coactivation.


Evidence is emerging of diverse, chronic, cumulative disabilities experienced by children in the months and years after acquired brain injury. The long-held assumption that younger children recover better from brain injury than older children or adults has been challenged by recent studies. Populations with acquired brain injury include children with traumatic brain injury and stroke, and a proportion of children with cerebral palsy. Although characteristics of brain injury in children vary, subgroups of this population offer the potential to inform our understanding of developing brain structure-function relationships in response to intervention. Limited evidence and few controlled rehabilitation trials exist regarding children with neurologic conditions. A number of rehabilitation approaches produced benefits in adult stroke, and cerebral palsy populations may be applied to children with other acquired brain injuries. Rehabilitation approaches that have been applied to children with acquired brain injuries, or hold promise for future applications, are reviewed.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a severe, debilitating movement disorder observed in 25-30% of the patients treated with typical antipsychotics. Cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) activators tend to inhibit movement, an effect prevented by rimonabant and other selective CNR1 antagonists. Furthermore, CNR1 receptor is downregulated in Huntington's disease and upregulated in Parkinson's disease. Twenty tagSNPs spanning the CNR1 gene were analyzed in schizophrenia patients of European ancestry (n=191; 74 with TD). Significant genotypic (P=0.012) and allelic (P=0.012) association was observed with rs806374 (T&gt;C). Carriers of the CC genotype were more likely to be TD positive (CC vs TT+TC, odds ratio=3.4 (1.5-7.8), P=0.003) and had more severe TD (CC vs TT+TC; 9.529.2 vs 5.626.9, P=0.046). These results indicate a possible role of CNR1 in the development of TD in our patient population. However, these observations are marginal after correcting for multiple testing and need to be replicated in a larger patient population.
This review concentrates on two different language dimensions: lexical/semantic and grammatical. This distinction between a lexical/semantic system and a grammatical system is well known in linguistics, but in cognitive neurosciences it has been obscured by the assumption that there are several forms of language disturbances associated with focal brain damage and hence language includes a diversity of functions (phoneme discrimination, lexical memory, grammar, repetition, language initiation ability, etc.), each one associated with the activity of a specific brain area. The clinical observation of patients with cerebral pathology shows that there are indeed only two different forms of language disturbances (disturbances in the lexical/semantic system and disturbances in the grammatical system); these two language dimensions are supported by different brain areas (temporal and frontal) in the left hemisphere. Furthermore, these two aspects of the language are developed at different ages during child's language acquisition, and they probably appeared at different historical moments during human evolution. Mechanisms of learning are different for both language systems: whereas the lexical/semantic knowledge is based in a declarative memory, grammatical knowledge corresponds to a procedural type of memory. Recognizing these two language dimensions can be crucial in understanding language evolution and human cognition.
We characterize the distributions of size and duration of avalanches propagating in complex networks. By an avalanche we mean the sequence of events initiated by the externally stimulated excitation of a network node, which may, with some probability, then stimulate subsequent excitations of the nodes to which it is connected, resulting in a cascade of excitations. This type of process is relevant to a wide variety of situations, including neuroscience, cascading failures on electrical power grids, and epidemiology. We find that the statistics of avalanches can be characterized in terms of the largest eigenvalue and corresponding eigenvector of an appropriate adjacency matrix that encodes the structure of the network. By using mean-field analyses, previous studies of avalanches in networks have not considered the effect of network structure on the distribution of size and duration of avalanches. Our results apply to individual networks (rather than network ensembles) and provide expressions for the distributions of size and duration of avalanches starting at particular nodes in the network. These findings might find application in the analysis of branching processes in networks, such as cascading power grid failures and critical brain dynamics. In particular, our results show that some experimental signatures of critical brain dynamics (i.e., power-law distributions of size and duration of neuronal avalanches) are robust to complex underlying network topologies.
Cooperative interactions between ion channels are known to exist, but have so far received relatively little attention in the study of excitable membranes. Based on bifurcation analysis and stochastic simulations of an extended Morris-Lecar model, we show that cooperativity and anticooperativity can modify the range of sustained firing and cell-intrinsic noise, induce multistability, and account for a number of experimental observations, including prolongation of action-potential duration. We hypothesize that channel interactions could be an efficient mechanism to regulate the activity of neurons or cardiac muscle cells.
The pituicytoma is an extremely rare and little-studied primary tumour of the adult neurohypophysis. With total resection, the pituicytoma appears to have a good prognosis. However, its highly vascular nature makes total resection difficult and local recurrence after subtotal resection is not uncommon. To date, only 40 cases of pituicytoma have been reported in literature. In addition to our own case of a suprasellar pituicytoma, we are reviewing and discussing these with particular attention paid on the surgical management and outcome of this rare neoplasm.
Transsphenoidal pituitary adenoma surgery is related to a low morbidity rate. The complications that can occur are classified as intra- and extracranial. The aim of the study is to discuss one group of these complications involving the sphenoid sinus: mucocele and its possible transformation into pyocele. We evaluate clinical presentation, management strategy and the outcome after long-term follow-up presenting an explicative case and a review of the literature. A patient presented to our outpatient clinic 8 months after transsphenoidal surgery for selective removal of a pituitary adenoma because of an acute onset of frontal headache during an airplane travel, fever and pulsating sensation in left eye and ear. MRI revealed a contrast-enhancing lesion in the left inferior portion of the sphenoid sinus. An endonasal endoscopic revision of the sphenoid sinus was performed. After opening of the scar to enter in the left sinus a pyocele was found and treated with drainage and marsupialisation. Development of sphenoid sinus pyocele is an extremely rare postoperative complication of transsphenoidal surgery. This lesion should be taken in consideration in patients presenting with retroorbital headache of acute onset and fever after pituitary surgery. Diagnosis can be suspected on the MRI studies and confirmed by a targeted flexible endoscope examination. Endoscopic drainage with wide opening of the sphenoid sinus and marsupialisation is the treatment of choice to avoid recurrences.
Secondary cell walls, which contain lignin, have traditionally been considered essential for the mechanical strength of the shoot of land plants, whereas pectin, which is a characteristic component of the primary wall, is not considered to be involved in the mechanical support of the plant. Contradicting this conventional knowledge, loss-of-function mutant alleles of Arabidopsis thaliana PECTIN METHYLESTERASE35 (PME35), which encodes a pectin methylesterase, showed a pendant stem phenotype and an increased deformation rate of the stem, indicating that the mechanical strength of the stem was impaired by the mutation. PME35 was expressed specifically in the basal part of the inflorescence stem. Biochemical characterization showed that the activity of pectin methylesterase was significantly reduced in the basal part of the mutant stem. Immunofluorescence microscopy and immunogold electron microscopy analyses using JIM5, JIM7, and LM20 monoclonal antibodies revealed that demethylesterification of methylesterified homogalacturonans in the primary cell wall of the cortex and interfascicular fibers was suppressed in the mutant, but lignified cell walls in the interfascicular and xylary fibers were not affected. These phenotypic analyses indicate that PME35-mediated demethylesterification of the primary cell wall directly regulates the mechanical strength of the supporting tissue.
We discuss methods for fast spatiotemporal smoothing of calcium signals in dendritic trees, given single-trial, spatially localized imaging data obtained via multi-photon microscopy. By analyzing the dynamics of calcium binding to probe molecules and the effects of the imaging procedure, we show that calcium concentration can be estimated up to an affine transformation, i.e., an additive and multiplicative constant. To obtain a full spatiotemporal estimate, we model calcium dynamics within the cell using a functional approach. The evolution of calcium concentration is represented through a smaller set of hidden variables that incorporate fast transients due to backpropagating action potentials (bAPs), or other forms of stimulation. Because of the resulting state space structure, inference can be done in linear time using forward-backward maximum-a-posteriori methods. Non-negativity constraints on the calcium concentration can also be incorporated using a log-barrier method that does not affect the computational scaling. Moreover, by exploiting the neuronal tree structure we show that the cost of the algorithm is also linear in the size of the dendritic tree, making the approach applicable to arbitrarily large trees. We apply this algorithm to data obtained from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells with experimentally evoked bAPs, some of which were paired with excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The algorithm recovers the timing of the bAPs and provides an estimate of the induced calcium transient throughout the tree. The proposed methods could be used to further understand the interplay between bAPs and EPSPs in synaptic strength modification. More generally, this approach allows us to infer the concentration on intracellular calcium across the dendritic tree from noisy observations at a discrete set of points in space.
Motor neurone disease is a neurodegenerative condition with a significant morbidity and shortened life expectancy. Hypoventilatory respiratory failure is the most common cause of death and respiratory function significantly predicts both survival and quality of life in patients with motor neurone disease. Accordingly, supporting and maintaining respiratory function is important in caring for these patients. The most significant advance in motor neurone disease care of recent years has been the domiciliary provision of non-invasive ventilation for treating respiratory failure. Neuromuscular respiratory weakness also leads to ineffective cough and retained airways secretions, predisposing to recurrent chest infections. In this review, we discuss current practice and recent developments in the respiratory management of motor neurone disease, in terms of ventilatory support and cough augmentation.

We review the latest literature on the neuropharmacological treatments for acquired nystagmus.Nystagmus may have a significant [corrected] impact on health, yet there is little scientific evidence on which to make firm recommendations for treatment. Acquired pendular nystagmus may respond to gabapentin or memantine; downbeat and upbeat nystagmus to aminopyridines; and periodic alternating nystagmus to baclofen. To improve treatment we need multi-centre, randomised controlled trials using standardised techniques in reporting objective outcomes, with good follow-up duration and careful reporting of side effects.
Sarcoidosis is an idiopathic granulomatous disease affecting multiple organs. Neurosarcoidosis, involving the central and/or peripheral nervous systems, is a relatively rare form of sarcoidosis. Its clinical manifestations include cranial neuropathies, meningitis, neuroendocrinological dysfunction, hydrocephalus, seizures, neuropsychiatric symptoms, myelopathy and neuropathies. The diagnosis is problematic, especially when occurring as an isolated form without other organ involvement. Distinguishing neurosarcoidosis from other granulomatous diseases and multiple sclerosis is especially important. Although biopsy of neural tissue is the gold standard for the diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis, this is often not practical and the diagnosis must be inferred though other tests, often coupled with biopsy of extraneural organs. Corticosteroids and other immuno-suppressants are frequently used for the treatment of neurosarcoidosis. This article reviews the epidemiology, pathogenesis, pathology, clinical features, diagnosis, diagnostic tests, diagnostic criteria, and therapy of neurosarcoidosis.
The regenerative medicine techniques that are beginning to be applied to the nervous system have led to increased hope in the treatment of diseases that have been considered incurable and that require experimental models on which to test new therapeutic strategies. We present our experience with adult pigs (minipigs) that have undergone a traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) experimental model, and that have been followed for 1 year. We describe the surgical aspects of our SCI model by acute compression and also describe protocols for daily care and rehabilitation that are necessary to maintain the paraplegic pigs in good health during the months following the injury. Furthermore, we provide in detail the main complications that arise with this experimental model and the treatments used to address these complications. Suitable housing conditions, daily rehabilitation and prevention of complications (i.e., taking the same care applied to patients following SCI) are essential for achieving the absence of mortality and long-term maintenance of the animals. We consider the model that is described here to be feasible and useful for preliminary testing of novel therapeutic strategies aimed at regeneration of the injured spinal cord in paraplegic patients.
The aim of this study was to investigate the in vivo relationship between reelin and NMDA receptor function in schizophrenia. We assessed the effect of reelin deficiency in behavioral models of aspects of this illness, NMDA receptor subunit levels, and NMDA receptor, dopamine D receptor, and dopamine transporter density. Male, but not female, reelin heterozygous mice showed significantly enhanced MK-801-induced locomotor hyperactivity compared to wildtype controls (7.4-fold vs. 5.2-fold effect of MK-801 over saline, respectively) but there were no genotype differences in the response to amphetamine. Both male and female reelin heterozygous mice showed enhanced effects of MK-801 on startle, but not prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle. There were no group differences in the effect of apomorphine on startle or PPI. The levels of NMDA receptor subunits were not altered in the striatum. In the frontal cortex, male and female reelin heterozygous mice showed significant up-regulation of NR1 subunits, but down-regulation of NR2C subunits, which was associated with significantly elevated NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2C ratios. However, there were no differences in [H]MK-801 binding density in the nucleus accumbens or caudate nucleus, nor in the density of [H]YM-09151 or [H]GBR12935 in these brain regions. The enhanced effects of MK-801 in reelin heterozygous mice in this study could be reflective of the role of reelin deficiency in schizophrenia. This genotype effect was male-specific for locomotor hyperactivity, a model of psychosis, but was seen in male and female mice for startle, which could be an indication of changes in anxiety. Changes in NMDA receptor subunit levels and ratios were also seen in both male and female mice. These results suggest that the role of reelin deficiency in schizophrenia may be particularly mediated by altered NMDA receptor responses, with some of these effects being strictly sex-specific.

Neuroimaging studies have been crucial in understanding changes in the various neurotransmitter systems implicated in addiction in the living human brain. Predominantly reduced striatal dopamine transmission appears to play an important role in psychostimulant, alcohol and heroin addiction, while addiction to cannabis may be mediated primarily by the endocannabinoid system. However, the study of other neurotransmitter systems likely involved in addiction, for example glutamate, has been limited by the number and quality of available radiotracers, and data on changes in these systems in the most common addictions are emerging only now. Further studies are needed to understand fully how the interplay of various neurotransmitter systems contributes to addiction and to ultimately help to develop more effective treatment approaches.
Within the United States there exists a profound discrepancy between the significant public health problem of substance abuse and the access to treatment for addicted individuals. Part of the insufficient access to treatment is a function of relatively low levels or professional experts in addiction medicine. Part of the low levels of professional addiction experts is the result of inadequate addiction medicine training of medical students and residents. This article outlines deficits in addiction medicine training among medical students and residents, yet real change in the addiction medicine training process will always be subject to the complexity of producing alterations across multiple credentialing institutions as well as the keen competition between educators for more time for their particular subject. Other hurdles include the broad-based issue of stigma regarding alcoholism and other substance abuse that likely impact all systems that regulate physician addiction medicine training. As noted in the discussion of psychiatry residency, even psychiatry residents manifest stigma regarding substance abusing patients. Five currently active processes may allow for fundamental change to the inertia in physician addiction medicine training while also potentially impacting stigma: 1. We appear to be at the beginning of the integration of addiction into traditional medicine through the formation of a legitimized addiction medicine subspecialty. 2. The training of primary care trainees and practitioners in the use of SBIRT is accelerating, thus creating another process of addiction integration into traditional medicine. 3. The PCMH is being established as a model for primary care 4. The Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (MHPAEA) became effective for group health care plan years beginning on or after July 1, 2010; thereby, substance abuse benefits and cost are to be the same as general medical or surgical benefits. 5. The equalizer is prescription drug abuse, which is increasing recognition of addiction among populations where it was previously ignored or denied. The first three activities will create a medical office experience that is largely unknown but carries the power to change the perception of addiction: patients visiting their primary care physicians, who then screen them for addiction problems and give the same attention to treatment and prevention of addiction problems as they might give to treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease and other medical issues. The personal experience of the aforementioned medical scene by members of US society may also provide a very positive impact on psychiatrists, including those who specialize in addiction medicine. It is quite possible that the recognition of addiction medicine as a traditional medical subspecialty as well as the integration of addiction throughout medicine will precede any substantive change in the integration of mental health care with the rest of medicine. Yet, any integration of addiction within the entire field of medicine may open a path for mental health to follow. Psychiatrists, including those who are addiction experts, need to be a part of this new medical integration process. Being a part of new treatment models is why we proposed six future skillsets for psychiatrists who specialize in addiction. The selection of these proposed skillsets anticipates an integrated health care team utilizing some form of a patient-centered approach-three are skillsets that are already required, while the last three address new skillsets that will be helpful in working with the integrative health care team model. Whatever form the future of addiction care takes, psychiatrists who specialize in addiction medicine can provide positive and core contributions as expert addiction and mental health consultants including: 1. How does one screen for major depression and/or an anxiety disorder and also determine a diagnosis? 2. In prescribing, what constitutes legitimate follow-up of patients on antidepressants and antianxiety agents, including how to avoid additional substance abuse problems when prescribing sedative-hypnotics? 3. When and how should patients be referred to a psychiatrist? Finally, it is important to note that any of the potential changes described in this article need to influence only 10% of the approximately 17 million current heavy drinkers to seek treatment to equal the approximately 1.7 million heavy drinkers who are now in treatment, let alone any of the approximately 50 million current at-risk drinkers, virtually none of whom are in treatment. Among other social changes that will alter the future of addiction treatment, the integration of addiction into traditional medicine may go a long way in altering the current ratios of who seeks treatment and is willing to participate in treatment.
The treatment of cannabis dependence can be viewed as a cup half empty or half full. On the one hand, few people who might benefit from treatment actually receive it. Among those who undergo treatment in randomized trials, long-term abstinence is achieved by fewer than 20%. Moderate use goals have been associated with decreases in consequences, but the differential impact of such goals on the long-term course of cannabis dependence is unknown. Optimal duration of treatment is unclear, and certain populations, particularly patients with co-occurring disorders, have not been studied adequately. Twelve-step programs are low cost, effective for other substance use disorders, and readily available in most regions of the world. However, their role and efficacy in cannabis dependence has not been examined. Finally, effective pharmacologic treatments are under development, but none have yet been firmly established. On the other hand, psychotherapeutic strategies used to treat other substance use disorders can be effective for cannabis dependence. A recent meta-analysis of psychosocial interventions for illicit substance use disorders found that treatments for cannabis dependence had comparatively larger effect sizes than treatments for other substance use disorders. Combination therapies have proven most effective, particularly those that begin with a motivational intervention, utilize incentives to enhance the commitment to change, and teach behavioral and cognitive copings skills to prevent relapse. Among adolescents, family engagement and collaboration with community stakeholders adds substantial value. Although only 9% of cannabis users develop cannabis dependence, the volume of people who smoke cannabis ensures that the total number of people in need of help is larger than the capacity of substance abuse specialty services. Thus, although efforts to refine and improve the efficacy of treatment interventions continue, innovations that increase the availability and accessibility of treatment are also needed. Computer- and phone-based interventions, social media, and brief interventions that can be implemented in primary care settings are areas that may hold promise for reaching at-risk populations. Adolescents and persons with co-occurring mental illness are at particularly high risk of cannabis dependence, and may suffer disproportionately from cannabiss adverse effects. As in the treatment of other substance use disorders, there is a need for a continuing care model with long-term follow-up that extends past the periods typically evaluated in treatment studies. Additionally, there is a need for further investigation of genetic underpinnings and endophenotypes underlying cannabis dependence to identify neurobiological mechanisms for targeted intervention. One benefit of the societal focus on cannabis has been a prominent increase in research covering everything from the basic science to public health impact of cannabis. Over the next decade, physicians who provide treatment for individuals with cannabis dependence are likely to see their armamentarium of effective interventions expand, to the ultimate betterment of patients, their families, and society at large.
Behavioral addictions can present in a variety of subtle and deceptive patterns. Because of the intense shame, guilt, and embarrassment felt by patients, it may fall to providers to utilize screening tools and deeper interviewing techniques to uncover the extent of these behaviors. Identifying when the line is crossed from recreation/habit to psychopathology relies on understanding current diagnostic criteria and consideration of cultural, ethnic, and local community standards. Individuals are also likely to cross back and forth between this line of pathology and habit, further clouding providers opinions of diagnosis; therefore, tracking and monitoring these symptoms over time is critical to establishing patterns of use and documenting ongoing consequences. Treatment for these conditions is emerging slowly, and treatment outcomes for these conditions appear to be similar to those with other addictive disorders.


The study of endophenotypes, notably with configured self-reports, represents a promising research pathway to overcome the limits of a syndromal approach of psychiatric diseases. The Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales (ANPS) is a self-report questionnaire, based on neuroethological considerations, that could help to assess emotional endophenotypes related to the activity in 6 core cerebral emotional systems (FEAR, ANGER, SADNESS, CARING, PLAYFULNESS, SEEKING). We further investigated its psychometric properties among 830 young adults and showed that they were satisfactory. As participants also completed several other self-reports that shared potential traits with the ANPS, we offer new validity evidence based on relations to other variables. We also provide additional evidence to consider that the ANPS scores can be validly interpreted for the characterization of emotional endophenotypes involved in a variety of psychiatric disorders. On the grounds of present results, of previous clinical studies, as well as some preliminary neuroimaging findings, we discuss new steps in the ANPS validation.

It has been debated whether human visual working memory is limited by the number of items or the precision with which they are represented. In the research reported here, we show that the precision of working memory can be flexibly and willfully controlled, but only if the number of retained items is low. Electroencephalographic recordings revealed that a neural marker for visual working memory (contralateral delay activity, or CDA) that is known to increase in amplitude with the number of retained items was also affected by the precision with which items were retained. However, willfully enhanced precision increased CDA amplitude only when the number of retained items was low. These results show that both the number and the (willfully controlled) precision of retained items constrain visual working memory: People can enhance the precision of their visual working memory, but only for a few items.
The QWERTY keyboard mediates communication for millions of language users. Here, we investigated whether differences in the way words are typed correspond to differences in their meanings. Some words are spelled with more letters on the right side of the keyboard and others with more letters on the left. In three experiments, we tested whether asymmetries in the way people interact with keys on the right and left of the keyboard influence their evaluations of the emotional valence of the words. We found the predicted relationship between emotional valence and QWERTY key position across three languages (English, Spanish, and Dutch). Words with more right-side letters were rated as more positive in valence, on average, than words with more left-side letters: the QWERTY effect. This effect was strongest in new words coined after QWERTY was invented and was also found in pseudowords. Although these data are correlational, the discovery of a similar pattern across languages, which was strongest in neologisms, suggests that the QWERTY keyboard is shaping the meanings of words as people filter language through their fingers. Widespread typing introduces a new mechanism by which semantic changes in language can arise.
Visual objects can automatically prime actions allowing efficient interaction with them. The present study examined whether object perception can automatically prime actions leading to efficient information extraction. Participants in Experiment 1 learned to rotate a cube in a specific way with the end goal of efficiently revealing object-identifying information. In Experiments 2 and 3, the end goal of obtaining object-identifying information was removed, but the stimulus-response associations were preserved. Only object views associated with actions learned in the context of obtaining identifying information caused response interference and benefits in a subsequent test phase where the object was irrelevant. These results demonstrate the existence of informational affordances: perception-action sequences acquired with the goal of information extraction that are automatically primed during later exposure to the object. Perceptual priming of actions for efficient information extraction is an important component of expert performance and its use of action systems to optimally deal with the world.
There is some evidence that older adults respond to emotional stimuli differently to young adults, and that they may exhibit better performance on measures of memory and attention when stimuli are positive rather than negative in valence. A relation between cortisol levels and attention/memory for emotional stimuli in young adults has also been reported. The relationship between cortisol levels and the judgment of facial expressions of emotion in aging, however, has yet to be explored. The aim of this study was to investigate performance on a simple emotional face judgment task in young (N=37) and middle-aged (N=37) adults in association with salivary cortisol levels. Middle-aged participants were slower in responding to stimuli than younger participants. Cortisol levels were found to be associated with shorter response latencies to categorise emotional but not neutral faces, and with a greater tendency to judge neutral faces as being emotional. An interaction between age and cortisol levels emerged in response to angry faces; such that higher cortisol levels predicted significantly shorter reaction times to angry faces in young adults, but not in middle-aged adults. Thus, cortisol may be differently related to the processing of emotional facial expressions, particularly of anger, in middle-aged and young individuals. The findings are discussed in relation to the hypothesised changes in emotion regulation with aging.
Stress is a main risk factor that can trigger psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and major depression. Neurotrophins, such as Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF), have been identified as neuroendocrine effectors involved in the response to stress and in the neurobehavioural changes associated with depression. Aim of this paper was to study the relationship between neuroendocrine activation (circulating corticosterone and brain BDNF levels) and a wide array of depression- and anxiety-like behaviours (anhedonia, behavioural despair, generalised and social anxiety) resulting from exposure to chronic stress. To this end, 3-month-old C57BL/6J male mice were exposed to either chronic disruption of the social structure (SS), to a stable social structure (SG) or to social deprivation (SD), a condition lacking social stimuli. Results show that, despite not developing anhedonia (decreased preference for a sucrose solution), SD mice were characterised by increased emotionality and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis reactivity in addition to reduced BDNF levels. By contrast, SG and SS mice showed increased anhedonia accompanied by no alterations in the behavioural and neuroendocrine profile. The results here reported indicate that mice exposed to different social housing conditions use different behavioural strategies to cope with external challenges. In addition they suggest that social deprivation might represent a stressful condition triggering the emergence of both anxiety- and depression-like behaviours and clearly indicate BDNF as a main neurobiological variable mediating these responses.



Some converging lines from neuroscience, neurobiological psychotherapy research, process-outcome-research, internet-based change monitoring and the systems and complexity sciences actually allow for an open and generic definition of systemic therapies. The &quot;family&quot; of systemic therapies as designed here is not restricted to the field of psychotherapy. It is a scientifically founded and engaged, bio-psycho-social multi-level approach to a common or integrative psychotherapy, not restricted to a psychotherapeutic confession or exclusively to family or couples therapy. A core element of systemic therapy is the support of self-organizing processes and the use of data-driven feedback tools. The conclusion goes to a modified concept of evidence-based practice and, vice versa, practice-based evidence, to an integration of the medical model and the common factors model into a self-organization theory of human change processes, and to a list of criteria for scientifically based practice in psychotherapy.
Several purine receptors have been localised on skeletal muscle membranes. Previous data support the hypothesis that extracellular guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP) is an important regulatory factor in the development and function of muscle tissue. We have previously described specific extracellular binding sites for GTP on the plasma membrane of mouse skeletal muscle (C2C12) cells. Extracellular GTP induces an increase in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations that results in membrane hyperpolarisation through Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, as has been demonstrated by patch-clamp experiments. This GTP-evoked increase in intracellular Ca(2+) is due to release of Ca(2+) from intracellular inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive stores. This enhances the expression of the myosin heavy chain in these C2C12 myoblasts and commits them to fuse into multinucleated myotubes, probably via a phosphoinositide-3-kinase-dependent signal-transduction mechanism. To define the signalling of extracellular GTP as an enhancer or modulator of myogenesis, we investigated whether the gene-expression profile of differentiated C2C12 cells (4 and 24 h in culture) is affected by extracellular GTP. To investigate the nuclear activity and target genes modulated by GTP, transcriptional profile analysis and real-time PCR were used. We demonstrate that in the early stages of differentiation, GTP up-regulates genes involved in different pathways associated with myogenic processes, including cytoskeleton structure, the respiratory chain, myogenesis, chromatin reorganisation, cell adhesion, and the Jak/Stat pathway, and down-regulates the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway. GTP also increases the expression of three genes involved in myogenesis, Pp3ca, Gsk3b, and Pax7. Our data suggests that in the myogenic C2C12 cell line, extracellular GTP acts as a differentiative factor in the induction and sustaining of myogenesis.
Purines such as adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) act as extracellular messengers through specific purinergic receptors. Three different classes of purinergic receptors have been identified and termed P1, P2X, and P2Y. The purinergic receptor subunit P2X2 is a ligand-gated ion channel that is widely expressed by neurons in the CNS. In the brainstem medulla oblongata, the ionotropic P2X2 receptor (P2X2R) is enriched in the area postrema (AP). Two different antisera to P2X2R were used to determine the chemical nature of P2X2R immunoreactive cell bodies in the rat AP, an area lacking a blood-brain barrier. Subcellularly, P2X2R immunoreactivity was located to the periphery of individual cell bodies. The majority of P2X2R-immunoreactive cells were shown to contain tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) (63.5  7.7%) and dopamine -hydroxylase (61.5  5.1%). Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-containing cells were not detected in the AP, supporting a noradrenergic nature of P2X2R cells in the AP. There were no P2X2R-immunoreactive cells in the AP that contained the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase 65. Only single vesicular glutamate transporter 2-immunoreactive cell bodies that were not P2X2R-positive were demonstrated in the AP. Some P2X2R-positive cells in the AP were immunoreactive for the neuropeptides substance P and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide, whereas dynorphin-, enkephalin-, or cholecystokinin-positive cells were not P2X2R-immunoreactive. Presence of P2X2R in a majority of noradrenergic cells of the AP implies that ATP may have a regulatory action on neuronal noradrenaline release from the AP, a circumventricular organ with a strategic position enabling interactions between circulating substances and the central nervous system.
The integration of positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a combined PET/MR scanner is attracting much interest. With this new bimodal approach novel functional-anatomical and multiparametric applications become feasible, which can be expected to deliver information beyond that accessible by separately applied modalities. Although the two technologies where initially regarded as inherently incompatible, different solutions have been developed and implemented to realise PET/MR instruments for both small animal and human bimodal imaging. The present review first summarizes the basic options for possible PET/MR designs. A chronological outline describes the evolution from the first ideas, how PET and MR imaging might be combined, over different experimental solutions to the systems recently realized by industry. The BrainPET/MR and the mMR developed by Siemens and the Philips Ingenuity TF PET/MR are characterised and application examples are provided illustrating the features of these instruments. Based on own experiences and those reported in different publications a number of open issues are discussed. Finally a short comparative analysis on the status and perspectives of human PET/MR imaging is given.

We developed an inbred rat model of diabetic embryopathy, in which the offspring displays skeletal malformations (agnathia or micrognathia) when the mother is diabetic, and no malformations when she is not diabetic. Our aim was to find genes controlling the embryonic maldevelopment in a diabetic environment. We contrasted the fetal outcome in inbred Sprague-Dawley L rats (20% skeletal malformations in diabetic pregnancy) with that of inbred Wistar Furth rats (denotedW, no skeletal malformations in diabetic pregnancy). We used offspring from the backcross F(1)L to probe for the genetic basis for malformation of the mandible in diabetic pregnancy. A set of 186 fetuses (93 affected, 93 unaffected) was subjected to a whole genome scan with 160 micro satellites. Analysis of genotype distribution indicated 7 loci on chromosome 4, 10 (3 loci), 14, 18, and 19 in the teratogenic process (and 14 other loci on 12 chromosomes with less strong association to the malformations), several of which contained genes implicated in other experimental studies of diabetic embryopathy. These candidate genes will be scrutinized in further experimentation. We conclude that the genetic involvement in rodent diabetic embryopathy is polygenic and predisposing for congenital malformations.





This special theme issue of Schizophrenia Bulletin presents a series of related articles focusing on auditory hallucinations, prepared by members of the International Consortium on Hallucination Research [InCoHR] working groups. The InCoHR is a large collaborative framework that serves as a platform for researchers to meet and collaborate on multidisciplinary projects relating to auditory hallucinations [AH] and discuss methodological issues facing transdiagnostic research. Laroi et al. observe the similarities in characteristic features of AHs in different clinical and nonclinical groups, but they also note that differences exist, reflecting the contribution of disease-related process. Waters et al. use findings of shared cognitive impairments across different diagnostic groups with AHs to propose a novel theoretical cognitive framework. Allen et al. describe that the neurobiological substrates of AHs include neural systems involved in language processing, as well as sensory and nonsensory brain regions and that studies are increasingly using fine-grain analysis of patients' characteristics in analyzing neuroimaging data. Ford et al. discuss different neurophysiological approaches and describes hallucination-related alterations in activity in temporal and frontal regions of the brain and particularly in auditory cortical areas. Finally, Sommer et al. review different treatment options for AHs in schizophrenia and other disorders, including pharmacological treatment, cognitive-behavioral therapy [CBT] and acceptance and commitment therapy [ACT], transcranial magnetic stimulation [TMS], and electroconvulsive therapy [ECT]. These related publications describe the current substance and direction of research on AHs across different diagnostic groups.
This article reviews the treatment of hallucinations in schizophrenia. The first treatment option for hallucinations in schizophrenia is antipsychotic medication, which can induce a rapid decrease in severity. Only 8% of first-episode patients still experience mild to moderate hallucinations after continuing medication for 1 year. Olanzapine, amisulpride, ziprasidone, and quetiapine are equally effective against hallucinations, but haloperidol may be slightly inferior. If the drug of first choice provides inadequate improvement, it is probably best to switch medication after 2-4 weeks of treatment. Clozapine is the drug of choice for patients who are resistant to 2 antipsychotic agents. Blood levels should be above 350-450 g/ml for maximal effect. For relapse prevention, medication should be continued in the same dose. Depot medication should be considered for all patients because nonadherence is high. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can be applied as an augmentation to antipsychotic medication. The success of CBT depends on the reduction of catastrophic appraisals, thereby reducing the concurrent anxiety and distress. CBT aims at reducing the emotional distress associated with auditory hallucinations and develops new coping strategies. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is capable of reducing the frequency and severity of auditory hallucinations. Several meta-analyses found significantly better symptom reduction for low-frequency repetitive TMS as compared with placebo. Consequently, TMS currently has the status of a potentially useful treatment method for auditory hallucinations, but only in combination with state of the art antipsychotic treatment. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is considered a last resort for treatment-resistant psychosis. Although several studies showed clinical improvement, a specific reduction in hallucination severity has never been demonstrated.

Research interest in affective working memory has rapidly grown in the last decade. In this study we investigated working memory functions for affective and neutral words in a group of 22 patients with chronic schizophrenia and 22 healthy controls. In particular, participants were administered the operation working memory span task in which affective and neutral words had to be remembered. Results showed that patients made significantly more intrusion errors, recalling off-goal information, and showed poorer long-term memory performance than controls. In addition, affective trials showed the largest number of intrusion errors. These results suggest that a general attentional control deficit, especially over affective information, may underly failures to remember in chronic schizophrenia patients.

Transferrin receptor 1 exists widely in central nervous system (CNS). It is responsible for iron transport in vivo and mediates the endocytosis of transferring-iron complex, regulating the cell growth. TfR1 transports other metal ions as well, such as Mn, Al and Cu. It is proved that TfR1 can help macromolecular drugs to pass through the blood-brain barrier and emerges as a potential therapeutic target of neurological diseases in CNS. This review summarizes recent findings in distribution, function, and modulatory mechanisms of TfR1 as well as its applications as therapeutic targets in clinical medicine. The investigations on these issues can not only provide new ideas for the research about the mechanism and function of TfR1, but also have profound significance in the understanding of neuroscience.
Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) is a common malignancy affecting Asian countries, especially the Chinese population. Treatment regimes and results have improved over the years with better overall survival outcome data. Radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy is successful in many patients. Local recurrences are treated with nasopharyngectomy or another course of radiotherapy. The upper cervical spine and skull base can also be involved in NPC patients. Possible aetiologies are osteoradionecrosis, chronic infection and tumour invasion. This article reviews the NPC involvement of C1-2 due to the various pathologies as well as the diagnostic and surgical treatment strategies. Three clinical cases that were surgically treated are discussed along with a review of the current literature.




Nitric oxide (NO) production involves four different NO-synthases (NOSs) that are either constitutive (neuronal, nNOS; endothelial, eNOS; mitochondrial, mNOS) or inducible (iNOS) in nature. Three main processes regulate NO/NOSs output, i.e., the L-arginine/arginase substrate-competing system, the L-citrulline/arginosuccinate-recycling system and the asymmetric dimethyl-/monomethyl-L-arginine-inhibiting system. In adult animals, nNOS exhibits a dense innervation intermingled with pontine sleep structures. It is well established that the NO/nNOS production makes a key contribution to daily homeostatic sleep (slow-wave sleep, SWS; rapid eye movement sleep, REM sleep). In the basal hypothalamus, the NO/nNOS production further contributes to the REM sleep rebound that takes place after a sleep deprivation (SD). This production may also contribute to the sleep rebound that is associated with an immobilization stress (IS). In adult animals, throughout the SD time-course, an additional NO/iNOS production takes place in neurons. Such production mediates a transitory SD-related SWS rebound. A transitory NO/iNOS production is also part of the immune system. Such a production contributes to the SWS increase that accompanies inflammatory events and is ensured by microglial cells and astrocytes. Finally, with aging, the iNOS expression becomes permanent and the corresponding NO/iNOS production is important to ensure an adequate maintenance of REM sleep and, to a lesser extent, SWS. Despite such maintenance, aged animals, however, are not able to elicit a sleep rebound to deal with the challenge of SD or IS. Sleep regulatory processes in adult animals thus become impaired with age. Reduced iNOS expression during aging may contribute to accelerated senescence, as observed in senescence-accelerated mice (SAMP-8 mice).
Psychophysiological interactions (PPIs) analysis is a method for investigating task-specific changes in the relationship between activity in different brain areas, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Specifically, PPI analyses identify voxels in which activity is more related to activity in a seed region of interest (seed ROI) in a given psychological context, such as during attention or in the presence of emotive stimuli. In this tutorial, we aim to give a simple conceptual explanation of how PPI analysis works, in order to assist readers in planning and interpreting their own PPI experiments.
There is evidence that both early experience and genetic variation play a role in influencing sensitivity to social rejection. In this study, we aimed at ascertaining if the A118G polymorphism of the -opioid receptor gene (OPRM1) moderates the impact of early maternal care on fearful attachment, a personality trait strongly related to rejection sensitivity. In 112 psychiatric patients, early maternal care and fearful attachment were measured using the Parental Bonding Inventory and the Relationship Questionnaire (RQ), respectively. The pattern emerging from the RQ data was a crossover interaction between genotype and maternal caregiving. Participants expressing the minor 118G allele had similar and relatively high scores on fearful attachment regardless of the quality of maternal care. By contrast, early experience made a major difference for participants carrying the A/A genotype. Those who recalled higher levels of maternal care reported the lowest levels of fearful attachment whereas those who recalled lower levels of maternal care scored highest on fearful attachment. Our data fit well with the differential susceptibility model which stipulates that plasticity genes would make some individuals more responsive than others to the negative consequences of adversity and to the benefits of environmental support and enrichment.
Recent research on potential applications of fMRI in the detection of concealed knowledge primarily ascribed the reported differences in hemodynamic response patterns to deception. This interpretation is challenged by the results of the present study. Participants were required to memorize probe and target items (a banknote and a playing card, each). Subsequently, these items were repeatedly presented along with eight irrelevant items in a modified Guilty Knowledge Test design and participants were instructed to simply acknowledge item presentation by pressing one button after each stimulus. Despite the absence of response monitoring demands and thus overt response conflicts, the experiment revealed a differential physiological response pattern as a function of item type. First, probes elicited the largest skin conductance responses. Second, differential hemodynamic responses were observed in bilateral inferior frontal regions, the right supramarginal gyrus and the supplementary motor area as a function of item type. Probes and targets were accompanied by a larger signal increase than irrelevant items in these regions. Moreover, the responses to probes differed substantially from targets. The observed neural response pattern seems to rely on retrieval processes that depend on the depth of processing in the encoding situation.

Insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and IGF-II regulate brain development and growth through the IGF type 1 receptor (IGF-1R). Less appreciated is that IGF-II, but not IGF-I, activates a splice variant of the insulin receptor (IR) known as IR-A. We hypothesized that IGF-II exerts distinct effects from IGF-I on neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPs) via its interaction with IR-A. Immunofluorescence revealed high IGF-II in the medial region of the subventricular zone (SVZ) comprising the neural stem cell niche, with IGF-II mRNA predominant in the adjacent choroid plexus. The IGF-1R and the IR isoforms were differentially expressed with IR-A predominant in the medial SVZ, whereas the IGF-1R was more abundant laterally. Similarly, IR-A was more highly expressed by NSPs, whereas the IGF-1R was more highly expressed by lineage restricted cells. In vitro, IGF-II was more potent in promoting NSP expansion than either IGF-I or standard growth medium. Limiting dilution and differentiation assays revealed that IGF-II was superior to IGF-I in promoting stemness. In vivo, NSPs propagated in IGF-II migrated to and took up residence in periventricular niches while IGF-I-treated NSPs predominantly colonized white matter. Knockdown of IR or IGF-1R using shRNAs supported the conclusion that the IGF-1R promotes progenitor proliferation, whereas the IR is important for self-renewal. Q-PCR revealed that IGF-II increased Oct4, Sox1, and FABP7 mRNA levels in NSPs. Our data support the conclusion that IGF-II promotes the self-renewal of neural stem/progenitors via the IR. By contrast, IGF-1R functions as a mitogenic receptor to increase precursor abundance.
Because of their ability to self-renew, to differentiate into multiple lineages, and to migrate toward a damaged site, neural stem cells (NSCs), which can be derived from various sources such as fetal tissues and embryonic stem cells, are currently considered to be promising components of cell replacement strategies aimed at treating injuries of the central nervous system, including the spinal cord. Despite their efficiency in promoting functional recovery, these NSCs are not homogeneous and possess variable characteristics depending on their derivation protocols. The advent of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells has provided new prospects for regenerative medicine. We used a recently developed robust and stable protocol for the generation of long-term, self-renewing, neuroepithelial-like stem cells from human iPS cells (hiPS-lt-NES cells), which can provide a homogeneous and well-defined population of NSCs for standardized analysis. Here, we show that transplanted hiPS-lt-NES cells differentiate into neural lineages in the mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI) and promote functional recovery of hind limb motor function. Furthermore, using two different neuronal tracers and ablation of the transplanted cells, we revealed that transplanted hiPS-lt-NES cell-derived neurons, together with the surviving endogenous neurons, contributed to restored motor function. Both types of neurons reconstructed the corticospinal tract by forming synaptic connections and integrating neuronal circuits. Our findings indicate that hiPS-lt-NES transplantation represents a promising avenue for effective cell-based treatment of SCI.




Much scholarship in the history of cybernetics has focused on the far-reaching cultural dimensions of the movement. What has garnered less attention are efforts by cyberneticians such as Warren McCulloch and Norbert Wiener to transform scientific practice in an array of disciplines in the biomedical sciences, and the complex ways these efforts were received by members of traditional disciplines. In a quest for scientific unity that had a decidedly imperialistic flavour, cyberneticians sought to apply practices common in the exact sciences-mainly theoretical modeling-to problems in disciplines that were traditionally defined by highly empirical practices, such as neurophysiology and neuroanatomy. Their efforts were met with mixed, often critical responses. This paper attempts to make sense of such dynamics by exploring the notion of a scientific style and its usefulness in accounting for the contrasts in scientific practice in brain research and in cybernetics during the 1940s. Focusing on two key institutional contexts of brain research and the role of the Rockefeller and Macy Foundations in directing brain research and cybernetics, the paper argues that the conflicts between these fields were not simply about experiment vs. theory but turned more closely on the questions that defined each area and the language used to elaborate answers.
In psychiatry, pharmacological drugs play an important experimental role in attempts to identify the neurobiological causes of mental disorders. Besides being developed in applied contexts as potential treatments for patients with mental disorders, pharmacological drugs play a crucial role in research contexts as experimental instruments that facilitate the formulation and revision of neurobiological theories of psychopathology. This paper examines the various epistemic functions that pharmacological drugs serve in the discovery, refinement, testing, and elaboration of neurobiological theories of mental disorders. I articulate this thesis with reference to the history of antipsychotic drugs and the evolution of the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia in the second half of the twentieth century. I argue that interventions with psychiatric patients through the medium of antipsychotic drugs provide researchers with information and evidence about the neurobiological causes of schizophrenia. This analysis highlights the importance of pharmacological drugs as research tools in the generation of psychiatric knowledge and the dynamic relationship between practical and theoretical contexts in psychiatry.
The effects of HIV-1 in the nervous system are a topic of avid interest to investigators and clinicians focused on HIV, judging by the large and discriminating audience at the oral sessions and poster presentations relating to neuroscience at the 19th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections. Major areas of investigation at this year's conference included the use of neuropsychological testing and neuroimaging to assess the state of the central nervous system (CNS) and effects of antiretroviral therapy during HIV infection as well as basic and clinical studies of neuropathogenesis of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND). Numerous important suggestions emerged during the meeting. Among them was the proposition that earlier initiation of therapy might benefit the CNS. Another was that the relationship between HIV and normal aging remains unclear and warrants further study. Still another was that ongoing abnormalities may persist despite treatment with antiretroviral therapy-including measurable brain microglial activation, detectable cerebrospinal fluid HIV, and progression of neurologic impairment.
Kinesin-1 anterogradely transports vesicles containing cargo proteins when a protein-protein interaction activates it from an inhibited state. The C-terminal cytoplasmic region of kinesin-1 cargo protein Alcadein (Alc) interacts with the KLC1 subunit's tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) region, activating kinesin-1's association with vesicles and anterograde transport. We found that either of two 10-amino-acid WD motifs in Alc cytoplasmic region was necessary and sufficient to initiate this activation. An artificial transmembrane protein containing either WD motif induced kinesin-1's vesicular association and anterograde transport in a KLC-dependent manner, even in the normally inhibiting presence of excess KLC1, thus allowing us to analyze the KLC1 TPR-WD functional interaction in detail in vivo. A part of TPR region was dispensable for the WD motifs' activation of kinesin-1 and transport, indicating that only part of the TPR structure is required for this function in vivo. For a different kinesin-1 cargo protein, JIP1, an 11-amino-acid C-terminal region was sufficient to recruit KLC1 to vesicles, but did not activate transport. These observations suggest that structurally different TPR-interacting peptides may have different effects on kinesin-1. This mechanism may partly explain how kinesin-1 can organize the transport of a wide variety of cargo molecules.
Constriction and dilation of large arteries of brain regulates cerebral vascular resistance and cerebral microvascular pressure, which play key roles in regulation of cerebral circulation. We investigated the effect of ischemic stroke on vascular reactivity of middle cerebral artery (MCA) using a rat transient focal cerebral ischemia model. Focal cerebral ischemia was induced by 1 hour MCA occlusion followed by reperfusion. MCAs were dissected from ischemic or contralateral hemisphere at 2 days or 2 weeks post reperfusion and mounted on 2 glass micropipettes for assessment of vascular reactivity. MCAs from brains of sham surgeries were used as control. At 2 days post reperfusion, a significant alteration of myogenic reactivity was found in MCAs dissected from both ischemic and non-ischemic hemispheres, which could still be identified at 2 weeks after reperfusion. Phenylephrine (PE) induced remarkable vasoconstriction in MCAs from animals that underwent sham surgery. No significant alteration of vasoconstrictive response to PE was found in MCAs isolated from either ischemic or contralateral hemisphere at 2 days or 2 weeks after ischemic stroke, as compared with MCAs from sham animals. Acetylcholine (ACh) induced mild dilation in normal MCAs, which was reversed in MCAs from both ischemic and non-ischemic hemispheres at 2 weeks after ischemic stroke. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) induced vasodilation in MCAs from animals with sham operation, which was diminished in MCAs from both ischemic and non-ischemic hemisphere at 2 days and 2 weeks after ischemic stroke. These results demonstrated that focal cerebral ischemia could induce long-term global cerebral vasculature dysfunction.
Stroke risk prediction scores have been designed to stratify risk of recurrent cerebrovascular events in transient ischemic attack (TIA) and minor ischemic stroke (MIS) patients. Consecutive TIA or MIS patients referred to Ghaem Hospital, Mashhad were enrolled in a prospective cohort study during 2010-2011. Only TIA or MIS patients presenting within 24h from the onset of symptoms were recruited. MIS was considered as ischemic stroke with NIHSS &lt;4. The end point of the study was a new ischemic cerebrovascular event or vascular death at 90days and additionally at 3days. The decision to admit and treatment in each case was left to the discretion of the stroke neurologist. The predictive accuracy of the ABCD(2) scoring system for recurrent stroke or TIA was quantified by the area under the cure (AUC) using the c statistics. Three hundred ninety-three TIA patients (238 males, 155 females) and 118 MIS patients (77 males, 41 females) were enrolled in the study. One hundred seventeen strokes (23.2%), 99 TIA (19.6%), and 11 vascular death (2.2%) occurred within 3months postevent in the whole of our 511 patients with minor ischemic events. The ABCD(2) score had a weak predictive value for 3months and 3days recurrent stroke in our TIA patients (AUC=0.599, AUC=0.591), but a high predictive value for 3months and 3days recurrent stroke in our MIS patients (AUC=0.727, AUC=0.728), respectively. The ABCD(2) score is highly predictive of short-term recurrent stroke in MIS patients but not TIA cases, despite its creation for TIA cohorts.
The dual-systems model of a ventral affective system, whose reactivity confers risks and liabilities, and a prefrontal control system, whose regulatory capacities buffer against these vulnerabilities, is an intuitive account that pervades many fields in the cognitive neurosciences--especially in the study of populations that differ from neurotypical adults, such as adolescents or individuals with affective or impulse regulation disorders. However, recent evidence that is inconsistent with dual-systems models illustrates the complexity of developmental and clinical variations in brain function. Building new models to account for this complexity is critical to progress in these fields, and will be facilitated by research that emphasizes network-based approaches and maps relationships between structure and function, as well as brain and behavior, over time.
Although the study of brain states is an old one in neuroscience, there has been growing interest in brain state specification owing to MRI studies tracing brain connectivity at rest. In this review, we summarize recent research on three relatively well-described brain states: the resting, alert, and meditation states. We explore the neural correlates of maintaining a state or switching between states, and argue that the anterior cingulate cortex and striatum play a critical role in state maintenance, whereas the insula has a major role in switching between states. Brain state may serve as a predictor of performance in a variety of perceptual, memory, and problem solving tasks. Thus, understanding brain states is critical for understanding human performance.
Although ventral parietal cortex (VPC) activations can be found in a variety of cognitive domains, these activations have been typically attributed to cognitive operations specific to each domain. In this article, we propose a hypothesis that can account for VPC activations across all the cognitive domains reviewed. We first review VPC activations in the domains of perceptual and motor reorienting, episodic memory retrieval, language and number processing, theory of mind, and episodic memory encoding. Then, we consider the localization of VPC activations across domains and conclude that they are largely overlapping with some differences around the edges. Finally, we assess how well four different hypotheses of VPC function can explain findings in various domains and conclude that a bottom-up attention hypothesis provides the most complete and parsimonious account.
Visual transduction in the Drosophila compound eye functions through a pathway that couples rhodopsin to phospholipase C (PLC) and the opening of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. This cascade differs from phototransduction in mammalian rods and cones, but is remarkably similar to signaling in mammalian intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). In this review, I focus on recent advances in the fly visual system, including the discovery of a visual cycle and insights into the machinery and mechanisms involved in generating a light response in photoreceptor cells.
Despite the significant advancements being made in the neurogenetics for mental health, the identification and validation of potential endophenotype markers of risk and resilience remain to be confirmed. The TWIN-E study (The Twin study in Wellbeing using Integrative Neuroscience of Emotion) aims to validate endophenotype markers of mental health across cognitive, brain, and autonomic measures by testing the heritability, clinical plausibility, and reliability of each of these measures in a large adult twin cohort. The specific gene and environmental mechanisms that moderate prospective links between endophenotype-phenotype markers and the final outcome of wellbeing will also be identified. TWIN-E is a national prospective study with three phases: I) baseline testing on a battery of online questionnaires and cognitive tasks, and EEG, MRI, and autonomic testing; II) 12-month follow-up testing on the online assessments; and III) randomized controlled trial of brain training. Minimum target numbers include 1,500 male/female twins (18-65 years) for the online assessments (Phase I and II), 300 twins for the EEG testing component, and 244 twins for the MRI testing component. For Phase III, each twin out of the pair will be randomized to either the treatment or waitlist control group to test the effects of brain training on mental health over a 30-day period, and to confirm the gene-environment and endophenotype contributions to treatment response. Preliminary heritability results are provided for the first 50% of the MRI subgroup (n = 142) for the grey matter volume, thickness, and surface area measures, and white matter diffuse tensor imaging fractional anisotropy.

Visual motion perception is essential for appropriate behavior in a dynamic visual world. It is influenced by voluntary attention towards or away from moving objects as well as by the capture of automatic attention by salient stimuli. Both kinds of attention play a major role in the Eriksen Flanker Task (EFT),where a central stimulus has to be identified in the presence of flanking distractors. For static visual stimuli incongruent peripheral flankers are known to reduce accuracy rates and prolong reaction times. However,it is not known if a similar flanker effect also affects speeded responses to moving stimuli. We therefore examined whether a flanker effect exists for moving random dot patterns (RDPs) and compared it to the effect elicited by static visual triangles in human subjects. We observed a motion flanker effect,both for response times and accuracy rates. Incongruently moving peripheral flankers caused a slowing of response time and a reduction of accuracy rates compared to congruently moving RDPs. These motion flanker effects were not significantly different from those in the static flanker task. The presence of a motion flanker effect and its similarity to the flanker effect for static stimuli suggests that visual motion engages competitive attention and control mechanisms for perception and decision-making similar to those engaged by non-moving features.
Visual adaptation is a critical and ubiquitous mechanism that occurs for any stimulus feature and involves a continuous adjustment of the neuronal contrast gain. These adjustments prevent our visual system from dropping in sensitivity for the prevailing ranges of stimulus features that are processed at a given time. In addition to the classical adaptation, which arises over several seconds to minutes, a number of psychophysical, electrophysiological and interference studies have documented a much faster form of adaptation occurring with motion stimuli. This faster adaptation operates on a sub-second scale. In the present study, we investigated whether a fast form of adaptation also exists for spatial contrast and whether its characteristics (e.g., dependence on the duration of adaptation, time course of recovery) are similar to the classical, slower contrast adaptation. We found that a fast form of adaptation does exist and is maximal at intervals of 16-50 ms after the offset of the adapting stimulus. Similar to what previous studies have found regarding the classical contrast adaptation, the initial threshold elevation of this study did not depend on the duration of the adapting stimulus, but only on its contrast. Our results showed that the function which best describes the decay of brief adaptations to high-contrast stimuli was a double exponential decay function, whereas the best function for describing adaptation to low-contrast stimuli was a single exponential decay function with a very fast recovery rate. Thus, adapting contrast influences both the threshold elevation, which rises with increasing adapting contrast, and the time course of recovery from adaptation. Overall, our data suggest the presence of a mechanism that is similar to the classical contrast adaptation involved in longer adaptations, but it operates over much shorter timescales.

The Yale Cognitive Science department hosted the conference &quot;From Habits to Self-Regulation: How Do We Change?&quot; on November 4 and 5, 2011, to showcase current research on self-control in cognitive science, psychology, and neuroscience. The conference included a panel discussion by four philosophers who gave context for the scope and limitations of research on self-control. The common theme concerning the best method to attain lasting change included becoming aware of what one wants to change, increasing commitment to the goal of change, and imagining all of the potential problems and solutions to those problems.
With the development of autism therapy, acupuncture, an alternative therapy, is becoming popular for autism children. There have been many papers found about the treatment of autism by acupuncture therapy so far. In the present review, the authors briefly introduce the theoretical basis of autism in traditional Chinese medicine and the application history, and sum up the acupoint prescriptions, effectiveness as well as the assessment tools of acupuncture therapy for autism. It is suggested that acupuncture therapy is a relatively effective therapy for autism children. It has positive roles in improving autistic syndromes without any side-effects, especially in improving language development, daily-life self-care, and social communications. The underlying mechanism of this therapy may be explained by acupuncture intervention induced favorable changes of neurochemistry, cerebral blood flow, and cerebral functional activities. Although there are lots of questions to be answered about acupuncture treatment of autism, we hold a positive opinion that this therapy might be a green effective therapy for autistic children in the future.

Proper cell fate choice in myelopoiesis is essential for generating correct numbers of distinct myeloid subsets manifesting a wide spectrum of subset-specific activities during development and adulthood. Studies have suggested that myeloid fate choice is primarily regulated by transcription factors; however, new intrinsic regulators and their underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Zebrafish embryonic myelopoiesis gives rise to neutrophils and macrophages and represents a promising system to derive new regulatory mechanisms for myeloid fate decision in vertebrates. Here we present an in vivo study of cell fate specification during zebrafish embryonic myelopoiesis through characterization of the embryos with altered Pu.1, Runx1 activity alone, or their combinations. Genetic analysis shows that low and high Pu.1 activities determine embryonic neutrophilic granulocyte and macrophage fate, respectively. Inactivation and overexpression of Runx1 in zebrafish uncover Runx1 as a key embryonic myeloid fate determinant that favors neutrophil over macrophage fate. Runx1 is induced by high Pu.1 level and in turn transrepresses pu.1 expression, thus constituting a negative feedback loop that fashions a favorable Pu.1 level required for balanced fate commitment to neutrophils versus macrophages. Our findings define a Pu.1-Runx1 regulatory loop that governs the equilibrium between distinct myeloid fates by assuring an appropriate Pu.1 dosage.
Increasing neuroimaging studies have focused on the sustained after effects of acupuncture, especially for the changes of brain activities in rest. However, short-period stimuli have mostly been chosen in these works. The present study aimed to investigate how the resting state brain activities in healthy subjects were modulated by relatively long-period (30 min) acupuncture, a widely used modality in clinical practice. Transcutaneous electric acupoint stimulation (TEAS) or intermittent minimal TEAS (MTEAS) were given for 30 min to 40 subjects. Functional MRI (fMRI) data were collected including the pre-stimulation resting state and the post-stimulation resting state, using dual-echo arterial spin labeling (ASL) techniques, representing both cerebral blood flow (CBF) signals and blood oxygen-dependent level (BOLD) signals simultaneously. Following 30 min TEAS, but not MTEAS, the mean global CBF decreased, and a significant decrease of regional CBF was observed in SI, insula, STG, MOG and IFG. Functional connectivity analysis showed more secure and spatially extended connectivity of both the DMN and SMN after 30 min TEAS. Our results implied that modulation of the regional brain activities and network connectivity induced by thirty minute TEAS may associate with the acupuncture-related therapeutic effects. Furthermore, the resting state regional CBF quantified by ASL perfusion fMRI may serve as a potential biomarker in future acupuncture studies.
Over the past two decades, it has become increasingly apparent that Alzheimer's disease neuropathology is characterized by activated microglia (brain resident macrophages) as well as the classic features of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. The intricacy of microglial biology has also become apparent, leading to a heightened research interest in this particular cell type. Over the years a number of different microglial cell culturing techniques have been developed to study either primary mammalian microglia, or immortalized cell lines. Each microglial system has advantages and disadvantages and should be selected for its appropriateness in a particular research context. This review summarizes several of the most common microglial cell culture systems currently being employed in Alzheimer's research including primary microglia; BV2 and N9 retroviral immortalized microglia; human immortalized microglia (HMO6); and spontaneously immortalized rodent microglial lines (EOC lines and HAPI cells). Particularities of cell culture requirements and characteristics of microglial behavior, especially in response to applied inflammogen stimuli, are compared and discussed across these cell types.

The assessment of mitochondrial respiratory chain (RC) enzymatic activities is essential for investigating mitochondrial function in several situations, including mitochondrial disorders, diabetes, cancer, aging and neurodegeneration, as well as for many toxicological assays. Muscle is the most commonly analyzed tissue because of its high metabolic rates and accessibility, although other tissues and cultured cell lines can be used. We describe a step-by-step protocol for a simple and reliable assessment of the RC enzymatic function (complexes I-IV) for minute quantities of muscle, cultured cells and isolated mitochondria from a variety of species and tissues, by using a single-wavelength spectrophotometer. An efficient tissue disruption and the choice for each assay of specific buffers, substrates, adjuvants and detergents in a narrow concentration range allow maximal sensitivity, specificity and linearity of the kinetics. This protocol can be completed in 3 h.

D-Serine, which is synthesized by the enzyme serine racemase (SR), is a co-agonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). In an animal model of NMDAR hypofunction, the constitutive SR knockout (SR-/-) mouse, pyramidal neurons in primary somatosensory cortex (S1) have reductions in the complexity, total length, and spine density of apical and basal dendrites. We wondered whether the dendritic pathology required deprivation of D-serine throughout development or reflected the loss of D-serine only in adulthood. To address this question, we used mice homozygous for floxed SR in which we bred CaMKIICre2834, which is expressed in forebrain glutamatergic neurons starting at 3-4 weeks post-partum (nSR-/-). Our prior studies demonstrated that the majority of cortical SR is expressed in glutamatergic neurons. We found that similar to SR-/- mice, pyramidal neurons in S1 of nSR-/- also had significantly reduced dendritic arborization and spine density, albeit to a lesser degree. S1 neurons of nSR-/- mice had reduced total basal dendritic length that was accompanied by less complex arborization. These characteristics were unaltered in the apical dendritic compartment. In contrast, spine density on S1 neurons was significantly reduced on apical, but not basal dendrites of nSR-/- mice. These results demonstrate that in adulthood neuronally derived D-serine, which is required for optimal activation of post-synaptic NMDAR activity, regulates pyramidal neuron dendritic arborization and spine density. Moreover, they highlight the glycine modulatory site (GMS) of the NMDAR as a potential target for therapeutic intervention in diseases characterized by synaptic deficits, like schizophrenia.
A recent genome-wide association study identified the gene encoding lemur tyrosine kinase-2 (LMTK2) as a susceptibility gene for prostate cancer. The identified genetic alteration is within intron 9, but the mechanisms by which LMTK2 may impact upon prostate cancer are not clear because the functions of LMTK2 are poorly understood. Here, we show that LMTK2 regulates a known pathway that controls phosphorylation of kinesin-1 light chain-2 (KLC2) by glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3). KLC2 phosphorylation by GSK3 induces the release of cargo from KLC2. LMTK2 signals via protein phosphatase-1C (PP1C) to increase inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3 on serine-9 that reduces KLC2 phosphorylation and promotes binding of the known KLC2 cargo Smad2. Smad2 signals to the nucleus in response to transforming growth factor- (TGF) receptor stimulation and transport of Smad2 by kinesin-1 is required for this signalling. We show that small interfering RNA loss of LMTK2 not only reduces binding of Smad2 to KLC2, but also inhibits TGF-induced Smad2 signalling. Thus, LMTK2 may regulate the activity of kinesin-1 motor function and Smad2 signalling.
The post-mortem finding of abundant intracerebral accumulation of amyloid- (A) in the cerebral cortex of some people who develop minimal neurofibrillary pathology and remain cognitively intact until death (so-called pathological aging, or PA) challenges the orthodox view of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This issue of Alzheimer's Research and Therapy reports a study by Moore and colleagues, of the McKnight Brain Institute (Gainesville, FL, USA) and the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine (Jacksonville, FL, USA), who have performed the most detailed analysis to date of the levels and types of A that accumulate in such cases. Although the levels of the different forms of A in prefrontal cortex from patients with AD tended to be higher than those from patients with PA, the authors found extensive overlap between the two groups and suggest that PA is likely to represent a prodromal stage of AD. It is also possible that the quantity of A is less important than the extent to which it accumulates intraneuronally or that some people are resistant to its effects - perhaps because of genetically determined differences in the inflammatory and astrocytic reactions to A. The study emphasizes the continuing importance of careful human clinical and post-mortem studies in elucidating the pathogenesis of this disease.


Oxidative stress has been associated with prostate cancer development and progression due to an increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, the mechanisms whereby ROS and the antioxidant system participate in cancer progression remain unclear. In order to clarify the influence of oxidative stress in prostate cancer progression, we performed this study in two human prostate cancer cell lines, PC3 and HPV10 (from metastasis and from localized cancer, respectively) and RWPE1 cells derived from normal prostate epithelium. Cells were treated with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and PC3 cells were also treated with diethyl maleate (DEM). The effect on cell growth, viability, mitochondria membrane potential and oxidative stress was analysed. Oxidative stress was evaluated based on ROS production, oxidative lesion of lipids (MDA) and on determination of antioxidants, including enzyme activity of glutathione peroxidase (Gl-Px), glutathione reductase (Gl-Red) and on the quantification of glutathione (GSH), glutathione-s-transferase (GST) and total antioxidant status (TAS). PC3 shows higher ROS production but also the highest GSH levels and Gl-Red activity, possibly contributing to oxidative stress resistance. This is also associated with higher mitochondrial membrane potential, TAS and lower lipid peroxidation. On the other hand, we identified Gl-Red activity reduction as a new strategy in overcoming oxidative stress resistance, by inducing H2O2 cytotoxicity. Therefore these results suggest Gl-Red activity reduction as a new potential therapeutic approach, in prostate cancer.

Most models assume that top-down attention enhances the gain of sensory neurons tuned to behaviorally relevant stimuli (on-target gain). However, theoretical work suggests that when targets and distracters are highly similar, attention should enhance the gain of neurons that are tuned away from the target, because these neurons better discriminate neighboring features (off-target gain). While it is established that off-target neurons support difficult fine discriminations, it is unclear if top-down attentional gain can be optimally applied to informative off-target sensory neurons or if gain is always applied to on-target neurons, regardless of task demands. To test the optimality of attentional gain in human visual cortex, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging and an encoding model to estimate the response profile across a set of hypothetical orientation-selective channels during a difficult discrimination task. The results suggest that top-down attention can adaptively modulate off-target neural populations, but only when the discriminanda are precisely specified in advance. Furthermore, logistic regression revealed that activation levels in off-target orientation channels predicted behavioral accuracy on a trial-by-trial basis. Overall, these data suggest that attention does not only increase the gain of sensory-evoked responses, but may bias population response profiles in an optimal manner that respects both the tuning properties of sensory neurons and the physical characteristics of the stimulus array.
Although areas of frontal cortex are thought to be critical for maintaining information in visuospatial working memory, the event-related potential (ERP) index of maintenance is found over posterior cortex in humans. In the present study, we reconcile these seemingly contradictory findings. Here, we show that macaque monkeys and humans exhibit the same posterior ERP signature of working memory maintenance that predicts the precision of the memory-based behavioral responses. In addition, we show that the specific pattern of rhythmic oscillations in the alpha band, recently demonstrated to underlie the human visual working memory ERP component, is also present in monkeys. Next, we concurrently recorded intracranial local field potentials from two prefrontal and another frontal cortical area to determine their contribution to the surface potential indexing maintenance. The local fields in the two prefrontal areas, but not the cortex immediately posterior, exhibited amplitude modulations, timing, and relationships to behavior indicating that they contribute to the generation of the surface ERP component measured from the distal posterior electrodes. Rhythmic neural activity in the theta and gamma bands during maintenance provided converging support for the engagement of the same brain regions. These findings demonstrate that nonhuman primates have homologous electrophysiological signatures of visuospatial working memory to those of humans and that a distributed neural network, including frontal areas, underlies the posterior ERP index of visuospatial working memory maintenance.
Studying cognitive processes underlying synesthesia, a condition in which stimulation of one sensory modality automatically leads to abnormal additional sensory perception, allows insights into the neural mechanisms of normal and abnormal cross-modal sensory processing. Consistent with the notion that synesthesia results from hyperconnectivity, functional connectivity analysis (adopting independent component analysis and seed-based correlation analysis) of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data of 12 grapheme-color synesthetes and 12 nonsynesthetic control subjects revealed, in addition to increased intranetwork connectivity, both a global and a specific (medial and lateral visual networks to a right frontoparietal network) increase of intrinsic internetwork connectivity in grapheme-color synesthesia. Moreover, this increased intrinsic network connectivity reflected the strength of synesthetic experiences. These findings constitute the first direct evidence of increased functional network connectivity in synesthesia. In addition to this significant contribution to the understanding of the neural mechanisms of synesthesia, our results have important general implications. In combination with data derived from clinical populations, our data strongly suggest that altered differences in intrinsic network connectivity are directly related to the phenomenology of human experiences.
The molecular mechanism underlying induction by cocaine of FosB, a transcription factor important for addiction, remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate a necessary role for two transcription factors, cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) and serum response factor (SRF), in mediating this induction within the mouse nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region. CREB and SRF are both activated in NAc by cocaine and bind to the fosB gene promoter. Using viral-mediated Cre recombinase expression in the NAc of single- or double-floxed mice, we show that deletion of both transcription factors from this brain region completely blocks cocaine induction of FosB in NAc, whereas deletion of either factor alone has no effect. Furthermore, deletion of both SRF and CREB from NAc renders animals less sensitive to the rewarding effects of moderate doses of cocaine when tested in the conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure and also blocks locomotor sensitization to higher doses of cocaine. Deletion of CREB alone has the opposite effect and enhances both cocaine CPP and locomotor sensitization. In contrast to FosB induction by cocaine, FosB induction in NAc by chronic social stress, which we have shown previously requires activation of SRF, is unaffected by the deletion of CREB alone. These surprising findings demonstrate the involvement of distinct transcriptional mechanisms in mediating FosB induction within this same brain region by cocaine versus stress. Our results also establish a complex mode of regulation of FosB induction in response to cocaine, which requires the concerted activities of both SRF and CREB.
Peripheral nerve hyperexcitability (PNH) is one of the distal peripheral neuropathy phenotypes often present in patients affected by type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Through in vivo and ex vivo electrophysiological recordings in db/db mice, a model of T2DM, we observed that, in addition to reduced nerve conduction velocity, db/db mice also develop PNH. By using pharmacological inhibitors, we demonstrated that the PNH is mediated by the decreased activity of K(v)1-channels. In agreement with these data, we observed that the diabetic condition led to a reduced presence of the K(v)1.2-subunits in juxtaparanodal regions of peripheral nerves in db/db mice and in nerve biopsies from T2DM patients. Together, these observations indicate that the T2DM condition leads to potassium channel-mediated PNH, thus identifying them as a potential drug target to treat some of the DPN related symptoms.
Doublecortin on X chromosome (DCX) is one of two major genetic loci underlying human lissencephaly, a neurodevelopmental disorder with defects in neuronal migration and axon outgrowth. DCX is a microtubule-binding protein, and much work has focused on its microtubule-associated functions. DCX has other reported binding partners, including the cell adhesion molecule neurofascin, but the functional significance of the DCX-neurofascin interaction is not understood. Neurofascin localizes strongly to the axon initial segment in mature neurons, where it plays a role in assembling and maintaining other axon initial segment components. During development, neurofascin likely plays additional roles in axon guidance and in GABAergic synaptogenesis. We show here that DCX can modulate the surface distribution of neurofascin in developing cultured rat neurons and thereby the relative extent of accumulation between the axon initial segment and soma and dendrites. Mechanistically, DCX acts via increasing endocytosis of neurofascin from soma and dendrites. Surprisingly, DCX increases neurofascin endocytosis apparently independently of its microtubule-binding activity. We additionally show that the patient allele DCXG253D still binds microtubules but is deficient in promoting neurofascin endocytosis. We propose that DCX acts as an endocytic adaptor for neurofascin to fine-tune its surface distribution during neuronal development.
Electroencephalographic gamma band oscillations (GBOs) induced over the human primary somatosensory cortex (SI) by nociceptive stimuli have been hypothesized to reflect cortical processing involved directly in pain perception, because their magnitude correlates with pain intensity. However, as stimuli perceived as more painful are also more salient, an alternative interpretation of this correlation is that GBOs reflect unspecific stimulus-triggered attentional processing. In fact, this is suggested by recent observations that other features of the electroencephalographic (EEG) response correlate with pain perception when stimuli are presented in isolation, but not when their saliency is reduced by repetition. Here, by delivering trains of three nociceptive stimuli at a constant 1 s interval, and using different energies to elicit graded pain intensities, we demonstrate that GBOs recorded over SI always predict the subjective pain intensity, even when saliency is reduced by repetition. These results provide evidence for a close relationship between GBOs and the cortical activity subserving pain perception.
During the past few years, The Journal of Neuroscience has published more than 30 articles that describe investigations that used Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) and related techniques as a primary observation method. This illustrates a growing interest in DTI within the basic and clinical neuroscience communities. This article summarizes DTI methodology in terms that can be immediately understood by the neuroscientist who has little previous exposure to DTI. It describes the fundamentals of water molecular diffusion coefficient measurement in brain tissue and illustrates how these fundamentals can be used to form vivid and useful depictions of white matter macroscopic and microscopic anatomy. It also describes current research applications and the technique's attributes and limitations. It is hoped that this article will help the readers of this Journal to more effectively evaluate neuroscience studies that use DTI.

Rapid advances in neuronal probe technology for multisite recording of brain activity have posed a significant challenge to neuroscientists for processing and analyzing the recorded signals. To be able to infer meaningful conclusions quickly and accurately from large datasets, automated and sophisticated signal processing and analysis tools are required. This paper presents a Matlab-based novel tool, &quot;SigMate&quot;, incorporating standard methods to analyze spikes and EEG signals, and in-house solutions for local field potentials (LFPs) analysis. Available modules at present are - 1. In-house developed algorithms for: data display (2D and 3D), file operations (file splitting, file concatenation, and file column rearranging), baseline correction, slow stimulus artifact removal, noise characterization and signal quality assessment, current source density (CSD) analysis, latency estimation from LFPs and CSDs, determination of cortical layer activation order using LFPs and CSDs, and single LFP clustering; 2. Existing modules: spike detection, sorting and spike train analysis, and EEG signal analysis. SigMate has the flexibility of analyzing multichannel signals as well as signals from multiple recording sources. The in-house developed tools for LFP analysis have been extensively tested with signals recorded using standard extracellular recording electrode, and planar and implantable multi transistor array (MTA) based neural probes. SigMate will be disseminated shortly to the neuroscience community under the open-source GNU-General Public License.
While neural recording chambers for non-human primates can be purchased commercially, these generic chambers do not contour to the animal's skull. In order to seal gaps, a cap of dental acrylic (methyl methacrylate) is often applied around the chamber. There are multiple disadvantages associated with this method. Applying acrylic delays and further complicates surgical procedure, and overheating during the curing process can cause damage to the bone. Post-surgery, acrylic margins can give rise to bacterial growth and infection. Here we describe a method to develop custom implants which conform to the individual's skull, thereby eliminating the need for acrylic. This method shortens surgery time and significantly improves the hygiene of chamber margins.
Mitochondrial remodeling (replication, fission/fusion) is a dynamically regulated process with diverse functions in neurons. A myelinated axon is an extension from the cell soma of a fully differentiated neuron. Mitochondria, once synthesized in the cell body, enter the axon displaying robust trafficking and accumulation at nodes of Ranvier to match metabolic needs. This long-distance deployment of mitochondria to axons raises the issue of whether myelinated axons can function independently of the cell body to execute mitochondrial remodeling to match local demands. Mitochondrial fusion has been suggested to occur in axons in simple neuronal cultures in vitro. However, whether such events occur in vivo in an intact nervous system remains unanswered. Here we describe a novel technique which allows monitoring of mitochondrial fusion in intact sciatic nerve of frog (Xenopus laevis). Mitochondrial population was labeled by injecting two different MitoTracker dyes (Red and Green), spatially apart along sciatic nerves surgically and then allow to &quot;meet&quot;in vivo. At 24h post-surgery, the sciatic nerves were taken out for mitochondrial imaging at the half-way point. During the post-injection periods, the anterograde-directed Green mitochondria meet with the retrograde-directed Red mitochondria. If fusion occurs, the merged of Green and Red fluorophores in the same mitochondrion will produce a Yellow color in merged images. The labeled mitochondria were observed with a Nikon A1 confocal microscope. Our new mitochondrial imaging method opens an avenue to separately assess the role of local axonal mitochondrial fusion, independent of the cell body of nerve fibers.
Mutations in the LRRK2 gene are the most common cause of genetic Parkinson's disease. Although the mechanisms behind the pathogenic effects of LRRK2 mutations are still not clear, data emerging from in vitro and in vivo models suggests roles in regulating neuronal polarity, neurotransmission, membrane and cytoskeletal dynamics and protein degradation.We created mice lacking exon 41 that encodes the activation hinge of the kinase domain of LRRK2. We have performed a comprehensive analysis of these mice up to 20 months of age, including evaluation of dopamine storage, release, uptake and synthesis, behavioral testing, dendritic spine and proliferation/neurogenesis analysis.Our results show that the dopaminergic system was not functionally comprised in LRRK2 knockout mice. However, LRRK2 knockout mice displayed abnormal exploratory activity in the open-field test. Moreover, LRRK2 knockout mice stayed longer than their wild type littermates on the accelerated rod during rotarod testing. Finally, we confirm that loss of LRRK2 caused degeneration in the kidney, accompanied by a progressive enhancement of autophagic activity and accumulation of autofluorescent material, but without evidence of biphasic changes.
The co-emergence of a six-layered cerebral neocortex and its corticospinal output system is one of the evolutionary hallmarks of mammals. However, the genetic programs that underlie their development and evolution remain poorly understood. Here we identify a conserved non-exonic element (E4) that acts as a cortex-specific enhancer for the nearby gene Fezf2 (also known as Fezl and Zfp312), which is required for the specification of corticospinal neuron identity and connectivity. We find that SOX4 and SOX11 functionally compete with the repressor SOX5 in the transactivation of E4. Cortex-specific double deletion of Sox4 and Sox11 leads to the loss of Fezf2 expression, failed specification of corticospinal neurons and, independent of Fezf2, a reeler-like inversion of layers. We show evidence supporting the emergence of functional SOX-binding sites in E4 during tetrapod evolution, and their subsequent stabilization in mammals and possibly amniotes. These findings reveal that SOX transcription factors converge onto a cis-acting element of Fezf2 and form critical components of a regulatory network controlling the identity and connectivity of corticospinal neurons.
Since their discovery, the strikingly regular and spatially stable firing of entorhinal grid cells has attracted the attention of experimentalists and theoreticians alike. The bulk of this work has focused either on the assumption that the principal role of grid cells is to support path integration or the extent to which their multiple firing locations can drive the sparse activity of hippocampal place cells. Here, we propose that grid cells are best understood as part of a network that combines self-motion and environmental cues to accurately track an animal's location in space. Furthermore, that grid cells - more so than place cells - efficiently encode self-location in allocentric coordinates. Finally, that the regular structure of grid firing fields represents information about the relative structure of space and, as such, may be used to guide goal directed navigation.
Mice deficient in the recognition molecules, close homolog of L1 (CHL1) and tenascin-C, show improved and reduced functional recovery, respectively, after spinal cord injury compared with wild-type littermates. In this study, we addressed the question whether the differential functional outcome was paralleled by differences in blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) repair in the two mouse strains. We conducted spinal cord compression injuries in knock-out and wild-type mice. BSCB permeability was assessed by measuring the Evans blue spread within the spinal cord tissue at 14-21 days after injury. Results show that CHL1 reduces and tenascin-C enhances BSCB permeability, suggesting a correlation between functional outcome and BSCB repair.
The potential role of stressful life events (SLEs) in the genesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) has been suggested by several authors, but whether the number or the severity or the type of SLEs preceding the onset of OCD has a triggering effect is unclear. Further, sociodemographic and clinical features of OCD preceded by SLEs, and the relationship between type of SLEs and type of obsessive-compulsive symptomatology remain mainly unexplored. The aims of this study were to compare the clinical features of OCD with and without SLEs preceding it and to examine the relationship between type of SLEs and OCD symptom dimensions. The number and type of SLEs which occurred before the onset of OCD were determined in 329 patients: the raters had to decide whether an occurrence 12 months before the onset of OCD would fit any of the 61 items on Paykel's list, and each event reported was carefully investigated in order to determine the exact time of occurrence. At least one event preceded the onset of OCD in 200 patients (60.8%), and this was significantly associated with female gender, abrupt onset of the disorder and somatic obsessions. Moreover, LogReg Analysis identified three specific traumatic events (&quot;hospitalization of a family member&quot;, &quot;major personal physical illness&quot;, &quot;loss of personally valuable object&quot;) significantly associated with a symptom dimension (symmetry obsessions, repeating, ordering/arranging, counting, and checking compulsions). Additional evidence regarding the association among SLE-preceded OCD, female gender, somatic obsessions and symmetry/ordering symptoms should be obtained to advance the understanding of OCD.
We asked 24 schizophrenia patients and 24 healthy comparison subjects to complete a parametric working memory version of the continuous performance test. Patients exhibited a relatively rapid performance decline with increasing working memory demands. We suggest an interaction between sustained attention and working memory abnormalities in schizophrenia.





In higher-order motion stimuli, the direction of object motion does not follow the direction of luminance change. Such stimuli could be generated by the wing movements of a flying butterfly and further complicated by its motion in and out of shadows. Human subjects readily perceive the direction of higher-order motion, although this stands in stark contrast to prevailing motion vision models. Flies and humans compute motion in similar ways, and because flies behaviorally track bars containing higher-order motion cues, they become an attractive model system for investigating the neurophysiology underlying higher-order motion sensitivity. We here use intracellular electrophysiology of motion-vision-sensitive neurons in the hoverfly lobula plate to quantify responses to stimuli containing higher-order motion. We show that motion sensitivity can be broken down into two separate streams, directionally coding for elementary motion and figure motion, respectively, and that responses to Fourier and theta motion can be predicted from these. The sensitivity is affected both by the stimulus' time course and by the neuron's underlying receptive field. Responses to preferred-direction theta motion are sexually dimorphic and particularly robust along the visual midline.
Strong memory of a traumatic event is thought to contribute to the development and symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Therefore, a genetic predisposition to build strong memories could lead to increased risk for PTSD after a traumatic event. Here we show that genetic variability of the gene encoding PKC (PRKCA) was associated with memory capacity--including aversive memory--in nontraumatized subjects of European descent. This finding was replicated in an independent sample of nontraumatized subjects, who additionally underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). fMRI analysis revealed PRKCA genotype-dependent brain activation differences during successful encoding of aversive information. Further, the identified genetic variant was also related to traumatic memory and to the risk for PTSD in heavily traumatized survivors of the Rwandan genocide. Our results indicate a role for PKC in memory and suggest a genetic link between memory and the risk for PTSD.
The size of the human pupil increases as a function of mental effort. However, this response is slow, and therefore its use is thought to be limited to measurements of slow tasks or tasks in which meaningful events are temporally well separated. Here we show that high-temporal-resolution tracking of attention and cognitive processes can be obtained from the slow pupillary response. Using automated dilation deconvolution, we isolated and tracked the dynamics of attention in a fast-paced temporal attention task, allowing us to uncover the amount of mental activity that is critical for conscious perception of relevant stimuli. We thus found evidence for specific temporal expectancy effects in attention that have eluded detection using neuroimaging methods such as EEG. Combining this approach with other neuroimaging techniques can open many research opportunities to study the temporal dynamics of the mind's inner eye in great detail.
It is commonly believed that visual short-term memory (VSTM) consists of a fixed number of &quot;slots&quot; in which items can be stored. An alternative theory in which memory resource is a continuous quantity distributed over all items seems to be refuted by the appearance of guessing in human responses. Here, we introduce a model in which resource is not only continuous but also variable across items and trials, causing random fluctuations in encoding precision. We tested this model against previous models using two VSTM paradigms and two feature dimensions. Our model accurately accounts for all aspects of the data, including apparent guessing, and outperforms slot models in formal model comparison. At the neural level, variability in precision might correspond to variability in neural population gain and doubly stochastic stimulus representation. Our results suggest that VSTM resource is continuous and variable rather than discrete and fixed and might explain why subjective experience of VSTM is not all or none.
Ca(2+)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase (AC) 1 and 8 are two genes that have been shown to play critical roles in fear memory. AC1 and AC8 couple neuronal activity and intracellular Ca(2+) increases to the production of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and are localized synaptically, suggesting that Ca(2+)-stimulated ACs may modulate synaptic plasticity. Here, we first established that Ca(2+)-stimulated ACs modulate protein markers of synaptic activity at baseline and after learning. Primary hippocampal cell cultures showed that AC1/AC8 double-knockout (DKO) mice have reduced SV2, a synaptic vesicle protein, abundance along their dendritic processes, and this reduction can be rescued through lentivirus delivery of AC8 to the DKO cells. Additionally, phospho-synapsin, a protein implicated in the regulation of neurotransmitter release at the synapse, is decreased in vivo 1h after conditioned fear (CF) training in DKO mice. Importantly, additional experiments showed that long-term potentiation deficits present in DKO mice are rescued by acutely replacing AC8 in the forebrain, further supporting the idea that Ca(2+)-stimulated AC activity is a crucial modulator of synaptic plasticity. Previous studies have demonstrated that memory is continually modulated by gene-environment interactions. The last set of experiments evaluated the effects of knocking out AC1 and AC8 genes on experience-dependent changes in CF memory. We showed that the strength of CF memory in wild-type mice is determined by previous environment, minimal or enriched, whereas memory in DKO mice is unaffected. Thus, overall these results show that AC1 and AC8 modulate markers of synaptic activity and help integrate environmental information to modulate fear memory.


Websites opposing vaccination are prevalent on the Internet. Web 2.0, defined by interaction and user-generated content, has become ubiquitous. Furthermore, a new postmodern paradigm of healthcare has emerged, where power has shifted from doctors to patients, the legitimacy of science is questioned, and expertise is redefined. Together this has created an environment where anti-vaccine activists are able to effectively spread their messages. Evidence shows that individuals turn to the Internet for vaccination advice, and suggests such sources can impact vaccination decisions - therefore it is likely that anti-vaccine websites can influence whether people vaccinate themselves or their children. This overview examines the types of rhetoric individuals may encounter online in order to better understand why the anti-vaccination movement can be convincing, despite lacking scientific support for their claims. Tactics and tropes commonly used to argue against vaccination are described. This includes actions such as skewing science, shifting hypotheses, censoring dissent, and attacking critics; also discussed are frequently made claims such as not being &quot;anti-vaccine&quot; but &quot;pro-safe vaccines&quot;, that vaccines are toxic or unnatural, and more. Recognizing disingenuous claims made by the anti-vaccination movement is essential in order to critically evaluate the information and misinformation encountered online.

Microglial activation and alterations in neuron number have been reported in autism. However, it is unknown whether microglial activation in the disorder includes a neuron-directed microglial response that might reflect neuronal dysfunction, or instead indicates a non-directed, pro-activation brain environment. To address this question, we examined microglial and neuronal organization in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a region of pronounced early brain overgrowth in autism, via spatial pattern analysis of 13 male postmortem autism subjects and 9 controls. We report that microglia are more frequently present near neurons in the autism cases at a distance interval of 25 m, as well as 75 and 100 m. Many interactions are observed between near-distance microglia and neurons that appear to involve encirclement of the neurons by microglial processes. Analysis of a young subject subgroup preliminarily suggests that this alteration may be present from an early age in autism. We additionally observed that neuron-neuron clustering, although normal in cases with autism as a whole, increases with advancing age in autism, suggesting a gradual loss of normal neuronal organization in the disorder. Microglia-microglia organization is normal in autism at all ages, indicating that aberrantly close microglia-neuron association in the disorder is not a result of altered microglial distribution. Our findings confirm that at least some microglial activation in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in autism is associated with a neuron-specific reaction, and suggest that neuronal organization may degrade later in life in the disorder.
The elaborate courtship ritual of Drosophila males is dictated by neural circuitry established by the transcription factor Fruitless and triggered by sex-specific sensory cues. Deciphering the role of different stimuli in driving courtship behavior has been limited by the inability to selectively target appropriate sensory classes. Here, we identify two ion channel genes belonging to the degenerin/epithelial sodium channel/pickpocket (ppk) family, ppk23 and ppk29, which are expressed in fruitless-positive neurons on the legs and are essential for courtship. Gene loss-of-function, cell-inactivation, and cell-activation experiments demonstrate that these genes and neurons are necessary and sufficient to inhibit courtship toward males and promote courtship toward females. Moreover, these cells respond to cuticular hydrocarbons, with different cells selectively responding to male or female pheromones. These studies identify a large population of pheromone-sensing neurons and demonstrate the essential role of contact chemosensation in the early courtship steps of mate selection and courtship initiation.
AnkyrinG (ankG) is highly enriched in neurons at axon initial segments (AISs) where it clusters Na(+) and K(+) channels and maintains neuronal polarity. How ankG becomes concentrated at the AIS is unknown. Here, we show that as neurons break symmetry, they assemble a distal axonal submembranous cytoskeleton, comprised of ankyrinB (ankB), II-spectrin, and II-spectrin, that defines a boundary limiting ankG to the proximal axon. Experimentally moving this boundary altered the length of ankG staining in the proximal axon, whereas disruption of the boundary through silencing of ankB, II-spectrin, or II-spectrin expression blocked AIS assembly and permitted ankG to redistribute throughout the distal axon. In support of an essential role for the distal cytoskeleton in ankG clustering, we also found that II and II-spectrin-deficient mice had disrupted AIS. Thus, the distal axonal cytoskeleton functions as an intra-axonal boundary restricting ankG to the AIS.
Photographers, cinematographers, and computer-graphics engineers use certain techniques to create striking pictorial effects. By using lenses of different focal lengths, they can make a scene look compressed or expanded in depth, make a familiar object look natural or distorted, or make a person look smarter, more attractive, or more neurotic. We asked why pictures taken with a certain focal length look natural, while those taken with other focal lengths look distorted. We found that people's preferred viewing distance when looking at pictures leads them to view long-focal-length pictures from too near and short-focal-length pictures from too far. Perceptual distortions occur because people do not take their incorrect viewing distances into account. By following the rule of thumb of using a 50-mm lens, photographers greatly increase the odds of a viewer looking at a photograph from the correct distance, where the percept will be undistorted. Our theory leads to new guidelines for creating pictorial effects that are more effective than conventional guidelines.
Humans often perform visually guided arm movements in a dynamic environment. To accurately plan visually guided manual tracking movements, the brain should ideally transform the retinal velocity input into a spatially appropriate motor plan, taking the three-dimensional (3D) eye-head-shoulder geometry into account. Indeed, retinal and spatial target velocity vectors generally do not align because of different eye-head postures. Alternatively, the planning could be crude (based only on retinal information) and the movement corrected online using visual feedback. This study aims to investigate how accurate the motor plan generated by the central nervous system is. We computed predictions about the movement plan if the eye and head position are taken into account (spatial hypothesis) or not (retinal hypothesis). For the motor plan to be accurate, the brain should compensate for the head roll and resulting ocular counterroll as well as the misalignment between retinal and spatial coordinates when the eyes lie in oblique gaze positions. Predictions were tested on human subjects who manually tracked moving targets in darkness and were compared to the initial arm direction, reflecting the motor plan. Subjects spatially accurately tracked the target, although imperfectly. Therefore, the brain takes the 3D eye-head-shoulder geometry into account for the planning of visually guided manual tracking.

Many animals rely on Earth's magnetic field for spatial orientation and navigation. However, how the brain receives and interprets magnetic field information is unknown. Support for the existence of magnetic receptors in the vertebrate retina, beak, nose, and inner ear has been proposed, and immediate gene expression markers have identified several brain regions activated by magnetic stimulation, but the central neural mechanisms underlying magnetoreception remain unknown. Here we describe neuronal responses in the pigeon's brainstem that show how single cells encode magnetic field direction, intensity, and polarity; qualities that are necessary to derive an internal model representing directional heading and geosurface location. Our findings demonstrate that there is a neural substrate for a vertebrate magnetic sense.

Neuropathic pain is a chronic debilitating disease characterized by mechanical allodynia and spontaneous pain. Because symptoms are often unresponsive to conventional methods of pain treatment, new therapeutic approaches are essential. Here, we describe a strategy that not only ameliorates symptoms of neuropathic pain but is also potentially disease modifying. We show that transplantation of immature telencephalic GABAergic interneurons from the mouse medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) into the adult mouse spinal cord completely reverses the mechanical hypersensitivity produced by peripheral nerve injury. Underlying this improvement is a remarkable integration of the MGE transplants into the host spinal cord circuitry, in which the transplanted cells make functional connections with both primary afferent and spinal cord neurons. By contrast, MGE transplants were not effective against inflammatory pain. Our findings suggest that MGE-derived GABAergic interneurons overcome the spinal cord hyperexcitability that is a hallmark of nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain.
In publications, presentations, and popular media, scientific results are predominantly communicated through graphs. But are these figures clear and honest or misleading? We examine current practices in data visualization and discuss improvements, advocating design choices which reveal data rather than hide it.
In many parts of the developing vertebrate nervous system, axons are pruned to establish mature patterns of connectivity. In this issue of Neuron, Schafer et al. (2012) show that microglia may play a role in developmental axon pruning in the thalamus by engulfing presynaptic retinal ganglion cell terminals via a C3- and CR3-dependent mechanism.


When sharing load among multiple muscles, humans appear to select an optimal pattern of activation that minimizes costs such as the effort or variability of movement. How the nervous system achieves this behavior, however, is unknown. Here we show that contrary to predictions from optimal control theory, habitual muscle activation patterns are surprisingly robust to changes in limb biomechanics. We first developed a method to simulate joint forces in real time from electromyographic recordings of the wrist muscles. When the model was altered to simulate the effects of paralyzing a muscle, the subjects simply increased the recruitment of all muscles to accomplish the task, rather than recruiting only the useful muscles. When the model was altered to make the force output of one muscle unusually noisy, the subjects again persisted in recruiting all muscles rather than eliminating the noisy one. Such habitual coordination patterns were also unaffected by real modifications of biomechanics produced by selectively damaging a muscle without affecting sensory feedback. Subjects naturally use different patterns of muscle contraction to produce the same forces in different pronation-supination postures, but when the simulation was based on a posture different from the actual posture, the recruitment patterns tended to agree with the actual rather than the simulated posture. The results appear inconsistent with computation of motor programs by an optimal controller in the brain. Rather, the brain may learn and recall command programs that result in muscle coordination patterns generated by lower sensorimotor circuitry that are functionally &quot;good-enough.&quot;
Successful spatial navigation is thought to employ a combination of at least two strategies: the following of landmark cues and path integration. Path integration requires that the brain use the speed and direction of movement in a meaningful way to continuously compute the position of the animal. Indeed, the running speed of rats modulates both the firing rate of neurons and the spectral properties of low frequency, theta oscillations seen in the local field potential (LFP) of the hippocampus, a region important for spatial memory formation. Higher frequency, gamma-band LFP oscillations are usually associated with decision-making, increased attention, and improved reaction times. Here, we show that increased running speed is accompanied by large, systematic increases in the frequency of hippocampal CA1 network oscillations spanning the entire gamma range (30-120 Hz) and beyond. These speed-dependent changes in frequency are seen on both linear tracks and two-dimensional platforms, and are thus independent of the behavioral task. Synchrony between anatomically distant CA1 regions also shifts to higher gamma frequencies as running speed increases. The changes in frequency are strongly correlated with changes in the firing rates of individual interneurons, consistent with models of gamma generation. Our results suggest that as a rat runs faster, there are faster gamma frequency transitions between sequential place cell-assemblies. This may help to preserve the spatial specificity of place cells and spatial memories at vastly different running speeds.
Rhesus monkeys provide a valuable model for studying the neurobiological basis of cognitive aging, because they are vulnerable to age-related memory decline in a manner similar to humans. In this study, young and aged monkeys were first tested on a well characterized recognition memory test (delayed nonmatching-to-sample; DNMS). Then, electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was performed to determine the subcellular localization of two proteins in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG): the GluA2 subunit of the glutamate AMPA receptor and the atypical protein kinase C  isoform (PKM). PKM promotes memory storage by regulating GluA2-containing AMPA receptor trafficking. Thus, we examined whether the distribution of GluA2 and PKM is altered with aging in DG axospinous synapses and whether it is coupled with memory deficits. Monkeys with faster DNMS task acquisition and more accurate recognition memory exhibited higher proportions of dendritic spines coexpressing GluA2 and PKM. These double-labeled spines had larger synapses, as measured by postsynaptic density area, than single-labeled and unlabeled spines. Within this population of double-labeled spines, aged monkeys compared with young expressed a lower density of synaptic GluA2 immunogold labeling, which correlated with lower recognition accuracy. Additionally, higher density of synaptic PKM labeling in double-labeled spines correlated with both faster task acquisition and better retention. Together, these findings suggest that age-related impairment in maintenance of GluA2 at the synapse in the primate hippocampus is coupled with memory deficits.
Growing and regenerating axons need to interact with the molecules in the extracellular matrix as they traverse through their environment. An important group of receptors that serve this function is the integrin superfamily of cell surface receptors, which are evolutionarily conserved  heterodimeric transmembrane proteins. The function of integrins is controlled by regulating the affinity for ligands (also called &quot;integrin activation&quot;). Previous results have shown that CNS inhibitory molecules inactivate axonal integrins, while enhancing integrin activation can promote axon growth from neurons cultured on inhibitory substrates. We tested two related molecules, kindlin-1 and kindlin-2 (Fermitin family members 1 and 2), that can activate 1, 2, and 3 integrins, for their effects on integrin signaling and integrin-mediated axon growth in rat sensory neurons. We determined that kindlin-2, but not kindlin-1, is endogenously expressed in the nervous system. Knocking down kindlin-2 levels in cultured sensory neurons impaired their ability to extend axons, but this was partially rescued by kindlin-1 expression. Overexpression of kindlin-1, but not kindlin-2, in cultured neurons increased axon growth on an inhibitory aggrecan substrate. This was found to be associated with enhanced integrin activation and signaling within the axons. Additionally, in an in vivo rat dorsal root injury model, transduction of dorsal root ganglion neurons to express kindlin-1 promoted axon regeneration across the dorsal root entry zone and into the spinal cord. These animals demonstrated improved recovery of thermal sensation following injury. Our results therefore suggest that kindlin-1 is a potential tool for improving axon regeneration after nervous system lesions.
Recognition memory can be supported by the processes of recollection and familiarity. Recollection is recovery of qualitative information about a prior event. Familiarity is a scalar strength signal that permits judgments of prior occurrence. There is vigorous debate about how these processes are conceptualized, how they contribute to memory judgments, and which brain regions support them. One popular method for investigating these questions is the Remember/Know procedure, where subjects give a Remember response to studied stimuli for which they can recover contextual details of the study encounter, and a Know response when details are not recovered but subjects nevertheless believe that a stimulus was studied. According to one model, Remember responses are strong memories that are typically associated with relatively high levels of recollection and familiarity. Know responses are weaker memories and are typically associated with lower levels of both processes. Data inconsistent with this account were obtained in this experiment, where magnetoencephalographic (MEG) measures of neural activity were acquired in the test phase of a verbal memory task where healthy human volunteers made Remember, Know, or New judgments to studied and unstudied words. An MEG index of the process of recollection was larger for Remember than Know judgments, whereas the reverse was true for a MEG index of familiarity. Critically, this result is predicted by a model where recollection and familiarity make independent contributions to Remember and Know judgments, and provides a powerful constraint when mapping memory processes onto their neural substrates.
Human perception is supported by regions of ventral visual cortex that become active when specific types of information appear in the environment. This coupling has led to a common assumption in cognitive neuroscience that stimulus-evoked activity in these regions only reflects information about the current stimulus. Here we challenge this assumption for how scenes are represented in a scene-selective region of parahippocampal cortex. This region treated two identical scenes as more similar when they were preceded in time by the same stimuli compared to when they were preceded by different stimuli. These findings suggest that parahippocampal cortex embeds scenes in their temporal context to determine what they represent. By integrating the past and present, such representations may support the encoding and navigation of complex environments.
Tau is a microtubule (MT)-stabilizing protein that is altered in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies. It is hypothesized that the hyperphosphorylated, conformationally altered, and multimeric forms of tau lead to a disruption of MT stability; however, direct evidence is lacking in vivo. In this study, an in vivo stable isotope-mass spectrometric technique was used to measure the turnover, or dynamicity, of MTs in brains of living animals. We demonstrated an age-dependent increase in MT dynamics in two different tau transgenic mouse models, 3xTg and rTg4510. MT hyperdynamicity was dependent on tau expression, since a reduction of transgene expression with doxycycline reversed the MT changes. Treatment of rTg4510 mice with the epothilone, BMS-241027, also restored MT dynamics to baseline levels. In addition, MT stabilization with BMS-241027 had beneficial effects on Morris water maze deficits, tau pathology, and neurodegeneration. Interestingly, pathological and functional benefits of BMS-241027 were observed at doses that only partially reversed MT hyperdynamicity. Together, these data suggest that tau-mediated loss of MT stability may contribute to disease progression and that very low doses of BMS-241027 may be useful in the treatment of AD and other tauopathies.








The prospective pyramidal neurons, migrating from the proliferative ventricular zone to the overlaying cortical plate, assume multipolar morphology while passing through the transient subventricular zone. Here, we show that this morphogenetic transformation, from the bipolar to the mutipolar and then back to bipolar again, is associated with expression of connexin 43 (Cx43) and, that knockdown of Cx43 retards, whereas its overexpression enhances, this morphogenetic process. In addition, we have observed that knockdown of Cx43 reduces expression of p27, whereas overexpression of p27 rescues the effect of Cx43 knockdown in the multipolar neurons. Furthermore, functional gap junction/hemichannel domain, and the C-terminal domain of Cx43, independently enhance the expression of p27 and promote the morphological transformation and migration of the multipolar neurons in the SVZ/IZ. Collectively, these results indicate that Cx43 regulates the passage of migrating neurons through their multipolar stage via p27 signaling and that interference with this process, by either genetic and/or environmental factors, may cause cortical malformations.
The dopamine system has been suggested to play a role in social anxiety disorder (SAD), partly based on molecular imaging studies showing reduced levels of striatal dopaminergic markers in patients compared with control subjects. However, the dopamine system has not been examined in frontal and limbic brain regions proposed to be central in the pathophysiology of SAD. In the present study, we hypothesized that extrastriatal dopamine D2-receptor (D2-R) levels measured using positron emission tomography (PET) would predict symptom reduction after cognitive behavior therapy (CBT). Nine SAD patients were examined using high-resolution PET and the high-affinity D2-R antagonist radioligand [(11)C]FLB 457, before and after 15 weeks of CBT. Symptom levels were assessed using the anxiety subscale of Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS(anx)). At posttreatment, there was a statistically significant reduction of social anxiety symptoms (P&lt;0.005). Using a repeated measures analysis of covariance, significant effects for time and time  LSAS(anx) change on D2-R-binding potential (BP(ND)) were shown (P&lt;0.05). In a subsequent region-by-region analysis, negative correlations between change in D2-R BP(ND) and LSAS(anx) change were found for medial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus (P&lt;0.05). This is the first study to report a direct relationship between symptom change after psychological treatment and a marker of brain neurotransmission. Using an intra-individual comparison design, the study supports a role for the dopamine system in cortical and limbic brain regions in the pathophysiology of SAD.
Phenylalanine is an essential amino acid required for the synthesis of catecholamines including dopamine. Altered levels of phenylalanine and its metabolites in blood and cerebrospinal fluid have been reported in schizophrenia patients. This study attempted to examine for the first time whether phenylalanine kinetics is altered in schizophrenia using L-[1-(13)C]phenylalanine breath test ((13)C-PBT). The subjects were 20 chronically medicated schizophrenia patients (DSM-IV) and the same number of age- and sex-matched controls. (13)C-phenylalanine (99 atom% (13)C; 100 mg) was administered orally and the breath (13)CO(2) /(12)CO(2) ratio was monitored for 120 min. The possible effect of antipsychotic medication (risperidone (RPD) or haloperidol (HPD) treatment for 21 days) on (13)C-PBT was examined in rats. Body weight (BW), age and diagnostic status were significant predictors of the area under the curve of the time course of (13)CO(2) () and the cumulative recovery rate (CRR) at 120 min. A repeated measures analysis of covariance controlled for age and BW revealed that the patterns of CRR change over time differed between the patients and controls and that (13)CO(2) was lower in the patients than in the controls at all sampling time points during the 120 min test, with an overall significant difference between the two groups. Chronic administration of RPD or HPD had no significant effect on (13)C-PBT indices in rats. Our results suggest that (13)C-PBT is a novel laboratory test that can detect altered phenylalanine kinetics in chronic schizophrenia patients. Animal experiments suggest that the observed changes are unlikely to be attributable to antipsychotic medication.

Following peripheral nerve injury, retrograde signals originating from the injury site may activate intrinsic factors in the injured neurons, possibly leading to regenerative growth. Retrograde influences from peripheral injury sites may lead to the activation of glial cells in the vicinity of the centrally located cell bodies of the injured neurons. Few studies have examined changes in the spinal cord intermediolateral cell column (IML), which houses sympathetic preganglionic cell bodies, following injury to distal axons in the cervical sympathetic trunk (CST). The goal of the present study was to determine if transection of the CST results in plasticity in glial cells in the IML. At 1 day following injury, changes in the expression of microglial marker Iba1 were observed and the typical oligodendrocyte-neuronal relationship was altered. By 7 days, astrogliosis, microglial aggregation, and increased numbers of oligodendrocytes, as well as enhanced glial-glial and glial-neuronal relationships were present. The majority of cases were similar to controls at 3 weeks following injury and no changes were observed in any cases at 10 weeks following the injury. These results revealed changes in astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes in the spinal cord following transection of preganglionic axons comprising the CST, indicating their ability to respond to distal axonal injury.
Increased antagonist muscle co-activation of the lower limb during walking seems to be an adaptive process to the physiological changes of aging, in order to gain joint stability. In the healthy subjects this view seems to be reinforced by the fact that the co-activation index (CAI) increases when the gait is faster. The few reports on antagonist co-activation in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients indicate that they have larger co-activation than the healthy elderly, supporting the idea of the stabilization role of CAI during gait, as postural instability is a cardinal feature of PD. However it has also been reported that there is a reduction of the CAI when increasing velocity in PD or normal elderly. This questions the role of co-activation in stabilization during increased velocity. In this study we have analyzed the gait of healthy subjects (young and elderly), and PD patients (with and without freezing of gait, FOG) in order to better understand the relation between co-activation and gait kinematics, and to gain insight into the pathological changes associated with FOG in PD. We used Multiple Linear Regression models to study the relationship in shank muscles between CAI, velocity and cadence. Our results indicate that, for all groups of interest, the relationship between co-activation and the kinematics of gait is poor, due to the high degree of variability, questioning the explanatory value of the index.
Interference between competing memories is a major source of retrieval failure, yet, surprisingly little is known about how competitive memory activation arises in the brain. One possibility is that interference during episodic retrieval might be produced by relatively automatic conceptual priming mechanisms that are independent of strategic retrieval processes. Such priming-driven interference might occur when the competing memories have strong pre-existing associations to the retrieval cue. We used ERPs to measure the neural dynamics of retrieval competition, and investigated whether the ERP correlates of interference were affected by varying task demands for selective retrieval. Participants encoded cue words that were presented either two or four times, paired either with the same or different strongly associated words across repetitions. In a subsequent test, participants either selectively recalled each cue's most recent associate, or simply judged how many times a cue had been presented, without requiring selective recall. Interference effects on test performance were only seen in the recall task. In contrast, ERPs during test revealed an early posterior positivity for high interference items that was present in both retrieval tasks. This early ERP effect likely reflects a conceptual priming-related N400 reduction when many associations to a cue were pre-activated. A later parietal positivity resembling the ERP correlate of conscious recollection was found only in the recall task. The results suggest that early effects of proactive interference are relatively automatic and independent of intentional retrieval processes, consistent with suggestions that interference can arise through conceptual priming.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major phytocannabinoid constituent of cannabis, is attracting growing attention in medicine for its anxiolytic, antipsychotic, antiemetic and anti-inflammatory properties. However, up to this point, a comprehensive literature review of the effects of CBD in humans is lacking. The aim of the present systematic review is to examine the randomized and crossover studies that administered CBD to healthy controls and to clinical patients. A systematic search was performed in the electronic databases PubMed and EMBASE using the key word &quot;cannabidiol&quot;. Both monotherapy and combination studies (e.g., CBD + 9-THC) were included. A total of 34 studies were identified: 16 of these were experimental studies, conducted in healthy subjects, and 18 were conducted in clinical populations, including multiple sclerosis (six studies), schizophrenia and bipolar mania (four studies), social anxiety disorder (two studies), neuropathic and cancer pain (two studies), cancer anorexia (one study), Huntington's disease (one study), insomnia (one study), and epilepsy (one study). Experimental studies indicate that a high-dose of inhaled/intravenous CBD is required to inhibit the effects of a lower dose of 9-THC. Moreover, some experimental and clinical studies suggest that oral/oromucosal CBD may prolong and/or intensify 9-THC-induced effects, whereas others suggest that it may inhibit 9-THC-induced effects. Finally, preliminary clinical trials suggest that high-dose oral CBD (150-600 mg/d) may exert a therapeutic effect for social anxiety disorder, insomnia and epilepsy, but also that it may cause mental sedation. Potential pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic explanations for these results are discussed.
Spondylolisthesis is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by subluxation of a vertebral body over another in the sagittal plane. Its most common form is isthmic spondylolisthesis (IS). This study aims to compare clinical outcomes of posterolateral fusion (PLF) with posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF) with posterior instrumentation in the treatment of IS. We performed a randomized prospective study in which 80 patients out of a total of 85 patients with IS were randomly allocated to one of two groups: PLF with posterior instrumentation (group I) or PLIF with posterior instrumentation (group II). Posterior decompression was performed in the patients. The Oswestry low back pain disability (OLBP) scale and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) were used to evaluate the quality of life (QoL) and pain, respectively. Fisher's exact test was used to evaluate fusion rate and the Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare categorical data. Fusion in group II was significantly better than in group I (p=0.012). Improvement in low back pain was statistically more significant in group I (p=0.001). The incidence of neurogenic claudication was significantly lower in group I than in group II (p=0.004). In group I, there was no significant correlation between slip Meyerding grade and disc space height, radicular pain, and low back pain. There was no significant difference in post-operative complications at 1-year follow-up. Our data showed that PLF with posterior instrumentation provides better clinical outcomes and more improvement in low back pain compared to PLIF with posterior instrumentation despite the low fusion rate.
Traumatic neuroma in continuity (NIC) results in profound neurological deficits, and its management poses the most challenging problem to peripheral nerve surgeons today. The absence of a clinically relevant experimental model continues to handicap our ability to investigate ways of better diagnosis and treatment for these disabling injuries. Various injury techniques were tested on Lewis rat sciatic nerves. Optimal experimental injuries that consistently resulted in NIC combined both intense focal compression and traction forces. Nerves were harvested at 0, 5, 13, 21, and 65 days for histological examination. Skilled locomotion and ground reaction force (GRF) analysis were performed up to 9 weeks on the experimental (n=6) and crush-control injuries (n=5). Focal widening, disruption of endoneurium and perineurium with aberrant intra- and extrafascicular axonal regeneration and progressive fibrosis was consistently demonstrated in 14 of 14 nerves with refined experimental injuries. At 8 weeks, experimental animals displayed a significantly greater slip ratio in both skilled locomotor assessments, compared to nerve crush animals (p&lt;0.01). GRFs of the crush- injured animals showed earlier improvement compared to the experimental animals, whose overall GRF patterns failed to recover as well as the crush group. We have demonstrated histological features and poor functional recovery consistent with NIC formation in a rat model. The injury mechanism employed combines traction and compression forces akin to the physical forces at play in clinical nerve injuries. This model may serve as a tool to help diagnose this injury earlier and to develop intervention strategies to improve patient outcomes.
Treatment for cauda equina (CE) ventral root injury is currently limited. Furthermore, relatively little is known about the time course of nerve root functional degeneration after such injury has occurred. Using a previously developed method for identifying spinal nerve roots that innervate the rat tail, we transected S2, S3, and S4 ventral roots and measured their ability to activate tail muscles out to 72 h post-injury by way of stimulus-evoked electromyography (EMG) recording. Immediately following transection, all distal ventral root stumps successfully activated muscles in the tail upon stimulation with no change in stimulus threshold (0.070.04 to 0.070.06 V using 0.1-msec pulse duration; 0.040.02 to 0.040.02 V using 1.0-msec pulse duration). Thresholds increased incrementally at each later time point (24 h: 0.270.33 V using 0.1-msec pulse duration; 0.090.07 V using 1-msec pulse duration; 48 h: 0.571.00 V using 0.1-msec pulse duration; 0.561.09 V using 1-msec pulse duration), with the first complete absence of EMG noted at 48 h post-transection in a subset of nerve roots (4/12). We were not able to elicit EMG at 72 h post-transection without moving distally along the nerve root stump. Based on neurofilament staining, only 51% of axons were identifiably intact nearest the site of injury at 24 h post-injury. This percentage dropped to 39% at 48 h, and just 18% at 72 h. Moving 5 mm from the site of injury, we identified 83% intact axons at 24 h post-transection, 77% at 48 h, and 68% at 72 h. Regenerative implications aside, if electrophysiological mapping of injured nerve roots is to be carried out for repair purposes, the rapid nature of conduction failure needs to be considered.
We learn complex skills such as speech and dance through a gradual process of trial and error. Cortical-basal ganglia circuits have an important yet unresolved function in this trial-and-error skill learning; influential 'actor-critic' models propose that basal ganglia circuits generate a variety of behaviours during training and learn to implement the successful behaviours in their repertoire. Here we show that the anterior forebrain pathway (AFP), a cortical-basal ganglia circuit, contributes to skill learning even when it does not contribute to such 'exploratory' variation in behavioural performance during training. Blocking the output of the AFP while training Bengalese finches to modify their songs prevented the gradual improvement that normally occurs in this complex skill during training. However, unblocking the output of the AFP after training caused an immediate transition from naive performance to excellent performance, indicating that the AFP covertly gained the ability to implement learned skill performance without contributing to skill practice. In contrast, inactivating the output nucleus of the AFP during training completely prevented learning, indicating that learning requires activity within the AFP during training. Our results suggest a revised model of skill learning: basal ganglia circuits can monitor the consequences of behavioural variation produced by other brain regions and then direct those brain regions to implement more successful behaviours. The ability of the AFP to identify successful performances generated by other brain regions indicates that basal ganglia circuits receive a detailed efference copy of premotor activity in those regions. The capacity of the AFP to implement successful performances that were initially produced by other brain regions indicates precise functional connections between basal ganglia circuits and the motor regions that directly control performance.
The identification of intrinsic factors required for propagation of self-renewing embryonic stem (ES) cells is important to improve the efficiency of expansion of ES cells for therapeutic purposes. Here, we report a novel role for natriuretic peptide receptor-C (NPR-C) in the survival of murine ES cells. We found that NPR-C was highly expressed in ES cells and was downregulated during ES cell differentiation. Knockdown of NPR-C in ES cells by using a small-interfering RNA resulted in apoptotic cell death, and the induction of p53 protein expression. Conversely, chemical inhibition of p53 by -pifithrin significantly reduced apoptosis in NPR-C-deficient cells. cANF((4-23)), a selective NPR-C agonist, protected ES cells against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis, and blocked activation of p53 and Nanog suppression in the presence of DNA-damaging agents. Thus, NPR-C is required to control DNA damage-induced p53 levels to maintain ES cell self-renewal.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a mitogen widely used when culturing adult neural stem cells in vitro. Although proliferative effects can also be observed in vivo, intracerebroventricular infusion of EGF has been found to counteract neuronal determination and promote glial differentiation instead. However, EGF receptor activation has different effects on the subventricular zone (SVZ) in mice and rats, possibly because of species differences in SVZ cell composition. Specifically in the rat, EGF stimulation of the SVZ induces the formation of hyperplastic polyps. The present study aims at molecular and morphological characterization of these subventricular polyps. Using immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and gene expression analysis, we demonstrate in hyperplastic EGF-induced polyps an upregulation in protein expression of Sox2, Olig2, GFAP, nestin, and vimentin. We found polyp-specific dysplastic changes in the form of coexpression of Sox2 and Olig2. This highly proliferative, Sox2/Olig2 coexpressing dysplastic cell type is &gt;10-fold enriched in the hyperplastic polyps compared with control SVZ and most likely causes the polyp formation. Unique ultrastructural features of the polyps include a lack of ependymal cell lining as well as a large number of cells with large, light, ovoid nuclei and a cytoplasm with abundant ribosomes, whereas other polyp cells contain invaginated nuclei but fewer ribosomes. EGF also induced changes in the expression of Id genes Id1, Id2, and Id4 in the SVZ. Taken together, we here demonstrate dysplastic, structural, and phenotypical changes in the rat SVZ following EGF stimulation, which are specific to hyperplastic polyps.
Condorcet (1785) proposed that a majority vote drawn from individual, independent and fallible (but not totally uninformed) opinions provides near-perfect accuracy if the number of voters is adequately large. Research in social psychology has since then repeatedly demonstrated that collectives can and do fail more often than expected by Condorcet. Since human collective decisions often follow from exchange of opinions, these failures provide an exquisite opportunity to understand human communication of metacognitive confidence. This question can be addressed by recasting collective decision-making as an information-integration problem similar to multisensory (cross-modal) perception. Previous research in systems neuroscience shows that one brain can integrate information from multiple senses nearly optimally. Inverting the question, we ask: under what conditions can two brains integrate information about one sensory modality optimally? We review recent work that has taken this approach and report discoveries about the quantitative limits of collective perceptual decision-making, and the role of the mode of communication and feedback in collective decision-making. We propose that shared metacognitive confidence conveys the strength of an individual's opinion and its reliability inseparably. We further suggest that a functional role of shared metacognition is to provide substitute signals in situations where outcome is necessary for learning but unavailable or impossible to establish.
Many complex systems maintain a self-referential check and balance. In animals, such reflective monitoring and control processes have been grouped under the rubric of metacognition. In this introductory article to a Theme Issue on metacognition, we review recent and rapidly progressing developments from neuroscience, cognitive psychology, computer science and philosophy of mind. While each of these areas is represented in detail by individual contributions to the volume, we take this opportunity to draw links between disciplines, and highlight areas where further integration is needed. Specifically, we cover the definition, measurement, neurobiology and possible functions of metacognition, and assess the relationship between metacognition and consciousness. We propose a framework in which level of representation, order of behaviour and access consciousness are orthogonal dimensions of the conceptual landscape.


Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive lipid that serves as an extracellular signaling molecule acting through cognate G protein-coupled receptors designated LPA(1-6) that mediate a wide range of both normal and pathological effects. Previously, LPA(1), a G(i)-coupled receptor (which also couples to other G() proteins) to reduce cAMP, was shown to be essential for the initiation of neuropathic pain in the partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL) mouse model. Subsequent gene expression studies identified LPA(5), a G(12/13)- and G(q)-coupled receptor that increases cAMP, in a subset of dorsal root ganglion neurons and also within neurons of the spinal cord dorsal horn in a pattern complementing, yet distinct from LPA(1), suggesting its possible involvement in neuropathic pain. We therefore generated an Lpar5 null mutant by targeted deletion followed by PSNL challenge. Homozygous null mutants did not show obvious base-line phenotypic defects. However, following PSNL, LPA(5)-deficient mice were protected from developing neuropathic pain. They also showed reduced phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein expression within neurons of the dorsal horn despite continued up-regulation of the characteristic pain-related markers Ca(2)(1) and glial fibrillary acidic protein, results that were distinct from those previously observed for LPA(1) deletion. These data expand the influences of LPA signaling in neuropathic pain through a second LPA receptor subtype, LPA(5), involving a mechanistically distinct downstream signaling pathway compared with LPA(1).
Rapid phagocytosis of non-opsonized particles including apoptotic cells is an important process that involves direct recognition of the target by multiple scavenger receptors including P2X7 on the phagocyte surface. Using a real-time phagocytosis assay, we studied the effect of serum proteins on this phagocytic process. Inclusion of 1-5% serum completely abolished phagocytosis of non-opsonized YG beads by human monocytes. Inhibition was reversed by pretreatment of serum with 1-10 mM tetraethylenepentamine, a copper/zinc chelator. Inhibitory proteins from the serum were determined as negatively charged glycoproteins (pI &lt; 6) with molecular masses between 100 and 300 kDa. A glycoprotein-rich inhibitory fraction of serum not only abolished YG bead uptake but also inhibited phagocytosis of apoptotic lymphocytes or neuronal cells by human monocyte-derived macrophages. Three copper- and/or zinc-containing serum glycoproteins, ceruloplasmin, serum amyloid P-component, and amyloid precursor protein, were identified, and the purified proteins were shown to inhibit the phagocytosis of beads by monocytes as well as phagocytosis of apoptotic neuronal cells by macrophages. Human adult cerebrospinal fluid, which contains very little glycoprotein, had no inhibitory effect on phagocytosis of either beads or apoptotic cells. These data suggest for the first time that metal-interacting glycoproteins present within serum are able to inhibit the scavenger activity of mononuclear phagocytes toward insoluble debris and apoptotic cells.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) are a unique type of glia that are responsible for the myelination of the central nervous system. OPC migration is important for myelin formation during central nervous system development and repair. However, the precise extracellular and intracellular mechanisms that regulate OPC migration remain elusive. Slits were reported to regulate neurodevelopmental processes such as migration, adhesion, axon guidance, and elongation through binding to roundabout receptors (Robos). However, the potential roles of Slits/Robos in oligodendrocytes remain unknown. In this study, Slit2 was found to be involved in regulating the dispersal of OPCs through the association between Robo1 and Fyn. Initially, we examined the expression of Robos in OPCs both in vitro and in vivo. Subsequently, the Boyden chamber assay showed that Slit2 could inhibit OPC migration. RoboN, a specific inhibitor of Robos, could significantly attenuate this effect. The effects were confirmed through the explant migration assay. Furthermore, treating OPCs with Slit2 protein deactivated Fyn and increased the level of activated RhoA-GTP. Finally, Fyn was found to form complexes with Robo1, but this association was decreased after Slit2 stimulation. Thus, we demonstrate for the first time that Slit2 regulates the dispersal of oligodendrocyte precursor cells through Fyn and RhoA signaling.
Maurocalcine is the first demonstrated example of an animal toxin peptide with efficient cell penetration properties. Although it is a highly competitive cell-penetrating peptide (CPP), its relatively large size of 33 amino acids and the presence of three internal disulfide bridges may hamper its development for in vitro and in vivo applications. Here, we demonstrate that several efficient CPPs can be derived from maurocalcine by replacing Cys residues by isosteric 2-aminobutyric acid residues and sequence truncation down to peptides of up to 9 residues in length. A surprising finding is that all of the truncated maurocalcine analogues possessed cell penetration properties, indicating that the maurocalcine is a highly specialized CPP. Careful examination of the cell penetration properties of the truncated analogues indicates that several maurocalcine-derived peptides should be of great interest for cell delivery applications where peptide size matters.
Neuronal activity in the brain gives rise to transmembrane currents that can be measured in the extracellular medium. Although the major contributor of the extracellular signal is the synaptic transmembrane current, other sources--including Na(+) and Ca(2+) spikes, ionic fluxes through voltage- and ligand-gated channels, and intrinsic membrane oscillations--can substantially shape the extracellular field. High-density recordings of field activity in animals and subdural grid recordings in humans, combined with recently developed data processing tools and computational modelling, can provide insight into the cooperative behaviour of neurons, their average synaptic input and their spiking output, and can increase our understanding of how these processes contribute to the extracellular signal.




This is a study on associated postural activities during the anticipatory segments of a multijoint movement. Several previous studies have shown that they are task dependant. The previous studies, however, have mostly been limited in demonstrating the presence of modulation for one task condition, that is, one aspect such as the distance of the target or the direction of reaching. Real-life activities like whole-body pointing, however, can vary in several ways. How specific is the adaptation of the postural activities for the diverse possibilities of a whole-body pointing task? We used a classification paradigm to answer this question. We examined the anticipatory postural electromyograms for four different types of whole-body pointing tasks. The presence of task-dependent modulations in these signals was probed by performing four-way classification tests using a support vector machine (SVM). The SVM was able to achieve significantly higher than chance performance in correctly predicting the movements at hand (Chance performance 25%). Using only anticipatory postural muscle activity, the correct movement at hand was predicted with a mean rate of 62%. Because this is 37% above chance performance, it suggests the presence of postural modulation for diverse conditions. The anticipatory activities consisted of both activations and deactivations. Movement prediction with the use of the activating muscles was significantly better than that obtained with the deactivating muscles. This suggests that more specific modulations for the movement at hand take place through activation, whereas the deactivation is more general. The study introduces a new method for investigating adaptations in motor control. It also sheds new light on the quantity and quality of information available in the feedforward segments of a voluntary multijoint motor activity.
In contrast to mammals, in teleost fish radial glia persist beyond early development. This persistence parallels the enormous potential of teleosts to continuously generate a large number of new neurons in dozens of specific proliferation zones in the adult brain. In the present study, we characterized in the teleost fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus the immunological properties of radial glia in the corpus cerebelli-a cerebellar subdivision with particularly high proliferative activity-and examined their possible function in the guidance of migrating young neurons. Radial glia stained immunopositive for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, and in most cases the two intermediate filament proteins co-localized. GFAP immunolabeling combined with immunohistochemistry against the mitotic marker 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) revealed an abundance of elongated BrdU-labeled nuclei closely apposed to, or localized within, GFAP-immunoreactive radial glia. The association of BrdU-labeled nuclei and GFAP-immunoreactive radial glial fibers was particularly pronounced 2 days after BrdU administration, when the migratory activity of the young cells is highest. When the new cells reach the granular layer, they start expressing the neuronal marker protein Hu C/D, but continue their close association with radial glial fibers. These results suggest the role of radial glia in the guidance of migrating adult-born neurons in the teleostean cerebellum. This function appears to be mediated both by somal translocation and by a glial-guided mode of locomotion.
In this article, we aimed to study whether feature precedence existed in the cognitive processing of multifeature visual information in the human brain. In our experiment, we paid attention to two important visual features as follows: color and shape. In order to avoid the presence of semantic constraints between them and the resulting impact, pure color and simple geometric shape were chosen as the color feature and shape feature of visual stimulus, respectively. We adopted an &quot;old/new&quot; paradigm to study the cognitive processing of color feature, shape feature and the combination of color feature and shape feature, respectively. The experiment consisted of three tasks as follows: Color task, Shape task and Color-Shape task. The results showed that the feature-based pattern would be activated in the human brain in processing multifeature visual information without semantic association between features. Furthermore, shape feature was processed earlier than color feature, and the cognitive processing of color feature was more difficult than that of shape feature.
Patients with homonymous hemianopia often show a contralesional shift towards their blind field when bisecting horizontal lines ('hemianopic line bisection error', HLBE). The reasons for this spatial bias are not well understood and debated. Eccentric fixation and adaptive orienting of eye movements towards the blind field have been suggested as hypothetical explanations but were not tested experimentally yet. Moreover, the role of spatial attention and visual search in the blind field are unsettled issues. Here, we tested in 20 stroke patients with chronic homonymous hemianopia (10 left-sided, 10 right-sided) without visual neglect, 10 healthy control subjects and 10 neurological control patients without hemianopia whether the HLBE is related to (a) eccentric fixation and (b) is influenced by spatial-attentional cueing (left, right) and (c) related to the degree of oculomotor compensation in the blind field. Perimetric mapping of the blind spot in the ipsilesional eye was performed in 39/40 subjects. Both hemianopic patient groups showed the typical HLBE towards their blind field, while the two control samples showed only a small but significant leftward shift known as pseudoneglect. The horizontal and vertical position of the blind spot in the ipsilesional eye was within normal limits in 38 out of 40 subjects, and did not differ significantly between the four samples. Moreover, the HLBE was not significantly correlated to the horizontal or vertical position of the centre of the blind spot, thus excluding eccentric fixation as an explanation for this spatial error. Furthermore, spatial cueing by manipulating the starting position of the bisection cue (left, right) did not affect the HLBE, arguing against attentional cueing effects well known from the line bisection error in patients with spatial neglect. Finally, the size of the saccadic search field in the scotoma was not significantly correlated to the HLBE in hemianopia. We conclude that eccentric fixation, contralesional hyperattention or ipsilesional hypoattention, or good or poor oculomotor compensation of the field loss itself are not likely causes of the HLBE in chronic homonymous hemianopia. Implications of these findings and alternative explanations are discussed.
The nucleus accumbens is a key region that mediates aspects of immediate and long-term adaptations to various stimuli. For example, both repeated amphetamine and pair-bonding increase dopamine D1 receptor binding in the nucleus accumbens of the monogamous prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster). This upregulation has significant and stimulus-dependent behavioral consequences. A promising candidate for these and other adaptations is the transcription factor fosB. fosB is a highly stable protein that persists in the brain over long periods of time, leading to increasing and accumulating levels with repeated or continuous exposure to specific stimuli. Within the nucleus accumbens, fosB is specifically increased in medium spiny neurons containing D1 receptors. To explore whether fosB is altered by drug and social experience in prairie voles, we performed three separate experiments. In the first experiment, animals were treated with repeated injections of amphetamine and then brain tissue was analyzed for fosB expression. As expected, 4 days of amphetamine treatment increased fosB in the nucleus accumbens, consistent with previous findings in other laboratory species. In the second experiment, animals were housed for 10 days with one of three social partners: a familiar same-sex sibling, an unfamiliar same-sex partner, or an unfamiliar opposite-sex partner. Here, we predicted that 10 days of housing with an opposite-sex partner would act as a &quot;social reward,&quot; leading to upregulation of fosB expression in the nucleus accumbens. In a third experiment, we also investigated whether 10 days of social isolation would result in altered fosB activity. We hypothesized that isolation would lead to decreased levels of nucleus accumbens fosB, as seen in other studies. However, neither opposite-sex cohabitation nor social isolation affected fosB expression in the nucleus accumbens. These findings suggest that social stimuli, in contrast to drugs of abuse, are not mediators of fosB in this region in prairie voles.
The genetic heterogeneity of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) suggests that their underlying neurobiology involves dysfunction at the neural network level. Understanding these neural networks will require a major collaborative effort and will depend on validated and widely accepted animal models. Many mouse models have been proposed in autism research, but the assessment of their validity often has been limited to measuring social interactions. However, two other well-replicated findings have been reported in ASDs: transient brain overgrowth in early postnatal life and elevated 5-HT (serotonin) levels in blood platelets (platelet hyperserotonemia). We examined two inbred mouse strains (C57BL/6 and BALB/c) with respect to these phenomena. The BALB/c strain is less social and exhibits some other autistic-like behaviors. In addition, it has a lower 5-HT synthesis rate in the central nervous system due to a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2) gene. The postnatal growth of brain mass was analyzed with mixed-effects models that included litter effects. The volume of the hippocampal complex and the thickness of the somatosensory cortex were measured in 3D-brain reconstructions from serial sections. The postnatal whole-blood 5-HT levels were assessed with high-performance liquid chromatography. With respect to the BALB/c strain, the C57BL/6 strain showed transient brain overgrowth and persistent blood hyperserotonemia. The hippocampal volume was permanently enlarged in the C57BL/6 strain, with no change in the adult brain mass. These results indicate that, in mice, autistic-like shifts in the brain and periphery may be associated with less autistic-like behaviors. Importantly, they suggest that consistency among behavioral, anatomical, and physiological measures may expedite the validation of new and previously proposed mouse models of autism, and that the construct validity of models should be demonstrated when these measures are inconsistent.
The objective of this study was to explore changes in hyaluronan levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in a spinal cord compression model, to investigate whether hyaluronan tetrasaccharide was involved in this process, and to test the effects of hyaluronan tetrasaccharide on neuron and oligodendrocyte repair. We developed a chronic spinal cord compression model with various sizes of polymer sheets (1.50.70.3 mm(3); 51.50.7 mm(3)) that were implanted microsurgically underneath the C(5-6) laminae. The rats were divided into three groups: a sham group, a mildly compressed (MC) group, and a widely compressed (WC) group. Locomotor functional evaluations revealed that the behavioral function of the MC and WC groups dropped to their lowest level from the fourth to fifth week and gradually recovered thereafter. The hyaluronan levels in the CSF gradually increased after spinal cord compression. Furthermore, hyaluronan tetrasaccharide was involved in the hyaluronan change. In addition, we found that nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) and cellular inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein 2 (c-IAP(2)) were co-expressed in neurons and oligodendrocytes, and caspase-3 expression gradually decreased in the compression model. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression was upregulated in astrocytes at the fourth week post-compression. Hyaluronan tetrasaccharide (HA(4)) induced NF-B and c-IAP(2) to suppress the H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis in primary neuronal cultures and increased BDNF and VEGF expression in astrocytic cultures in vitro. These findings suggest that HA(4) in the CSF may associate with behavioral recovery by increasing the levels of NF-B, c-IAP(2), and neurotrophic factors after chronic spinal cord compression.
We tested the hypothesis that the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/Akt) pathway mediates some of the neuroprotective effects of progesterone (PROG) after ischemic stroke. We examined whether PROG acting through the PI3K/Akt pathway could affect the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Rats underwent permanent focal cerebral ischemia by electrocoagulation and received intraperitoneal injections of PROG (8 mg/kg) or vehicle at 1 h post-occlusion and subcutaneous injections at 6, 24, and 48 h. PAkt/Akt levels, apoptosis and apoptosis-related proteins (phosphorylated Bcl-2-associated death promoter (pBAD), BAD, caspase-3, and cleaved caspase-3) were analyzed by TUNEL assays, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry at 24 h post-pMCAO. VEGF and BDNF were analyzed at 24, 72 h and 14 days post-pMCAO with Western blots. Following pMCAO, PROG treatment significantly (P&lt;0.05) reduced ischemic lesion size and edema. Treatment with PROG significantly (P&lt;0.05) decreased VEGF at 24 and 72 h but increased VEGF expression 14 days after injury. The treatment also increased BDNF, and attenuated apoptosis by increasing Akt phosphorylation compared with vehicle alone. The selective PI3K inhibitor wortmannin compromised PROG-induced neuroprotective effects and reduced the elevation of pAkt levels in the ischemic penumbra. Our findings lead us to suggest that the PI3K/Akt pathway can play a role in mediating the neuroprotective effects of PROG after stroke by altering the expression of trophic factors in the brain.
Previous studies on handedness have often reported functional asymmetries in corticomotor excitability (CME) associated with voluntary movement. Recently, we have shown that the degree of post-exercise corticomotor depression (PED) and increase in short-interval cortical inhibition (SICI) after a repetitive finger movement task was less when the task was performed at a maximal voluntary rate (MVR) than when it was performed at a submaximal sustainable rate (SR). In the current study, we have compared the time course of PED and SICI in the dominant (DOM) and nondominant (NDOM) hands after an MVR and SR finger movement task to determine the influence of hand dominance and task demand. We tracked motor-evoked potential (MEP) amplitude from the first dorsal interosseous muscle of the DOM and NDOM hand for 20 min after a 10-s index finger flexion-extension task at MVR and SR. For all hand-task combinations, we report a period of PED and increased SICI lasting for up to 8 min. We find that the least demanding task, one that involved index finger movement of the DOM hand at SR, was associated with the greatest change in PED and SICI from baseline (63.65.7% and 792%, P&lt;0.001, PED and SICI, respectively), whereas the most demanding task (MVR of the NDOM hand) was associated with the least change from baseline (PED: 88.13.6%, SICI: 1032%; P&lt;0.001). Our findings indicate that the changes in CME and inhibition associated with repetitive finger movement are influenced both by handedness and the degree of demand of the motor task and are inversely related to task demand, being smallest for an MVR task of the NDOM hand and greatest for an SR task of the DOM hand. The findings provide additional evidence for differences in neuronal processing between the dominant and nondominant hemispheres in motor control.
We have recently documented that treatment with the alternative biofuel, acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC, 300 mg/kg), as late as 1 h after T10 contusion spinal cord injury (SCI), significantly maintained mitochondrial function 24 h after injury. Here we report that after more severe contusion SCI centered on the L1/L2 segments that are postulated to contain lamina X neurons critical for locomotion (the &quot;central pattern generator&quot;), ALC treatment resulted in significant improvements in acute mitochondrial bioenergetics and long-term hind limb function. Although control-injured rats were only able to achieve slight movements of hind limb joints, ALC-treated animals produced consistent weight-supported plantar steps 1 month after injury. Such landmark behavioral improvements were significantly correlated with increased tissue sparing of both gray and white matter proximal to the injury, as well as preservation of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-positive neurons in lamina X rostral to the injury site. These findings signify that functional improvements with ALC treatment are mediated, in part, by preserved locomotor circuitry rostral to upper lumbar contusion SCI. Based on beneficial effects of ALC on mitochondrial bioenergetics after injury, our collective evidence demonstrate that preventing mitochondrial dysfunction acutely &quot;promotes&quot; neuroprotection that may be associated with the milestone recovery of plantar, weight-supported stepping.
The present study examined the role of the sympathetic system and pulmonary afferent feedback in the baroreflex inhibition by chemical stimulation of the dorsal periaqueductal gray matter (DPAG) of the anesthetized rat. The baroreflex bradycardia was induced by phenylephrine infusions (PHE, 50 g/ml/min, i.v.) given either alone or combined with glutamate microinjections (GLU, 10 nmol/100 nl) into the DPAG. GLU microinjections alone produced marked increases in respiratory amplitude (6719%), but barely changed the respiratory frequency (153 cpm) and blood pressure (142 mm Hg), and did not affect the heart rate. In contrast, the same injections produced a 92% inhibition of PHE-induced bradycardia (from -62 to -5 bpm). Because GLU microinjections per se had little effects on blood pressure, the baroreflex inhibition should be credited to the deactivation of both the vagal and sympathetic reflex pathways at the medulla. Indeed, the baroreflex was inhibited in only 47% following the DPAG stimulation of atenolol-treated rats. The GLU-evoked inhibition of baroreflex was also correlated with concomitant increases in respiratory amplitude. The role of pulmonary feedback in baroreflex inhibition was thus examined before and after the neuromuscular blockade of atenolol-treated rats. In spontaneously breathing rats, GLU microinjections reversed PHE-induced bradycardia to tachycardia, thereby producing a 153% inhibition of reflex bradycardia (from -38 bpm to +20 bpm). In contrast, the baroreflex inhibition was attenuated in only 53% after neuromuscular blockade (from -34 to -16 bpm). Data are the first evidence of the contribution of pulmonary stretch receptor feedback in DPAG-evoked inhibition of reflex bradycardia.
-Secretase is an important contributing enzyme in Alzheimer's disease and is therefore an important therapeutic target. However, the impact of -secretase inhibition is not well studied in acute neuroinflammation induced by systemic infection. In this study the influence of -secretase on the expression of some proinflammatory markers was assessed in the acute phase as well as the subsiding phase of neuroinflammation. Cerebral -secretase cleavage activity was measured by a fluorometric assay after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) intraperitoneal administration. Time profiles of TNF- and COX-II expression were then determined to detect the time points relevant to the maximal inflammatory responses and the subsequent recovery phase. -Secretase activity coincident with TNF- protein expression returned to its basal level till 8-12 h after systemic challenge with low dose LPS while COX-II over expression lasted for 48-72 h later. Pharmacological inhibition of -secretase with local or systemic administration of DAPT (N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-l-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester) was performed to indicate the results on the developmental and sinking phases of inflammatory responses in 6 and 72 h post LPS respectively. Our results demonstrate that both local and systemic modulation of -secretase hyper-activity with DAPT increase the duration of TNF-, COX-II, and NFB induction. We consistently found mild augmented apoptosis in animals treated with DAPT as determined by measuring cleaved caspase-3 expression and by TUNEL assay 72 h following LPS injection. These results suggest that -secretase modulation interferes with certain immune regulatory pathways which may restrict some inflammatory transcription factors such as NFB.
We have previously reported that experimental mild traumatic brain injury results in increased sensitivity to stressful events during the first post-injury weeks, as determined by analyzing the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis regulation following restraint-induced stress. This is the same time period when rehabilitative exercise has proven to be ineffective after a mild fluid-percussion injury (FPI). Here we evaluated effects of stress on neuroplasticity. Adult male rats underwent either an FPI or sham injury. Additional rats were only exposed to anesthesia. Rats were exposed to 30 min of restraint stress, followed by tail vein blood collection at post-injury days (PID) 1, 7, and 14. The response to dexamethasone (DEX) was also evaluated. Hippocampal tissue was collected 120 min after stress onset. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) along with glucocorticoid (GR) and mineralocorticoid (MR) receptors was determined by Western blot analysis. Results indicated injury-dependent changes in glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors that were influenced by the presence of dexamethasone. Control and FPI rats responded differentially to DEX in that GR increases after receiving the lower dose of DEX were longer lasting in the FPI group. A suppression of MR was found at PID 1 in vehicle-treated FPI and Sham groups. Decreases in the precursor form of BDNF were observed in different FPI groups at PIDs 7 and 14. These findings suggest that the increased sensitivity to stressful events during the first post-injury weeks, after a mild FPI, has an impact on hippocampal neuroplasticity.
Apolipoprotein (apo) E4 isoform, a major risk factor for Alzheimer disease (AD), is more susceptible to proteolysis than apoE2 and apoE3 isoforms. ApoE4 fragments have been found in AD patients' brain. In the present study, we examined the effect of full-length apoE4 and apoE4 fragments apoE4[(186-299)] and apoE4[(166-299)] on inflammation in human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH and human astrocytoma SW-1783 cells. Western blot and zymography analysis showed that treatment of SK-N-SH cells with apoE4[(186-299)], but not full-length apoE4 or the shorter apoE4[(166-299)] fragment, leads to increased extracellular levels of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP1). Real-time PCR showed that interleukin (IL)-1 gene expression is also increased in SK-N-SH cells treated with apoE4[(186-299)]. Treatment of SK-N-SH cells with IL-1 leads to increased MMP9 and TIMP1 extracellular levels, suggesting that the induction of IL-1 may be the mechanism by which apoE4[(186-299)] regulates MMP9 and TIMP1 levels in these cells. In contrast to SK-N-SH cells, treatment of SW-1783 cells with apoE4[(186-299)], and to a lesser extent with apoE4, leads to increased TIMP1 extracellular levels without affecting MMP9 levels. Additionally, apoE4[(186-299)] leads to decreased IL-10 gene expression in SK-N-SH cells, whereas both apoE4 and apoE4[(186-299)] lead to decreased TNF gene expression without affecting IL-1 and IL-10 gene expression in SW-1783 cells. Overall, our findings indicate that a specific apoE4 fragment (apoE4[(186-299)]), with molecular mass similar that of apoE4 fragments detected in AD patients' brain, can influence the level of inflammatory molecules in brain cell lines. It is possible that these phenomena contribute to AD pathogenesis.
A compromised protein degradation machinery has been implicated in methamphetamine (MA)-induced neurodegeneration. However, the signaling mechanisms that induce autophagy and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction are not well understood. The present study investigates the contributions of protein kinase C delta (PKC)-mediated signaling events in MA-induced autophagy, UPS dysfunction, and cell death. Using an in vitro mesencephalic dopaminergic cell culture model, we demonstrate that MA-induced early induction of autophagy is associated with reduction in proteasomal function and concomitant dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), followed by significantly increased PKC activation, caspase-3 activation, accumulation of ubiquitin-positive aggregates and microtubule-associated light chain-3 (LC3-II) levels. Interestingly, siRNA-mediated knockdown of PKC or overexpression of cleavage-resistant mutant of PKC dramatically reduced MA-induced autophagy, proteasomal function, and associated accumulation of ubiquitinated protein aggregates, which closely paralleled cell survival. Importantly, when autophagy was inhibited either pharmacologically (3-MA) or genetically (siRNA-mediated silencing of LC3), the dopaminergic cells became sensitized to MA-induced apoptosis through caspase-3 activation. Conversely, overexpression of LC3 partially protected against MA-induced apoptotic cell death, suggesting a neuroprotective role for autophagy in MA-induced neurotoxicity. Notably, rat striatal tissue isolated from MA-treated rats also exhibited elevated LC3-II, ubiquitinated protein levels, and PKC cleavage. Taken together, our data demonstrate that MA-induced autophagy serves as an adaptive strategy for inhibiting mitochondria-mediated apoptotic cell death and degradation of aggregated proteins. Our results also suggest that the sustained activation of PKC leads to UPS dysfunction, resulting in the activation of caspase-3-mediated apoptotic cell death in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system.
The development of drugs that attenuate neurodegeneration is important for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously found that smilagenin (SMI), a steroidal sapogenin from traditional Chinese medicinal herbs improves memory in animal models, is neither a cholinesterase inhibitor nor a glutamate receptor antagonist, but can significantly elevate the declined muscarinic receptor (M receptor) density. In this article, to clarify whether SMI represents a new approach for treating neurodegeneration disease, we first demonstrate that SMI pretreatment significantly attenuates the neurodegenerative changes induced by beta amyloid 25-35 (A(25-35)) in cultured rat cortical neurons, including decreased cholinergic neuron number, shortened neurite outgrowth length, and declined M receptor density. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) protein levels in the culture medium were also decreased by A(25-35) and significantly elevated by SMI. Parallel experiments revealed that when the trk receptors were inhibited by K252a or the action of BDNF was inhibited by a neutralizing anti-BDNF antibody, the effects of SMI on the A(25-35)-induced neurodegeneration in rat cortical neurons were almost completely abolished. In the all-trans retinoic acid (RA)-differentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells, the BDNF transcription rate measured by a nuclear run-on assay was significantly suppressed by A(25-35) and elevated by SMI, but the BDNF degradation rate measured by half-life determination was unchanged by A(25-35) and SMI. Transcript analysis of the SH-SY5Y cells using quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) showed that the IV and VI transcripts of BDNF mRNA were significantly decreased by A(25-35) and elevated by SMI. Taken together, we conclude that SMI attenuates A(25-35)-induced neurodegeneration in cultured rat cortical neurons and SH-SY5Y cells mainly through stimulating BDNF mRNA transcription implicating that SMI may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for AD.
The major outward chloride transporter in neurons is the potassium chloride co-transporter 2 (KCC2), critical for maintaining an inhibitory reversal potential for GABA(A) receptor channels. In a recent study, we showed that Zn(2+) regulates GABA(A) reversal potentials in the hippocampus by enhancing the activity of KCC2 through an increase in its surface expression. Zn(2+) initiates this process by activating the Gq-coupled metabotropic Zn(2+) receptor/G protein-linked receptor 39 (mZnR/GPR39). Here, we first demonstrated that mZnR/GPR39 is functional in cortical neurons in culture, and then tested the hypothesis that the increase in KCC2 activity is mediated through a soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE)-dependent process. We established the presence of functional mZnR in rat cultured cortical neurons by loading cells with a Ca(2+) indicator and exposing cells to Zn(2+), which triggered consistent Ca(2+) responses that were blocked by the Gq antagonist YM-254890, but not by the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (RS)--methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG). Importantly, Zn(2+) treatment under these conditions did not increase the intracellular concentrations of Zn(2+) itself. We then measured KCC2 activity by monitoring both the rate and relative amount of furosemide-sensitive NH(4)(+) influx through the co-transporter using an intracellular pH-sensitive fluorescent indicator. We observed that Zn(2+) pretreatment induced a Ca(2+)-dependent increase in KCC2 activity. The effects of Zn(2+) on KCC2 activity were also observed in wild-type mouse cortical neurons in culture, but not in neurons obtained from mZnR/GPR39(-/-) mice, suggesting that Zn(2+) acts through mZnR/GPR39 activation to upregulate KCC2 activity. We next transfected rat cortical neurons with a plasmid encoding botulinum toxin C1 (Botox C1), which cleaves the SNARE proteins syntaxin 1 and synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25). Basal KCC2 activity was similar in both transfected and non-transfected neurons. Non-transfected cells, or cells transfected with marker vector alone, showed a Zn(2+)-dependent increase in KCC2 activity. In contrast, KCC2 activity in neurons expressing Botox C1 was unchanged by Zn(2+). These results suggest that SNARE proteins are necessary for the increased activity of KCC2 after Zn(2+) stimulation of mZnR/GPR39.
It is well established that women experience major depression at roughly twice the rate of men. Interestingly, accumulating clinical and experimental evidence shows that the responsiveness of males and females to antidepressant pharmacotherapy, and particularly to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), is sex-differentiated. Herein, we investigated whether exposure of male and female rats to the chronic mild stress (CMS) model of depression, as well as treatment with the TCA clomipramine may affect serotonergic receptors' (5-HTRs) mRNA expression in a sex-dependent manner. Male and female rats were subjected to CMS for 4 weeks and during the next 4 weeks they concurrently received clomipramine treatment (10 mg/ml/kg). CMS and clomipramine's effects on 5-HT(1A)R, 5-HT(2A)R, and 5-HT(2C)R mRNA expression were assessed by in situ hybridization histochemistry in selected subfields of the hippocampus and in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), two regions implicated in the pathophysiology of major depression. CMS and clomipramine treatment induced sex-differentiated effects on rats' hedonic status and enhanced 5-HT(1A)R mRNA expression in the cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) hippocampal region of male rats. Additionally, CMS attenuated 5-HT(1A)R mRNA expression in the OFC of male rats and clomipramine reversed this effect. Moreover, 5-HT(2A)R mRNA levels in the OFC were enhanced in females but decreased in males, while clomipramine reversed this effect only in females. CMS increased 5-HT2CR mRNA expression in the CA4 region of both sexes and this effect was attenuated by clomipramine. Present data exposed that both CMS and clomipramine treatment may induce sex-differentiated and region-distinctive effects on 5-HTRs mRNA expression and further implicate the serotonergic system in the manifestation of sexually dimorphic neurobehavioral responses to stress.
The ability to rapidly establish a memory link between arbitrary sensory cues and goal-directed movements is part of our daily motor repertoire. It is unknown if this ability is affected by middle cerebral artery stroke. Eighteen right-handed subjects with a first unilateral middle cerebral artery stroke were studied while performing a precision grip to lift objects of different weights. In a &quot;no cue&quot; condition, a noninformative neutral visual stimulus was presented before each lift, thereby not allowing any judgment about the object weight. In a &quot;cue&quot; condition arbitrary color cues provided advance information about the weight to be lifted in the subsequent trial. Subjects performed both conditions with either hand. During &quot;no cue&quot; trials subjects scaled their grip force according to the weight of the preceding lift, irrespective of the hand performing the lift or the hemisphere affected. The presentation of color cues allowed patients with right hemispheric stroke, but not those with left hemispheric stroke, to scale their grip force according to the weight in the upcoming lift when lifting the weight with the unaffected hand. Color cues did not allow for a predictive scaling of grip force according to the weight of the object to be lifted when lifting with the affected hand, irrespective of the affected hemisphere. These data imply that the ability of visuomotor mapping in the grip-lift task is selectively impaired in the affected hand after right middle cerebral artery stroke, but in both hands after left middle cerebral artery stroke.
Previously, we reported that in rats, GABA(A) and glycine receptor immunoreactivity increased markedly in multiple brain stem respiratory nuclei around postnatal days (P) 12-13, a critical period when abrupt neurochemical, metabolic, ventilatory, and electrophysiological changes occur in the respiratory network and when the system is under greater inhibition than excitation. Since Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) co-transporter 1 (NKCC1) and K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter 2 (KCC2) play pivotal roles in determining the responses of GABA(A) and glycine receptors, we hypothesized that NKCC1 and KCC2 undergo significant changes during the critical period. An in-depth immunohistochemical and single neuron optical densitometric study of neurons in seven respiratory-related nuclei (the pre-Btzinger complex [PBC], nucleus ambiguus [Amb], hypoglossal nucleus [XII], ventrolateral subnucleus of solitary tract nucleus [NTS(VL)], retrotrapezoid nucleus/parafacial respiratory group [retrotrapezoid nucleus/parafacial respiratory group (RTN/pFRG)], dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve [dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMNX)], and inferior olivary nucleus [IO]) and a non-respiratory cuneate nucleus (CN, an internal control) was undertaken in P0-P21 rats. Our data revealed that (1) NKCC1 immunoreactivity exhibited a developmental decrease from P0 to P21 in all eight nuclei examined, being relatively high during the first 1 postnatal weeks and decreased thereafter. The decrease was abrupt and statistically significant at P12 in the PBC, Amb, and XII; (2) KCC2 immunoreactivity in these eight nuclei showed a developmental increase from P0 to P21; and (3) the significant reduction in NKCC1 and the greater dominance of KCC2 around P12 in multiple respiratory nuclei of the brain stem may form the basis of an enhanced inhibition in the respiratory network during the critical period before the system stabilizes to a more mature state.
Omnipause neurons (OPNs) represent a crucial component for the generation of saccadic eye movements. They inhibit saccadic premotor neurons in the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) as well as in the rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle (RIMLF) during the intersaccadic interval. In turn, inhibition of OPNs is a prerequisite in order to generate saccadic eye movements. Although the anatomy of the saccadic system including the OPNs has been extensively studied in primates and cats, no detailed anatomical description of these neurons in rats has been performed so far. The aim of the present study was the identification of putative OPNs in the rat brainstem based on their projection target, localization, and histochemical characteristics. Stereotactic tract-tracer injections into the rostral mesencephalon including the RIMLF in rat resulted in back-labeling of a neuron group adjacent to the midline at the level of traversing fibers of the abducens nerve, which are considered as OPNs lying in the nucleus raphe interpositus. Combined immunohistochemical staining for various markers revealed in these neurons the expression of parvalbumin, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, and glycine, but a lack of serotonin. The results of our study demonstrate the striking similarity between individual elements of the premotor saccadic network in rats and primates. The exact knowledge of their location in rats provides a basis for in vitro studies of the OPNs in rat brainstem slices.
The objective of the present study was to assess the neuroprotective role of rutin (vitamin P) and delineate the mechanism of action. Recent evidence indicates that rutin exhibits antioxidant potential and protects the brain against various oxidative stressors. More precisely, the aim of the present study was to examine the modulating impacts of rutin against cognitive deficits and oxidative damage in intracerebroventricular-streptozotocin (ICV-STZ)-infused rats. Rats were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ (3 mg/kg), whereas sham rats received the same volume of vehicle. After 2 weeks of streptozotocin (STZ) infusion, rats were tested for cognitive performance using Morris water maze tasks and thereafter euthanized for further biochemical, histopathological, and immunohistochemical studies. Rutin pretreatment (25 mg/kg, orally, once daily for 3 weeks) significantly attenuated thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), activity of poly ADP-ribosyl polymerase, and nitrite level and decreased level of reduced glutathione (GSH) and activities of its dependent enzymes (glutathione peroxidase [GPx] and glutathione reductase [GR]) and catalase in the hippocampus of ICV-STZ rats. ICV-STZ rats showed significant cognitive deficits, which was improved significantly by rutin supplementation. The results indicate that rutin attenuates STZ-induced inflammation by reducing the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), interleukin-8 (IL-8), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nuclear factor-kB, and preventing the morphological changes in hippocampus. The study thereby suggests the effectiveness of rutin in preventing cognitive deficits and might be beneficial for the treatment of sporadic dementia of Alzheimer type (SDAT).
Despite the beneficial effects of cell-based therapies on brain repair shown in most studies, there has not been a consensus regarding the optimal dose of human umbilical cord blood cells (HUCBC) for neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). In this study, we compared the long-term effects of intravenous administration of HUCBC at three different doses on spatial memory and brain morphological changes after HI in newborn Wistar rats. In addition, we tested whether the transplanted HUCBC migrate to the injured brain after transplantation. Seven-day-old animals underwent right carotid artery occlusion and were exposed to 8% O(2) inhalation for 2 h. After 24 h, randomly selected animals were assigned to four different experimental groups: HI rats administered with vehicle (HI+vehicle), HI rats treated with 110(6) (HI+low-dose), 110(7) (HI+medium-dose), and 110(8) (HI+high-dose) HUCBC into the jugular vein. A control group (sham-operated) was also included in this study. After 8 weeks of transplantation, spatial memory performance was assessed using the Morris water maze (MWM), and subsequently, the animals were euthanized for brain morphological analysis using stereological methods. In addition, we performed immunofluorescence and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses to identify HUCBC in the rat brain 7 days after transplantation. The MWM test showed a significant spatial memory recovery at the highest HUCBC dose compared with HI+vehicle rats (P&lt;0.05). Furthermore, the brain atrophy was also significantly lower in the HI+medium- and high-dose groups compared with the HI+vehicle animals (P&lt;0.01; 0.001, respectively). In addition, HUCBC were demonstrated to be localized in host brains by immunohistochemistry and PCR analyses 7 days after intravenous administration. These results revealed that HUCBC transplantation has the dose-dependent potential to promote robust tissue repair and stable cognitive improvement after HI brain injury.
The cerebellar uvula (lobule IX), a part of the vestibulocerebellum, is extensively connected to the areas of the brainstem that participate in cardiovascular regulation and vestibular signal processing. This suggests that the uvula regulates blood pressure (BP) during postural alterations. Previous studies showed that lesions of the uvula affected the baroreceptor reflex and cardiovascular responses during postural alterations. To investigate the mechanisms underlying this BP regulation, it is necessary to have a method to selectively modulate the activity of Purkinje cells (PCs), the sole output neurons from the cerebellar cortex, without affecting other neuronal types such as local interneurons or nonlocal neurons that send their axons to the cerebellar cortex. We recently developed a novel technique using optogenetics to manipulate PC activity and showed that activation and inhibition of PCs in the uvula either decreased or increased the resting BP, respectively. This technique was employed in the current study to examine the roles of the uvula in BP regulation during postural alterations in anesthetized rats. Enhanced Natronomonas pharaonis halorhodopsin (eNpHR), a light-driven chloride ion pump, was selectively expressed in uvular PCs using a lentiviral vector containing the PC-specific L7 promoter. The eNpHR-expressing PCs were then illuminated by orange laser (593 nm) either during 30 head-up or 30 head-down tilts. The eNpHR-mediated photoinhibition of the uvula attenuated the extent of BP recovery after a BP increase induced by postural changes during head-down tilts. By contrast, photoinhibition had no statistically significant effect on BP recovery during head-up tilts. The effects of photoinhibition on BP during tilts were significantly different from those observed during the resting condition, indicating that cerebellar control of BP during tilts is dynamic rather than static. Taken together, these results suggest that PCs in the uvula dynamically regulates BP maintenance during postural alterations.
Data from our laboratory indicate that the orexin system is involved in the regulation of both conditioned and unconditioned responding for palatable foods. Anticipation of food rewards activates orexin receptor containing neurons within the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus (PVT). The PVT regulates mesolimbic dopamine neurochemistry through direct connections with the nucleus accumbens and modulates the processing of cognitive-emotional information, suggesting that the PVT may represent a unique brain region with the capacity to mediate orexinergic effects on brain dopamine and behavior. Here, we tested the hypothesis that PVT orexin signaling mediates mesolimbic dopamine and reward-based feeding. To do this we used a behavioral pharmacological approach in tandem with central genetic manipulation of the orexin-1 receptor in the PVT. Data from these studies indicate that orexin-A action in the PVT increases dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. In addition, endogenous orexin signaling in the PVT mediates locomotor activity and hedonic feeding responses. Together these data highlight the PVT as a critical site capable of mediating orexin action on brain dopamine and reward-based feeding.
The organization of the minimal neuronal substrate capable of generating locomotor rhythmicity in vertebrates is investigated in several species, with an emphasis on identifying evolutionary-conserved features. In lamprey, an eel-like lower vertebrate that swims by undulatory movements of the body, the network has been identified as a recurrent network of excitatory interneurons localized in each spinal hemisegment. This conclusion rested upon the observation that each side of the spinal cord is able to express rhythmic locomotor-related bursting after being surgically separated along the midline, even in the absence of inhibition. An important caveat, however, is that this rhythmicity must be an intrinsic capability of the hemisegmental networks and not a newly acquired property as a result of a plastic remodeling of the network occurring after the lesion. Here we examine this issue by recording the motor output expressed by the electrically activated hemicord in the first minutes after hemisection. We observed clear rhythmic bursting in the frequency range previously linked to the operation of the central pattern generator for swimming. Moreover, we recorded the output of the unilateral networks in the intact spinal cord (i.e. no midline section performed) by activating them with asymmetrical stimulation. We thus conclude that the lamprey hemicord does possess the intrinsic capability of generating the basic rhythmic drive of locomotion. The wider significance of these data stems from the lamprey being a model of axial locomotion, and from the many lesion studies previously performed in other animals.
Epileptogenesis following traumatic brain injury (TBI) is likely due to a combination of increased excitability, disinhibition, and increased excitatory connectivity via aberrant axon sprouting. Targeting these pathways could be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of posttraumatic epilepsy. Here, we tested this possibility using the novel anticonvulsant (R)-N-benzyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((R)-lacosamide [LCM]), which acts on both voltage-gated sodium channels and collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2), an axonal growth/guidance protein. LCM inhibited CRMP2-mediated neurite outgrowth, an effect phenocopied by CRMP2 knockdown. Mutation of LCM-binding sites in CRMP2 reduced the neurite inhibitory effect of LCM by 8-fold. LCM also reduced CRMP2-mediated tubulin polymerization. Thus, LCM selectively impairs CRMP2-mediated microtubule polymerization, which underlies its neurite outgrowth and branching. To determine whether LCM inhibits axon sprouting in vivo, LCM was injected into rats subjected to partial cortical isolation, an animal model of posttraumatic epileptogenesis that exhibits axon sprouting in cortical pyramidal neurons. Two weeks following injury, excitatory synaptic connectivity of cortical layer V pyramidal neurons was mapped using patch clamp recordings and laser scanning photostimulation of caged glutamate. In comparison with injured control animals, there was a significant decrease in the map size of excitatory synaptic connectivity in LCM-treated rats, suggesting that LCM treatment prevented enhanced excitatory synaptic connectivity due to posttraumatic axon sprouting. These findings suggest, for the first time, that LCM's mode of action involves interactions with CRMP2 to inhibit posttraumatic axon sprouting.
Although exposure to social stress leads to increased depression-like and anxiety-like behavior, some individuals are more vulnerable than others to these stress-induced changes in behavior. Prior social experience is one factor that can modulate how individuals respond to stressful events. In this study, we investigated whether experience-dependent resistance to the behavioral consequences of social defeat was associated with a specific pattern of neural activation. We paired weight-matched male Syrian hamsters in daily aggressive encounters for 2 weeks, during which they formed a stable dominance relationship. We also included control animals that were exposed to an empty cage each day for 2 weeks. Twenty-four hours after the final pairing or empty cage exposure, half of the subjects were socially defeated in 3, 5-min encounters, whereas the others were not socially defeated. Twenty-four hours after social defeat, animals were tested for conditioned defeat in a 5-min social interaction test with a non-aggressive intruder. We collected brains after social defeat and processed the tissue for c-Fos immunoreactivity. We found that dominants were more likely than subordinates to counter-attack the resident aggressor during social defeat, and they showed less submissive and defensive behavior at conditioned defeat testing compared with subordinates. Also, social status was associated with distinct patterns of defeat-induced neural activation in select brain regions, including the amygdala, prefrontal cortex, hypothalamus, and lateral septum. Our results indicate that social status is an important form of prior experience that predicts both initial coping style and the degree of resistance to social defeat. Further, the differences in defeat-induced neural activation suggest possible brain regions that may control resistance to conditioned defeat in dominant individuals.
The superior region of the precentral gyrus (preCG) is known to be actively involved with hand function and has been proposed as a possible neural correlate of handedness. To test this hypothesis, we used a combined voxel-based morphometric (VBM) asymmetry analysis of structural MRI, along with diffusion MRI (dMRI) tractography to investigate laterality indices of corticomotor white matter (WM) pathways, based on measures of fractional anisotropy (FA). The relationship between measures of motor performance and FA laterality indices was also investigated. In a cohort of 14 right-handed healthy participants, the VBM asymmetry analysis revealed an area within the preCG associated with hand representation. The tractography analysis revealed that this region possessed a number of major WM intrahemispheric connections to the brain stem, thalamus, cerebellum, postcentral, caudal middle and superior frontal, and superior and inferior parietal corticomotor regions. Within the corticospinal tracts, we found FA was significantly higher in the left hemisphere compared with the right. Furthermore, significant correlations were found between FA asymmetry measures projecting from this region, namely corticospinal tracts and those connecting the postcentral gyri, with grip strength and finger-tapping performance, respectively. A number of the motor pathways projecting from this region also exhibited leftward asymmetry of FA distributions. The findings from this study highlight the role of the left motor cortex in skilled motor performance and provide a framework for the study of the relationship between handedness and preCG hand representation in larger normative populations.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by compulsive drug seeking, including relapse after a period of withdrawal. The relapse response requires increased glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Consistent with this view, glutamate type 1 transporter (GLT1), the transporter responsible for &gt;90% of glutamate uptake, is downregulated in NAc after several days of withdrawal in rats previously trained to self-administer cocaine under limited access conditions (1-2 h/d). Human addiction, however, appears to be better modeled by extending daily drug access (6-8 h/d) and introducing long periods of withdrawal. Here, we determined the combined effects of manipulating cocaine access and withdrawal on GLT1 expression in NAc core and shell. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg per intravenous infusion) in daily limited or extended access sessions for 11 days followed by a period of short (1 day) or long (40-45 days) withdrawal. We found that although cocaine withdrawal decreases GLT1 expression in both core and shell, only in core is GLT1 downregulation sensitive to both access and withdrawal. In fact, after long withdrawal, GLT1 in core is downregulated more than in shell in either the limited or extended access condition. Thus, glutamate regulation in core appears to be a critical factor in the drug-seeking behavior that follows relatively long periods of cocaine withdrawal.
Tremor is one of the cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Up to now, however, its pathophysiology remains poorly understood. Previously, oscillatory coupling at tremor frequency between the subthalamic nucleus und affected muscles was shown. In these studies, however, causality of coupling could not be demonstrated. Thus, we analyzed the statistical causality between intraoperatively recorded local field potentials in the subthalamic area and affected arm muscles during tremor episodes, using squared partial directed coherence, a recently developed causality measure. The analysis identified differential statistical causality patterns for Parkinson's disease patients of the akinetic-rigid subtype during tremor episodes (n=6) versus patients of the tremor-dominant subtype (n=8): for the akinetic-rigid Parkinson's disease patients significantly more cases of the subthalamic region were found to be statistically causal for electromyographic-tremor activity, a result in accordance with the standard basal ganglia model. In contrast, for the tremor-dominant patients, significantly more instances of electromyographic tremor activity turned out to be causal for activity of the subthalamic region. Furthermore, the clinical effective stimulation site coincided with the location of most input causalities from the periphery in seven out of eight tremor-dominant patients. The data suggest that, although tremor activity in tremor-dominant and akinetic-rigid Parkinson's disease patients was clinically similar, statistical causality between tremor electromyogram (EMG) and the subthalamic nucleus was fundamentally different. Therefore, we hypothesize different pathophysiological mechanisms to underlie the generation of tremor in the two subtypes of Parkinson's disease.
Dysregulation in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/full-length TrkB (TrkB-TK+) signaling is implicated in promoting neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). BDNF/TrkB-TK+ signaling can be modulated by the presence of truncated TrkB isoforms (TrkB-TK-, TrkB-Shc). All TrkB isoforms are encoded by different alternative transcripts. In this study, we assessed if expression of the three main TrkB alternative transcripts, TrkB-TK+, TrkB-TK-, and TrkB-Shc are altered in AD. Using a cohort of control and AD brains (n=29), we surveyed the hippocampus, temporal cortex, occipital cortex, and cerebellum and found specific increases in TrkB-Shc, a neuron-specific transcript, in the AD hippocampus. No significant changes were detected in TrkB-TK+ and TrkB-TK- transcript levels in AD in any brain region examined. Corresponding changes in truncated TrkB protein levels were found in the hippocampus, although a significant increase in the temporal cortex was also observed. Our findings suggested that neuron-specific changes in TrkB may be occurring in AD; thus, we determined whether TrkB-Shc expression could be modulated by amyloid beta 1-42 (A(42)). We found increased TrkB-Shc mRNA levels in differentiated SHSY5Y neuronal cell-lines exposed to fibril-containing A(42) preparations. When we assessed the cellular impact of increased TrkB-Shc, we found co-localization between TrkB-Shc and TrkB-TK+. Interestingly, TrkB-Shc overexpression selectively attenuated BDNF/TrkB-TK+-mediated signaling via the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) pathway, but not the protein kinase B pathway. In AD, MEK signaling is increased in vulnerable neurons and linked to abnormal phosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins. Altogether, our findings suggest that elevated TrkB-Shc expression in AD may function as a compensatory response in neurons in AD to promote survival.
Eugenol, which is contained in several plants including clove, has been widely used as an analgesic and anti-inflammatory drug in the dental clinic. Eugenol also has anesthetic effects and produces sedation and the reduction of convulsion threshold. These benefits have been partly attributed to the effects of eugenol on neural tissues, such as inhibition of voltage-gated ion channels. As expected from the fact that eugenol is a vanilloid compound, this drug activates transient receptor potential (TRP) V1 channels in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Although eugenol affects synaptic transmission in the central nervous system (CNS), this has not yet been fully examined. We investigated how eugenol affects spontaneous glutamatergic excitatory transmission in substantia gelatinosa (SG; lamina II of Rexed) neurons of adult rat spinal cord slices by use of the blind whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Bath-applied eugenol reversibly enhanced spontaneous excitatory transmission and produced an outward current at -70 mV in SG neurons. The former action was due to a large increase in the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current (sEPSC) with a small increase in the amplitude. These actions of eugenol were seen by its repeated application and resistant to a voltage-gated Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin. The effect of eugenol on sEPSC frequency was concentration-dependent with an EC(50) value of 3.8 mM and unaffected by a TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine, whereas inhibited by a nonspecific TRP antagonist ruthenium red and a TRPA1 antagonist HC-030031. On the other hand, the eugenol-induced outward current was not affected by these TRP antagonists. It is concluded that eugenol activates TRPA1 channels in the SG, leading to an increase in the spontaneous release of L-glutamate to SG neurons, and that eugenol also produces a membrane hyperpolarization that is not mediated by TRP channels. Eugenol is suggested to activate different types of TRP channel between the PNS and CNS.
The epidermis can be considered as a sensory organ. Sensory neurons of the peripheral nervous system send many primary afferent fibers to the skin, creating a dynamic communication with epidermal cells. However, little is known about the functional interactions between the sensory fibers and the keratinocytes. It is therefore difficult to reproduce these interactions in vitro. We have developed an in vitro model based on the coculture of primary human keratinocytes and the dorsal root ganglion cell line F-11. F-11 cells have been classically used to mimic authentic peptidergic nociceptive neurons. We first investigated the morphological and functional characteristics of F-11 cells cultured in basal keratinocyte medium and then analyzed the influence of keratinocytes on these properties. We found that F-11 cells survived and differentiated well in this medium. Therefore, the addition of neurotrophins did not enhance their survival or differentiation. These neurons expressed sensory neuron markers and were able to release neuropeptides after capsaicin activation. We noted that neuropeptides release were obtained even at a low calcium concentration and that axonal outgrowth was not influenced by external calcium (Ca(2+)) levels. These properties were reproduced when F-11 cells were cocultured with keratinocytes, but they had no significant influence on axonal development or neuropeptide release. In this study, we describe for the first time the culture of F-11 neurons with another cell type. This coculture model in which keratinocytes and neurons are maintained in low Ca(2+) concentrations may be a useful in vitro alternative for studying and characterizing the close communication between keratinocytes and sensory neurons.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with beta-amyloid deposition, glial activation, and increased levels of the cytokines, as well as cholinergic dysfunction. Liver X receptor (LXR) has been found to inhibit the expression of pro-inflammatory genes. However, the effects of LXR activation on inflammatory response and on cholinergic system in AD are not yet clear. The present results revealed that LXR activation markedly attenuated several inflammatory markers and decreased microglial activation and reactive astrocytes in amyloid precursor protein (APP)/PS1 transgenic mice. Additionally, LXR activation significantly increased the number of cholinergic neurons in the medial septal regions and the basal nucleus of Meynert (NBM), and attenuated cognitive impairment. Furthermore, we observed that LXR activation inhibited the production of COX-2 and iNOS from A(25-35)-induced microglia. LXR activation and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) inhibitor PDTC both attenuated A(25-35) induction of NF-B activation. These results suggest that LXR agonists suppress the production of pro-inflammatory molecules, at least in part, by modulating NF-B-signaling pathway. Collectively, these studies suggest that LXR agonists may have therapeutic significance in AD.
-adrenergic receptors are a class of G protein-coupled receptors that have essential roles in regulating heart rate, blood pressure, and other cardiorespiratory functions. Although the role of  adrenergic receptors in the peripheral nervous system is well characterized, very little is known about their role in the central nervous system despite being localized in many brain regions involved in autonomic activity and regulation. Since parasympathetic activity to the heart is dominated by cardiac vagal neurons (CVNs) originating in the nucleus ambiguus (NA),  adrenergic receptors localized in the NA represent a potential target for modulating cardiac vagal activity and heart rate. This study tests the hypothesis that activation of  adrenergic receptors alters the membrane properties and synaptic neurotransmission to CVNs. CVNs were identified in brainstem slices, and membrane properties and synaptic events were recorded using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. The nonselective  agonist isoproterenol significantly decreased inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic as well as excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission to CVNs. In addition, the (1)-selective receptor agonist dobutamine, but not (2) or (3) receptor agonists, significantly decreased inhibitory GABAergic and glycinergic and excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission to CVNs. These decreases in neurotransmission to CVNs persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX). These results provide a mechanism by which activation of adrenergic receptors in the brainstem can alter parasympathetic activity to the heart. Likely physiological roles for this adrenergic receptor activation are coordination of parasympathetic-sympathetic activity and  receptor-mediated increases in heart rate upon arousal.
Lead intoxication has been suggested as a high risk factor for the development of Parkinson disease. However, its impact on motor and nonmotor functions and the mechanism by which it can be involved in the disease are still unclear. In the present study, we studied the effects of lead intoxication on the following: (1) locomotor activity using an open field actimeter and motor coordination using the rotarod test, (2) anxiety behavior using the elevated plus maze, (3) &quot;depression-like&quot; behavior using sucrose preference test, and (4) subthalamic nucleus (STN) neuronal activity using extracellular single unit recordings. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated once a day with lead acetate or sodium acetate (20 mg/kg/d i.p.) during 3 weeks. The tissue content of monoamines was used to determine alteration of these systems at the end of experiments. Results show that lead significantly reduced exploratory activity, locomotor activity and the time spent on the rotarod bar. Furthermore, lead induced anxiety but not &quot;depressive-like&quot; behavior. The electrophysiological results show that lead altered the discharge pattern of STN neurons with an increase in the number of bursting and irregular cells without affecting the firing rate. Moreover, lead intoxication resulted in a decrease of tissue noradrenaline content without any change in the levels of dopamine and serotonin. Together, these results show for the first time that lead intoxication resulted in motor and nonmotor behavioral changes paralleled by noradrenaline depletion and changes in the firing activity of STN neurons, providing evidence consistent with the induction of atypical parkinsonian-like deficits.
Stride duration variability is considered a marker of gait balance and can be investigated in at least two different ways. Fluctuation magnitude can be addressed by classical mathematical methods, whereas fluctuation dynamics between strides can be characterized using the autocorrelation function. Although each approach has revealed changes of these parameters in different age-groups, most studies have focused on spontaneous walking speeds, which vary across groups and is described as a possible confounder in the assessment of stride duration variability. In the present study, the influence of speed on stride duration fluctuations was first analyzed in six young adults walking at six different speeds on a treadmill. Second, the results of 18 subjects from three different age-groups (5, 25, and 75 years old) were compared to assess the effect of age on the same variables at three different speeds. Fluctuation dynamics was evaluated, thanks to combined mathematical methods recently validated in the context of physiological time series, to increase the level of confidence in the results. Fluctuation magnitude was assessed by coefficients of variation (CV) on the same and large number of 512 gait strides, to enhance the validity of comparisons between both parameters. Long-range autocorrelations were highlighted in all time series, and characteristics were not influenced by gait speed and age of the participants. This suggests that the dynamics of variability is efficient for comparing subjects presenting with different spontaneous speed, and supports the hypothesis that long-range variability of human gait reflects a centrally controlled behavior. In contrast, CV was inversely related to walking speed and the age of the subjects. Slower speeds increased CV values, and fluctuation magnitude was also significantly larger for children compared with young and old adults. This confirms that fluctuation magnitude and dynamics could be complementary tools for more complete gait characterization.
Huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1) is a neural huntingtin interactor that is widely expressed as a core molecule of the stigmoid body (a neurocytoplasmic inclusion) in the limbic and hypothalamic regions and has putative protective functions against some neurodegenerative diseases (HAP1 protection hypothesis). Although HAP1 has been reported to be intimately associated with several steroid receptors, HAP1-immunoreactive (HAP1-ir) cells remain to be identified in the hippocampus, which is one of the major steroidal targets. In this study, we determined the distribution of hippocampal HAP1-ir cells in light and fluorescence microscopy and characterized their morphological relationships with steroid receptors, markers of adult neurogenesis, and the GABAergic system in adult male and female Wistar rats. HAP1-ir cells, which were sporadically distributed particularly in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus and in the interface between the stratum lacunosum-moleculare and stratum radiatum of Ammon's horn, were identified as the &quot;sporadically lurking HAP1-ir (SLH)&quot; cells. The SLH cells showed no clear association with neural progenitor/proliferating or migrating cell markers of adult neurogenesis, such as Ki-67, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, doublecortin, and glial fibrillary acidic protein in the SGZ, whereas all the SLH cells expressed a neuronal specific nuclear protein (NeuN). More than 90% of the SLH cells expressed nuclear estrogen receptor (ER)  but neither ER nor the androgen receptor, whereas glucocorticoid receptor was differently stained in the SLH cells depending on the antibodies. More than 60% of them exhibited GABA immunoreactivity in the SGZ, suggestive of basket cells, but they were distinct from the ones expressing cholecystokinin or parvalbumin. We conclude that SLH cells, which should be stable against apoptosis due to putative HAP1 protectivity, might be involved in estrogen-dependent maturation, remodeling and activation of hippocampal memory and learning functions via ER and partly through GABAergic regulation.
The production of otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) by the cochlea is a sexually dimorphic trait. Although often hypothesized to be influenced by testosterone in utero, little attention has been devoted to the possibility that levels of circulating sex steroids in adulthood might modulate the sex difference in OAE production. The purpose of the current study was to investigate whether oral contraceptive (OC) use affects OAE production in women, revisiting a question originally posed by McFadden [(2000) Hearing Research 142:23-33]. Forty-five males and 50 females were tested. The women were retrospectively classified based on whether or not they were using OCs at present. Two types of OAEs were quantified: those produced spontaneously (spontaneous otoacoustic emissions or SOAEs) and those produced in response to click stimuli (click-evoked otoacoustic emissions or CEOAEs). Women currently using OCs showed a defeminized pattern of OAE production: they produced fewer SOAEs, SOAEs with significantly less power, and smaller CEOAE response amplitudes compared with naturally cycling women who were tested irrespective of phase of the menstrual cycle. It is proposed that the observed group difference may be mediated by the interaction of circulating estradiol with estrogen receptor alpha (ER) or estrogen receptor beta (ER) receptors in the cochlea.
The withholding of expected rewards results in extinction of behavior and, hypothetically, to depression-like symptoms. In a test of this hypothesis, we examined the effects of extinction of food-reinforced lever-pressing on collateral behaviors that might be indices of depression. Operant extinction is known to be aversive to the organism and results in avoidance behavior. We hypothesized that avoidance of, or withdrawal from, the former source of reward may serve as a marker for &quot;despair.&quot; Adult male Wistar rats (n=6-7 animals per group) were exposed to a Skinner box attached to a second compartment of the same size, providing opportunity for the animals to leave the operant chamber and to enter the &quot;withdrawal&quot; compartment. The animals spent a portion of the time during the extinction trials in this second chamber. To assess the predictive validity of this behavior as a potential marker of &quot;despair,&quot; we tested the effects of chronic administration of two common antidepressant drugs on this measure. The tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (20 mg/kg) as well as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram (20 mg/kg) reduced the number of entries and time spent in the withdrawal compartment. We propose that entries into and time spent in the withdrawal compartment may operationalize &quot;avoidance,&quot; a core symptom of major depression. Rearing as well as biting behaviors during the extinction trials were also attenuated by the antidepressant treatment. These results lend support to the hypothesis that extinction of positively reinforced operants evokes behaviors that reflect elements of &quot;despair/depression&quot; because these behaviors are modulated by antidepressant treatment. The avoidance of the operant chamber as a consequence of extinction, together with rearing and biting behaviors, may serve as useful measures for the testing of antidepressant treatments.
Neural precursor cells (NPCs) provide a cellular model to compare transduction efficiency and toxicity for a series of recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs). Results led to the choice of rAAV9 as a preferred candidate to transduce NPCs for in vivo transplantation. Importantly, transduction promoted a neuronal phenotype characterized by neurofilament M (NFM) with a concomitant decrease in the embryonic marker, nestin, without significant change in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). In marked contrast to recent studies for induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), exposure to rAAVs is non-immunogenic and these do not result in genetic abnormalities, thus bolstering the earlier use of NPCs such as those isolated from E13 murine cells for clinical applications. Mechanisms of cellular interactions were explored by treatment with genistein, a pan-specific inhibitor of protein receptor tyrosine kinases (PRTKs) that blocked the transduction and differentiation, thus implying a central role for this pathway for inducing infectivity along with observed phenotypic changes and as a method for drug design. Implantation of transduced NPCs into adult mouse hippocampus survived up to 28 days producing a time line for targeting or migration to dentate gyrus and CA3-1 compatible with future clinical applications. Furthermore, a majority showed commitment to highly differentiated neuronal phenotypes. Lack of toxicity and immune response of rAAVs plus ability for expansion of NPCs in vitro auger well for their isolation and suggest potential therapeutic applications in repair or replacement of diseased neurons in neurodegeneration.
Studies using animal models have shown that general anesthetics such as ketamine trigger widespread and robust apoptosis in the infant rodent brain. Recent clinical evidence suggests that the use of general anesthetics on young children (at ages equivalent to those used in rodent studies) can promote learning deficits as they mature. Thus, there is a growing need to develop strategies to prevent this injury. In this study, we describe a number of independent approaches to address therapeutic intervention. Postnatal day 7 (P7) rats were injected with vehicle (sterile PBS) or the NMDAR antagonist ketamine (20 mg/kg). After 8 h, we prepared brains for immunohistochemical detection of the pro-apoptotic enzyme activated caspase-3 (AC3). Focusing on the somatosensory cortex, AC3-positive cells were then counted in a non-biased stereological manner. We found AC3 levels were markedly increased in ketamine-treated animals. In one study, microarray analysis of the somatosensory cortex from ketamine-treated P7 pups revealed that expression of activity dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP) was enhanced. Thus, we injected P7 animals with the ADNP peptide fragment NAPVSIPQ (NAP) 15 min before ketamine administration and found we could dose-dependently reverse the injury. In separate studies, pretreatment of P6 animals with 20 mg/kg vitamin D(3) or a nontoxic dose of ketamine (5 mg/kg) also prevented ketamine-induced apoptosis at P7. In contrast, pretreatment of P7 animals with aspirin (30 mg/kg) 15 min before ketamine administration actually increased AC3 counts in some regions. These data show that a number of unique approaches can be taken to address anesthesia-induced neurotoxicity in the infant brain, thus providing MDs with a variety of alternative strategies that enhance therapeutic flexibility.
The effect of cycloheximide (CXM), a protein synthesis inhibitor, on memory reconsolidation and extinction was explored in rats using a model of post-traumatic stress. Forty-two animals were exposed to predator stress followed by 1, 2, or 4 extinction trials. Saline or CXM (1 mg/kg) was administered following the last extinction trial and anxiety was measured in the elevated-plus maze (EPM) seventy-two hours later. Saline control animals exhibited elevated anxiety levels in comparison to a no stress control group. Cycloheximide appeared to maintain stress-induced anxiety responses, which otherwise declined with repeated extinction trials in the saline control groups. These findings suggest that cycloheximide may have induced amnesia for extinction, leaving the target memory of the predatory stress intact resulting in elevated levels of anxiety. The relationships between de novo protein synthesis and reconsolidation of anxiety-related memories following extinction trials may be more complex than originally thought.
Mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are often tested for learning and memory deficits using visuo-spatial tasks such as the Morris water maze. Performance on these tasks is dependent on vision and the APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model has amyloid beta plaques in their retinas which might influence their performance in these tasks. In a visual learning task, old (20-26 months) transgenic mice and their wildtype littermates of both sexes had poorer visual ability than young (5-8 months) mice and old transgenic mice had poorer visual acuity than old wildtype mice. Old transgenic mice also had deficits in visuo-spatial learning and memory on the Morris water maze. The transgenic mice had no deficits in the conditioned odour preference or conditioned taste aversion memory tests at any age. These results indicate that the old APPswe/PS1dE9 mice and their wildtype littermates both have a deficit in their visual ability and that visually dependent measures alone should not be used to assess learning and memory in this strain.
The purpose of this study was to examine the anatomical and behavioural sequelae in the normal brain associated with tactile stimulation treatment during development. Using a split litter design, male and female rats were randomly assigned to either the tactile stimulation group (tactile stimulation for 15 min, three times/day, from postnatal day 3 to 21), or the no-tactile stimulation group. In adulthood, the rats were tested on the Whishaw tray reaching task, activity box, novel object recognition, and elevated plus maze. Following behavioural testing, rats were sacrificed for Golgi-Cox analysis. Dendritic length, dendritic branching, and spine density were analyzed in two areas of the prefrontal cortex (mPFC and OFC) and spine density in the amygdala. Tactile stimulation significantly altered rat behaviour on the novel object recognition task and Whishaw tray reaching task, but failed to have an effect on behaviour in the elevated plus maze or activity box. Importantly, tactile stimulation dramatically altered dendritic morphology in the prefrontal cortex and amygdala of both male and female rats. Tactile stimulation significantly increased dendritic branching, dendritic length, and spine density in all brain regions examined. These findings demonstrate that similar to early adversity, positive experiences early in development can dramatically alter neuroplasticity.
Dextran-coated superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (dextran-SPIO conjugates) offer the attractive possibility of enhancing MRI imaging sensitivity so that small or diffuse lesions can be detected. However, systemically injected SPIOs are rapidly removed by macrophages. We engineered embryonic cells (HEK293T) to express major macrophage scavenger receptor (SR) subtypes including SR-AI, MARCO, and endothelial receptor collectin-12. These SRs possess a positively charged collagen-like (CL) domain and they promoted SPIO uptake, while the charge neutral lipoprotein receptor SR-BI did not. In silico modeling indicated a positive net charge on the CL domain and a net negative charge on the cysteine-rich (CR) domain of MARCO and SR-AI. In vitro experiments revealed that CR domain deletion in SR-AI boosted uptake of SPIO 3-fold, while deletion of MARCO's CR domain abolished this uptake. These data suggest that future studies might productively focus on the validation and further exploration of SR charge fields in SPIO recognition.
The cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) is a transcription factor that contributes to memory formation. The transcriptional activity of CREB is induced by its phosphorylation at Ser-133 and subsequent interaction with the CREB-binding protein (CBP)/p300. We designed and optimized firefly split luciferase probe proteins that detect the interaction of the kinase-inducible domain (KID) of CREB and the KIX domain of CBP/p300. The increase in the light intensity of the probe proteins results from the phosphorylation of the responsible serine corresponding to Ser-133 of CREB. Because these proteins have a high signal-to-noise ratio and are nontoxic, it has become possible for the first time to carry out long-term measurement of KID-KIX interaction in living cells. Furthermore, we examined the usefulness of the probe proteins for future high-throughput cell-based drug screening and found several herbal extracts that activated CREB.




Pre-mRNA alternative splicing is an important mechanism for the generation of synaptic protein diversity, but few factors governing this process have been identified. From a screen for Drosophila mutants with aberrant synaptic development, we identified beag, a mutant with fewer synaptic boutons and decreased neurotransmitter release. Beag encodes a spliceosomal protein similar to splicing factors in humans and Caenorhabditis elegans. We find that both beag mutants and mutants of an interacting gene dsmu1 have changes in the synaptic levels of specific splice isoforms of Fasciclin II (FasII), the Drosophila ortholog of neural cell adhesion molecule. We show that restoration of one splice isoform of FasII can rescue synaptic morphology in beag mutants while expression of other isoforms cannot. We further demonstrate that this FasII isoform has unique functions in synaptic development independent of transsynaptic adhesion. beag and dsmu1 mutants demonstrate an essential role for these previously uncharacterized splicing factors in the regulation of synapse development and function.
Cognitive control is required for correct performance on antisaccade tasks, including the ability to inhibit an externally driven ocular motor response (a saccade to a peripheral stimulus) in favor of an internally driven ocular motor goal (a saccade directed away from a peripheral stimulus). Healthy humans occasionally produce errors during antisaccade tasks, but the mechanisms associated with such failures of cognitive control are uncertain. Most research on cognitive control failures focuses on poststimulus processing, although a growing body of literature highlights a role of intrinsic brain activity in perceptual and cognitive performance. The current investigation used dense array electroencephalography and distributed source analyses to examine brain oscillations across a wide frequency bandwidth in the period before antisaccade cue onset. Results highlight four important aspects of ongoing and preparatory brain activations that differentiate error from correct antisaccade trials: (1) ongoing oscillatory beta (20-30 Hz) power in anterior cingulate before trial initiation (lower for error trials); (2) instantaneous phase of ongoing alpha/theta (7 Hz) in frontal and occipital cortices immediately before trial initiation (opposite between trial types); (3) gamma power (35-60 Hz) in posterior parietal cortex 100 ms before cue onset (greater for error trials); and (4) phase locking of alpha (5-12 Hz) in parietal and occipital cortices immediately before cue onset (lower for error trials). These findings extend recently reported effects of pre-trial alpha phase on perception to cognitive control processes and help identify the cortical generators of such phase effects.
Calcium mediates various neuronal functions. The complexity of neuronal Ca signaling is well exemplified by retinal cone photoreceptors, which, with their distinct compartmentalization, offer unique possibilities for studying the diversity of Ca functions in a single cell. Measuring subcellular Ca signals in cones under physiological conditions is not only fundamental for understanding cone function, it also bears important insights into pathophysiological processes governing retinal neurodegeneration. However, due to the proximity of light-sensitive outer segments to other cellular compartments, optical measurements of light-evoked Ca responses in cones are challenging. We addressed this problem by generating a transgenic mouse (HR2.1:TN-XL) in which both short- and middle-wavelength-sensitive cones selectively express the genetically encoded ratiometric Ca biosensor TN-XL. We show that HR2.1:TN-XL allows recording of light-evoked Ca responses using two-photon imaging in individual cone photoreceptor terminals and to probe phototransduction and its diverse regulatory mechanisms with pharmacology at subcellular resolution. To further test this system, we asked whether the classical, nitric oxide (NO)-soluble guanylyl-cyclase (sGC)-cGMP pathway could modulate Ca in cone terminals. Surprisingly, NO reduced Ca resting levels in mouse cones, without evidence for direct sGC involvement. In conclusion, HR2.1:TN-XL mice offer unprecedented opportunities to elucidate light-driven Ca dynamics and their (dys)regulation in cone photoreceptors.
Numerous studies have found that chronic cocaine increases dendritic spine density of medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Here, we used single-cell microinjections and advanced 3D imaging and analysis techniques to extend these findings in several important ways: by assessing cocaine regulation of dendritic spines in the core versus shell subregions of NAc in the mouse, over a broad time course (4 h, 24 h, or 28 d) of withdrawal from chronic cocaine, and with a particular focus on proximal versus distal dendrites. Our data demonstrate subregion-specific, and in some cases opposite, regulation of spines by cocaine on proximal but not distal dendrites. Notably, all observed density changes were attributable to selective regulation of thin spines. At 4 h after injection, the proximal spine density is unchanged in the core but significantly increased in the shell. At 24 h, the density of proximal dendritic spines is reduced in the core but increased in the shell. Such downregulation of thin spines in the core persists through 28 d of withdrawal, whereas the spine density in the shell returns to baseline levels. Consistent with previous results, dendritic tips exhibited upregulation of dendritic spines after 24 h of withdrawal, an effect localized to the shell. The divergence in regulation of proximal spine density in NAc core versus shell by cocaine correlates with recently reported electrophysiological data from a similar drug administration regimen and might represent a key mediator of changes in the reward circuit that drive aspects of addiction.
Sleep deprivation (SD) has detrimental effects on cognition, but the affected psychological processes and underlying neural mechanisms are still essentially unclear. Here we combined functional magnetic resonance imaging and computational modeling to examine how SD alters neural representation of specific choice variables (subjective value and decision conflict) during reward-related decision making. Twenty-two human subjects underwent two functional neuroimaging sessions in counterbalanced order, once during rested wakefulness and once after 24 h of SD. Behaviorally, SD attenuated conflict-dependent slowing of response times, which was reflected in an attenuated conflict-induced decrease in drift rates in the drift diffusion model. Furthermore, SD increased overall choice stochasticity during risky choice. Model-based functional neuroimaging revealed attenuated parametric subjective value signals in the midbrain, parietal cortex, and ventromedial prefrontal cortex after SD. Conflict-related midbrain signals showed a similar downregulation. Findings are discussed with respect to changes in dopaminergic signaling associated with the sleep-deprived state.
In the vertebrate retina, neuronal circuitry required for visual perception is organized within specific laminae. Photoreceptors convey external visual information to bipolar and horizontal cells at triad ribbon synapses established within the outer plexiform layer (OPL), initiating retinal visual processing. However, the molecular mechanisms that organize these three classes of neuronal processes within the OPL, thereby ensuring appropriate ribbon synapse formation, remain largely unknown. Here we show that mice with null mutations in Sema6A or PlexinA4 (PlexA4) exhibit a pronounced defect in OPL stratification of horizontal cell axons without any apparent deficits in bipolar cell dendrite or photoreceptor axon targeting. Furthermore, these mutant horizontal cells exhibit aberrant dendritic arborization and reduced dendritic self-avoidance within the OPL. Ultrastructural analysis shows that the horizontal cell contribution to rod ribbon synapse formation in PlexA4/ retinas is disrupted. These findings define molecular components required for outer retina lamination and ribbon synapse formation.
The bottom-up processing of visual information is strongly influenced by top-down signals, at least part of which is thought to be conveyed from the frontal cortex through the frontal eye field (FEF) and the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). Here we investigated the architecture of multisynaptic pathways from the frontal cortex to the middle temporal area (MT) of the dorsal visual stream and visual area 4 (V4) of the ventral visual stream in macaques. In the first series of experiments, the retrograde trans-synaptic tracer, rabies virus, was injected into MT or V4. Three days after rabies injections, the second-order (disynaptically connected) neuron labeling appeared in the ventral part of area 46 (area 46v), along with the first-order (monosynaptically connected) neuron labeling in FEF and LIP. In the MT-injection case, second-order neurons were also observed in the supplementary eye field (SEF). In the next series of experiments, double injections of two fluorescent dyes, fast blue and diamidino yellow, were made into MT and V4 to examine whether the frontal inputs are mediated by distinct or common neuronal populations. Virtually no double-labeled neurons were observed in FEF or LIP, indicating that separate neuronal populations mediate the frontal inputs to MT and V4. The present results define that the multisynaptic frontal input to V4 arises primarily from area 46v, whereas the input to MT arises from not only area 46v but also SEF, through distinct FEF and LIP neurons. Segregated pathways from the frontal cortex possibly carry the functionally diverse top-down signals to each visual stream.
Diabetic neuropathic pain imposes a huge burden on individuals and society, and represents a major public health problem. Despite aggressive efforts, diabetic neuropathic pain is generally refractory to available clinical treatments. A structure-function link between maladaptive dendritic spine plasticity and pain has been demonstrated previously in CNS and PNS injury models of neuropathic pain. Here, we reasoned that if dendritic spine remodeling contributes to diabetic neuropathic pain, then (1) the presence of malformed spines should coincide with the development of pain, and (2) disrupting maladaptive spine structure should reduce chronic pain. To determine whether dendritic spine remodeling contributes to neuropathic pain in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, we analyzed dendritic spine morphology and electrophysiological and behavioral signs of neuropathic pain. Our results show changes in dendritic spine shape, distribution, and shape on wide-dynamic-range (WDR) neurons within lamina IV-V of the dorsal horn in diabetes. These diabetes-induced changes were accompanied by WDR neuron hyperexcitability and decreased pain thresholds at 4 weeks. Treatment with NSC23766 (N(6)-[2-[[4-(diethylamino)-1-methylbutyl]amino]-6-methyl-4-pyrimidinyl]-2-methyl-4,6-quinolinediamine trihydrochloride), a Rac1-specific inhibitor known to interfere with spine plasticity, decreased the presence of malformed spines in diabetes, attenuated neuronal hyperresponsiveness to peripheral stimuli, reduced spontaneous firing activity from WDR neurons, and improved nociceptive mechanical pain thresholds. At 1 week after STZ injection, animals with hyperglycemia with no evidence of pain had few or no changes in spine morphology. These results demonstrate that diabetes-induced maladaptive dendritic spine remodeling has a mechanistic role in neuropathic pain. Molecular pathways that control spine morphogenesis and plasticity may be promising future targets for treatment.
The prairie vole is a socially monogamous species in which breeder pairs typically show strong and selective pair bonds. The establishment of a pair bond is associated with a behavioral transition from general affiliation to aggressive rejection of novel conspecifics. This &quot;selective aggression&quot; is indicative of mate guarding that is necessary to maintain the initial pair bond. In the laboratory, the neurobiology of this behavior is studied using resident-intruder testing. Although it is well established that social behaviors in other species are mediated by endogenous opioid systems, opiate regulation of pair bond maintenance has never been studied. Here, we used resident-intruder testing to determine whether endogenous opioids within brain motivational circuitry mediate selective aggression in prairie voles. We first show that peripheral blockade of -opioid receptors with the antagonist norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI; 100 mg/kg), but not with the preferential -opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1, 10, or 30 mg/kg), decreased selective aggression in males. We then provide the first comprehensive characterization of - and -opioid receptors in the prairie vole brain. Finally, we demonstrate that blockade of -opioid receptors (500 ng nor-BNI) within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell abolishes selective aggression in both sexes, but blockade of these receptors within the NAc core enhances this behavior specifically in females. Blockade of -opioid receptors within the ventral pallidum or -opioid receptors with the specific -opioid receptor antagonist H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-PenThr-NH2 (1 ng CTAP) within the NAc shell had no effect in either sex. Thus, -opioid receptors within the NAc shell mediate aversive social motivation that is critical for pair bond maintenance.
The cortical processing of illusory contours provides a unique window for exploring the brain mechanisms underlying visual perception. Previous electrophysiological single-cell recordings demonstrate that a subgroup of cells in macaque V1 and V2 signal the presence of illusory contours, whereas recent human brain imaging studies reveal higher-order visual cortices playing a central role in illusory figure processing. It seems that the processing of illusory contours/figures may engage multiple cortical interactions between hierarchically organized processing stages in the ventral visual pathway of primates. However, it is not yet known in which brain areas illusory contours are represented in the same manner as real contours at both the population and single-cell levels. Here, by combining intrinsic optical imaging in anesthetized rhesus macaques with single-cell recordings in awake ones, we found a complete overlap of orientation domains in visual cortical area V4 for processing real and illusory contours. In contrast, the orientation domains mapped in early visual areas V1 and V2 mainly encoded the local physical stimulus features inducing the subjective perception of global illusory contours. Our results indicate that real and illusory contours are encoded equivalently by the same functional domains in V4, suggesting that V4 is a key cortical locus for integration of local features into global contours.
Cellular life emerged 3.7billion years ago. With scant exception, terrestrial organisms have evolved under predictable daily cycles owing to the Earth's rotation. The advantage conferred on organisms that anticipate such environmental cycles has driven the evolution of endogenous circadian rhythms that tune internal physiology to external conditions. The molecular phylogeny of mechanisms driving these rhythms has been difficult to dissect because identified clock genes and proteins are not conserved across the domains of life: Bacteria, Archaea and Eukaryota. Here we show that oxidation-reduction cycles of peroxiredoxin proteins constitute a universal marker for circadian rhythms in all domains of life, by characterizing their oscillations in a variety of model organisms. Furthermore, we explore the interconnectivity between these metabolic cycles and transcription-translation feedback loops of the clockwork in each system. Our results suggest an intimate co-evolution of cellular timekeeping with redox homeostatic mechanisms after the Great Oxidation Event 2.5billion years ago.

Bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine-disruptor, is widely used in the production of plastics and resins. Human perinatal exposure to this chemical has been proposed to be a potential risk to public health. Animal studies indicate that postnatal exposure to BPA may affect neocortex development in embryos by accelerated neurogenesis and causing neuronal migration defects. The detailed phenotypes and pathogenetic mechanisms, especially with regard to the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells, however, have not been clarified. C57BL/6J pregnant mice were orally administered BPA at 200g/kg from embryonic day (E) 8.5 to 13.5, and the fetuses were observed histologically at E14.5. To clarify the histological changes, especially in terms of neurogenesis, proliferation and cell cycle, we performed histological analysis using specific markers of neurons/neural stem cells and cell cycle-specific labeling experiments using thymidine-analog substances. Cortical plate was hyperplastic and the number of neural stem/progenitor cells was decreased after the exposure to BPA. In particular, the maternal BPA oral dosing related to the effects on intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs, neural progenitor cells) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of dorsal telencephalon. Exposure to BPA associated the promotion of the cell cycle exit in radial glial cells (RGCs, neural stem cells) and IPCs, and decreased the proliferation resulting from the prolong cell cycle length of IPCs in the SVZ. Our data show that maternal oral exposure to BPA related to the disruption of the cell cycle in IPCs and the effects of neurogenesis in the developing neocortex.
In utero exposure of the fetus to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P], a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, is thought to dysregulate cardiovascular development. To investigate the effects of in utero B(a)P exposure on cardiovascular development, timed-pregnant Long Evans Hooded (LEH) rats were exposed to diluent or B(a)P (150, 300, 600 and 1200 g/kg/BW) by oral gavage on embryonic (E) days E14 (the metamorphosing embryo stage) through E17 (the 1st fetal stage). There were no significant effects of in utero exposure to B(a)P on the number of pups born per litter or in pre-weaning growth curves. Pre-weaning profiles for B(a)P metabolite generation from cardiovascular tissue were shown to be dose-dependent and elimination of these metabolites was shown to be time-dependent in exposed offspring. Systolic blood pressure on postnatal day P53 in the middle and high exposure groups of offspring were significantly elevated as compared to controls. Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR results were directly relevant to a biological process pathway in animal models for &quot;regulation of blood pressure&quot;. Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed upregulation of mRNA expression for angiotensin (AngII), angiotensinogen (AGT) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in exposed offspring. Biological network analysis and gene set enrichment analysis subsequently identified potential signaling mechanisms and molecular pathways that might explain the elevated systolic blood pressures observed in B(a)P-exposed offspring. Our findings suggest that in utero exposure to B(a)P predispose offspring to functional deficits in cardiovascular development that may contribute to cardiovascular dysfunction in later life.
The objectives of this review are twofold. Our first objective is to evaluate the evidence supporting a role for genetics in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Specific examples of the associations of genetic variation and symptoms, syndromes, and intermediate phenotypes, including neurotransmitter (serotonergic, (2)-adrenergic, and cannabinoid) mechanisms, inflammatory pathways (IL-10, TNF, GN3, and susceptibility loci involved in Crohn's disease), and bile acid metabolism, are explored. The second objective is to review pharmacogenetics in IBS, with the focus on cytochrome P-450 metabolism of drugs used in IBS, modulation of motor and sensory responses to serotonergic agents based on the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) and 5-HT(3) genetic variants, responses to a nonselective cannabinoid agonist (dronabinol) based on cannabinoid receptor (CNR1) and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) variation, and responses to a bile acid (sodium chenodeoxycholate) and bile acid binding (colesevelam) based on klotho (KLB) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4) variation. Overall, there is limited evidence of a genetic association with IBS; the most frequently studied association is with 5-HTTLPR, and the most replicated association is with TNF superfamily member 15. Most of the pharmacogenetic associations are reported with intermediate phenotypes in relatively small trials, and confirmation in large clinical trials using validated clinical end points is still required. No published genome-wide association studies in functional gastrointestinal or motility disorders have been published.
Top-down mass spectrometry has been used to investigate structural diversity within some abundant salivary protein families. In this study, we report the identification of two isoforms of protein II-2 which differed in mass by less than 1 Da, the determination of a sequence for protein IB8a that was best satisfied by including a mutation and a covalent modification in the C-terminal part, and the assignment of a sequence of a previously unreported protein of mass 10433 Da. The final characterization of Peptide P-J was achieved, and the discovery of a truncated form of this peptide was reported. The first sequence assignment was done at low resolution using a hybrid quadrupole time-of-flight instrument to quickly identify and characterize proteins, and data acquisition was switched to Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance (FTICR) for proteins that required additional sequence coverage and certainty of assignment. High-resolution and high mass accuracy mass spectrometry on a FTICR-mass spectrometry (MS) instrument combined with electron-capture dissociation (ECD) provided the most informative data sets, with the more frequent presence of &quot;unique&quot; ions that unambiguously define the primary structure. A mixture of predictable and unusual post-translational modifications in the protein sequence precluded the use of shotgun-annotated databases at this stage, requiring manual iterations of sequence refinement in many cases. This led us to propose guidelines for an iterative processing workflow of MS and MSMS data sets that allow researchers to completely assign the identity and the structure of a protein.

In addition to their ubiquitous apical-basal polarity, many epithelia are also polarized along an orthogonal axis, a phenomenon termed planar cell polarity (PCP). In the mammalian inner ear and the zebrafish lateral line, PCP is revealed through the orientation of mechanosensitive hair cells relative to each other and to the body axes. In each neuromast, the receptor organ of the lateral line, hair bundles are arranged in a mirror-symmetrical fashion. Here we show that the establishment of mirror symmetry is preceded by rotational rearrangements between hair-cell pairs, a behavior consistently associated with the division of hair-cell precursors. Time-lapse imaging of trilobite mutants, which lack the core PCP constituent Vang-like protein 2 (Vangl2), shows that their misoriented hair cells correlate with misaligned divisions of hair-cell precursors and an inability to complete rearrangements accurately. Vangl2 is asymmetrically localized in the cells of the neuromast, a configuration required for accurate completion of rearrangements. Manipulation of Vangl2 expression or of Notch signaling results in a uniform hair-cell polarity, indicating that rearrangements refine neuromast polarity with respect to the body axes.




A series of 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor full agonists with a 1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-amine core has been discovered. Early lead 1 was found to have a limited therapeutic index with respect to its potential for cardiovascular side effects. Further optimisation of this series led to the identification of 22 a potent full agonist showing efficacy at a dose of 0.1mg/kg in the novel object recognition model of cognition enhancement. Comparison of 1 with 22 demonstrated the latter to have an improved oral pharmacokinetic profile and cardiovascular therapeutic index.
A series of 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor full-agonists with a 1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-amine core has been discovered. Systematic exploration of the structure-activity relationships for both 7 potency and selectivity with respect to interaction with the hERG channel are described. Further profiling led to the identification of compound 22, a potent full agonist showing efficacy in the novel object recognition model of cognition enhancement.
Advances in microelectronics, microfluidics, polymers and microfabrication have enabled the creation of disposable lab-on-a-chips (LOCs) as the new tools for neuroscience research. The LOCs have been applied for a wide range of neurobiology studies, including cellular and molecular biochemical experimentations, morphological observations and electrophysiological investigations. The integration of miniaturised components leads to analytical instrumentations with unprecedented automation, speed of analysis, and flexibility. These features make LOCs capable enough to replace their bulky and expensive bench-top counterparts. LOCs can be useful for genomic, proteomic, epigenomic, peptidomic, connectomic and electrophysiological studies and also as effective tools for reductionist neuroscientists. Moreover, they can be applied at higher level studies such as developmental neurobiology and behavioural investigations. This work provides an in-depth review of LOC platforms for neuroscience research. First, we review the essential bench-top neuroscience instrumentation as per their functions and features. Next, we present LOC counterparts for those bench-top instrumentations. Finally, we offer perspectives on persistent challenges and our perception of opportunities based on LOC instrumentations in neuroscience research.

Oenanthotoxin (OETX) and dihydro-OETX are polyacetylenic diols occurring in Oenanthe crocata and are known to exert proconvulsant effects. We have recently demonstrated that these compounds downregulated GABAergic currents (Appendino et al., 2009) and that OETX induced open channel block and allosterically modulated GABA(A) receptors (Wyrembek et al., 2010). O. crocata also contains several minor OETX analogues and in the present study we tested whether their effect on GABA(A) receptors depends on the compounds' polarity. We investigated a series of five polyacetylenes characterized by a higher lipophylicity than OETX, (1-acetyl-2,3-dihydrooenanthotoxin - X1, 14-acetyloenanthotoxin-X2, 1-deoxyoenanthotoxin - X3, 14-deoxyoenanthotoxin - X4, 14-dehydro-1-deoxyOETX - X5, polarity sequence: X1&gt;X2&gt;X3&gt;X4&gt;X5). Their effects were tested first on miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). All but X3, significantly decreased the mIPSC amplitudes while X1, X2, X4 decreased, and X3 and X5 increased the mIPSC frequency. The lack of a clear correlation between the compounds' polarity and their effect on mIPSCs might result from their presynaptic effects. We thus considered their impact on current responses to exogenous GABA applications. Amplitude reduction of current responses was most prominent for X1 and virtually absent for X5 indicating a dependence on the compound's polarity. Only X1 and X2 showed open channel block, while the kinetics of currents were affected only by X1 which further supports a dependence of the drug's effects on their polarity. In conclusion, GABA(A) receptors are inhibited and allosterically modulated by naturally occurring OETX analogues (except X5) and these effects are positively correlated with the compounds' polarity.
Dystrophin, the protein responsible for X-linked Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), is normally expressed in both muscle and brain, which explains that its loss also leads to cognitive deficits. The utrophin protein, an autosomal homolog, is a natural candidate for dystrophin replacement in patients. Pharmacological upregulation of endogenous utrophin improves muscle physiology in dystrophin-deficient mdx mice, and represents a potential therapeutic tool that has the advantage of allowing delivery to various organs following peripheral injections. Whether this could alleviate cognitive deficits, however, has not been explored. Here, we first investigated basal expression of all utrophins and dystrophins in the brain of mdx mice and found no evidence for spontaneous compensation by utrophins. Then, we show that systemic chronic, spaced injections of arginine butyrate (AB) alleviate muscle alterations and upregulate utrophin expression in the adult brain of mdx mice. AB selectively upregulated brain utrophin Up395, while reducing expression of Up113 and Up71. This, however, was not associated with a significant improvement of behavioral functions typically affected in mdx mice, which include exploration, emotional reactivity, spatial and fear memories. We suggest that AB did not overcome behavioral and cognitive dysfunctions because the regional and cellular expression of utrophins did not coincide with dystrophin expression in untreated mice, nor did it in AB-treated mice. While treatments based on the modulation of utrophin may alleviate DMD phenotypes in certain organs and tissues that coexpress dystrophins and utrophins in the same cells, improvement of cognitive functions would likely require acting on specific dystrophin-dependent mechanisms.
Mutations leading to expansion of a poly-glutamine track in Huntingtin (Htt) cause Huntington's disease (HD). Signs of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress have been recently reported in animal models of HD, associated with the activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR). Here we have investigated the functional contribution of ER stress to HD by targeting the expression of two main UPR transcription factors, XBP1 and ATF4 (activating transcription factor 4), in full-length mutant Huntingtin (mHtt) transgenic mice. XBP1-deficient mice were more resistant to developing disease features, associated with improved neuronal survival and motor performance, and a drastic decrease in mHtt levels. The protective effects of XBP1 deficiency were associated with enhanced macroautophagy in both cellular and animal models of HD. In contrast, ATF4 deficiency did not alter mHtt levels. Although, XBP1 mRNA splicing was observed in the striatum of HD transgenic brains, no changes in the levels of classical ER stress markers were detected in symptomatic animals. At the mechanistic level, we observed that XBP1 deficiency led to augmented expression of Forkhead box O1 (FoxO1), a key transcription factor regulating autophagy in neurons. In agreement with this finding, ectopic expression of FoxO1 enhanced autophagy and mHtt clearance in vitro. Our results provide strong evidence supporting an involvement of XBP1 in HD pathogenesis probably due to an ER stress-independent mechanism involving the control of FoxO1 and autophagy levels.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 is caused by the expansion of the coding CAG repeat in the ATXN3 gene. Interestingly, a -1 bp frameshift occurring within an (exp)CAG repeat would henceforth lead to translation from a GCA frame, generating polyalanine stretches instead of polyglutamine. Our results show that transgenic expression of (exp)CAG ATXN3 led to -1 frameshifting events, which have deleterious effects in Drosophila and mammalian neurons. Conversely, transgenic expression of polyglutamine-encoding (exp)CAA ATXN3 was not toxic. Furthermore, (exp)CAG ATXN3 mRNA does not contribute per se to the toxicity observed in our models. Our observations indicate that expanded polyglutamine tracts in Drosophila and mouse neurons are insufficient for the development of a phenotype. Hence, we propose that -1 ribosomal frameshifting contributes to the toxicity associated with (exp)CAG repeats.
Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC), a rare leukodystrophy characterized by macrocephaly, subcortical fluid cysts and myelin vacuolation, has been linked to mutations in the MLC1 gene. This gene encodes a membrane protein that is highly expressed in astrocytes. Based on MLC pathological features, it was proposed that astrocyte-mediated defects in ion and fluid homeostasis could account for the alterations observed in MLC-affected brains. However, the role of MLC1 and the effects of pathological mutations on astrocyte osmoregulatory functions have still to be demonstrated. Using human astrocytoma cells stably overexpressing wild-type MLC1 or three known MLC-associated pathological mutations, we investigated MLC1 involvement in astrocyte reaction to osmotic changes using biochemical, dynamic video imaging and immunofluorescence techniques. We have found that MLC1 overexpressed in astrocytoma cells is mainly localized in the plasma membrane, is part of the Na,K-ATPase-associated molecular complex that includes the potassium channel Kir4.1, syntrophin and aquaporin-4 and functionally interacts with the calcium permeable channel TRPV4 (transient receptor potential vanilloid-4 cation channel) which mediates swelling-induced cytosolic calcium increase and volume recovery in response to hyposmosis. Pathological MLC mutations cause changes in MLC1 expression and intracellular localization as well as in the astrocyte response to osmotic changes by altering MLC1 molecular interactions with the Na,K-ATPase molecular complex and abolishing the increase in calcium influx induced by hyposmosis and treatment with the TRPV4 agonist 4PDD. These data demonstrate, for the first time, that MLC1 plays a role in astrocyte osmo-homeostasis and that defects in intracellular calcium dynamics may contribute to MLC pathogenesis.
Decapod crustaceans such as blue crabs possess a variety of chemoreceptors that control different stages of the feeding process. All these chemoreceptors are putative targets for feeding deterrents that cause animals to avoid or reject otherwise palatable food. As a first step towards characterizing the chemoreceptors that mediate the effect of deterrents, we used a behavioral approach to investigate their precise location. Data presented here demonstrate that chemoreceptors located on the antennules, pereiopods and mouthparts do not mediate the food-rejection effects of a variety of deterrents, both natural and artificial to crabs. Crabs always searched for deterrent-laced food and took it to their oral region. The deterrent effect was manifested as either rejection or extensive manipulation, but in both cases crabs bit the food. The biting behavior is relevant because the introduction of food into the oral cavity ensured that the deterrents gained access to the oesophageal taste receptors, and so we conclude that they are the ones mediating rejection. Additional support comes from the fact that a variety of deterrent compounds evoked oesophageal dilatation, which is mediated by oesophageal receptors and has been linked to food rejection. Further, there is a positive correlation between a compound's ability to elicit rejection and its ability to evoke oesophageal dilatation. The fact that deterrents do not act at a distance is in accordance with the limited solubility of most known feeding deterrents, and likely influences predator-prey interactions and their outcome: prey organisms will be attacked and bitten before deterrents become relevant.

Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is an autoimmune-mediated disease triggered by a preceding infection. A substantial body of evidence implicates antibodies to various gangliosides in subtypes of GBS. A significant proportion of patients with acute demyelinating subset of GBS have IgG antibodies against peripheral nervous system myelin specific neolactogangliosides such as LM1 and Hex-LM1. Although anti-neolactoganglioside antibodies in GBS were described more than two decades ago, their pathogenic role in neuropathy remains unknown due to the lack of suitable experimental models. In this study, we immunized ten guinea pigs with purified LM1 ganglioside mixed with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Control guinea pigs were injected with KLH emulsified in CFA only. The animals were bled every four week intervals. The animals were boosted 3 times every four weeks. Experiments were terminated four months after initial immunization. Nine of 10 guinea pigs immunized with LM1 exhibited antibody responses to LM1. Anti-LM1 IgG titers in nine guinea pigs ranged from 1:400 to 1:12,800 at 16-weeks after initial immunization. Anti-LM1 antibodies were predominantly of IgG2 subclass. One guinea pig with the highest levels of IgG antibodies exhibited mild signs of neuropathy. There was no evidence of demyelination or inflammation in the sciatic nerves of LM1-immunized guinea pigs. Anti-LM1 antibodies bound to rat sciatic nerve myelin and to isolated rat Schwann cells. In summary, our findings suggest that relatively high levels of anti-LM1 IgG antibodies can be induced in guinea pigs and that LM1 is localized in peripheral nerve myelin and in Schwann cells. Further studies are needed to determine the pathogenic potential of anti-neolactoganglioside antibodies in neuropathy.
The innate immune system is a crucial component of inflammatory reactions, while the central nervous system (CNS) is the most vulnerable site of the body to inflammatory tissue injury. Neuroinflammatory brain pathologies are disorders in which the CNS is threatened by its own immune system. Chemokine receptor CXCR2 and its ligands have been implicated in several neuroinflammatory brain pathologies, as well as in neutrophil recruitment and in the developmental positioning of neural cells. This review focuses on the basics of CXCR2, its regulating role in bone marrow neutrophil recruitment, oligodendrocyte progenitor cell positioning and neural repair mechanisms, as well as its diverse roles in neuroinflammatory brain pathologies.

Intrinsic persistent spiking mechanisms in medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) neurons may play a role in active maintenance of working memory. However, electrophysiological studies of rat mEC units have primarily focused on spatial modulation. We sought evidence of differential spike rates in the mEC in rats trained on a T-maze, cued spatial delayed response task. Animals begin at the base of the T-maze where a 1-sec white noise and visual light cue are presented on the left or right side of the maze. Rats are rewarded for responding toward the cued direction. In correct trials, we observed decreased spike rates during the delay period, the time interval between cue presentation and reward delivery. Firing-rate histograms show significant decreases during the delay period compared to 5-sec windows from both pre-cue and post-reward periods. We analyzed how running speed and trajectory specificity correlated to spike rate. Twice as many cells were responsive to cue alone compared to running speed. Trajectory specificity did not relate significantly to firing rate. Decreased spike rate may reflect active maintenance in other structures inhibiting mEC. Alternately, the reduction may reflect decreases in background activity during enhanced attention and cholinergic modulation. Lastly, animals often ran through the T-maze choice-point with varying speed. We calculated the spatial posterior probability density from spike rates during these choice-point passes. Slow passes through the choice point were characterized by greater probability of decoding to the reward locations on correct trials compared to quick passes on the maze consistent with similar &quot;look-ahead&quot; properties previously reported in the hippocampus and ventral striatum.

Although random monoallelic expression has been known for decades to affect genes on the X chromosome in female placental mammals, until a few years ago it was thought that there were few autosomal genes that were regulated in this manner. New tools for assaying gene expression genome-wide are now revealing that there are perhaps more genes that are subject to random monoallelic expression on mammalian autosomes than there are on the X chromosome and that these expression properties are achieved by diverse molecular mechanisms. This mode of expression has the potential to have an impact on natural selection and on the evolution of gene families.
Traditionally functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been used to map activity in the human brain by measuring increases in the Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) signal. Often accompanying positive BOLD fMRI signal changes are sustained negative signal changes. Previous studies investigating the neurovascular coupling mechanisms of the negative BOLD phenomenon have used concurrent 2D-optical imaging spectroscopy (2D-OIS) and electrophysiology (Boorman et al., 2010). These experiments suggested that the negative BOLD signal in response to whisker stimulation was a result of an increase in deoxy-haemoglobin and reduced multi-unit activity in the deep cortical layers. However, Boorman et al. (2010) did not measure the BOLD and haemodynamic response concurrently and so could not quantitatively compare either the spatial maps or the 2D-OIS and fMRI time series directly. Furthermore their study utilised a homogeneous tissue model in which is predominantly sensitive to haemodynamic changes in more superficial layers. Here we test whether the 2D-OIS technique is appropriate for studies of negative BOLD. We used concurrent fMRI with 2D-OIS techniques for the investigation of the haemodynamics underlying the negative BOLD at 7 Tesla. We investigated whether optical methods could be used to accurately map and measure the negative BOLD phenomenon by using 2D-OIS haemodynamic data to derive predictions from a biophysical model of BOLD signal changes. We showed that despite the deep cortical origin of the negative BOLD response, if an appropriate heterogeneous tissue model is used in the spectroscopic analysis then 2D-OIS can be used to investigate the negative BOLD phenomenon.
Sleep deprivation (SD) has been shown to affect selective attention but it is not known how two of its component processes: target enhancement and distractor suppression, are affected. To investigate, young volunteers either attended to houses or were obliged to ignore them (when attending to faces) while viewing superimposed face-house pictures. MR signal enhancement and suppression in the parahippocampal place area (PPA) were determined relative to a passive viewing control condition. Sleep deprivation was associated with lower PPA activation across conditions. Critically SD specifically impaired distractor suppression in selective attention, leaving target enhancement relatively preserved. These findings parallel some observations in cognitive aging. Additionally, following SD, attended houses were not significantly better recognized than ignored houses in a post-experiment test of recognition memory contrasting with the finding of superior recognition of attended houses in the well-rested state. These results provide evidence for co-encoding of distracting information with targets into memory when one is sleep deprived.
On a daily basis we form numerous intentions to perform specific actions. However, we often have to delay the execution of intended actions while engaging in other demanding activities. Previous research has shown that patterns of activity in human prefrontal cortex (PFC) can reveal our current intentions. However, two fundamental questions have remained unresolved: (a) how does the PFC encode information about future tasks while we are busy engaging in other activities, and (b) how does the PFC enable us to commence a stored task at the intended time? Here we investigate how the brain stores and retrieves future intentions during occupied delays, i.e. while a person is busy performing a different task. For this purpose, we conducted a neuroimaging study with a time-based prospective memory paradigm. Using multivariate pattern classification and fMRI we show that during an occupied delay, activity patterns in the anterior PFC encode the content of 'what' subjects intend to do next, and 'when' they intend to do it. Importantly, distinct anterior PFC regions store the 'what' and 'when' components of future intentions during occupied maintenance and self-initiated retrieval. These results show a role for anterior PFC activity patterns in storing future action plans and ensuring their timely retrieval.
Identification of regions of interest (ROIs) is a fundamental issue in brain network construction and analysis. Recent studies demonstrate that multimodal neuroimaging approaches and joint analysis strategies are crucial for accurate, reliable and individualized identification of brain ROIs. In this paper, we present a novel approach of visual analytics and its open-source software for ROI definition and brain network construction. By combining neuroscience knowledge and computational intelligence capabilities, visual analytics can generate accurate, reliable and individualized ROIs for brain networks via joint modeling of multimodal neuroimaging data and an intuitive and real-time visual analytics interface. Furthermore, it can be used as a functional ROI optimization and prediction solution when fMRI data is unavailable or inadequate. We have applied this approach to an operation span working memory fMRI/DTI dataset, a schizophrenia DTI/resting state fMRI (R-fMRI) dataset, and a mild cognitive impairment DTI/R-fMRI dataset, in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of visual analytics. Our experimental results are encouraging.
Visual attention is associated with occipital gamma band activity. While gamma band power can be modulated by attention, the frequency of gamma band activity is known to decrease with age. The present study tested the hypothesis that reduced visual attention is associated with a change in induced gamma band activity. To this end, 26 patients with liver cirrhosis and 8 healthy controls were tested. A subset of patients showed symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a frequent neuropsychiatric complication in liver disease, which comprises a gradual increase of cognitive dysfunction including attention deficits. All participants completed a behavioral task requiring shifts of attention between simultaneously presented visual and auditory stimuli. Brain activity was recorded using magnetoencephalography (MEG). The individual critical flicker frequency (CFF) was assessed as it is known to reliably reflect the severity of HE. Results showed correlations of behavioral data and HE severity, as indexed by CFF. Individual visual gamma band peak frequencies correlated positively with the CFF (r=0.41). Only participants with normal, but not with pathological CFF values showed a modulation of gamma band power with attention. The present results suggest that CFF and attentional performance are related. Moreover, a tight relation between the CFF and occipital gamma band activity both in frequency and power is shown. Thus, the present study provides evidence that a reduced CFF in HE, a disease associated with attention deficits, is closely linked to a slowing of gamma band activity and impaired modulation of gamma band power in a bimodal attention task.

Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a disorder observed in children and adults characterized by an accumulation of liver fat (&gt;5% wet weight) in the absence of excessive alcohol intake. NAFLD affects 10 to 30% of the American population and is the most common cause of liver disease in the United States. NAFLD leads to serious disturbances in cardiovascular and hormonal function; however, possible effects on brain function have been overlooked. The aims of the present study were to test whether diet-induced NAFLD impairs hippocampal-dependent memory and to determine whether any observed deficits are associated with changes in hippocampal insulin signaling or concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Post-weanling male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high fructose (60% of calories) or control diet for 12 weeks and then trained and tested in a spatial water maze. NAFLD was confirmed with postmortem measures of liver mass and liver lipid concentrations. NAFLD did not affect acquisition of the spatial water maze, but did impair retention tested 48 h later. Specifically, both groups demonstrated similar decreases in latency to swim to the escape platform over training trials, but on the memory test NAFLD rats took longer to reach the platform and made fewer visits to the platform location than control diet rats. There were no differences between the groups in terms of insulin-stimulated phosphorylation of insulin receptor  subunit (IR-) and protein kinase B (PKB/AKT) in hippocampal slices or hippocampal BDNF or IGF-1 concentrations. Thus, these data indicate that NAFLD impairs hippocampal-dependent memory function and that the deficit does not appear attributable to alterations in hippocampal insulin signaling or hippocampal BDNF or IGF-1 concentrations.
The nonselective cation channel transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC)5 is found predominantly in the brain and has been proposed to regulate neuronal processes and growth cones. Here, we demonstrate that semaphorin 3A-mediated growth cone collapse is reduced in hippocampal neurons from TRPC5 null mice. This reduction is reproduced by inhibition of the calcium-sensitive protease calpain in wild-type neurons but not in TRPC5(-/-) neurons. We show that calpain-1 and calpain-2 cleave and functionally activate TRPC5. Mutation of a critical threonine at position 857 inhibits calpain-2 cleavage of the channel. Finally, we show that the truncated TRPC5 predicted to result from calpain cleavage is functionally active. These results indicate that semaphorin 3A initiates growth cone collapse via activation of calpain that in turn potentiates TRPC5 activity. Thus, TRPC5 acts downstream of semaphorin signaling to cause changes in neuronal growth cone morphology and nervous system development.
The time course of signaling via heterotrimeric G proteins is controlled through their activation by G-protein coupled receptors and deactivation through the action of GTPase accelerating proteins (GAPs). Here we identify RGS7 and RGS11 as the key GAPs in the mGluR6 pathway of retinal rod ON bipolar cells that set the sensitivity and time course of light-evoked responses. We showed using electroretinography and single cell recordings that the elimination of RGS7 did not influence dark-adapted light-evoked responses, but the concurrent elimination of RGS11 severely reduced their magnitude and dramatically slowed the onset of the response. In RGS7/RGS11 double-knockout mice, light-evoked responses in rod ON bipolar cells were only observed during persistent activation of rod photoreceptors that saturate rods. These observations are consistent with persistently high G-protein activity in rod ON bipolar cell dendrites caused by the absence of the dominant GAP, biasing TRPM1 channels to the closed state.
Bilingualism profoundly affects the brain, yielding functional and structural changes in cortical regions dedicated to language processing and executive function [Crinion J, et al. (2006) Science 312:1537-1540; Kim KHS, et al. (1997) Nature 388:171-174]. Comparatively, musical training, another type of sensory enrichment, translates to expertise in cognitive processing and refined biological processing of sound in both cortical and subcortical structures. Therefore, we asked whether bilingualism can also promote experience-dependent plasticity in subcortical auditory processing. We found that adolescent bilinguals, listening to the speech syllable [da], encoded the stimulus more robustly than age-matched monolinguals. Specifically, bilinguals showed enhanced encoding of the fundamental frequency, a feature known to underlie pitch perception and grouping of auditory objects. This enhancement was associated with executive function advantages. Thus, through experience-related tuning of attention, the bilingual auditory system becomes highly efficient in automatically processing sound. This study provides biological evidence for system-wide neural plasticity in auditory experts that facilitates a tight coupling of sensory and cognitive functions.
In this study, we investigated whether mixing easy and difficult trials can lead to learning in the difficult conditions. We hypothesized that while feedback is necessary for significant learning in training regimes consisting solely of low training accuracy trials, training mixtures with sufficient proportions of high accuracy training trials would lead to significant learning without feedback. Thirty-six subjects were divided into one experimental group in which trials with high training accuracy were mixed with those with low training accuracy and no feedback, and five control groups in which high and low accuracy training were mixed in the presence of feedback; high and high training accuracy were mixed or low and low training accuracy were mixed with and without feedback trials. Contrast threshold improved significantly in the low accuracy condition in the presence of high training accuracy trials (the high-low mixture group) in the absence of feedback, although no significant learning was found in the low accuracy condition in the group with the low-low mixture without feedback. Moreover, the magnitude of improvement in low accuracy trials without feedback in the high-low training mixture is comparable to that in the high accuracy training without feedback condition and those obtained in the presence of trial-by-trial external feedback. The results are both qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the predictions of the Augmented Hebbian Re-Weighting model. We conclude that mixed training at high and low accuracy levels can lead to perceptual learning at low training accuracy levels without feedback.
Location-specific perceptual learning can be rendered transferrable to a new location with double training, in which feature training (e.g., contrast) is accompanied by additional location training at the new location even with an irrelevant task (e.g. orientation). Here we investigated the impact of relevancy (to feature training) and demand of location training tasks on double training enabled learning transfer. We found that location training with an irrelevant task (Gabor vs. letter judgment, or contrast discrimination) limited transfer of Vernier learning to the trained orientation only. However, performing a relevant suprathreshold orthogonal Vernier task prompted additional transfer to an untrained orthogonal orientation. In addition, the amount of learning transfer may depend on the demand of location training as well as the double training procedure. These results characterize how double training potentiates the functional connections between a learned high-level decision unit and visual inputs from an untrained location to enable transfer of learning across retinal locations.
Gastric intestinal symptoms common among diabetic patients are often caused by intestinal motility abnormalities related to enteric neuropathy. It has recently been demonstrated that the nitrergic subpopulation of myenteric neurons are especially susceptible to the development of diabetic neuropathy. Additionally, different susceptibility of nitrergic neurons located in different intestinal segments to diabetic damage and their different levels of responsiveness to insulin treatment have been revealed. These findings indicate the importance of the neuronal microenvironment in the pathogenesis of diabetic nitrergic neuropathy. The main focus of this review therefore was to summarize recent advances related to the diabetes-related selective nitrergic neuropathy and associated motility disturbances. Special attention was given to the findings on capillary endothelium and enteric glial cells. Growing evidence indicates that capillary endothelium adjacent to the myenteric ganglia and enteric glial cells surrounding them are determinative in establishing the ganglionic microenvironment. Additionally, recent advances in the development of new strategies to improve glycemic control in type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus are also considered in this review. Finally, looking to the future, the recent and promising results of metagenomics for the characterization of the gut microbiome in health and disease such as diabetes are highlighted.


The analysis of the contributions to synaptic plasticity and memory of cAMP, PKA, CRE, CREB-1, CREB-2, and CPEB has recruited the efforts of many laboratories all over the world. These are six key steps in the molecular biological delineation of short-term memory and its conversion to long-term memory for both implicit (procedural) and explicit (declarative) memory. I here first trace the background for the clinical and behavioral studies of implicit memory that made a molecular biology of memory storage possible, and then detail the discovery and early history of these six molecular steps and their roles in explicit memory.
Mitochondria have a crucial role in cellular bioenergetics and apoptosis, and thus are important to support cell function and in determination of cell death pathways. Inherited mitochondrial diseases can be caused by mutations of mitochondrial DNA or of nuclear genes that encode mitochondrial proteins. Although many mitochondrial disorders are multisystemic, some are tissue specific--eg, optic neuropathy, sensorineural deafness, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the past few years, several disorders have been associated with mutations of nuclear genes responsible for mitochondrial DNA maintenance and function, and the potential contribution of mitochondrial abnormalities to progressive neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease has been recognised. The process of mitochondrial fission-fusion has become a focus of attention in human disease. Importantly, the mitochondrion is now a target for therapeutic interventions that encompass small molecules, transcriptional regulation, and genetic manipulation, offering opportunities to treat a diverse range of diseases.

Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the leading monogenic cause of intellectual disability and autism, results from loss of function of the RNA-binding protein FMRP. Here, we show that FMRP regulates translation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1) in the developing human neocortex. Whereas NOS1 mRNA is widely expressed, NOS1 protein is transiently coexpressed with FMRP during early synaptogenesis in layer- and region-specific pyramidal neurons. These include midfetal layer 5 subcortically projecting neurons arranged into alternating columns in the prospective Broca's area and orofacial motor cortex. Human NOS1 translation is activated by FMRP via interactions with coding region binding motifs absent from mouse Nos1 mRNA, which is expressed in mouse pyramidal neurons, but not efficiently translated. Correspondingly, neocortical NOS1 protein levels are severely reduced in developing human FXS cases, but not FMRP-deficient mice. Thus, alterations in FMRP posttranscriptional regulation of NOS1 in developing neocortical circuits may contribute to cognitive dysfunction in FXS.
Structural genomic variations represent a major driving force of evolution, and a burst of large segmental gene duplications occurred in the human lineage during its separation from nonhuman primates. SRGAP2, a gene recently implicated in neocortical development, has undergone two human-specific duplications. Here, we find that both duplications (SRGAP2B and SRGAP2C) are partial and encode a truncated F-BAR domain. SRGAP2C is expressed in the developing and adult human brainand dimerizes with ancestral SRGAP2 to inhibitits function. In the mouse neocortex, SRGAP2 promotes spine maturation and limits spine density. Expression of SRGAP2C phenocopies SRGAP2 deficiency. It underlies sustained radial migration and leads to the emergence of human-specific features, including neoteny during spine maturation and increased density of longer spines. These results suggest that inhibition of SRGAP2 function by itshuman-specific paralogs has contributed to the evolution of the human neocortex and plays an important role during human brain development.
TRP channels have been associated with cell proliferation and aggressiveness in several cancers. In particular, TRPC1 regulates cell proliferation and motility, two processes underlying cancer progression. We and others have described the mechanisms of TRPC1-dependent cell migration. However, the involvement of TRPC1 in cell proliferation remains unexplained. In this study, we show that siRNA-mediated TRPC1 depletion in non small cell lung carcinoma cell lines induced G(0)/G(1) cell cycle arrest resulting in dramatic decrease in cell growth. The expression of cyclins D1 and D3 was reduced after TRPC1 knockdown, pointing out the role of TRPC1 in G(1)/S transition. This was associated with a decreased phosphorylation and activation of EGFR and with a subsequent disruption of PI3K/Akt and MAPK downstream pathways. Stimulation of EGFR by its natural ligand, EGF, induced Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum and Ca(2+) entry through TRPC1. Ca(2+) entry through TRPC1 conversely activated EGFR, suggesting that TRPC1 is a component of a Ca(2+)-dependent amplification of EGF-dependent cell proliferation.
A detailed structure/function analysis of Drosophila p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (S6KII) or its mammalian homolog RSK has not been performed in the context of neuronal plasticity or behavior. We previously reported that S6KII is required for normal circadian periodicity. Here we report a site-directed mutagenesis of S6KII and analysis of mutants, in vivo, that identifies functional domains and phosphorylation sites critical for the regulation of circadian period. We demonstrate, for the first time, a role for the S6KII C-terminal kinase that is independent of its known role in activation of the N-terminal kinase. Both S6KII C-terminal kinase activity and its ERK-binding domain are required for wild-type circadian period and normal phosphorylation status of the protein. In contrast, the N-terminal kinase of S6KII is dispensable for modulation of circadian period and normal phosphorylation of the protein. We also show that particular sites of S6KII phosphorylation, Ser-515 and Thr-732, are essential for normal circadian behavior. Surprisingly, the phosphorylation of S6KII residues, in vivo, does not follow a strict sequential pattern, as implied by certain cell-based studies of mammalian RSK protein.
To migrate efficiently through the interstitium, dendritic cells (DCs) constantly adapt their shape to the given structure of the extracellular matrix and follow the path of least resistance. It is known that this amoeboid migration of DCs requires Cdc42, yet the upstream regulators critical for localization and activation of Cdc42 remain to be determined. Mutations of DOCK8, a member of the atypical guanine nucleotide exchange factor family, causes combined immunodeficiency in humans. In the present study, we show that DOCK8 is a Cdc42-specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor that is critical for interstitial DC migration. By generating the knockout mice, we found that in the absence of DOCK8, DCs failed to accumulate in the lymph node parenchyma for T-cell priming. Although DOCK8-deficient DCs migrated normally on 2-dimensional surfaces, DOCK8 was required for DCs to crawl within 3-dimensional fibrillar networks and to transmigrate through the subcapsular sinus floor. This function of DOCK8 depended on the DHR-2 domain mediating Cdc42 activation. DOCK8 deficiency did not affect global Cdc42 activity. However, Cdc42 activation at the leading edge membrane was impaired in DOCK8-deficient DCs, resulting in a severe defect in amoeboid polarization and migration. Therefore, DOCK8 regulates interstitial DC migration by controlling Cdc42 activity spatially.

Atomoxetine (ATX) is a potent inhibitor of the noradrenaline reuptake transporter approved since 2002 for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children, adolescents, and adults as alternative treatment to methylphenidate. A procedure based on liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has been developed for the determination of ATX and its main metabolites (4-hydroxyatomoxetine - 4 hydroxyATX - and N-desmethylatomoxetine - des-methylATX) in hair of one treated child and five treated adolescents. Since hair samples can be easily collected without the need for specials skills and exposing a patient to discomfort, hair testing of ATX and eventually of its metabolites should be useful, especially in case of pediatric patients, to check compliance in a wider time-window. After addition of duloxetine as internal standard, hair samples were overnight digested with 2ml 1M NaOH at 45C. Then, analytes were extracted from alkaline solution with two different 2ml aliquots of tert-butyl methyl ether. Chromatographic separation was achieved at ambient temperature using a reverse-phase column and a mobile phase of 40% of water-60% 5mM ammonium acetate, 50mM formic acid, 4mM trifluoroacetic acid in acetonitrile-water (85:15, v/v). The mass spectrometer was operated in positive ion mode using multiple reaction monitoring. The method was linear over the concentration range 0.2-50ng/mg hair for the all analytes under investigation, with an intra- and inter-assay imprecision and inaccuracy always less than 20% and an analytical recovery between 33.1% and 76.1%, depending on the considered analyte. Only ATX and 4-hydroxyATX were detected in hair samples with concentrations varying from 0.2 to 2.0ng/mg hair and from 0.3 to 1.0ng/mg, respectively. Notwithstanding the absence of any dose-hair concentration relationship, hair monitoring of ATX and concomitant medications commonly administrated in ADHD children and adolescents can be crucial in verifying long-term compliance to prescribed medication in individuals displaying a non negligible tendency to refuse drugs and to lie on the adherence to therapy as a specific symptom of the disease.
Pioneering studies in the middle of the twentieth century revealed substantial diversity among mammalian chemical synapses and led to a widely accepted classification of synapse type on the basis of neurotransmitter molecule identity. Subsequently, powerful new physiological, genetic and structural methods have enabled the discovery of much deeper functional and molecular diversity within each traditional neurotransmitter type. Today, this deep diversity continues to pose both daunting challenges and exciting new opportunities for neuroscience. Our growing understanding of deep synapse diversity may transform how we think about and study neural circuit development, structure and function.
Humans possess a remarkable ability to attend to a single speaker's voice in a multi-talker background. How the auditory system manages to extract intelligible speech under such acoustically complex and adverse listening conditions is not known, and, indeed, it is not clear how attended speech is internally represented. Here, using multi-electrode surface recordings from the cortex of subjects engaged in a listening task with two simultaneous speakers, we demonstrate that population responses in non-primary human auditory cortex encode critical features of attended speech: speech spectrograms reconstructed based on cortical responses to the mixture of speakers reveal the salient spectral and temporal features of the attended speaker, as if subjects were listening to that speaker alone. A simple classifier trained solely on examples of single speakers can decode both attended words and speaker identity. We find that task performance is well predicted by a rapid increase in attention-modulated neural selectivity across both single-electrode and population-level cortical responses. These findings demonstrate that the cortical representation of speech does not merely reflect the external acoustic environment, but instead gives rise to the perceptual aspects relevant for the listener's intended goal.
Psychological studies in humans and behavioral studies of model organisms suggest that forgetting is a common and biologically regulated process, but the molecular, cellular, and circuit mechanisms underlying forgetting are poorly understood. Here we show that the bidirectional modulation of a small subset of dopamine neurons (DANs) after olfactory learning regulates the rate of forgetting of both punishing (aversive) and rewarding (appetitive) memories. Two of these DANs, MP1 and MV1, exhibit synchronized ongoing activity in the mushroom body neuropil in alive and awake flies before and after learning, as revealed by functional cellular imaging. Furthermore, while the mushroom-body-expressed dDA1 dopamine receptor is essential for the acquisition of memory, we show that the dopamine receptor DAMB, also highly expressed in mushroom body neurons, is required for forgetting. We proposea dual role for dopamine: memory acquisition through dDA1 signaling and forgetting through DAMB signaling in the mushroom body neurons.
Glial cells release molecules that influence braindevelopment, function, and disease. Calcium-dependent exocytosis has been proposed as potential release mechanism in astroglia, but the physiological relevance of &quot;gliotransmission&quot; invivo remains controversial. We focused on the impact of glial exocytosis on sensory transduction in the retina.To this end, we generated transgenic mice to block exocytosis by Cre recombinase-dependent expression of the clostridial botulinum neurotoxin serotypeB light chain, which cleaves vesicle-associated membrane protein 1-3. Ubiquitous and neuronal toxin expression caused perinatal lethality anda reduction of synaptic transmission thus validating transgene function. Toxin expression in Mller cells inhibited vesicular glutamate release and impaired glial volume regulation but left retinal histology and visual processing unaffected. Our model to study gliotransmission invivo reveals specific functions of exocytotic glutamate release in retinal glia.
The lateral habenula (LHb) has recently been identified as a key regulator of the reward system by driving inhibition onto dopaminergic neurons. However, the nature and potential modulation of the major input to the LHb originating from the basal ganglia are poorly understood. Although the output of the basal ganglia is thought to be primarily inhibitory, here we show that transmission from the basal ganglia to the LHb is excitatory, glutamatergic, and suppressed by serotonin. Behaviorally, activation of this pathway is aversive, consistent with its role as an &quot;antireward&quot; signal. Our demonstration of an excitatory projection from the basal ganglia to the LHb explains how LHb-projecting basal ganglia neurons can have similar encoding properties as LHb neurons themselves. Our results also provide a link between antireward excitatory synapses and serotonin,a neuromodulator implicated in depression.
Endocytosis and endosomal trafficking play a multitude of roles in cellular function beyond regulating entry of essential nutrients. In this review, we discuss the cell biological principles of endosomal trafficking, the neuronal adaptations to endosomal organization, and the role of endosomal trafficking in neural development. In particular, we consider how cell fate decisions, polarity, migration, and axon outgrowth and guidance are influenced by five endosomal tricks: dynamic modulation of receptor levels by endocytosis and recycling, cargo-specific responses via cargo-specific endocytic regulators, cell-type-specific endocytic regulation, ligand-specific endocytic regulation, and endosomal regulation of ligand processing and trafficking.
In this issue of Neuron, Ohayon etal. (2012) utilize fMRI-guided single-cell recordings to demonstrate the importance of contrast polarity features for face-selective responses in macaque temporal cortex, as predicted by a computer vision face detection algorithm.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation can be neuroprotective or neurotoxic depending on receptor location. In this issue of Neuron, Martel etal. (2012) demonstrate that the C-terminal of NMDA receptor subunits also contributes critically to excitotoxicity. NMDA receptor subunits containing the GluN2B C-terminal are more lethal than those containing the GluN2A tails, regardless of location.
The membrane-bound water channel aquaporin-4 plays a significant role in the regulation of water movement within the retina. In retinal ischemia-reperfusion injury, changes in the expression and localization of aquaporin-4 have been reported. Previous studies also suggest that the internalization of several membrane-bound proteins, including aquaporin-4, may occur with or without lysosomal degradation. In this study, the internalization of aquaporin-4 was detected in the ischemic rat retina via double immunofluorescence labeling. Specifically, both aquaporin-4 and the mannose-6-phosphate receptor co-localized post-ischemic injury (10, 30 and 60 min). The same results were found during a 12-h reperfusion window (2, 4 and 8 h, respectively) following 60 min of ischemia. Moreover, the co-expression of aquaporin-4 and lysosomal-associated membrane protein-1 was observed at 1-12 h of reperfusion, with co-expression increasing followed by a gradual decrease. These combined findings suggest that AQP4 is internalized in the ischemic-reperfused retina, and the lysosome is involved in degrading the internalized aquaporin-4 during the reperfusion phase. Both the internalization of aquaporin-4 and its lysosomal degradation may serve as valuable therapeutic targets for managing ischemic-reperfused retinal injury.
Previous correlations between geomagnetic activity and quantitative changes in electroencephalographic power revealed particular associations with the right parietal lobe for theta activity and the right frontal region for gamma activity. In the present experiment subjects were exposed to either no field (sham conditions) or to either 20 nT or 70 nT, 7 Hz, amplitude modulated (mHz range) magnetic fields for 30 min. Quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) measurements were completed before, during, and after the field exposures. After about 10 min of exposure theta power over the right parietal region was enhanced for the 20 nT exposure but suppressed for the 70 nT exposure relative to sham field exposures. The effect dissipated by the end of the exposure. These results support the contention that magnetic field fluctuations were primarily responsible for the significant geomagnetic-QEEG correlations reported in several studies.
Although affective disorders have high prevalence, morbidity and mortality, we do not fully understand disease etiopathology, nor have we determined the exact mechanisms by which treatment works. Recent research indicates that intracellular calcium ion dysfunction might be involved. Here we use the chronic restraint stress model of affective disorder (6 h restraint per day for 21 days) in combination with electroconvulsive stimulations to examine the effects of stress and an effective antidepressive treatment modality on L-type voltage gated calcium channel subunit mRNA expression patterns in the brain. We find that stress tended to upregulate Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 channels in a brain region specific manner, while ECS tended to normalise this effect. This was more pronounced for Ca(v)1.2 channels, where stress clearly increased expression in both the basolateral amygdala, dentate gyrus and CA3, while stress only upregulated Ca(v)1.3 channel expression significantly in the dentate gyrus. ECS effects on Ca(v)1.2 channel expression were generally specific to stressed animals. Our findings are consistent with and extent previous studies on the involvement of intracellular calcium ion dysfunction in affective disorders. Selective modulation of neuronal L-type voltage gated calcium channels appears to be a promising target for the development of novel antidepressive treatment modalities.
Using a rapid chronic intermittent ethanol (CIE) vapor exposure paradigm, we demonstrate the dissociability of metabolic tolerance from cognitive tolerance in adolescent rats. Adolescent rats were trained to spatially navigate in the Morris Water Maze and then exposed to CIE vapor or air 16 h a day for 4 days. After a final 28 h withdrawal, all rats received a saline or ethanol challenge, followed by a test of spatial memory 30 min after administration. Results indicate that CIE vapor exposure did not significantly impair adolescent spatial memory. Although CIE-exposed rats developed metabolic tolerance to a subsequent ethanol administration, CIE exposure did not alter dose-dependent ethanol-induced spatial memory impairments. These data indicate that metabolic ethanol tolerance can be distinguished from cognitive ethanol tolerance during adolescence and suggest that blood alcohol levels alone do not fully explain ethanol-induced spatial memory impairments.
Anxiety disorders are characterized by persistent fear in the absence of immediate threat and represent the most common psychiatric diseases, with an estimated 28% lifetime prevalence worldwide (Kessler et al., 2010). While symptoms of anxiety are typically evoked by sensory stimuli, it is unknown whether sensory deficits contribute to the development of anxiety disorders. Here we examine the effect of defined genetic mutations that compromise the function of the olfactory system on the development of anxiety-like behaviors in mice. We show that the functional inactivation of the main olfactory epithelium, but not the vomeronasal organ, causes elevated levels of anxiety. Anxiety-like behaviors are also observed in mice with a monoclonal nose, that are able to detect and discriminate odors but in which the patterns of odor-evoked neural activity are perturbed. In these mice, plasma corticosterone levels are elevated, suggesting that olfactory deficits can lead to chronic stress. These results demonstrate a central role for olfactory sensory cues in modulating anxiety in mice.
Differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into mature oligodendrocytes is regulated by the interplay between extrinsic signals and intrinsic epigenetic determinants. In this study, we analyze the effect that the extracellular ligands sonic hedgehog (Shh) and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), have on histone acetylation and gene expression in cultured OPCs. Shh treatment favored the progression toward oligodendrocytes by decreasing histone acetylation and inducing peripheral chromatin condensation. BMP4 treatment, in contrast, inhibited the progression toward oligodendrocytes and favored astrogliogenesis by favoring global histone acetylation and retaining euchromatin. Pharmacological treatment or silencing of histone deacetylase 1 (Hdac1) or histone deacetylase 2 (Hdac2) in OPCs did not affect BMP4-dependent astrogliogenesis, while it prevented Shh-induced oligodendrocyte differentiation and favored the expression of astrocytic genes. Transcriptional profiling of treated OPCs, revealed that BMP4-inhibition of oligodendrocyte differentiation was accompanied by increased levels of Wnt (Tbx3) and Notch-target genes (Jag1, Hes1, Hes5, Hey1, and Hey2), decreased recruitment of Hdac and increased histone acetylation at these loci. Similar upregulation of Notch-target genes and increased histone acetylation were observed in the corpus callosum of mice infused with BMP4 during cuprizone-induced demyelination. We conclude that Shh and Bmp4 differentially regulate histone acetylation and chromatin structure in OPCs and that BMP4 acts as a potent inducer of gene expression, including Notch and Wnt target genes, thereby enhancing the crosstalk among signaling pathways that are known to inhibit myelination and repair.
Formation of the CNS white matter is developmentally tightly regulated, but the molecules and mechanisms of myelination control in the postnatal CNS are poorly understood. Here, we show that myelin growth is controlled by fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling, originally identified as a proliferative signal for oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) in vitro. We created two lines of mice lacking both FGF receptor 1 (Fgfr1) and Fgfr2 in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells but found that in these mice OPC proliferation and differentiation were unaffected. In addition, axonal ensheathment and the initiation of myelination were on time. However, the rapid growth of CNS myelin, normally occurring in the second postnatal week, was strongly inhibited. Throughout adulthood, the myelin sheath remained disproportionately thin relative to the axon caliber. In adult mice, mutant oligodendrocytes were normal in number, whereas the transcription of major myelin genes was reduced. This FGF receptor-mediated stimulation of mature oligodendrocytes could also be modeled in vitro, demonstrating that enhanced expansion of oligodendroglial processes requires signaling by extracellular signal regulated kinase-1 and -2 (Erk1/2), downstream mediators of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). In vivo, Erk1/2-MAPK activity was reduced in the hypomyelinated CNS of Fgfr1/Fgfr2 mutant mice. These studies reveal a previously unrecognized function of FGF receptor signaling in oligodendrocytes that contributes to the regulation of myelin sheath thickness and that uncouples the initiation of ensheathment from the later phase of continued myelin growth.
Changes in CaMKII-regulated synaptic excitability are a means through which experience may modify neuronal function and shape behavior. While behavior in rodent addiction models is linked with CaMKII activity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, the key cellular adaptations that forge this link are unclear. Using a mouse strain with striatal-specific expression of autonomously active CaMKII (T286D), we demonstrate that while persistent CaMKII activity induces behaviors comparable to those in mice repeatedly exposed to psychostimulants, it is insufficient to increase AMPAR-mediated synaptic strength in NAc shell. However, autonomous CaMKII upregulates A-type K(+) current (IA) and decreases firing in shell neurons. Importantly, inactivating the transgene with doxycycline eliminates both the IA-mediated firing decrease and the elevated behavioral response to cocaine. This study identifies CaMKII regulation of IA in NAc shell neurons as a novel cellular contributor to the sensitization of cocaine reward.
The regeneration of mechanoreceptive hair cells occurs throughout life in non-mammalian vertebrates and allows them to recover from hearing and balance deficits that affect humans and other mammals permanently. The irreversibility of comparable deficits in mammals remains unexplained, but often has been attributed to steep embryonic declines in cellular production. However, recent results suggest that gravity-sensing hair cells in murine utricles may increase in number during neonatal development, raising the possibility that young mice might retain sufficient cellular plasticity for mitotic hair cell regeneration. To test for this we used neomycin to kill hair cells in utricles cultured from mice of different ages and found that proliferation increased tenfold in damaged utricles from the youngest neonates. To kill hair cells in vivo, we generated a novel mouse model that uses an inducible, hair cell-specific CreER allele to drive expression of diphtheria toxin fragment A (DTA). In newborns, induction of DTA expression killed hair cells and resulted in significant, mitotic hair cell replacement in vivo, which occurred days after the normal cessation of developmental mitoses that produce hair cells. DTA expression induced in 5-d-old mice also caused hair cell loss, but no longer evoked mitotic hair cell replacement. These findings show that regeneration limits arise in vivo during the postnatal period when the mammalian balance epithelium's supporting cells differentiate unique cytological characteristics and lose plasticity, and they support the notion that the differentiation of those cells may directly inhibit regeneration or eliminate an essential, but as yet unidentified pool of stem cells.
Mutations in the synaptic scaffolding protein gene SHANK3 are strongly implicated in autism and Phelan-McDermid 22q13 deletion syndrome. The precise location of the mutation within the Shank3 gene is key to its phenotypic outcomes. Here, we report the physiological and behavioral consequences of null and heterozygous mutations in the ankyrin repeat domain in Shank3 mice. Both homozygous and heterozygous mice showed reduced glutamatergic transmission and long-term potentiation in the hippocampus with more severe deficits detected in the homozygous mice. Three independent cohorts were evaluated for magnitude and replicability of behavioral endophenotypes relevant to autism and Phelan-McDermid syndrome. Mild social impairments were detected, primarily in juveniles during reciprocal interactions, while all genotypes displayed normal adult sociability on the three-chambered task. Impaired novel object recognition and rotarod performance were consistent across cohorts of null mutants. Repetitive self-grooming, reduced ultrasonic vocalizations, and deficits in reversal of water maze learning were detected only in some cohorts, emphasizing the importance of replication analyses. These results demonstrate the exquisite specificity of deletions in discrete domains within the Shank3 gene in determining severity of symptoms.
Postinhibitory rebound (PIR) is believed to play an important role in the genesis and maintenance of biological rhythms. While it has been demonstrated during several in vitro studies, in vivo evidence for PIR remains scarce. Here, we report that PIR can be observed in the dorsomedial entorhinal cortex of anesthetized rats, mostly between putatively connected GABAergic interneurons, and that it is more prevalent during the theta (4-6 Hz) oscillation state than the slow (0.5-2 Hz) oscillation state. Functional inhibition was also found to be brain state and postsynaptic cell type dependent but that alone could not explain this brain state dependence of PIR. A theoretical analysis, using two Fitzhugh-Nagumo neurons coupled to an external periodic drive, predicted that the modulation of a faster spiking rate by the slower periodic drive could account for the brain state dependence of PIR. Model predictions were verified experimentally. We conclude that PIR is cell type and brain state dependent and propose that this could impact network synchrony and rhythmogenesis.
Reading sentences involves a distributed network of brain regions acting in concert surrounding the left sylvian fissure. The mechanisms of neural communication underlying the extraction and integration of verbal information across subcomponents of this reading network are still largely unknown. We recorded intracranial EEG activity in 12 epileptic human patients performing natural sentence reading and analyzed long-range corticocortical interactions between local neural activations. During a simple task contrasting semantic, phonological, and purely visual processes, we found process-specific neural activity elicited at the single-trial level, characterized by energy increases in a broad gamma band (40-150 Hz). Correlation analysis between task-induced gamma-band activations revealed a selective fragmentation of the network into specialized subnetworks supporting sentence-level semantic analysis and phonological processing. We extend the implications of our results beyond reading, to propose that gamma-band amplitude correlations might constitute a fundamental mechanism for large-scale neural integration during high-level cognition.

Erythropoietin (EPO) reduces symptoms of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rodents and shows neuroregenerative effects in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis. The mechanisms of action of EPO in these conditions with shared immunological etiology are still unclear. Therefore, we used a model of toxic demyelination allowing exclusion of T cell-mediated inflammation. In a double-blind (for food/injections), placebo-controlled, longitudinal four-arm design, 8-wk-old C57BL/6 mice (n = 26/group) were assigned to cuprizone-containing (0.2%) or regular food (ground chow) for 6 wks. After 3 wks, mice were injected every other day with placebo or EPO (5,000 IU/kg intraperitoneally) until the end of cuprizone feeding. Half of the mice were exposed to behavioral testing, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histology immediately after treatment cessation, whereas the other half were allowed a 3-wk treatment-free recovery. Immediately after termination of cuprizone feeding, all toxin-exposed mice were compromised regarding vestibulomotor function/coordination, with EPO-treated animals performing better than placebo. Likewise, ventricular enlargement after cuprizone, as documented by MRI, was less pronounced upon EPO. After a 3-wk recovery, remarkable spontaneous improvement was observed in all mice with no measurable further benefit in the EPO group (&quot;ceiling effect&quot;). Histological analysis of the corpus callosum revealed attenuation by EPO of the cuprizone-induced increase in microglial numbers and amyloid precursor protein accumulations as a readout of inflammation and axonal degeneration. To conclude, EPO ameliorates neurological symptoms in the cuprizone model of demyelination, possibly by reduction of inflammation-associated axonal degeneration in white matter tracts. These findings underscore the value of future therapeutic strategies for multiple sclerosis based on EPO or EPO variants.

A fundamental question in neuroscience is how entire neural circuits generate behaviour and adapt it to changes in sensory feedback. Here we use two-photon calcium imaging to record the activity of large populations of neurons at the cellular level, throughout the brain of larval zebrafish expressing a genetically encoded calcium sensor, while the paralysed animals interact fictively with a virtual environment and rapidly adapt their motor output to changes in visual feedback. We decompose the network dynamics involved in adaptive locomotion into four types of neuronal response properties, and provide anatomical maps of the corresponding sites. A subset of these signals occurred during behavioural adjustments and are candidates for the functional elements that drive motor learning. Lesions to the inferior olive indicate a specific functional role for olivocerebellar circuitry in adaptive locomotion. This study enables the analysis of brain-wide dynamics at single-cell resolution during behaviour.
A potential threat, such as a spider, captures attention and engages executive functions to adjust ongoing behavior and avoid danger. We and many others have reported slowed responses to neutral targets in the context of emotional distractors. This behavioral slowing has been explained in the framework of attentional competition for limited resources with emotional stimuli prioritized. Alternatively, slowed performance could reflect the activation of avoidance/freezing-type motor behaviors associated with threat. Although the interaction of attention and emotion has been widely studied, little is known on the interaction between emotion and executive functions. We studied how threat-related stimuli (spiders) interact with executive performance and whether the interaction profile fits with a resource competition model or avoidance/freezing-type motor behaviors. Twenty-one young healthy individuals performed a Go-NoGo visual discrimination reaction time (RT) task engaging several executive functions with threat-related and emotionally neutral distractors. The threat-related distractors had no effect on the RT or the error rate in the Go trials. The NoGo error rate, reflecting failure in response inhibition, increased significantly because of threat-related distractors in contrast to neutral distractors, P less than 0.05. Thus, threat-related distractors temporarily impaired response inhibition. Threat-related distractors associated with increased commission errors and no effect on RT does not suggest engagement of avoidance/freezing-type motor behaviors. The results fit in the framework of the resource competition model. A potential threat calls for evaluation of affective significance as well as inhibition of undue emotional reactivity. We suggest that these functions tax executive resources and may render other executive functions, such as response inhibition, temporarily compromised when the demands for resources exceed availability.
Few studies have examined the relationship between local anatomic thickness of the cortex and the activation signals arising from it. Using structural and functional MRI, we examined whether a relationship exists between cortical thickness and brain activation. Twenty-eight participants were asked to perform the Go/NoGo response inhibition task known to activate the anterior cingulate and the prefrontal cortex. Structural data of the same regions were simultaneously collected. We hypothesized that cortical thickness in these brain regions would positively correlate with brain activation. Data from the structural MRI were aligned with those of functional MRI activation. There was a positive linear correlation between cortical thickness and activation during response inhibition in the right anterior cingulate cortex (Brodmann's Area 24). No significant thickness-activation correlations were found in the prefrontal cortex. Correlations between cortical thickness and activation may occur only in certain brain regions.
Evidence suggests that maternal stress during gestation in humans and animals can cause emotional and cognitive dysfunction in the offspring. In the present study, we examined neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex of adult rats exposed to prenatal stress. Using a revised Golgi-Cox staining method, we found decreases in dendritic length and complexity in area CA3 and the dentate gyrus of male rats exposed to prenatal stress compared with the controls, as well as decreased dendritic complexity in the prelimbic cortex. In contrast, we did not detect any changes in dendrites of female rats exposed to prenatal stress. Our results suggest that prenatal stress can induce long-lasting morphological changes in the medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus that are sex specific.
Hip and neck femur fracture surgery was associated with high post-operative mortality and poor functional results. The decision-making process with regards to the elderly with hip or neck femur fractures was of great importance, requiring consideration of ethical, medico legal and economic factors in addition to the purely medical ones. An important component in the decision-making process was the precise knowledge of the expected mortality. We considered here several articles from 1 January 2002 to 31 August 2010 that identified the possible scoring system to predict mortality in the elderly undergoing hip or neck femur fracture surgery. We found seven studies which included a total of 12,177 patients that were assigned to hip/neck femur fracture surgery. Each study identified the possible scoring system to predict mortality in the elderly undergoing hip/neck femur fracture surgery. By reviewing the literature available, it was shown that there were more multidimensional prognostic indexes in the elderly after hospitalization than multidimensional prognostic indexes with hip or neck femur fracture which could be used as a simple point scoring system at the bedside to predict mortality in the elderly undergoing hip or neck femur fracture surgery. Although, all the prognostic indexes searched worked well for a general population, but they were of limited validity in the specific, relatively homogeneous population of hip/neck femur fracture patients.
Protein kinase C (PKC) play critical roles in many cellular functions including differentiation, proliferation, growth, and survival. However, the molecular bases governing PKC's substrate recognitions remain poorly understood. Here we determined the structure of PKC in complex with a peptide from Par-3 at 2.4 . PKC in the complex adopts catalytically competent, closed conformation without phosphorylation of Thr402 in the activation loop. The Par-3 peptide binds to an elongated groove formed by the N- and C-lobes of the kinase domain. The PKC/Par-3 complex structure, together with extensive biochemical studies, reveals a set of substrate recognition sites common to all PKC isozymes as well as a hydrophobic pocket unique to aPKC. A consensus aPKC's substrate recognition sequence pattern can be readily identified based on the complex structure. Finally, we demonstrate that the pseudosubstrate sequence of PKC resembles its substrate sequence, directly binds to and inhibits the activity of the kinase.
Endogenous amyloid- (A) oligomeric aggregates have been proposed as toxic agents in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Knowledge of their structures not only may provide insight into the basis of their neurotoxicities but also may reveal new targets for therapeutic drugs and diagnostic tools. However, the low levels of these A oligomers have impeded structural characterization. Evidence suggests that the endogenous oligomers are covalently modified in vivo. In this report, we demonstrate an established mass spectrometry (MS) methodology called precursor ion mapping (PIM) that potentially may be applied to endogenous oligomer characterization. First, we illustrate the use of this PIM technique with a synthetic A(1-40) monomer sample that had been cross-linked with transglutaminase (TGase) and digested with pepsin. From PIM analysis of an A(4-13) MS/MS fragment, precursor ions were identified that corresponded to peptic fragments of three TGase cross-linked species: A(4-19)--(4-19), A(4-19)--(20-34), and A(1-19)--(20-34). Next, we demonstrate the applicability of the PIM technique to an endogenous A sample that had been purified and concentrated by immunoaffinity chromatography. Without pepsin digestion, we successfully identified the full length and C-terminally truncated monomeric A species 1-35 to 1-42, along with select methionine-oxidized counterparts. Because PIM focuses only on a subpopulation of ions, namely the related precursor ions, the resulting spectra are of increased specificity and sensitivity. Therefore, this methodology shows great promise for structural analysis and identification of post-translational modification(s) in endogenous A oligomers.

Two recent studies illustrate the limits of a strictly molecular approach toward understanding learning and memory.
An event in one sensory modality can phase reset brain oscillations concerning another modality. In principle, this may result in stimulus-locked periodicity in behavioral performance. Here we considered this possible cross-modal impact of a sound for one of the best-characterized rhythms arising from the visual system, namely occipital alpha-oscillations (8-14 Hz). We presented brief sounds and concurrently recorded electroencephalography (EEG) and/or probed visual cortex excitability (phosphene perception) through occipital transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). In a first, TMS-only experiment, phosphene perception rate against time postsound showed a periodic pattern cycling at ~10 Hz phase-aligned to the sound. In a second, combined TMS-EEG experiment, TMS-trials reproduced the cyclical phosphene pattern and revealed a ~10 Hz pattern also for EEG-derived measures of occipital cortex reactivity to the TMS pulses. Crucially, EEG-data from intermingled trials without TMS established cross-modal phase-locking of occipitoparietal alpha oscillations. These independently recorded variables, i.e., occipital cortex excitability and reactivity and EEG phase dynamics, were significantly correlated. This shows that cross-modal phase locking of oscillatory visual cortex activity can arise in the human brain to affect perceptual and EEG measures of visual processing in a cyclical manner, consistent with occipital alpha oscillations underlying a rapid cycling of neural excitability in visual areas.
Reading is a unique, cognitive human skill crucial to life in modern societies, but, for about 10% of the children, learning to read is extremely difficult. They are affected by a neurodevelopmental disorder called dyslexia. Although impaired auditory and speech sound processing is widely assumed to characterize dyslexic individuals, emerging evidence suggests that dyslexia could arise from a more basic cross-modal letter-to-speech sound integration deficit. Letters have to be precisely selected from irrelevant and cluttering letters by rapid orienting of visual attention before the correct letter-to-speech sound integration applies. Here we ask whether prereading visual parietal-attention functioning may explain future reading emergence and development. The present 3 year longitudinal study shows that prereading attentional orienting--assessed by serial search performance and spatial cueing facilitation--captures future reading acquisition skills in grades 1 and 2 after controlling for age, nonverbal IQ, speech-sound processing, and nonalphabetic cross-modal mapping. Our findings provide the first evidence that visual spatial attention in preschoolers specifically predicts future reading acquisition, suggesting new approaches for early identification and efficient prevention of dyslexia.


Neurophysiology is increasingly focused on identifying coincident activity among neurons. Strong inferences about neural computation are made from the results of such studies, so it is important that these results be accurate. However, the preliminary step in the analysis of such data, the assignment of spike waveforms to individual neurons (&quot;spike-sorting&quot;), makes a critical assumption which undermines the analysis: that spikes, and hence neurons, are independent. We show that this assumption guarantees that coincident spiking estimates such as correlation coefficients are biased. We also show how to eliminate this bias. Our solution involves sorting spikes jointly, which contrasts with the current practice of sorting spikes independently of other spikes. This new &quot;ensemble sorting&quot; yields unbiased estimates of coincident spiking, and permits more data to be analyzed with confidence, improving the quality and quantity of neurophysiological inferences. These results should be of interest outside the context of neuronal correlations studies. Indeed, simultaneous recording of many neurons has become the rule rather than the exception in experiments, so it is essential to spike sort correctly if we are to make valid inferences about any properties of, and relationships between, neurons.
Since Darwin's seminal works, the universality of facial expressions of emotion has remained one of the longest standing debates in the biological and social sciences. Briefly stated, the universality hypothesis claims that all humans communicate six basic internal emotional states (happy, surprise, fear, disgust, anger, and sad) using the same facial movements by virtue of their biological and evolutionary origins [Susskind JM, et al. (2008) Nat Neurosci 11:843-850]. Here, we refute this assumed universality. Using a unique computer graphics platform that combines generative grammars [Chomsky N (1965) MIT Press, Cambridge, MA] with visual perception, we accessed the mind's eye of 30 Western and Eastern culture individuals and reconstructed their mental representations of the six basic facial expressions of emotion. Cross-cultural comparisons of the mental representations challenge universality on two separate counts. First, whereas Westerners represent each of the six basic emotions with a distinct set of facial movements common to the group, Easterners do not. Second, Easterners represent emotional intensity with distinctive dynamic eye activity. By refuting the long-standing universality hypothesis, our data highlight the powerful influence of culture on shaping basic behaviors once considered biologically hardwired. Consequently, our data open a unique nature-nurture debate across broad fields from evolutionary psychology and social neuroscience to social networking via digital avatars.
This study reports the use of a nonviral expression system based on polyamidoamine dendrimers for time-restricted neurotrophin overproduction in mesenchymal stem cells and skin precursor-derived Schwann cells. The dendrimers were used to deliver plasmids for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) expression in both rodent and human stem cells, and the timelines of expression were studied. We have found that, despite the fact that transfection efficiencies and protein expression levels were comparable, dendrimer-driven expression in human mesenchymal stem cells was characterized by a more rapid decline compared to rodent cells. Transient expression systems can be beneficial for some neurotrophins, which were earlier reported to cause unwanted side effects in virus-based long-term expression models. Nonviral neurotrophin expression is a biologically safe and accessible alternative to increase the therapeutic potential of autologous adult stem cells and stem cell-derived functional differentiated cells.
Antipsychotics are the mainstay of schizophrenia treatment. However, approximately one third of schizophrenic patients do not respond or respond poorly to antipsychotics. Therefore, there is a need for new approaches that can improve schizophrenia treatment significantly. Promising strategies arise from the modulation of glutamatergic system, according to its proposed involvement in schizophrenia pathogenesis. In this review, we critically updated preclinical and clinical data on the modulation of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity by NMDA-Rs co-agonists, glycine transporters inhibitors, AMPAkines, mGluR5 agonists, NMDA-Rs partial agonists. We focused on: 1) preclinical results in animal models mimicking the pathophysiology of psychosis, mainly believed to be responsible of negative and cognitive symptoms, and predicting antipsychotic-like activity of these compounds; and 2) clinical efficacy in open-label and double-blind trials. Albeit promising preclinical findings for virtually all compounds, clinical efficacy has not been confirmed for D-cycloserine. Contrasting evidence has been reported for glycine and D-serine, that may however have a role as add-on agents. More promising results in humans have been found for glycine transporter inhibitors. AMPAkines appear to be beneficial as pro-cognitive agents, while positive allosteric modulators of mGluR5 have not been tested in humans. Memantine has been proposed in early stages of schizophrenia, as it may counteract the effects of glutamate excitotoxicity correlated to high glutamate levels, slowing the progression of negative symptoms associated to more advanced stages of the illness.
Synaptic loss is the earliest pathological change in Alzheimer disease (AD) and is the pathological change most directly correlated with the degree of dementia. ApoE4 is the major genetic risk factor for the age-dependent form of AD, which accounts for 95% of cases. Here we show that in synaptic networks formed from primary hippocampal neurons in culture, apoE3, but not apoE4, prevents the loss of synaptic networks produced by amyloid  oligomers (amylospheroids). Specific activators of PKC, such as 8-(2-(2-pentyl-cyclopropylmethyl)-cyclopropyl)-octanoic acid methyl ester and bryostatin 1, protected against synaptic loss by amylospheroids, whereas PKC inhibitors blocked this synaptic protection and also blocked the protection by apoE3. Blocking LRP1, an apoE receptor on the neuronal membrane, also blocked the protection by apoE. ApoE3, but not apoE4, induced the synthesis of PKC mRNA and expression of the PKC protein. Amyloid  specifically blocked the expression of PKC but had no effect on other isoforms. These results suggest that protection against synaptic loss by apoE is mediated by a novel intracellular PKC pathway. This apoE pathway may account for much of the protective effect of apoE and reduced risk for the age-dependent form of AD. This finding supports the potential efficacy of newly developed therapeutics for AD.
The RNA-binding proteins TDP-43 and FUS form abnormal cytoplasmic aggregates in affected tissues of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar dementia. TDP-43 and FUS localize mainly in the nucleus where they regulate pre-mRNA splicing, but they are also involved in mRNA transport, stability, and translation. To better investigate their cytoplasmic activities, we applied an RNA immunoprecipitation and chip analysis to define the mRNAs associated to TDP-43 and FUS in the cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein complexes from motoneuronal NSC-34 cells. We found that they bind different sets of mRNAs although converging on common cellular pathways. Bioinformatics analyses identified the (UG)(n) consensus motif in 80% of 3'-UTR sequences of TDP-43 targets, whereas for FUS the binding motif was less evident. By in vitro assays we validated binding to selected target 3'-UTRs, including Vegfa and Grn for TDP-43, and Vps54, Nvl, and Taf15 for FUS. We showed that TDP-43 has a destabilizing activity on Vegfa and Grn mRNAs and may ultimately affect progranulin protein content, whereas FUS does not affect mRNA stability/translation of its targets. We also demonstrated that three different point mutations in TDP-43 did not change the binding affinity for Vegfa and Grn mRNAs or their protein level. Our data indicate that TDP-43 and FUS recognize distinct sets of mRNAs and differently regulate their fate in the cytoplasm of motoneuron-like cells, therefore suggesting complementary roles in neuronal RNA metabolism and neurodegeneration.

Life-span theories explain successful aging with an adaptive management of emotional experiences like regret. As opportunities to undo regrettable situations decline with age, a reduced engagement into these situations represents a potentially protective strategy to maintain well-being in older age. Yet, little is known about the underlying neurobiological mechanisms supporting this claim. We used a multimodal psychophysiological approach in combination with a sequential risk-taking task that induces the feeling of regret and investigated young as well as emotionally successfully and unsuccessfully (i.e., late-life depressed) aged participants. Responsiveness to regret was specifically reduced in successful aging paralleled by autonomic and frontostriatal characteristics indicating adaptive shifts in emotion regulation. Our results suggest that disengagement from regret reflects a critical resilience factor for emotional health in older age.
Melatonin, an indoleamine hormone synthesized in the pinealocytes, has been implicated as influencing the intake of alcohol in rats. It has been shown that this hormone is voltammetrically electroactive at the surface of pretreated carbon fiber microelectrodes in vitro and in vivo, in rat cerebral melatonergic regions such the pineal gland. The aim of this work consisted in the study of the influence of melatonin on spontaneously ethanol drinking or ethanol avoiding rats selected throughout a free choice two bottle test. It appeared that only the water preferring rats were affected by treatment with the hormone and that in vivo voltammetric related levels of melatonin were higher in the pineal gland of ethanol drinking rats versus water preferring rats. In addition, when treated with the melatonin antagonist GR128107 ethanol drinking rats significantly reduced the spontaneous consumption of alcohol.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and serotonin 5-HT1A receptors are implicated in the pathophysiology of depression and the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs. Here, we explore possible reciprocal interactions of 5-HT1A receptor knockout and the expression of BDNF, its receptor TrkB and downstream mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in the ventral (VHP) and dorsal hippocampus (DHP). We compared female and male double mutant mice (5-HT1A(-/-)/BDNF(+/-)) with single mutant mice (5-HT1A(-/-), BDNF(+/-)) and wildtype (WT) controls. Protein expression of BDNF, TrkB, phosphorylation of TrkB (pTrkB) and MAPKs (ERK1, ERK2) was examined using Western blot analysis (n=5-7). As expected, the BDNF(+/-) mice showed ~50% BDNF reduction. Loss of 5-HT1A receptors induced a significant decrease in BDNF levels in the VHP in female mice. The pTrkB/TrkB ratio was also significantly decreased in female 5-HT1A(-/-) mice and 5-HT1A(-/-)/BDNF(+/-) mice but not in males. Despite markedly reduced BDNF levels in BDNF(+/-) mice and double mutants, ERK1 activation was unchanged in the female mice. In contrast, ERK2 activation was significantly elevated in the VHP of female BDNF(+/-) mice and double mutants. Given the greater vulnerability of women to develop depression and the role of the VHP in stress responses and anxiety-related behaviours, our results may shed more light on sex differences in depression and other psychiatric disorders with BDNF and 5-HT1A receptor dysfunction.
The rubber hand illusion (RHI) offers the opportunity to systematically manipulate the experience of embodiment, which is here used to describe the subjective integration of an external object into one's body representation. Among the cortical regions involved in the processing of body perception, the ventral premotor cortex seems to be crucial in the integration of visuotactile stimuli. However, it is not known if the perceived vividness of the RHI is a trait or a state variable. In the present study, we varied the setup of the RHI to test the stability of perception. The illusion was induced in two different contexts, with either a horizontal or vertical displacement of the rubber hand in respect to the real hand. Further, the RHI was induced twice with an interval of at least six months and long-term changes on the perceptual and behavioral level were evaluated. Finally, we measured the long-term stability of cortical activity during the induction of a vertical RHI using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We found that a vertical setup induced higher ratings of illusory embodiment of the rubber hand than a horizontal setup, but the responses to both setups were significantly correlated. There was high intra-individual long-term stability of the subjective perception of illusory embodiment but a lower stability on the behavioral level. The functional magnetic resonance imaging data suggest temporally stable ventral premotor cortex processing. These results indicate that dynamic changes in perceived limb ownership by the induction of the RHI are trait-like.
We have developed a fully automated system for operant behavior testing and neuronal activity recording by which multiple cognitive brain functions can be investigated in a single task sequence. The unique feature of this system is a custom-made, acoustically transparent chamber that eliminates many of the issues associated with auditory cue control in most commercially available chambers. The ease with which operant devices can be added or replaced makes this system quite versatile, allowing for the implementation of a variety of auditory, visual, and olfactory behavioral tasks. Automation of the system allows fine temporal (10 ms) control and precise time-stamping of each event in a predesigned behavioral sequence. When combined with a multi-channel electrophysiology recording system, multiple cognitive brain functions, such as motivation, attention, decision-making, patience, and rewards, can be examined sequentially or independently.
Cranial visceral afferent nerve transfers information about visceral organs to nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) by releasing the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. Various endogenous modulators affect autonomic reflex responses by changing glutamatergic responses in the NTS. Although the expression of GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors in glutamatergic terminals is known, their functional contribution on glutamate release is poorly characterized. Here, we used mechanically isolated NTS neurons to examine the mechanisms by which presynaptic GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors modulate glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). EPSC were isolated by clamping voltage at equilibrium potential for chloride (-49 mV) without any GABA receptors antagonists. In all neurons, GABA(A) agonist, muscimol (1 and 10 M), increased EPSC frequency (284.157% and 278.487% of control, respectively), but the GABA(B) agonist, baclofen (10 M), decreased EPSC frequency (438% of control). The GABA(A) antagonist, gabazine (18 M), decreased EPSC frequency in 50% of tested neurons, whereas GABA(B) antagonist, CGP (5 M), increased the EPSC frequency in 36% of tested neurons. External application of GABA (1 and 30 M) facilitating the EPSC frequency. The facilitation of the GABA(A) receptor-mediated release of glutamate was blocked by Na-K-Cl cotransporter type 1 antagonist or Na and Ca channel inhibitors indicating GABA(A) presynaptic depolarization. Thus, tonically released GABA activates GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors to modulate the release of glutamate. These findings provide cellular mechanisms of heterosynaptic GABA-glutamate integration of peripheral visceral afferent signals in the NTS.
Enhanced nociceptive firing in trigeminal ganglion neurons is a likely reason for migraine pain. In experimental migraine-like conditions induced by the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), P2X3 receptors abundantly expressed in trigeminal neurons are highly responsive to the excitatory action of extracellular ATP. In this study, we tested whether naproxen, a common antimigraine medicine, could affect the function of P2X3 receptors in the presence or absence of the algogen nerve growth factor (NGF), the level of which is elevated in patients with chronic migraine. We used calcium imaging and patch clamp recordings from rat trigeminal neurons, which were activated by a relative specific P2X3 agonist ,-meATP or by high potassium-induced depolarization. In the absence of NGF, naproxen dose-dependently (0.1-1 mM) reduced intracellular calcium transients elicited by ,-meATP. Naproxen also led to a slight, but significant, reduction in calcium transients induced by potassium ions, indicating the involvement of voltage-gated calcium channels. The inhibitory action of 1 mM naproxen was enhanced after NGF pretreatment, suggesting that P2X3 receptors in sensitized neurons are more susceptible to inhibition by high doses of this nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). Using patch clamp recordings from HEK293 cells expressing P2X3 receptors, we tested the direct action of naproxen on P2X3 receptor-mediated membrane currents. In clinically relevant concentrations of 0.5 mM, naproxen produced a use-dependent blocking effect on ATP receptors. Kinetic analysis suggests that naproxen inhibited P2X3 receptors via facilitation of fast desensitization, which determines current decay in the continuous presence of the agonist. In summary, we present a novel fast mechanism for the antimigraine action of naproxen, which can act in synergy with the cyclooxygenase inhibition to attenuate headaches.
There is evidence to suggest that the neuroprotective effect of exposure of extremely low-frequency electromagnetic fields (ELF-EMF) may be due, at least in part, to the effect of these fields on neurotrophic factors levels and cell survival, leading to an improvement in behavior. This study was undertaken to investigate the neuroprotective effects of ELFEF in a rat model of 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP)-induced Huntington's disease. Behavior patterns were evaluated, and changes in neurotrophic factor, cell damage, and oxidative stress biomarker levels were monitored in Wistar rats. Rats were given 3NP over four consecutive days (20 mg/kg body weight), whereas ELFEF (60 Hz and 0.7 mT) was applied over 21 days, starting after the last injection of 3NP. Rats treated with 3NP exhibited significantly different behavior in the open field test (OFT) and the forced swim test (FST), and displayed significant differences in neurotrophic factor levels and oxidative stress biomarkers levels, together with a neuronal damage and diminished neuronal density, with respect neuronal controls. ELFEF improved neurological scores, enhanced neurotrophic factor levels, and reduced both oxidative damage and neuronal loss in 3NP-treated rats. ELFEF alleviates 3NP-induced brain injury and prevents loss of neurons in rat striatum, thus showing considerable potential as a therapeutic tool.
Reductions in reward-related (e.g. striatal) neural activation have been noted following obesity surgery. It has been speculated that these postoperative neural changes may be related to documented postoperative changes in food preferences; however, this relation has not been previously established. In this study, functional magnetic resonance imaging and rating scales were used to assess neural responsivity, desire to eat (i.e. wanting), and liking for high- and low-calorie food cues in 14 females one month pre- and one month post-Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery. Pre- to post-RYGB changes in all variables were assessed, and postoperative changes in neural responsivity were regressed on postoperative changes in desire to eat and liking of foods. Results revealed significant postoperative reductions in mesolimbic (e.g. striatal) neural responsivity, desire to eat (wanting), and liking for high- relative to low-calorie food cues. Postoperative reductions in mesolimbic responsivity were associated with postoperative reductions in wanting, but not liking, for high- versus low-calorie foods. Interestingly, reductions in food wanting were also related to reductions in inhibitory (e.g. dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) activation following RYGB. Results are consistent with the hypothesized delineation between wanting and liking, supporting the notion that wanting, but not liking, is processed through the dopaminergic reward pathway. Concurrent reductions in both reward-related and inhibitory activation-predicted reductions in desire to eat might suggest that less dietary inhibition was elicited to resist potential overconsumption as the anticipated reward value of high-calorie foods decreased following RYGB.
In our previous study, we found that the sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling pathway is activated in neurons under oxidative stress and plays a neuro-protective role [Dai RL, et al. (2011) Neurochem Res 36:67-75]; we are led to postulate that the Shh might be released by astrocytes, thereby protecting neurons against oxidant injury. In primary cultured astrocytes of rats, we found that treatment with 100 M HO for 24 h induced a significant increase in the mRNA and protein levels of Shh, Patched1, and Gli-1, and the increase was substantially greater in astrocytes than in neurons. In the coculture systems of astrocytes and neurons under the HO treatment, blocking the Shh signaling pathway with 5E1 (an antibody against the N-terminal domain of Shh) could block the neuroprotective activity of astrocytes on cocultured neurons. In this study, we found that treatment with HO (100-800 M) for 24 h caused cell death of astrocytes in a concentration-dependent manner. MTT reduction and Trypan Blue exclusion assay showed that exogenous Shh increased survival rate of the HO-treated astrocytes, whereas pretreatment with cyclopamine (a specific inhibitor of the Shh signaling pathway) or 5E1 decreased the survival rate of the HO-treated astrocytes. Shh also inhibited HO-induced apoptosis of astrocytes, and this effect could be partially reversed by cyclopamine. We also found that Shh promoted the phosphorylation of AKT, but had no significant effect on p38 or extracellular signal regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK 1/2) in HO-treated astrocytes. Blocking Shh or phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3-K)/AKT signaling pathway with cyclopamine or LY294002 decreased the survival rate of astrocytes, induced cell apoptosis, upregulated the expression of Bax, and downregulated the expression of Bcl-2. We are led to conclude that the oxidative stress induces astrocytes to secrete endogenous Shh and exogenous administration of Shh might protect the astrocytes from oxidative stress by activating PI3-K/AKT/Bcl-2 pathway.
Endogenous stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF1) has been implicated in postischemic tissue repair, suggesting SDF1 as a potential therapeutic molecule to treat stroke patients. In spite of its potential, no data are available regarding the short- and long-term effects of SDF1 when it is delivered at different phases of stroke. In our study, adenovirus expressing SDF1 gene (AV-SDF1) was introduced into the boundary of the infarcted area either 3 days before or 1 week after ischemia, and behavioral performance was measured over 5 weeks. Immediate behavioral and structural amelioration was evident when AV-SDF1 was injected 3 days before ischemia, which might be the result of SDF1-mediated neuroprotection as supported by the TUNEL staining and Western blot analysis of active caspase-3. In addition, increase in neurogenesis, neuroblast migration, and neural differentiation was also apparent in the AV-SDF1-injected brain, which contributed to further amelioration at later time points (&quot;delayed response&quot;). On the contrary, when AV-SDF1 was introduced 1 week post-ischemia (in the subacute phase), significant behavioral recovery became apparent beginning 5 weeks after viral delivery. Taken together, the therapeutic efficacy of SDF1 varied considerably depending on when SDF1 overexpression was initiated; initiating SDF1 overexpression before ischemia exerted both immediate and delayed beneficial effects, whereas initiating overexpression in the subacute phase exerted only a delayed response.
Some typical immune proteins are expressed in the nervous system, among which the paired-immunoglobulin-like receptor B (PirB) is a receptor for major histocompatibility complex class I antigen (MHC-I), but may play a physiological role in the brain for neuronal circuitry stability by inhibiting synaptic plasticity. Chronic neuroinflammation is common to many neurodegenerative diseases and is often associated with neuronal/synaptic damage and dysfunction. Here we examined the expression of PirB in the rat brain following intracerebral application of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which has been shown to induce proinflammatory changes and cognitive deficits in rodents. One month after unilateral intrahippocampal LPS injection (10 g in 4 l phosphate-buffered saline, PBS), increased protein levels and immunoreactivity of PirB were detected in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation and cortex of the experimental group relative to vehicle (PBS) control. The increased PirB labeling was localized to astrocytes and neurons. Reduced synaptophysin protein levels and immunoreactivity were also found in the ipsilateral hippocampal formation and cortex in LPS-treated rats relative to controls. Morris water maze tests indicated that hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory were impaired in LPS-treated animals. Our findings add new experimental data for an upregulation of immune proteins in neuronal and glial cells in the brain in a model of endotoxin-induced neuroinflammation, synaptic alteration, and cognitive decline. The results suggest that PirB modulation may be involved in the pathological process under neurodegenerative conditions.
Cardiac vagal neurons (CVNs) in the nucleus ambiguus (NA) are the major determinant of parasympathetic activity to the heart. Spontaneous GABAergic neurotransmission to CVNs is modulated by hypothalamic neuropeptide orexin-A in postnatal days 2-5 (P5) rats; however, during early postnatal development, orexin expression changes, and the role of orexin-A in modulating CVN activity at other stages of development is unknown. In this study, we compared changes in GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in CVNs evoked by orexin-A in P5, P16-20 (P20), and P27-30 (P30) rats using an in vitro brain stem slice preparation. Bath-applied orexin-A enhanced GABAergic IPSCs in all CVNs tested in P5 and P30 animals and in the majority of neurons tested in P20 pups. Focal application of orexin-A ejected from a pipette positioned within 30 m of the patched CVN did not alter GABAergic signaling in P5 pups. In contrast, in both P20 and P30 rats, focal application of orexin-A inhibited GABAergic IPSCs, and this inhibition persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin. These results indicate orexin-A facilitates GABAergic IPSCs likely by activating preceding GABAergic neurons that project to CVNs. Orexin-A also likely acts at GABAergic presynaptic terminals surrounding CVNs within the NA to inhibit GABA release. The latter mechanism is absent in P5 pups but occurs in P20 and P30 rats. In conclusion, this study elucidates an important maturation of the parasympathetic cardiac control system. Alterations in these developmental mechanisms may play a role in pathogenesis of disorders related to a specific stage of development maturation.
Early intervention and maintenance treatment for schizophrenia patients may prolong the duration of exposure to antipsychotic agents; however, there have been few studies on the neurotoxicity of these agents. Here, we investigated the effects of antipsychotics on cell viability and autophagy in rat primary neurons. Cultured cortical neurons obtained from rat embryos were treated with various concentrations of haloperidol and clozapine, and the neuronal toxicity was assessed by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium (MTS) assay. Autophagosomes were quantitated by measuring the level of microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3 (LC3-II) by Western blot and immunofluorescence staining. Autophagic flux was assayed using bafilomycin A1 and GFP-mCherry-LC3 transfection. Haloperidol and clozapine decreased the viability of neurons in vitro in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. We also observed increased accumulation of autophagosomes after antipsychotic treatment. Using bafilomycin A1 and GFP-mCherry-LC3 transfection, we discovered that haloperidol and clozapine inhibited autophagosome turnover resulting in a dysfunctional autophagic process, including impaired lysosomal fusion. Together, these results suggest that haloperidol and clozapine negatively affect neuronal viability, possibly by blocking autophagolysosome formation.
This work compares the effects of electrical stimulation of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN) and the raphe magnus nucleus (RMg) on the single-unit response from dorsal spinal cord neurons activated by nociceptive receptive field stimulation. We evaluated the effects of stimulating the PVN or RMg individually or simultaneously, as well as PVN stimulation after RMg electrolytic lesion. PVN or RMg stimulation suppressed the A-delta, C fiber, and postdischarge, and we demonstrated that their simultaneous stimulation increases the duration and intensity of suppressive effects. RMg lesion increased the peripheral responses, but PVN stimulation continued to be suppressive. The intrathecal administration of 20 l of a 10 M solution of a specific oxytocin antagonist strongly reduced the PVN effects, and 20 l of 10 M naloxone significantly reduced the RMg suppression of receptive field responses. Some spinal cord cells presented a short-latency, evoked action potential (6.8 ms and a variability of 0.5 ms) produced by the RMg stimulation. This is interpreted as a direct postsynaptic action of the RMg on the spinal cord cells. We never found similar responses produced by the PVN, and therefore, we propose that the PVN effects are presynaptic. Finally, the immunohistochemical experiments confirmed the oxytocinergic and the vasopresinergic innervation used by the PVN projection to the RMg, and they raise the possibility that other neurotransmitters are involved. We conclude that the PVN and the RMg form part of a homeostatic analgesic mechanism acting on the same spinal cord cells to block the noxious information, but using different mechanisms. Both structures, and others, contribute to the homeostatic mechanism of endogenous analgesia.
Injury to the cervical nerve roots is a common source of neck pain. Animal models of nerve root compression have previously established the role of compression magnitude and duration in nerve root-mediated pain and spinal inflammation; yet, the response of the spinal glutamatergic system to transient nerve root compression and its relationship to compression mechanics have not been studied. The glutamate receptor, mGluR5, has a central role in pain, and its expression by neurons and astrocytes in the spinal cord may be pivotal for neuronal-glial signaling. This study quantified spinal GFAP and mGluR5 expression following nerve root compressions of different magnitudes and durations in the rat. Compression to the C7 nerve root was applied for a duration that was either above (10 min) or below (3 min) the critical duration for mediating afferent discharge rates during compression. To also test for the effect of the magnitude of the compression load, either a 10 gf or a 60 gf was applied to the nerve root for each duration. Mechanical allodynia was assessed, and the C7 spinal cord was harvested on day 7 for immunofluorescent analysis. Double labeling was used to localize the expression of mGluR5 on astrocytes (GFAP) and neurons (MAP2). Seven days after injury, 10 min of compression produced significantly greater behavioral sensitivity (P&lt;0.001) and spinal GFAP expression (P=0.002) than 3 min of compression, regardless of the compression magnitude. Nerve root compression at 60 gf produced a significant increase (P&lt;0.001) in spinal mGluR5 for both of the durations studied. There was no difference in the distribution of mGluR5 between astrocytes and neurons following nerve root compression of any type. The glutamatergic and glial systems are differentially modulated by the mechanics of nerve root compression despite the known contribution of glia to pain through glutamatergic signaling.
The peripheral taste system remains plastic during adulthood. Sectioning the chorda tympani (CT) nerve, which sends sensory information from the anterior tongue to the central nervous system, causes degeneration of distal fibers and target taste buds. However, taste function is restored after about 40 days in young adult rodents. We tested whether aging impacts the reappearance of neural responses after unilateral CT nerve injury. Taste bud regeneration was minimal at day 50-65 after denervation, and most aged animals died before functional recovery could be assessed. A subset (n=3/5) of old rats exhibited normal CT responses at day 85 postsectioning, suggesting the potential for efficient recovery. The aged taste system is fairly resilient to sensory receptor loss and major functional changes in normal aging. However, injury to the taste system reveals a surprising vulnerability in old rodents. The gustatory system provides an excellent model to study mechanisms underlying delayed recovery from peripheral nerve injury. Strategies to accelerate recovery and restore normal function will be of interest, as the elderly population continues to grow.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been associated with the regulation of sleep and wake. We have previously shown that i.c.v. administration of a specific ER stress modulator, Salubrinal (SALUB), which inhibits global protein translation by blocking the dephosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (p-eIF2), increased non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Here we report on the relationship between ER stress response and sleep homeostasis by measuring the amount and intensity of homeostatic recovery sleep in response to the i.c.v. administration of SALUB in adult freely behaving rats. We have also tested the hypothesis that SALUB induces sleep by activating sleep-promoting neurons and inhibiting wake-promoting neurons in the basal forebrain (BF) and hypothalamus by quantifying the effects of SALUB treatment on c-Fos expression in those neuronal groups. The present study found that i.c.v. administration of SALUB significantly modified the homeostatic sleep response. SALUB administered during sleep deprivation increased sleep intensity, indicated by slow-wave activity (SWA), during recovery sleep, whereas its administration during recovery sleep increased the amount of recovery sleep. We also found that SALUB induced c-Fos activation of GABAergic neurons in the sleep-promoting rostral median preoptic nucleus while simultaneously reducing c-Fos activation of wake-promoting lateral hypothalamic orexin-expressing neurons and magnocellular BF cholinergic neurons. The current findings suggest that ER stress pathway plays a role in the homeostatic control of NREM sleep in response to sleep deprivation and provides a mechanistic explanation for the sleep modulation by molecules signaling the need for brain protein synthesis.
The nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), an integral vasomotor region located in the hindbrain, is important for cardiovascular homeostasis. Fractalkine (FKN) and its cognate receptor, CX3CR1, are constitutively expressed in the normal rat brain. The physiological significance of this cytokine and its receptor are not well established. In this study, we sought to identify the expression of FKN and CX3CR1 in subnuclei of the NTS and to elucidate their functional relevance. Using immunohistochemistry, we found expression of FKN and CX3CR1 throughout the entire rostro-caudal axis of the NTS in normal adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. When FKN was unilaterally microinjected directly into the commissural and sub-postremal, but not rostral, NTS, blood pressure and heart rate were significantly decreased when compared with saline controls. The FKN-induced depressor and bradycardic responses were inhibited by pretreatment with a phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor, LY294002. These data suggest that the cytokine, FKN, and its receptor, CX3CR1, may modulate cardiovascular responses in the NTS of normal healthy rats via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase intracellular signaling pathway.
The morphological characteristics of the pigeon lagena were examined using histology, scanning electron microscopy, and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) neural tracers. The lagena epithelium was observed to lie partially in a parasagittal plane, but was also U-shaped with orthogonal (lateral) directed tips. Hair cell planar polarities were oriented away from a central reversal line that ran nearly the length of the epithelium. Similar to the vertebrate utricle and saccule, three afferent classes were observed based upon their terminal innervation pattern, which include calyx, dimorph, and bouton fibers. Calyx and dimorph afferents innervated the striola region of the lagena, whereas bouton afferents innervated the extrastriola and a small region of the central striola known as the type II band. Calyx units had large calyceal terminal structures that innervated only type I hair cells. Dimorph afferents innervated both type I and II hair cells, with calyx and bouton terminals. Bouton afferents had the largest most complex innervation patterns and the greatest terminal areas contacting many hair cells.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by motoneuron (MN) degeneration and muscle paralysis. Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutant mice develop an ALS-like phenotype similar to that seen in human. Recently it has been shown in SOD1 mice that the excitability and morphology of spinal MNs are altered at postnatal age, long before overt clinical symptoms. In the present study, we examined the morphology of lumbar MNs in wild-type (WT) and SOD1(G85R) mice at two postnatal ages (P3-P4 and P8-P9) when differences in size and excitability were reported. Detailed morphological analysis was performed in MNs intracellularly labeled with Neurobiotin and 3D-reconstructed using the Neurolucida system. We showed that SOD1 MNs exhibited longer terminal segments than in the WT MNs at age P3-P4. This excessive elongation was followed by pathological ramification of all individual dendrites between P4 and P8. Abnormal bifurcations occurred at the terminal tips, and distance between consecutive bifurcations remained stable. Most dendrites of SOD1 MNs performed in average two successive iterations of bifurcation during this short time. Our results suggest that the SOD1 MNs switch from excessive elongation to overbranching in a few days at early postnatal life, which might be a compensatory reaction to the possible variation of synaptic input.

L-arginine, one of the most metabolically versatile amino acids, can be metabolized to form a number of bioactive molecules. The present study systematically investigated age-related changes in L-arginine and its metabolites in the hippocampus, parahippocampal region, and prefrontal cortex at the tissue (crude homogenates) and synaptoneurosome (a subcellular preparation enriched for synaptic material) levels. As aging leads to reduced water content in the brain, age-related changes in neurochemical levels in tissue homogenates normalized by wet tissue weight and protein level were compared. There were significant differences in L-arginine, L-citrulline, L-ornithine, agmatine, putrescine, spermidine, spermine, and glutamate, but not GABA, in the CA1, CA2/3, and dentate gyrus sub-regions of the hippocampus and the prefrontal, entorhinal, perirhinal, and postrhinal cortices in 24 (aged) and 4 (young) months old rats in a region-specific manner. The overall pattern of age-related changes in amino acids (L-arginine, L-citrulline, L-ornithine, glutamate, and GABA) was largely similar between homogenates and synaptoneurosomes, whereas the pattern for the amines (agmatine, putrescine, spermidine, and spermine) was quite different. Furthermore, the pattern of age-related changes in neurochemical levels in tissue homogenates normalized by wet tissue weight and protein level was very similar for all 9 neurochemicals measured. These findings suggest that there are differential effects of aging on L-arginine metabolism at the tissue and synaptoneurosome levels and that the way of data normalization (tissue weight vs. protein level) has no or very minor effects on 9 neurochemicals measured.
Experiences during critical periods, such as the neonatal and adolescence, play a critical role in determining adult stress-coping behavior. Based on the aforementioned we developed an experimental protocol, which included a neonatal experience and a social stress during adolescence. The serotonergic system is known as an important modulator of coping ability and, in general, emotional balance in both normal and pathological states, such as depression and anxiety, for which females are more vulnerable. Thus in the present work we used female rats and determined 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor type 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor levels in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the amygdala (AMY). During postnatal days 10-13 (PND 10-13) rat pups were exposed to a T-maze, one arm of which lead to the mother. One group of animals was allowed contact with the mother (rewarded-receiving expected reward (RER)), whereas the other was denied the expected reward (DER). High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis revealed that in both the PFC and in AMY, adult RER animals had higher basal 5-HT levels. Furthermore, in the AMY of this group of animals, higher levels of 5-HT(1A) receptors were detected by Western blot analysis. In adulthood rats were exposed to the Forced Swimming Test/Stress (FST/S). RER animals not exposed to the adolescent stress exhibited longer immobility time during both the first and second day of FST. Corticosterone levels following the FST fell faster in the DER animals. Adolescent stress affected the responses to the adult FSS only in the DER animals, which had decreased 5-HT in the AMY and increased immobility time on both days of the FST, compared with the DER, not stressed in adolescence. The phenotype of the DER animals is in line with the &quot;match-mismatch&quot; hypothesis, which states that if two events during critical periods of life &quot;match&quot; in being mildly stressful, their interaction can be adaptive.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 protein requires a dual phosphorylation at conserved threonine and tyrosine residues to be fully activated under normal physiological conditions. Thus, ERK1/2 kinase activity is often defined by the quantity of phosphorylated kinase. However, this may not accurately represent its true activity under certain pathological conditions. We investigated whether ERK1/2 kinase activity is proportional to its phosphorylation state in a rat focal ischemia model with and without rapid ischemic preconditioning. We showed that phosphorylated-ERK1/2 protein levels were increased 2.60.07-fold, and ERK1/2 kinase activity was increased 10.61.9-fold in animals receiving ischemic preconditioning alone without test ischemia compared with sham group (P&lt;0.05, n=6/group), suggesting that phosphorylated-ERK1/2 protein levels represent its kinase activity under these conditions. However, preconditioning plus test ischemia robustly blocked ERK1/2 kinase activity, whereas it increased phosphorylated-ERK1/2 protein levels beyond those receiving test ischemia alone, suggesting that phosphorylated-ERK1/2 protein levels were not representative of actual kinase activity in this pathological condition. In conclusion, protein phosphorylation levels of ERK1/2 do not always correspond to kinase activity, thus, measuring the true kinase activity is essential.
Arising from studies on the amnesia that follows site-specific physical or chemical lesions, the acquisition and consolidation of certain behavioral tasks has been demonstrated to be associated with different hippocampal subregions. Although not absolute, spatial learning is reliant on the dorsal region of the hippocampus, whereas avoidance- and fear-conditioning tasks appear to be dependent on its more ventral aspects. Thus, if learning-associated synapse remodeling is a true feature of memory consolidation it must also follow these regional dissociations. We therefore determined if the learning-associated increases in synapse density that occur in the mid-molecular layer of the dentate gyrus at the 6-h post-training time and the frequency of polysialylated cells at the infragranular zone that occur at the 12-h post-training time were dissociated to specific hippocampal subregions following training in either a massed water maze task or light-dark passive avoidance response. Synapse remodeling was found to occur only in the dorsal hippocampus following spatial learning. We could not, however, discern any regional dissociation of neural remodeling following avoidance conditioning. These results point to strong associations between learning and specific groups of novel synapses during consolidation of spatial learning and avoidance conditioning paradigms.
Approximately 20% cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are caused by mutations in the gene encoding Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Recent studies have shown that methylene blue (MB) was efficient in conferring protection in several neurological disorders. MB was found to improve mitochondrial function, to reduce reactive oxygen species, to clear aggregates of toxic proteins, and to act as a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. These pleiotropic effects of relevance to ALS pathogenesis led us to test MB in two models of ALS, SOD1(G93A) mice and TDP-43(G348C) transgenic mice. Intraperitoneal administration of MB at two different doses was initiated at the beginning of disease onset, at 90 days of age in SOD1(G93A) and at 6 months of age in TDP-43(G348C) mice. Despite its established neuroprotective properties, MB failed to confer protection in both mouse models of ALS. The lifespan of SOD1(G93A) mice was not affected by MB treatment. The declines in motor function, reflex score, and body weight of SOD1(G93A) mice remained unchanged. MB treatment had no effect on motor neuron loss and aggregation or misfolding of SOD1. A combination of MB with lithium also failed to provide benefits in SOD1(G93A) mice. In TDP-43(G348C) mice, MB failed to improve motor function. Cytosolic translocation of TDP-43, ubiquitination and inflammation remained also unchanged after MB treatment of TDP-43(G348C) mice.
Myosins are molecular motors that convert chemical energy into mechanical work. Allosterically coupling ATP-binding, hydrolysis, and binding/dissociation to actin filaments requires precise and coordinated structural changes that are achieved by the structurally complex myosin motor domain. UNC-45, a member of the UNC-45/Cro1/She4p family of proteins, acts as a chaperone for myosin and is essential for proper folding and assembly of myosin into muscle thick filaments in vivo. The molecular mechanisms by which UNC-45 interacts with myosin to promote proper folding of the myosin head domain are not known. We have devised a novel approach, to our knowledge, to analyze the interaction of UNC-45 with the myosin motor domain at the single molecule level using atomic force microscopy. By chemically coupling a titin I27 polyprotein to the motor domain of myosin, we introduced a mechanical reporter. In addition, the polyprotein provided a specific attachment point and an unambiguous mechanical fingerprint, facilitating our atomic force microscopy measurements. This approach enabled us to study UNC-45-motor domain interactions. After mechanical unfolding, the motor domain interfered with refolding of the otherwise robust I27 modules, presumably by recruiting them into a misfolded state. In the presence of UNC-45, I27 folding was restored. Our single molecule approach enables the study of UNC-45 chaperone interactions with myosin and their consequences for motor domain folding and misfolding in mechanistic detail.
Impaired activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- coactivator (PGC)-1 has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several neurodegenerative disorders. In this issue, Da Cruz et al. (2012) show improved muscle function, but not survival, with increased PGC-1 activity in muscle in a mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Synaptic transmission depends critically on the Sec1p/Munc18 protein Munc18-1, but it is unclear whether Munc18-1 primarily operates as a integral part of the fusion machinery or has a more upstream role in fusion complex assembly. Here, we show that point mutations in Munc18-1 that interfere with binding to the free Syntaxin1a N-terminus and strongly impair binding to assembled SNARE complexes all support normal docking, priming and fusion of synaptic vesicles, and normal synaptic plasticity in munc18-1 null mutant neurons. These data support a prevailing role of Munc18-1 before/during SNARE-complex assembly, while its continued association to assembled SNARE complexes is dispensable for synaptic transmission.
Signal duration is important for identifying sound sources and determining signal meaning. Duration-tuned neurons (DTNs) respond preferentially to a range of stimulus durations and maximally to a best duration (BD). Duration-tuned neurons are found in the auditory midbrain of many vertebrates, although studied most extensively in bats. Studies of DTNs across vertebrates have identified cells with BDs and temporal response bandwidths that mirror the range of species-specific vocalizations. Neural tuning to stimulus duration appears to be universal among hearing vertebrates. Herein, we test the hypothesis that neural mechanisms underlying duration selectivity may be similar across vertebrates. We instantiated theoretical mechanisms of duration tuning in computational models to systematically explore the roles of excitatory and inhibitory receptor strengths, input latencies, and membrane time constant on duration tuning response profiles. We demonstrate that models of duration tuning with similar neural circuitry can be tuned with species-specific parameters to reproduce the responses of in vivo DTNs from the auditory midbrain. To relate and validate model output to in vivo responses, we collected electrophysiological data from the inferior colliculus of the awake big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, and present similar in vivo data from the published literature on DTNs in rats, mice, and frogs. Our results support the hypothesis that neural mechanisms of duration tuning may be shared across vertebrates despite species-specific differences in duration selectivity. Finally, we discuss how the underlying mechanisms of duration selectivity relate to other auditory feature detectors arising from the interaction of neural excitation and inhibition.
Central neural plasticity plays a key role in pain hypersensitivity. This process is modulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and also involves the type 1a acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC1a). However, the interactions between the BDNF receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), and ASIC1a are unclear. Here, we show that deletion of ASIC1 gene suppressed the sustained mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intrathecal BDNF application in mice. In both rat spinal dorsal horn neurons and heterologous cell cultures, the BDNF/TrkB pathway enhanced ASIC1a currents via phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) cascade and phosphorylation of cytoplasmic residue Ser-25 of ASIC1a, resulting in enhanced forward trafficking and increased surface expression. Moreover, in both rats and mice, this enhanced ASIC1a activity was required for BDNF-mediated hypersensitivity of spinal dorsal horn nociceptive neurons and central mechanical hyperalgesia, a process that was abolished by intrathecal application of a peptide representing the N-terminal region of ASIC1a encompassing Ser-25. Thus, our results reveal a novel mechanism underlying central sensitization and pain hypersensitivity, and reinforce the critical role of ASIC1a channels in these processes.
The ascending midbrain 5-HT neurons to the forebrain may be dysregulated in depression and have a reduced trophic support. With in situ proximity ligation assay (PLA) and supported by coimmunoprecipitation and colocation of the FGFR1 and 5-HT1A immunoreactivities in the midbrain raphe cells, evidence for the existence of FGFR1-5-HT1A receptor heterocomplexes in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei of the Sprague Dawley rat as well as in the rat medullary raphe RN33B cells has been obtained. Especially after combined FGF-2 and 8-OH-DPAT treatment, a marked and significant increase in PLA clusters was found in the RN33B cells. Similar results were reached with the FRET technique in HEK293T cells, where TM-V of the 5HT1A receptor was found to be part of the receptor interface. The combined treatment with FGF-2 and the 5-HT1A agonist also synergistically increased FGFR1 and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the raphe midline area of the midbrain and the RN33B cells as well as their differentiation, as seen from development of the increased number and length of extensions per cell and their increased 5-HT immunoreactivity. These signaling and differentiation events were dependent on the receptor interface since they were blocked by incubation with TM-V but not by TM-II. Together, the results indicate that the 5-HT1A autoreceptors by being part of a FGFR1-5-HT1A receptor heterocomplex in the midbrain raphe 5-HT nerve cells appear to have a trophic role in the central 5-HT neuron systems in addition to playing a key role in reducing the firing of these neurons.
Delirium is a profound, acute confusional state that leads to long-term cognitive decline. Increased anticholinergic medications and prior dementia, in which basal forebrain cholinergic degeneration is a prominent feature, both predict delirium. Thus, cholinergic hypoactivity is thought to be important in cognitive dysfunction during delirium, and acute systemic inflammation is a major trigger for this dysfunction. Here, we hypothesize that decreased cholinergic function confers increased susceptibility to acute inflammation-induced cognitive deficits. We used the murine-p75-saporin immunotoxin (mu-p75-sap) to induce selective lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in mice, mimicking early dementia-associated cholinergic loss, and superimposed systemic inflammation using low-dose bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Intracerebroventricular injection of mu-p75-sap produced depletion of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and decreased innervation of the hippocampus, but left performance on hippocampal-dependent reference and working memory tasks relatively intact. However, systemic LPS (100 g/kg) induced acute and transient working memory deficits in lesioned animals without effect in unlesioned controls. CNS inflammatory responses were similar in normal and lesioned animals and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, donepezil (1 mg/kg), protected against the acute cognitive deficits in this cholinergic-dependent task. Thus, cholinergic depletion predisposes to development of acute cognitive deficits upon subsequent systemic inflammatory insult. These data provide a useful model for examining interactions between acute systemic inflammation and chronic cholinergic hypofunction in delirium and have implications for the recent trial of rivastigmine in sepsis-associated delirium.
The brain's ability to bind incoming auditory and visual stimuli depends critically on the temporal structure of this information. Specifically, there exists a temporal window of audiovisual integration within which stimuli are highly likely to be perceived as part of the same environmental event. Several studies have described the temporal bounds of this window, but few have investigated its malleability. Recently, our laboratory has demonstrated that a perceptual training paradigm is capable of eliciting a 40% narrowing in the width of this window that is stable for at least 1 week after cessation of training. In the current study, we sought to reveal the neural substrates of these changes. Eleven human subjects completed an audiovisual simultaneity judgment training paradigm, immediately before and after which they performed the same task during an event-related 3T fMRI session. The posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and areas of auditory and visual cortex exhibited robust BOLD decreases following training, and resting state and effective connectivity analyses revealed significant increases in coupling among these cortices after training. These results provide the first evidence of the neural correlates underlying changes in multisensory temporal binding likely representing the substrate for a multisensory temporal binding window.
The primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is involved in reward processing, learning, and decision making. Research in monkeys has shown that this region is densely connected with higher sensory, limbic, and subcortical regions. Moreover, a parcellation of the monkey OFC into two subdivisions has been suggested based on its intrinsic anatomical connections. However, in humans, little is known about any functional subdivisions of the OFC except for a rather coarse medial/lateral distinction. Here, we used resting-state fMRI in combination with unsupervised clustering techniques to investigate whether OFC subdivisions can be revealed based on their functional connectivity profiles with other brain regions. Examination of different cluster solutions provided support for a parcellation into two parts as observed in monkeys, but it also highlighted a much finer hierarchical clustering of the orbital surface. Specifically, we identified (1) a medial, (2) a posterior-central, (3) a central, and (4-6) three lateral clusters spanning the anterior-posterior gradient. Consistent with animal tracing studies, these OFC clusters were connected to other cortical regions such as prefrontal, temporal, and parietal cortices but also subcortical areas in the striatum and the midbrain. These connectivity patterns provide important implications for identifying specific functional roles of OFC subdivisions for reward processing, learning, and decision making. Moreover, this parcellation schema can provide guidance to report results in future studies.
Chronic pain is thought to arise because of maladaptive changes occurring within the peripheral nervous system and CNS. The transition from acute to chronic pain is known to involve the spinal cord (Woolf and Salter, 2000). Therefore, to investigate altered human spinal cord function and translate results obtained from other species, a noninvasive neuroimaging technique is desirable. We have investigated the functional response in the cervical spinal cord of 18 healthy human subjects (aged 22-40 years) to noxious thermal and non-noxious tactile stimulation of the left and right forearms. Physiological noise, which is a significant source of signal variability in the spinal cord, was accounted for in the general linear model. Group analysis, performed using a mixed-effects model, revealed distinct regions of activity that were dependent on both the side and the type of stimulation. In particular, thermal stimulation on the medial aspect of the wrist produced activity within the C6/C5 segment ipsilateral to the side of stimulation. Similar to data recorded in animals (Fitzgerald, 1982), painful thermal stimuli produced increased ipsilateral and decreased contralateral blood flow, which may reflect, respectively, excitatory and inhibitory processes. Nonpainful punctate stimulation of the thenar eminence provoked more diffuse activity but was still ipsilateral to the side of stimulation. These results present the first noninvasive evidence for a lateralized response to noxious and non-noxious stimuli in the human spinal cord. The development of these techniques opens the path to understanding, at a subject-specific level, central sensitization processes that contribute to chronic pain states.
Neuroscience has made considerable progress in understanding the neural substrates supporting cognitive performance in a number of domains, including memory, perception, and decision making. In contrast, how the human brain generates metacognitive awareness of task performance remains unclear. Here, we address this question by asking participants to perform perceptual decisions while providing concurrent metacognitive reports during fMRI scanning. We show that activity in right rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (rlPFC) satisfies three constraints for a role in metacognitive aspects of decision-making. Right rlPFC showed greater activity during self-report compared to a matched control condition, activity in this region correlated with reported confidence, and the strength of the relationship between activity and confidence predicted metacognitive ability across individuals. In addition, functional connectivity between right rlPFC and both contralateral PFC and visual cortex increased during metacognitive reports. We discuss these findings in a theoretical framework where rlPFC re-represents object-level decision uncertainty to facilitate metacognitive report.
Evolutionary hypotheses regarding the origins of communication signals generally suggest, particularly for the case of primate orofacial signals, that they derive by ritualization of noncommunicative behaviors, notably including ingestive behaviors such as chewing and nursing. These theories are appealing in part because of the prominent periodicities in both types of behavior. Despite their intuitive appeal, however, there are little or no data with which to evaluate these theories because the coordination of muscles innervated by the facial nucleus has not been carefully compared between communicative and ingestive movements. Such data are especially crucial for reconciling neurophysiological assumptions regarding facial motor control in communication and ingestion. We here address this gap by contrasting the coordination of facial muscles during different types of rhythmic orofacial behavior in macaque monkeys, finding that the perioral muscles innervated by the facial nucleus are rhythmically coordinated during lipsmacks and that this coordination appears distinct from that observed during ingestion.
Understanding how neural and behavioral timescales interact to influence cortical activity and stimulus coding is an important issue in sensory neuroscience. In air-breathing animals, voluntary changes in respiratory frequency alter the temporal patterning olfactory input. In the olfactory bulb, these behavioral timescales are reflected in the temporal properties of mitral/tufted (M/T) cell spike trains. As the odor information contained in these spike trains is relayed from the bulb to the cortex, interactions between presynaptic spike timing and short-term synaptic plasticity dictate how stimulus features are represented in cortical spike trains. Here, we demonstrate how the timescales associated with respiratory frequency, spike timing, and short-term synaptic plasticity interact to shape cortical responses. Specifically, we quantified the timescales of short-term synaptic facilitation and depression at excitatory synapses between bulbar M/T cells and cortical neurons in slices of mouse olfactory cortex. We then used these results to generate simulated M/T population synaptic currents that were injected into real cortical neurons. M/T population inputs were modulated at frequencies consistent with passive respiration or active sniffing. We show how the differential recruitment of short-term plasticity at breathing versus sniffing frequencies alters cortical spike responses. For inputs at sniffing frequencies, cortical neurons linearly encoded increases in presynaptic firing rates with increased phase-locked, firing rates. In contrast, at passive breathing frequencies, cortical responses saturated with changes in presynaptic rate. Our results suggest that changes in respiratory behavior can gate the transfer of stimulus information between the olfactory bulb and cortex.
Studying the insect visual system provides important data on the basic neural mechanisms underlying visual processing. As in vertebrates, the first step in visual processing in insects is through a series of retinotopic neurons. Recent studies on flies have found that these converge onto assemblies of columnar neurons in the lobula, the axons of which segregate to project to discrete optic glomeruli in the lateral protocerebrum. This arrangement is much like the fly's olfactory system, in which afferents target uniquely identifiable olfactory glomeruli. Here, whole-cell patch recordings show that even though visual primitives are unreliably encoded by single lobula output neurons because of high synaptic noise, they are reliably encoded by the ensemble of outputs. At a glomerulus, local interneurons reliably code visual primitives, as do projection neurons conveying information centrally from the glomerulus. These observations demonstrate that in Drosophila, as in other dipterans, optic glomeruli are involved in further reconstructing the fly's visual world. Optic glomeruli and antennal lobe glomeruli share the same ancestral anatomical and functional ground pattern, enabling reliable responses to be extracted from converging sensory inputs.
The simultaneous recording and analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) and fMRI data in human systems, cognitive and clinical neurosciences is rapidly evolving and has received substantial attention. The significance of multimodal brain imaging is documented by a steadily increasing number of laboratories now using simultaneous EEG-fMRI aiming to achieve both high temporal and spatial resolution of human brain function. Due to recent developments in technical and algorithmic instrumentation, the rate-limiting step in multimodal studies has shifted from data acquisition to analytic aspects. Here, we introduce and compare different methods for data integration and identify the benefits that come with each approach, guiding the reader toward an understanding and informed selection of the integration approach most suitable for addressing a particular research question.

We are currently experiencing a key period in the management of patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. The application of new criteria allows early diagnosis, thus at a stage when the available immune treatments are the most likely to show a good efficacy. The therapeutic offer is expanding but its complexity too. It is thus important, for a given patient, to assess as precisely as possible the degree of severity of his/her disease, in order to give the drug with the optimal risk/benefit ratio.
Chronic primary headache often cause significant interference with function and quality of life despite acute and preventive medicines. New treatments are emerging for pharmacologically intractable cluster headache and migraine. Occipital nerve stimulation in chronic cluster headache and botulinum toxin in chronic migraine represent the most promising therapies.
Chronic pain refractory to medical therapy poses a therapeutic challenge. The repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) and transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) modulate brain activity offering a new approach. Current evidence suggests a potential therapeutic efficacy of motor cortex stimulation for the treatment of pain, but does not (yet) support their recommendation for clinical practice. These methods allow to deepen our knowledge in the pathophysiology of chronic pain while providing new therapeutic approaches.






Nemaline myopathy (NM) is the most common congenital myopathy and is caused by mutations in various genes including NEB (nebulin), TPM2 (beta-tropomyosin), TPM3 (gamma-tropomyosin), and ACTA1 (skeletal alpha-actin). 20-25% of NM cases carry ACTA1 defects and these particular mutations usually induce substitutions of single residues in the actin protein. Despite increasing clinical and scientific interest, the contractile consequences of these subtle amino acid substitutions remain obscure. To decipher them, in the present study, we originally recorded and analysed the mechanics as well as the X-ray diffraction patterns of human membrane-permeabilized single muscle fibres with a particular peptide substitution in actin, i.e. p.Phe352Ser. Results unravelled an unexpected cascade of molecular and cellular events. During contraction, p.Phe352Ser greatly enhances the strain of individual cross-bridges. Paradoxically, p.Phe352Ser also slightly lowers the number of cross-bridges by altering the rate of myosin head attachment to actin monomers. Overall, at the cell level, these divergent mechanisms conduct to an improved steady-state force production. Such results provide new surprising scientific insights and crucial information for future therapeutic strategies.



Associations between nicotine in cigarettes and food consumption may alter the incentive value of food such that food cue-reactivity is exaggerated during abstinence from smoking. This effect may contribute to the weight gain associated with cessation of smoking. We examined the effects of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg base subcutaneous) paired (NPD) or unpaired (NUP) with 10% sucrose self-administration (SA; 0.2 ml/delivery, 1 h/day for 10 days) on SA response rate and intake as well as sucrose cue-reactivity following either 1 or 30 days of forced abstinence. Rats were administered the training dose of nicotine prior to a second, consecutive cue-reactivity session. NPD rats responded at over three times the rate for sucrose and earned nearly twice the number of sucrose deliveries as NUP rats or saline controls. Sucrose cue-reactivity was greater after 30 days versus 1 day of forced abstinence for all groups. History of nicotine exposure had no effect on sucrose cue-reactivity. However, the subsequent injection of nicotine increased sucrose cue-reactivity only in the NPD groups. There were no abstinent-dependent effects of nicotine challenge on sucrose cue-reactivity. A study conducted in parallel with water as the reinforcer revealed a less dramatic effect of nicotine on intake. There was no history or abstinence-dependent effects of nicotine on water cue-reactivity. Nicotine increases the reinforcing effects of sucrose and sucrose-paired cues when nicotine is present. An implication of these findings is that relapse to nicotine (cigarettes) could substantially elevate food cue-reactivity.
Tobacco and alcohol dependence are characterized by continued use despite deleterious health, social and occupational consequences, implying that addicted individuals pay a high price for their use. In behavioral economic terms, such persistent consumption despite increased costs can be conceptualized as inelastic demand. Recent animal studies demonstrated that high-impulsive individuals are more willing to work for nicotine or cocaine infusions than their low-impulsive counterparts, indicating that this trait might be causally related to inelastic drug demand. By employing progressive ratio schedules of reinforcement combined with a behavioral economics approach of analysis, we determined whether trait impulsivity is associated with an insensitivity of nicotine or alcohol consumption to price increments. Rats were trained on a delayed discounting task, measuring impulsive choice. Hereafter, high- and low-impulsive rats were selected and trained to nose poke for intravenous nicotine or oral alcohol. Upon stable self-administration on a continuous reinforcement schedule, the price (i.e. response requirement) was increased. Demand curves, depicting the relationship between price and consumption, were produced using Hursh's exponential demand equation. Similar to human observations, nicotine and alcohol consumption in rats fitted this equation, thereby demonstrating the validity of our model. Moreover, high-impulsive rats displayed inelastic nicotine demand, as their nicotine consumption was less sensitive to price increments as compared with that in low-impulsive rats. Impulsive choice was not related to differences in alcohol demand elasticity. Our model seems well suited for studying nicotine and alcohol demand in rats and, as such, might contribute to our understanding of tobacco and alcohol dependence.
Cocaine abuse leads to adaptations in brain reward circuits, where dopaminergic neurotransmission is a fundamental component. We hypothesized that chronic cocaine self-administration could influence dopamine D1 and D2 receptor activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation. Male Sprague Dawley rats were exposed to cocaine self-administration for 6-11 weeks. Brains from sham controls and cocaine rats were extracted 1 day after the last session, and slices obtained from the striatum and nucleus accumbens (NAc) were incubated in vitro with or without the D1R agonist SKF38393 or the D2R agonist quinpirole. We found that cocaine self-administration led to a reduction in the capacity of D1R to activate ERK1/2 phosphorylation as compared with control rats. Cocaine self-administration also reduced D1R agonist-induced CREB phosphorylation in striatal slices, suggesting a downregulation of D1R signaling. D2R-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation appeared blunted in striatal slices from cocaine rats. In contrast, surprisingly, cocaine self-administration strongly potentiated D2R agonist-induced CREB phosphorylation selectively in the NAc portion of the slices. Altered agonist-induced signaling was independent of total ERK1/2 and CREB expression. Our finding that selected cellular D2R responses to CREB were strengthened by cocaine self-administration could be relevant to understand how dopaminergic receptors participate in cocaine-induced behaviors.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in the regulation of anxiety, stress responses and the neurobehavioral effects of psychostimulants. The present study was designed to examine whether antagonizing mGluR5 or activating mGluR2/3 prevents stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. Male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer cocaine and then subjected to daily extinction training for 2 weeks. Subsequent exposure to 15 minutes of intermittent footshock elicited robust reinstatement of responding at the previously active lever. Both the selective mGluR5 antagonist 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]piperidine (MTEP) (0-3 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) and the selective mGluR2/3 agonist (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicylco[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY379268) (0-3 mg/kg, subcutaneously) prevented cocaine seeking induced by footshock stress following the same dose-response function. The data show that although mGluR2/3 and mGluR5 are differentially located on synaptic compartments, both LY379268 and MTEP produced the same behavioral effects in reducing stress-induced reinstatement. These results are important because they demonstrate that a reduction in glutamate-mediated neural excitability (albeit via different mechanisms of action) reverses footshock-induced reinstatement and suggest that pharmacological manipulations of mGluR2/3 and mGluR5 can prevent the effects of stress, a major precipitating factor for relapse. These findings further confirm that mGluR2/3 or mGluR5 are promising targets for relapse prevention.
Given that social influences are among the strongest predictors of adolescents' drug use, this study examines the effects of social interactions on morphine sensitization in both adolescent and adult rats. Rats treated with morphine (twice daily, 6 days, 2.5-10 mg/kg, subcutaneously, s.c.) or saline were group-housed in two different conditions. Thus, four experimental groups were examined for each age group: (1) morphine-treated rats housed physically and visually separate from saline-injected rats ('morphine only'); (2) morphine-treated rats housed together with saline-injected rats ('morphine cage-mates'); (3) saline-injected rats housed together with morphine-treated rats ('saline cage-mates'); and (4) saline-injected rats housed physically and visually separate from morphine-treated rats ('saline only'). Starting 9 days following the last morphine injection, rats were individually examined once daily for 5 consecutive days for their locomotor response to 2.5 mg/kg of morphine. For both age groups, there were no significant differences in morphine-induced hyper-locomotion between saline cage-mates and saline only rats. Morphine only rats exhibited morphine locomotor sensitization as compared to both the saline only and saline cage-mates rats. Notably, a significant difference was observed between the adolescent morphine cage-mates and morphine only rats. The adolescent morphine cage-mates did not exhibit the enhanced locomotor response as compared to the saline only and saline cage-mate rats. A trend of reduced morphine locomotor sensitization was observed in the adult morphine cage-mates as compared to morphine only but it did not reach statistical significance. Thus, this study demonstrates social influences on morphine sensitization which are more prevalent in adolescents as compared to adults.
A major challenge in contemporary research is how to connect medical education and cognitive neuroscience and achieve synergy between these domains. Based on this starting point we discuss how this may result in a common language about learning, more educationally focused scientific inquiry, and multidisciplinary research projects. As the topic of prior knowledge in understanding plays a strategic role in both medical education and cognitive neuroscience it is used as a central element in our discussion. A critical condition for the acquisition of new knowledge is the existence of prior knowledge, which can be built in a mental model or schema. Formation of schemas is a central event in student-centered active learning, by which mental models are constructed and reconstructed. These theoretical considerations from cognitive psychology foster scientific discussions that may lead to salient issues and questions for research with cognitive neuroscience. Cognitive neuroscience attempts to understand how knowledge, insight and experience are established in the brain and to clarify their neural correlates. Recently, evidence has been obtained that new information processed by the hippocampus can be consolidated into a stable, neocortical network more rapidly if this new information fits readily into a schema. Opportunities for medical education and medical education research can be created in a fruitful dialogue within an educational multidisciplinary platform. In this synergetic setting many questions can be raised by educational scholars interested in evidence-based education that may be highly relevant for integrative research and the further development of medical education.

It has been shown that a smaller ratio between the length of the second and fourth digit (2D:4D) is an indicator of the exposure to prenatal testosterone (T). This study measured the 2D:4D of men and assessed dominance as a personality trait to investigate indirectly if the exposure to prenatal T is related to a dominant personality later in life. Results showed that men had a more aggressive dominant personality when having a more masculine (lower) 2D:4D, while there was no relationship between sociable dominance and 2D:4D. Findings from this study indicate that it is important to distinguish different forms of dominance since other studies failed to find relationships between dominance and 2D:4D.
Over the past fifty years a significant body of evidence has been compiled suggesting an interaction between the endocannabinoid (EC) system and alcohol dependence. However, much of this work has been conducted only in the past two decades following the elucidation of the molecular constituents of the EC system that began with the serendipitous discovery of the cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1). Since then, novel pharmacological and genetic tools have enabled researchers to manipulate select components of the EC system, to determine their contribution to the motivation to consume ethanol. From these preclinical studies, it is evident that CB1 contributes the motivational and reinforcing properties of ethanol, and chronic consumption of ethanol alters EC transmitter levels and CB1 expression in brain nuclei associated with addiction pathways. These results are augmented by in vitro and ex vivo studies showing that acute and chronic treatment with ethanol produces physiologically relevant alterations in the function of the EC system. This report provides a current and comprehensive review of the literature regarding the interactions between ethanol and the EC system. We begin be reviewing the studies published prior to the discovery of the EC system that compared the behavioral and physiological effects of cannabinoids with ethanol in addition to cross-tolerance between these drugs. Next, a brief overview of the molecular constituents of the EC system is provided as context for the subsequent review of more recent studies examining the interaction of ethanol with the EC system. These results are compiled into a summary providing a scheme for the known changes to the components of the EC system in different stages of alcohol dependence. Finally, future directions for research are discussed.
Pairing a conditioned stimulus (CS) with ethanol generally produces aversion for that CS in adult rodents. However, infant rats (PD1-PD3) exposed to ethanol demonstrate appetitive reinforcement to ethanol (Nizhnikov, Varlinskaya, Petrov, &amp; Spear, 2006; Petrov, Varlinskaya, &amp; Spear, 2003). This sensitivity to the appetitive properties of ethanol during infancy may be transient, as during the second postnatal week rat pups tend to exhibit conditioned aversions to flavors paired with ethanol. The present study examined changes in the motivation properties of ethanol through ontogeny and the neurobiology underlying these changes. Rat pups were exposed to a taste conditioning procedure on PD4 or PD12. Rat pups were intraorally infused with 2.5% of their body weight of saccharin solution (0.1%) and immediately after injected intraperitoneolly (i.p.) with one of six doses of ethanol (0.0-2.0 g/kg). A day later pups were given saccharine infusions and percent body weight gain was used as an index of ethanol's reinforcing effects. PD4 pups expressed appetitive reinforcement to ethanol, as indicated by greater saccharin intake, as compared to control counterparts and to the older PD12 pups. Subsequent experiments revealed that PD4 pups were less sensitive to the aversive properties of the drug than PD12 pups. The older pups found high doses of ethanol aversive while PD4 rat pups did not condition aversions to this dose of ethanol after a single trial. A similar pattern of results was observed between the low doses of ethanol and the highest doses of a kappa opioid agonist. The PD12 animals did not condition to the kappa opioid agonist, while the younger rats expressed an appetitive response. These results illustrate an ontogenetic change in the motivational properties of ethanol, with sensitivity to its appetitive properties declining and responsiveness to the aversive properties increasing with age during early infancy.





POEMS (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes) syndrome is a rare multisystemic disease associated with plasma cell dyscrasia and increased serum or plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels, the latter likely responsible for several POEMS syndrome manifestations. Whereas peripheral neuropathy is the main neurological feature and a mandatory diagnostic criterium, central nervous system involvement is less common except for papilledema and stroke. We recently reported the frequent occurrence at brain MRI of cranial pachymeningeal involvement ina series of POEMS syndrome patients. Meningeal histopathology revealed hyperplasia of meningothelial cells, neovascularization, and obstructive vessel remodeling without inflammatory signs pointing to a role of VEGF in the meningeal manifestations. Here, we report the dramatic pachymeningeal improvement in patients undergoing lenalidomide therapy. These findings support the therapeutic role of lenalidomide and might shed further light on the pathophysiology of the disease
The medial region of the nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS) is a key brain stem site controlling cardiovascular function, wherein ANG II modulates neuronal L-type Ca(2+) currents via activation of ANG II type 1 receptors (AT(1)R) and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). ANG II type 2 receptors (AT(2)R) induce production of nitric oxide (NO), which may interact with ROS and modulate AT(1)R signaling. We sought to determine whether AT(2)R-mediated NO production occurs in mNTS neurons and, if so, to elucidate the NO source and the functional interaction with AT(1)R-induced ROS or Ca(2+) influx. Electron microscopic (EM) immunolabeling showed that AT(2)R and neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) are coexpressed in neuronal somata and dendrites receiving synapses in the mNTS. In the presence of the AT(1)R antagonist losartan, ANG II increased NO production in isolated mNTS neurons, an effect blocked by the AT(2)R antagonist PD123319, but not the angiotensin (1-7) antagonist D-Ala. Studies in mNTS neurons of nNOS-null or endothelial NOS (eNOS)-null mice established nNOS as the source of NO. ANG II-induced ROS production was enhanced by PD123319, the NOS inhibitor N(G)-nitro-l-arginine (LNNA), or in nNOS-null mice. Moreover, in the presence of losartan, ANG II reduced voltage-gated L-type Ca(2+) current, an effect blocked by PD123319 or LNNA. We conclude that AT(2)R are closely associated and functionally coupled with nNOS in mNTS neurons. The resulting NO production antagonizes AT(1)R-mediated ROS and dampens L-type Ca(2+) currents. The ensuing signaling changes in the NTS may counteract the deleterious effects of AT(1)R on cardiovascular function.


Knowledge of the potential effect of genetic background in disease models is important. The SOD1-G93A transgenic mouse is the most widely used model in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Since these animals show considerable variability both in the onset and the progression of the disease, this study aimed to characterize the potential differences between the two most widely used strains, C56BL/6 (B6) and B6SJL. A rotarod test was carried out to assess strength and motor coordination, while electrophysiology tests were performed to evaluate the function of upper and lower motor neurons. Survival of the animals and motor neuron loss were also studied. The results did not show any background effect regarding the rotarod test, despite the differences in the pattern of decline in central and peripheral motor conduction. The onset of motor neuron abnormalities was later in B6SJL mice, but progressed more rapidly. Lifespan was longer for B6 than for B6SJL animals. In conclusion, background differences in disease onset and progression are important. The characteristics of the strain should be taken into account in experimental design of therapeutic studies.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is typically regarded as a sporadic neurodegenerative disorder that results in a catastrophic failure of the motor system, with characteristically variable involvement of upper and lower motor neuronal populations. A wide range of evidence from clinical, histological, genetic, neurophysiological, neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies, suggests that a loss of central nervous system inhibitory neuronal influence is a contributing factor in ALS pathogenesis. This loss of inhibitory function points intuitively to an 'interneuronopathy', with natural differences in cortical and spinal inhibitory networks reflected in the hitherto unexplained variable compartmentalization of pathology within upper and lower motor neuron populations. An excitotoxic final common pathway might then result from unopposed glutamatergic activity. If correct, therapies aimed specifically at supporting interneuronal function may provide a novel therapeutic strategy.
Non-human models of neurodegenerative diseases have potential for the identification of key pathways in pathogenesis and for the more rapid assessment of therapeutic candidates. While there are legitimate concerns about the physiological differences between the rodent and human motor systems, mice expressing the 'G93A' superoxide dismutase-1 gene mutation are a predictable and robustly-characterized model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This model has provided evidence for an important role of inflammatory processes during the pre-clinical phase, a stage currently inaccessible for human study in what is largely a sporadic disease. While magnetic resonance imaging is now an established and leading modality for the identification of ALS biomarkers in humans, it can also be increasingly applied to rodent models to probe structural, functional and biochemical changes throughout the course of the disease, with additional potential to generate surrogate markers for the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. Targeted MRI contrast agents, through tagging of various cell types and even individual molecules, will deliver an era of in vivo molecular neuroimaging, with greater specificity for the most relevant pathological processes. These are potentially important steps towards the ultimate goal of human therapeutic translation.
Mycoplasma contamination in mammalian cell cultures is often overlooked yet is a serious issue which can induce a myriad of cellular changes leading to false interpretation of experimental results. Here, we present a simple and sensitive assay to monitor mycoplasma contamination (mycosensor) based on degradation of the Gaussia luciferase reporter in the conditioned medium of cells. This assay proved to be more sensitive as compared to a commercially available bioluminescent assay in detecting mycoplasma contamination in seven different cell lines. The Gaussia luciferase mycosensor assay provides an easy tool to monitor mammalian cell contaminants in a high-throughput fashion.
Atlases depicting molecular and functional features of the brain are becoming an integral part of modern neuroscience. In this study we used laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (LA-ICPMS) to quantitatively measure iron (Fe), copper (Cu), and zinc (Zn) levels in a serially sectioned C57BL/6 mouse brain (cerebrum and brainstem). Forty-six sections were analyzed in a single experiment of approximately 158 h in duration. We constructed a 46-plate reference atlas by aligning quantified images of metal distribution with corresponding coronal sections from the Allen Mouse Brain Reference Atlas. The 46 plates were also used to construct three-dimensional models of Fe, Cu, and Zn distribution. This atlas represents the first reconstruction of quantitative trace metal distribution through the brain by LA-ICPMS and will facilitate the study of trace metals in the brain and help to elucidate their role in neurobiology.
Latrodectus mactans' aracnotoxin (Atx) induces changes in sperm function that could be used as a co-adjuvant in male contraceptive barrier methods. This effect includes the suppression of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), an event necessary for capacitation, chemotaxis and acrosome reaction (AR). The sperm that are not trapped by the barrier method can reach the oviduct before fertilisation and be exposed to the secretions of the oviducts. This study evaluated the effect of bovine tubal explants (TU) and conditioned media (CM) from the ampullar and isthmal regions on spermatozoa exposed to Atx. Thawed bovine sperm were incubated with Atx, TU and CM from the ampullar and isthmal regions for 4 h and then DNA integrity, intracellular ROS and lysophosphatidylcholine-induced AR were determined. Spermatozoa exposed to Atx and co-incubated with TU and CM for 4 h produced an increase in sperm DNA damage, a decrease in ROS production and a decrease in %AR, compared with the control. A similar result was obtained from the co-incubation of spermatozoa with Atx. In conclusion, the effect of Atx is not modified by tubal cells or their secretions and this opens the door to future studies to evaluate the application of synthetic peptides obtained from Atx as a co-adjuvant of contraceptive barrier methods.
This study investigates whether the uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor antagonist, memantine, is able to protect dissociated cortical neurons from glutamate-induced excitotoxicity (GIE). Treatment with glutamate resulted in a significant loss of synchronization of neuronal activity as well as a significant increase in the duration of synchronized bursting events (SBEs). By administering memantine at the same time as glutamate, we were able to completely prevent these changes to the neuronal activity. Pretreatment with memantine was somewhat effective in preventing changes to the culture synchronization but was unable to fully protect the synchronization of electrical activity between neurons that showed high levels of synchronization prior to injury. Additionally, memantine pretreatment was unable to prevent the increase in the duration of SBEs caused by GIE. Thus, the timing of memantine treatment is important for conferring neuroprotection against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. Finally, we found that GIE leads to a significant increase in the burst duration. Our data suggest that this may be due to an alteration in the inhibitory function of the neurons.
One of the fundamental advances of the transition of the Middle Ages to the Renaissance was the rediscovery of the Greek philosophers. Among the greatest representatives of this epoch we find the Cordovan doctor and philosopher Averroes (Ibn Rushd) who, with his commentaries on the works of Aristotle, brought a new philosophical vision to Western Europe. His contribution to medicine has been overshadowed to some extent by this great work of philosophy. Our intention is to evaluate, in the context of the neurosciences, the vision of health and sickness that he left us in his book &quot;The Book of the Principles of Medicine. The organisation of the Kulliyat is based on Aristotelian concepts. Averroes regarded the nervous system not as single entity but rather as a complex of various elements. The anatomy of the nervous system is studied in two parts: the encephalus and the periphery. Both the encephalic nervous system and the sensory organs are regarded as heterogeneous organs. Averroes structures the anatomical order without taking into account the local movements of the living body. The mission of the senses is to maintain contact between external reality and the structure of the organism. This requires an external process, a point of union and an internal process. The ultimate goal is the preservation of health in a balanced disposition and the cure of disease in the organism in disequilibrium.


Leonard Lindon was the first neurosurgeon on the staff of the Royal Adelaide Hospital, and headed this hospital's neurosurgical service from 1931 to 1951, with an interruption from war service. Like other early neurosurgeons, Lindon began as a general surgeon. In 1929, when he was well established in his surgical practice, he took unpaid leave from his hospital duties to undertake a study tour of neurosurgical centres in Europe and North America. Lindon visited the London Hospital, where Hugh Cairns, like him, an Adelaide medical graduate and veteran of Gallipoli, was establishing a modern neurosurgical service. Lindon also visited Harvey Cushing in Boston, USA. Cushing was then at the zenith of his reputation as the master of a safe neurosurgical operative technique; he was also famous for his contributions in the neurosciences. Lindon was deeply impressed by Cushing's philosophy and his operative methods. When Lindon returned to Adelaide in 1930, he prepared a plan for a neurosurgical unit in Adelaide, and over the next 20 years, he achieved some of his aims. In this plan, Lindon gave priority to the management of head injuries as a role for neurosurgeons.
Episodic memory has recently been shown to be impaired in the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) when so-called non-progressive cases are excluded. Such non-progressive cases present with the behavioral features of bvFTD, but show no evidence of cognitive decline over time. To date, evidence regarding episodic memory performance in bvFTD subgroups on more stringent tasks is lacking. We investigated temporal and spatial source memory in progressive (n = 7) versus non-progressive (n = 12) bvFTD. BvFTD cases were retrospectively classified based on general cognitive decline on the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination Revised, and the presence of atrophy on structural neuroimaging, over 3 years following diagnosis. Progressors showed impaired temporal and spatial source retrieval. Non-progressors displayed temporal source deficits only. These differential source memory profiles point to the variability of episodic memory performance in bvFTD, and underscore the importance of differential diagnosis of bvFTD subgroups using longitudinal and neuroimaging data.

Increasing evidence shows that the central nervous system and the immune system interact in complex ways, and better insight into these interactions may be relevant to the treatment of patients with stroke and other forms of central nervous system injury. Atherosclerosis, autoimmune disease, and physiological stressors, such as infection or surgery, cause inflammation that contributes to vascular injury and increases the risk of stroke. In addition, the immune system actively participates in the acute pathogenesis of stroke. Thrombosis and hypoxia trigger an intravascular inflammatory cascade, which is further augmented by the innate immune response to cellular damage occurring in the parenchyma. This immune activation may cause secondary tissue injury, but it is unclear whether modulating the acute immune response to stroke can produce clinical benefits. Attempts to dampen immune activation after stroke may have adverse effects because central nervous system injury causes significant immunodepression that places patients at higher risk of infections, such as pneumonia. The activation of innate immunity after stroke sets the stage for an adaptive immune response directed against brain antigens. The pathogenic significance of adaptive immunity and its long-term effects on the postischemic brain remains unclear, but it cannot be ruled out that a persistent autoimmune response to brain antigens has deleterious and long-lasting consequences. Further research will be required to determine what role, if any, immunity has in long-term outcomes after stroke, but elucidation of potential mechanisms may open promising avenues for the development of new therapeutics to improve neurological recovery after brain injury.






Point-light walkers have been useful to study the contribution of form and motion to biological motion perception by manipulating the lifetime, number, or spatial distribution of the light points. Recent studies have also manipulated the light points themselves, replacing them with small images of objects. This manipulation degraded the recognizability of biological motion, particularly for local images of human bodies. This result suggests an interference of body form information in the local images with the body form analysis necessary for global biological motion recognition at the global level. We further explored this interference with respect to its selectivity for body orientation and motion. Participants had to either discriminate the facing direction (left/right) or the walking direction (forward/backward) of a global walker composed of local stick figures that could face left or right and either stand still or walk forward or backward. Local stick figures interfered stronger with the facing direction task if they were facing in the same direction as the global walker. Walking (forward/backward/static) of the stick figures influenced neither the facing direction task nor the walking direction task. We conclude that the interference is highly specific since it concerns not only the category (human form), but even the facing direction.

In myasthenia gravis (MG) and experimental autoimmune MG (EAMG), many pathologically significant autoantibodies are directed at the main immunogenic region (MIR), a conformation-dependent region at the extracellular tip of 1 subunits of muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). Human muscle AChR 1 MIR sequences were integrated into Aplysia ACh-binding protein (AChBP). The chimera was potent in inducing both acute and chronic EAMG, though less potent than Torpedo electric organ AChR. Wild-type AChBP also induced EAMG but was less potent, and weakness developed slowly without an acute phase. AChBP is more closely related in sequence to neuronal 7 AChRs that are also homomeric; however, autoimmune responses were induced to muscle AChR, but not to neuronal AChR subtypes. The greater accessibility of muscle AChRs to antibodies, compared to neuronal AChRs, may allow muscle AChRs to induce self-sustaining autoimmune responses. The human 1 subunit MIR is a potent immunogen for producing pathologically significant autoantibodies. Additional epitopes in this region or other parts of the AChR extracellular domain contribute significantly to myasthenogenicity. We show that an AChR-related protein can induce EAMG. Thus, in principle, an AChR-related protein could induce MG. AChBP is a water-soluble protein resembling the extracellular domain of AChRs, yet rats that developed EAMG had autoantibodies to AChR cytoplasmic domains. We propose that an initial autoimmune response, directed at the MIR on the extracellular surface of muscle AChRs, leads to an autoimmune response sustained by muscle AChRs. Autoimmune stimulation sustained by endogenous muscle AChR may be a target for specific immunosuppression.
Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a key susceptibility gene for major psychiatric disorders. DISC1 plays a role in key neuronal processes such as neuronal proliferation, migration, integration and function via DISC1's roles at the centrosome and synapse, and in the regulation of intracellular signaling pathways. Recently, the idea of protein aggregation as a disease mechanism for DISC1 has been suggested. In our recent paper we explore these DISC1 protein aggregates in cell lines and neurons and find they are recruited to the aggresome and cause disruption of DISC1 function in intracellular transport.
Previous results indicated that damage and pharmacological inactivation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) interfere with the attenuation of taste neophobia. A similar disruption of safe taste memories formation induced by the inhibition of protein synthesis in the perirhinal cortex (PRh) has been reported. Thus, we have assessed the effect of bilateral BLA neurotoxic lesions on PRh activity after novel and familiar taste exposure. Wistar male rats with NMDA lesions of the BLA and SHAM-operated received two consecutive exposures to a 3% cider vinegar solution. Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) was examined as a marker of neuronal activity in PRh. As expected the BLA lesioned group showed no evidence of neophobia attenuation. A similar number of PRh Fos-positive cells were found in SHAM and BLA groups exposed to the novel taste solution. However, the BLA-lesioned group exhibited a lower number of Fos stained cells than the SHAM-lesioned group after being exposed to the familiar taste solution. This supports the notion of BLA and PRh as components of a neural circuit involved in safe taste recognition memory and suggests a role of PRh in various forms of recognition memory.
Animals can perform goal-directed tasks by using response cues or place cues. The underlying memory systems are occasionally presented as competing. Using the double-H maze test (Pol-Bodetto et al.), we trained rats for response learning and, 24 h later, tested their memory in a 60-s probe trial using a new start place. A modest shift of the start place (translation: 60-cm to the left) provided a high misleading potential, whereas a marked shift (180 rotation; shift to the opposite) provided a low misleading potential. We analyzed each rat's first arm choice (to assess response vs. place memory retrieval) and its subsequent search for the former platform location (to assess the persistence in place memory or the shift from response to place memory). After the translation, response memory-based behavior was found in more than 90% rats (24/26). After the rotation, place memory-based behavior was observed in 50% rats, the others showing response memory or failing. Rats starting to use response cues were nevertheless able to subsequently shift to place ones. A posteriori behavioral analyses showed more and longer stops in rats starting their probe trial on the basis of place (vs. response) cues. These observations qualify the idea of competing memory systems for responses and places and are compatible with that of a cooperation between both systems according to principles of match/mismatch computation (at the start of a probe trial) and of error-driven adjustment (during the ongoing probe trial).
The dopamine D preferring agonist pramipexole (50 ng) induced penile erection and yawning when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats, like the mixed D/D-like agonist apomorphine (50 ng), while the D agonist PD 168,077 (100 ng), induced penile erection only. These responses lasted for 45-60 min and occurred with an increase of NO- and NO- concentrations in the dialysate obtained from the paraventricular nucleus by intracerebral microdialysis. Pramipexole and apomorphine responses were reduced by the D preferring antagonist L-741,626 (5 g), but not by the D preferring antagonist SB-277011A (10 g), or the D preferring antagonist L-745,870 (5 g), injected into the PVN before the dopamine agonist. In contrast, PD 168,077 responses were reduced by L-745,870, but not by L-741,626 or SB-277011A. Pramipexole, apomorphine and PD 168,077 effects were also reduced by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline (20 g) and the N-type voltage-dependent Ca channels blocker -conotoxin (5 ng), given into the paraventricular nucleus, and by the oxytocin antagonist d(CH)Tyr(Me)-Orn-vasotocin (2 g), given intracerebroventricularly but not into the paraventricular nucleus before dopamine agonists. These results suggest that stimulation of D, but not D or D receptors, by pramipexole or apomorphine increases Ca influx in cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons. This increases the production of nitric oxide, which activates oxytocinergic neurotransmission in extra-hypothalamic brain areas and spinal cord, leading to penile erection and yawning. However, the stimulation of D receptors by PD 168,077 also increases Ca influx/nitric oxide production leading to penile erection, but not yawning.
The study of animal cognition and its neurobiological bases often requires the adoption of associative learning procedures. Though fish are increasingly being used as a model system in behavioral neuroscience, the availability of adequate learning protocols can be a limiting factor in this field of research. This study describes a novel training procedure to explore visual discrimination in fish. Subjects were singly housed in rectangular tanks. At intervals, two stimuli were introduced at opposite ends of the tank and food was delivered near the stimulus to be reinforced. Time spent near positive stimulus in probe trials was taken as a measure of discrimination performance. To validate the method, we replicated two published studies that used operant conditioning to investigate the mechanisms of numerical discrimination in mosquitofish. Our data indicate a complete overlap of the results obtained using the two different methods. The pros and cons of the new procedure are discussed in respect of traditional associative learning paradigms.
Behavioral analyses of genetically modified and inbred strains of mice have revealed neural systems and molecules that are involved in memory formation. Many of these studies have examined memories that form in contextual fear conditioning, in which an organism learns that a particular context signals the occurrence of a footshock. During fear extinction, nonreinforced exposure to the context results in the loss of the conditioned fear response. The study of extinction has been instrumental for behavioral and molecular theories of memory. However, many of the transgenic, knockout, and inbred strains of mice that have been widely studied in memory have behavioral deficits in contextual fear conditioning, which makes the study of extinction in these mice particularly challenging. Here we explore several strategies for studying extinction in C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice, two strains known to differ in contextual fear conditioning. First, we attempt to equate performance prior to extinction through several extensive conditioning protocols. Second, we examine extinction in subsets of mice matched for initial levels of context conditioning. Third, we examine within-strain effects of variables known to affect extinction. Differences between the strains persisted across extensive conditioning and extinction protocols, but both strains were sensitive to session duration and context manipulations during extinction. We describe the implications of our results for behavioral and neurobiological approaches to extinction, and we examine the general challenges in studying extinction in subjects that differ in learning or performance prior to extinction.
Research on extinction is of fundamental importance in both Pavlovian and operant approaches to the experimental analysis of learning. Although these approaches are often motivated by different empirical and theoretical questions, extinction has emerged as a research area in which common themes unite the two approaches. In this review, we focus on some common considerations in the analysis of Pavlovian and operant extinction. These include methodological challenges and interpretational issues in analyzing behavior during and after extinction. We consider the different roles that theory has played in the development of research on extinction in these preparations and conclude with some attention to applications of extinction.
During the penalty phase of capital trials, defendants may introduce mitigating evidence that argues for a punishment &quot;less than death.&quot; In the past few years, a novel form of mitigating evidence-brain scans made possible by technological advances in neuroscience-has been proffered by defendants to support claims that brain abnormalities reduce their culpability. This exploratory study assessed the impact of neuroscience evidence on mock jurors' sentencing recommendations and impressions of a capital defendant. Using actual case facts, we manipulated diagnostic evidence presented by the defense (psychosis diagnosis; diagnosis and neuropsychological test results; or diagnosis, test results, and neuroimages) and future dangerousness evidence presented by the prosecution (low or high risk). Recommendations for death sentences were affected by the neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence: defendants deemed at high risk for future dangerousness were less likely to be sentenced to death when jurors had this evidence than when they did not. Neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence also had mitigating effects on impressions of the defendant. We describe study limitations and pose questions for further research.
Tetraspanins regulate the signaling, trafficking and biosynthetic processing of associated proteins, and may link the extracellular domain of -chain integrins with intracellular signaling molecules, including PI4K and PKC, both of which regulate cytoskeletal architecture. We showed that TSPAN7, a member of tetraspannin-family, promotes filopodia and dendritic spine formation in cultured hippocampal neurons, and is required for spine stability and normal synaptic transmission. TSPAN7 directly interacts with the PDZ domain of protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1), and associates with AMPAR subunit GluA2 and 1-integrin. TSPAN7 regulates PICK1 and GluA2/3 association, and AMPA receptor trafficking. These findings identify TSPAN7 as a key player in the morphological and functional maturation of glutamatergic synapses.
There is ample pharmacological and physiological evidence for yet unidentified histamine receptors in mammalian brain that are linked to a Cl(-) conductance. In invertebrates, two histamine-gated chloride channels (HisCl 1 and 2) are already well known. HisCl channels are members of the Cys-loop receptor superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels and are closely related to the mammalian GABA(A) and glycine receptors (GlyR). Indeed, they share particularly strong homology within the ligand binding and ion channel domains. Here we discuss the possibility that mammalian HisCl channels might exist among the known GABA(A) or GlyR subunits. Studies published to date support this hypothesis, including evidence for direct histamine gating of GABA(A)  homomers, histamine potentiation of GABA(A)  and  heteromeric receptors, and GABA(A) receptor blockade by some antihistamines. We explore what is known about the binding-site structure, function and pharmacology of invertebrate HisCl channels and other histamine binding sites to support and inform a broader search for HisCl channels among the mammalian GABA(A) and GlyR subunits. The discovery and identification of HisCl-like channels in mammals would not only enhance understanding of inhibitory signaling and histamine function in the mammalian brain, but also provide new avenues for development of therapeutic compounds targeting this novel histamine site. This commentary is therefore intended to foster consideration of a novel and potentially important target of histamine and histaminergic drugs in the CNS.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a prototypical neurodegenerative disease in which there is selective neuronal degeneration, which leads to progressive disability, manifesting itself as a movement disorder, with both psychiatric and cognitive impairment. The disease is caused by a cytosine-adenine-guanine (CAG) repeat expansion in the huntingtin gene, which causes an expanded polyglutamine repeat in the huntingtin protein, resulting in a protein with a novel gain of function. The mutant huntingtin protein causes neuronal dysfunction and eventual cell death in which transcriptional impairment, excitotoxicity, oxidative damage, inflammation, apoptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction are all implicated. A critical transcriptional impairment may be impaired expression and function of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 (PGC-1), a master co-regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and expression of antioxidant enzymes. A deficiency of PGC-1 leads to increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and to striatal degeneration. The extent and severity of the oxidative damage in HD are features well recognized but perhaps under-appreciated. Oxidative damage occurs to lipids, proteins and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), and it has been suggested that the latter may contribute to CAG repeat expansion during DNA repair [1]. A marked elevation of oxidized DNA bases occurs in patients' plasma, which may provide a biomarker of disease progression. Antioxidants are effective in slowing disease progression in transgenic mouse models of HD, and show promise in human clinical trials. Strategies to transcriptionally increase expression of antioxidant enzymes by modulating the Nrf-2/ARE pathway, or by increasing expression of PGC-1 hold great promise for developing new treatments to slow or halt the progression of HD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Antioxidants and Antioxidant Treatment in Disease.
Synaptic pathology and mitochondrial oxidative damage are early events in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Loss of synapses and synaptic damage are the best correlates of cognitive deficits found in AD patients. Recent research on amyloid beta (A) and mitochondria in AD revealed that A accumulates in synapses and synaptic mitochondria, leading to abnormal mitochondrial dynamics and synaptic degeneration in AD neurons. Further, recent studies using live-cell imaging and primary neurons from amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice revealed reduced mitochondrial mass, defective axonal transport of mitochondria and synaptic degeneration, indicating that A is responsible for mitochondrial and synaptic deficiencies. Tremendous progress has been made in studying antioxidant approaches in mouse models of AD and clinical trials of AD patients. This article highlights the recent developments made in A-induced abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, defective mitochondrial biogenesis, impaired axonal transport and synaptic deficiencies in AD. This article also focuses on mitochondrial approaches in treating AD, and also discusses latest research on mitochondria-targeted antioxidants in AD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Antioxidants and Antioxidant Treatment in Disease.

The use of super-resolution imaging techniques in cell biology has yielded a wealth of information regarding cellular elements and processes that were invisible to conventional imaging. Focusing on images obtained by stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy, we discuss how the new high-resolution data influence the ways in which we use and interpret images in cell biology. Super-resolution images have lent support to some of our current hypotheses. But, more significantly, they have revealed unexpectedly complex processes that cannot be accounted for by the simpler models based on diffraction-limited imaging. The super-resolution imaging data challenge cell biologists to change their theoretical framework, by including, for instance, interpretations that describe multiple functions, functional errors or lack of function for cellular elements. In this context, we argue that descriptive research using super-resolution microscopy is now as necessary as hypothesis-driven research.


Excessive increases in task difficulty typically result in marked attenuation of cognitive-motor performance. The psychomotor efficiency hypothesis suggests that poor performance is mediated by non-essential neural activity and cerebral cortical networking (inefficient cortical dynamics). This phenomenon may underlie the inverse relationship between excessive task difficulty and performance. However, investigation of the psychomotor efficiency hypothesis as it relates to task difficulty has not been conducted. The present study used electroencephalography (EEG) to examine cerebral cortical dynamics while participants were challenged with both Easy and Hard conditions during a cognitive-motor task (Tetris()). In accord with the psychomotor efficiency hypothesis, it was predicted that with increases in task difficulty, participants would demonstrate greater 'neural effort,' as indexed by EEG spectral power and cortical networking (i.e., EEG coherence) between the premotor (motor planning) region and sensory, executive, and motor regions. Increases in neural activation and cortical networking were observed during the Hard condition relative to the Easy condition, thus supporting the psychomotor efficiency hypothesis. To further determine the unique contributions of cognitive versus sensory-motor demands, a control experiment was conducted in which cognitive demand was increased while sensory-motor demand was held constant. This experiment revealed that regionally specific neural activation was influenced by changes in cognitive demand, whereas cortical networking to the motor planning region was sensitive only to changes in sensory-motor demand. Crucially, the present study is the first, to our knowledge, to characterize the separate impact of cognitive versus sensory-motor demands on cerebral cortical dynamics. The findings further inform the dynamics of the cortical processes that underlie the quality of cognitive-motor performance particularly with regard to task difficulty. A broader understanding of the brain and muscle interactions during varying levels of challenge may inform the design of effective training protocols aimed at optimizing cognitive-motor performance.
Omacetaxine is a natural product extract originating from Chinese medicine and finding therapeutic use as a potent myelosuppressive agent in leukemia. When planning in vitro cell biology experiments to assess omacetaxine activity against primary leukemic stem cells, it became apparent that the literature rarely describes the in vitro stability of the molecule, although accessible chromatographic methods have been published. Clearly whole organisms vs their component cells will differ in the way in which they handle xenobiotics, with the latter more dependent on physiochemical parameters such as pH and temperature in the absence of active metabolism or excretion. This could impact on the cells' experience of drug in culture. We therefore report here on examination of a modified, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method with assessment of degradant production from a 72h solution stability study, clearly demonstrating that omacetaxine is highly stable in representative cell culture conditions (37C, neutral pH) and persists for many days in marked contrast to its short-half life in vivo.
The aim of this study was to synthesize and evaluate a novel fluorine-18 labeled analogue of rasagiline (6) as a PET radioligand for monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). The corresponding non-radioactive fluorine-19 ligand, (1S,2S)-2-fluoro-N-(prop-2-yn-1-yl)indan-1-amine (4), was characterized in in vitro assays. The precursor compound (3aS,8aR)-3-(prop-2-yn-1-yl)-3,3a,8,8a-tetrahydroindeno[1,2-d][1,2,3]oxathiazole 2,2-dioxide (3) and reference standard 4 were synthesized in multi-step syntheses. Recombinant human MAO-B and MAO-A enzyme preparations were used in order to determine IC(50) values for compound 4 by use of an enzymatic assay employing kynuramine as substrate. Radiolabeling was accomplished by a two-step synthesis, compromising a nucleophilic substitution followed by hydrolysis of the sulphamidate group. Human whole hemisphere autoradiography (ARG) was performed with [(18)F]fluororasagiline. Blocking experiments with pirlindole (MAO-A), L-deprenyl and rasagiline (MAO-B) were conducted to demonstrate the specificity of the binding. A positron emission tomography (PET) study was carried out in a cynomolgus monkey where time activity curves for whole brain and regions with high and low MAO-B activity were recorded. Radiometabolites were measured in monkey plasma using gradient HPLC. Compound 4 inhibited MAO-B with an IC(50) of 27 nM and MAO-A with an IC(50) of 2.3 M. Radiolabeling of precursor 3 and subsequent hydrolysis of the protecting group towards (1S,2S)-2-[(18)F]fluoro-N-(prop-2-yn-1-yl)indan-1-amine (6) was successfully accomplished with an radiochemical yield of 40-70%, a radiochemical purity higher than 99% and a specific radioactivity higher than 200GBq/mol. ARG demonstrated selective binding for [(18)F]fluororasagiline (6) to MAO-B containing brain regions, for example, striatum. The initial uptake in the monkey brain was 250% SUV at 4 min post injection. The highest amounts of radioactivity were observed in the striatum and thalamus as expected whereas in the cortex and cerebellum lower levels were observed. Metabolite studies demonstrated 30% unchanged radioligand at 90 min post injection. Our investigations demonstrated that the new ligand [(18)F]fluororasagiline (6) binds specifically to MAO-B in vitro and has a MAO-B specific binding pattern in vivo. Thus, it could serve as a novel potential candidate for human PET studies.


One of the most remarkable capacities of the mind is its ability to simulate sensations, actions, and other types of experience. A mental simulation process that has attracted recent attention from cognitive neuroscientists and sport psychologists is motor imagery or the mental rehearsal of actions without engaging in the actual physical movements involved. Research on motor imagery is important in psychology because it provides an empirical window on consciousness and movement planning, rectifies a relative neglect of non-visual types of mental imagery, and has practical implications for skill learning and skilled performance in special populations (e.g., athletes, surgeons). Unfortunately, contemporary research on motor imagery is hampered by a variety of semantic, conceptual, and methodological issues that prevent cross-fertilization of ideas between cognitive neuroscience and sport psychology. In this paper, we review these issues, suggest how they can be resolved, and sketch some potentially fruitful new directions for inter-disciplinary research in motor imagery.
Autoimmune synaptic encephalitides are recently described human brain diseases leading to psychiatric and neurological syndromes through inappropriate brain-autoantibody interactions. The most frequent synaptic autoimmune encephalitis is associated with autoantibodies against extracellular domains of the glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor, with patients developing psychotic and neurological symptoms in an autoantibody titre-dependent manner. Although N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors are the primary target of these antibodies, the cellular and molecular pathway(s) that rapidly lead to N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor dysfunction remain poorly understood. In this report, we used a unique combination of high-resolution nanoparticle and bulk live imaging approaches to demonstrate that anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor autoantibodies from patients with encephalitis strongly alter, in a time-dependent manner, the surface content and trafficking of GluN2-NMDA receptor subtypes. Autoantibodies laterally displaced surface GluN2A-NMDA receptors out of synapses and completely blocked synaptic plasticity. This loss of extrasynaptic and synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor is prevented both in vitro and in vivo, by the activation of EPHB2 receptors. Indeed, the anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor autoantibodies weaken the interaction between the extracellular domains of the N-methyl-d-aspartate and Ephrin-B2 receptors. Together, we demonstrate that the anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor autoantibodies from patients with encephalitis alter the dynamic retention of synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor through extracellular domain-dependent mechanism(s), shedding new light on the pathology of the neurological and psychiatric disorders observed in these patients and opening possible new therapeutic strategies.
Quantitative abnormalities of brain structure in patients with major depressive disorder have been reported at a group level for decades. However, these structural differences appear subtle in comparison with conventional radiologically defined abnormalities, with considerable inter-subject variability. Consequently, it has not been possible to readily identify scans from patients with major depressive disorder at an individual level. Recently, machine learning techniques such as relevance vector machines and support vector machines have been applied to predictive classification of individual scans with variable success. Here we describe a novel hybrid method, which combines machine learning with feature selection and characterization, with the latter aimed at maximizing the accuracy of machine learning prediction. The method was tested using a multi-centre dataset of T(1)-weighted 'structural' scans. A total of 62 patients with major depressive disorder and matched controls were recruited from referred secondary care clinical populations in Aberdeen and Edinburgh, UK. The generalization ability and predictive accuracy of the classifiers was tested using data left out of the training process. High prediction accuracy was achieved (~90%). While feature selection was important for maximizing high predictive accuracy with machine learning, feature characterization contributed only a modest improvement to relevance vector machine-based prediction (~5%). Notably, while the only information provided for training the classifiers was T(1)-weighted scans plus a categorical label (major depressive disorder versus controls), both relevance vector machine and support vector machine 'weighting factors' (used for making predictions) correlated strongly with subjective ratings of illness severity. These results indicate that machine learning techniques have the potential to inform clinical practice and research, as they can make accurate predictions about brain scan data from individual subjects. Furthermore, machine learning weighting factors may reflect an objective biomarker of major depressive disorder illness severity, based on abnormalities of brain structure.
Gait freezing is an episodic arrest of locomotion due to an inability to take normal steps. Pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation is an emerging therapy proposed to improve gait freezing, even where refractory to medication. However, the efficacy and precise effects of pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation on Parkinsonian gait disturbance are not established. The clinical application of this new therapy is controversial and it is unknown if bilateral stimulation is more effective than unilateral. Here, in a double-blinded study using objective spatiotemporal gait analysis, we assessed the impact of unilateral and bilateral pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation on triggered episodes of gait freezing and on background deficits of unconstrained gait in Parkinson's disease. Under experimental conditions, while OFF medication, Parkinsonian patients with severe gait freezing implanted with pedunculopontine nucleus stimulators below the pontomesencephalic junction were assessed during three conditions; off stimulation, unilateral stimulation and bilateral stimulation. Results were compared to Parkinsonian patients without gait freezing matched for disease severity and healthy controls. Pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation improved objective measures of gait freezing, with bilateral stimulation more effective than unilateral. During unconstrained walking, Parkinsonian patients who experience gait freezing had reduced step length and increased step length variability compared to patients without gait freezing; however, these deficits were unchanged by pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation. Chronic pedunculopontine nucleus stimulation improved Freezing of Gait Questionnaire scores, reflecting a reduction of the freezing encountered in patients' usual environments and medication states. This study provides objective, double-blinded evidence that in a specific subgroup of Parkinsonian patients, stimulation of a caudal pedunculopontine nucleus region selectively improves gait freezing but not background deficits in step length. Bilateral stimulation was more effective than unilateral.
In most parts of the world, environmental conditions vary in a predictable seasonal manner. Thus, seasonal variation in reproductive timing and immune function has emerged in some species to cope with disparate seasonal demands. During the long days of spring and summer when food availability is high and thermoregulatory demands low, Siberian hamsters invest in reproduction, whereas during the harsh short days of winter hamsters divert energy away from reproductive activities and modify immune capabilities. Many seasonal adaptations can be recapitulated in a laboratory setting by adjusting day length (photoperiod). Early-life photoperiods are important sources of seasonal information and can establish an individual's developmental trajectory. Siberian hamsters housed under short days (SD; 8 h light/day) recover more rapidly than long-day (LD; 16 h light/day) hamsters from immune activation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). SD hamsters attenuate fever response, reduce cytokine production, and abrogate behavioral responses following LPS injection. The mechanism by which SD Siberian hamsters attenuate febrile response remains unspecified. It is possible that periphery-to-brain communication of inflammatory signals is altered by exposure to photoperiod. Rather than testing photoperiod effects on each of the multiple routes by which immunological cues are communicated to the CNS, we administered LPS intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) following adolescent exposure to either 6 weeks of SD or LD. Injection of LPS i.c.v. led to a similar immune reaction in SD hamsters as previously reported with intraperitoneal injection. Short days attenuated the response to LPS with diminished fever spike and duration, as well as decreased locomotor inactivity. Furthermore, only LD hamsters demonstrated anhedonic-like behavior following LPS injection as evaluated by decreased preference for a milk solution. These results suggest that photoperiodic differences in response to infection are due in part to changes in central immune activation.
Clinical studies suggest that stress-related biobehavioral factors can accelerate the progression of hematopoietic cancers such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but it is unclear whether such effects are causal or what biological pathways mediate such effects. Given the network of sympathetic nervous system (SNS) fibers that innervates the bone marrow to regulate normal (non-leukemic) hematopoietic progenitor cells, we tested the possibility that stress-induced SNS signaling might also affect ALL progression. In an orthotopic mouse model, Nalm-6 human pre-B ALL cells were transduced with the luciferase gene for longitudinal bioluminescent imaging and injected i.v. into male SCID mice for bone marrow engraftment. Two weeks of daily restraint stress significantly enhanced ALL tumor burden and dissemination in comparison to controls, and this effect was blocked by the -adrenergic antagonist, propranolol. Although Nalm-6 ALL cells expressed mRNA for 1- and 3-adrenergic receptors, they showed no evidence of cAMP signaling in response to norepinephrine, and norepinephrine failed to enhance Nalm-6 proliferation in vitro. These results show that chronic stress can accelerate the progression of human pre-B ALL tumor load via a -adrenergic signaling pathway that likely involves indirect regulation of ALL biology via alterations in the function of other host cell types such as immune cells or the bone marrow microenvironment.
Farber disease is a rare inherited lysosomal storage disorder caused by ceramidase deficiency that leads to accumulation of ceramide in various tissues. Mutations within ASAH1 encoding for acid ceramidase are responsible for the disease. Here we report two siblings with Farber disease who carry a novel V97G with the parents and a sister being asymptomatic carriers. The mutation site was found to be highly conserved among different species using ClustalW2 alignment. Functional prediction tools indicated the mutation to be pathogenic. Electron microscopy based ultrastructural studies using skin biopsy showed inclusion of enlarged lysosomes and presence of the zebra bodies. The T1 weighted magnetic resonance images of the brain indicated diffuse loss of the deep white matter volume predominantly along the occipital horns of the lateral ventricle with subsequent facet dilatation of the supratentorial and infratentorial ventricular system. This is the first report of a detailed clinical and molecular analysis of cases with Farber disease from Saudi Arabia.
One of the most challenging tasks in neuroscience in language studies, is investigation of the brain's ability to integrate and process information. This task can only be successfully addressed by applying various assessment techniques integrated into a multimodal approach. Each of these techniques has its advantages and disadvantages, but help to elucidate certain aspects of the capacity of neural networks to process information. These methods provide information about changes in electrical, hemodynamic and metabolic activities. Ideally, they should be noninvasive in order to facilitate their use particularly in children. In the present review, we describe the advantages of simultaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) acquisition with near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to provide a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in cerebral activation. This coregistration is also useful to avoid misleading interpretation of NIRS, notably during the various phases of sleep. Development and implementation of the various tools required and assessment strategies are also discussed.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia in the elderly. DLB is clinically characterized by fluctuating cognitive dysfunction, visual hallucinations, and parkinsonism. It is sometimes difficult to clinically diagnose patients with DLB because of the overlap of the clinical and pathological findings of this disease with those of Alzheimer's disease. Precise clinical diagnosis is important for determining the drug therapy appropriate for improving DLB symptoms. Biomarkers that enable more accurate diagnosis of DLB and reflect its complex clinical progression are highly desired. Cognitive impairment frequently occurs in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The common pathological features of DLB and PD are Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, both of which are composed of -synuclein. DLB and PD are now considered to belong to a common spectrum of disorders designated as Lewy body disease (LBD). We have previously reported that the -synuclein levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are significantly lower in patients with DLB than in patients with other types of dementia. However, the significance of quantifying the CSF -synuclein levels as a biomarker for DLB has been a matter of debate because the results for these levels have been inconsistent among different studies. Similar inconsistency has been observed in studies on the plasma -synuclein levels in patients with LBD. Here, we review the recent progress on biomarkers of LBD, especially in DLB, and discuss their application to clinical diagnosis.
Release of interleukin (IL)-1 from immunocompetent cells requires formation of the NACHT, LLR and PYD domains-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome and caspase 1 activation. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), acting on the P2X(7) receptor, is one factor that stimulates inflammasome assembly. We show that a novel specific P2X(7) receptor antagonist, GSK1370319A, inhibits ATP-induced increase in IL-1 release and caspase 1 activation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-primed mixed glia by blocking assembly of the inflammasome in a pannexin 1-dependent manner. GSK1370319A also inhibits ATP-induced subregion-specific neuronal loss in hippocampal organotypic slice cultures, which is dependent on its ability to prevent inflammasome assembly in glia. Significantly, GSK1370319A attenuates age-related deficits in long-term potentiation (LTP) and inhibits the accompanying age-related caspase 1 activity. We conclude that inhibiting P2X(7) receptor-activated NLRP3 inflammasome formation and the consequent IL-1 release from glia preserve neuronal viability and synaptic activity.
The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are dominantly inherited disorders that primarily affect coordination of motor function but also frequently involve other brain functions. The models described in this review address mechanisms of trinucleotide-repeat expansions, particularly those relating to polyglutamine expression in the mutant proteins. Modeling chronic late-onset human ataxias in mice is difficult because of their short life-span. While this potential hindrance has been partially overcome by using over-expression of the mutant gene, and/or worsening of the mutation by increasing the length of the trinucleotide repeat expansion, interpretation of results from such models and extrapolation to the human condition should be cautious. Nevertheless, genetically engineered murine models of these diseases have enhanced our understanding of the pathogenesis of many of these conditions. A common theme in many of the polyglutamine-repeat diseases is nuclear localization of mutant protein, with resultant effects on gene regulation. Conditional mutant models and transgenic knock-down therapy have demonstrated the potential for reversibility of disease when production of mutant protein is halted. Several other genetically engineered murine models of SCA also have begun to show utility in the identification and assessment of more classical drug-based therapeutic modalities.
Over the last decade, genetically engineered mouse models have been extensively used to dissect the genetic requirements for neoplastic initiation and progression of diffuse gliomas. While these models faithfully recapitulate the histopathological features of human gliomas, comparative genomic analyses are increasingly being utilized to comprehensively assess their fidelity to recently identified molecular subtypes of these tumors. Future progress with these models will rely on incorporating insights not only from oncogenomics studies of cancer, but also from the developmental neuroscience and stem cell biology fields to design accurate and experimentally tractable models for use in translational cancer research, particularly for experimental therapeutics studies of molecularly defined subtypes of gliomas.
Limiting tumor invasion to the surrounding healthy tissues has proven to be clinically relevant for anticancer treatment options. We have demonstrated that, within a solid tumor, it is possible to achieve such a goal with the same nanoparticle by intracellular and triggered targeted drug delivery to more than one cell population. We have identified the nucleolin receptor in endothelial and cancer cells in tissue samples from breast cancer patients, which enabled the design of a F3-peptide-targeted sterically stabilized pH-sensitive liposome. The clinical potential of such strategy was demonstrated by the successful specific cellular association by breast cancer cells harvested from tumors of patients submitted to mastectomy. In vitro, the nanoparticle targeted the nucleolin receptor on a cell and ligand-specific manner and improved cytotoxicity of doxorubicin (used as a model drug) towards breast cancer and endothelial cells by 177- and 162-fold, respectively, relative to the commercially available non-targeted non-pH-sensitive liposomes. Moreover, active accumulation of F3-targeted pH-sensitive liposomes into human orthotopic tumors, implanted in the mammary fat pad of nude mice, was registered for a time point as short as 4h, reaching 48% of the injected dose/g of tissue. Twenty-fourhours post-injection the accumulation of the dual-targeted pH-sensitive nanoparticle in the tumor tissue was 33-fold higher than the non-targeted non-pH-sensitive counterpart. In mice treated with the developed targeted nanoparticle significant decrease of the tumor viable rim area and microvascular density, as well as limited invasion to surrounding healthy tissues were observed (as opposed to other tested controls), which may increase the probability of tumors falling in the category of &quot;negative margins&quot; with reduced risk of relapse.
Epigenetic phenomena are being increasingly recognized to play key roles in normal mammalian development and disease. This is exemplified by the process of genomic imprinting whereby despite identical DNA sequence, the two parental chromosomes are not equivalent and show either maternal- or paternal-specific expression at a subset of genes in the genome. These patterns are set up by differential DNA methylation marking at the imprinting control regions in male and female germ line. In this review, we discuss the specific mechanisms by which these methyl marks are established and then selectively maintained throughout pre-implantation development. Specifically, we discuss the recent findings of a critical role played by a KRAB zinc-finger protein ZFP57 and its co-factor KAP1/TRIM28 in mediating both processes.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive neuroimaging technique that has grown rapidly in popularity over the past decade. It is already prevalent in psychology, cognitive and basic neuroscience research and is being used increasingly as a tool for clinical decision-making in epilepsy. It has been used to determine language location and laterality in patients, sometimes eliminating the need for invasive tests. fMRI can been used pre-surgically to guide resection margins, preserving eloquent cortex. Other fMRI paradigms assessing memory, visual and somatosensory systems have limited clinical applications currently, but show great promise. Simultaneous recording of electroencephalogram (EEG) and fMRI has also provided insights into the networks underlying seizure generation and is increasingly being used in epilepsy centres. In this review, we present some of the current clinical applications for fMRI in the pre-surgical assessment of epilepsy patients, and examine a number of new techniques that may soon become clinically relevant.
The present investigation was designed to determine the efficacy of Bacopa monnieri (Brahmi; BM) to offset 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA) induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in dopaminergic (N27) cells and prepubertal mouse brain. Pretreatment of N27 cells with BM ethanolic extract (BME) significantly attenuated 3-NPA-induced cytotoxicity. Further, we determined the degree of oxidative stress induction, redox status, enzymic antioxidants, and protein oxidation in the striatal mitochondria of mice given BME prophylaxis followed by 3-NPA challenge. While 3-NPA-induced marked oxidative stress in the mitochondria of the striatum, BME prophylaxis markedly prevented 3-NPA-induced oxidative dysfunctions and depletion of reduced glutathione and thiol levels. The activities of antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, thioredoxin reductase), Na(+),K(+)-ATPase, and citric acid cycle enzymes in the striatum discernible among 3-NPA mice were significantly restored with BME prophylaxis. Interestingly, BME offered protection against 3-NPA-induced mitochondrial dysfunctions as evidenced by the restoration of the activities of ETC enzymes (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, NADH:cytochrome c reductase, succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, and cytochrome c oxidase) and mitochondrial viability. We hypothesize that the neuroprotective effects of BME may be wholly or in part related to its propensity to scavenge free radicals, maintain redox status, and upregulate antioxidant machinery in striatal mitochondria.
We describe the case of a 39-year-old woman with signs and symptoms suggesting cauda equina syndrome. Lumbosacral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated no lesion at this level, while cervical MRI showed a T2-hyperintense lesion in the middle-right anterolateral region of the cervical spinal cord, which may explain the symptoms by involving the anterior spinothalamic tract. We suggest that in cases with cauda equina syndrome presentation and normal lumbosacral MRI, a cervicodorsal lesion should be considered during diagnostic assessment.
The adult brain most probably reaches its highest degree of plasticity with the lifelong generation and integration of new neurons in the hippocampus and olfactory system. Neural precursor cells (NPCs) residing both in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus and in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles continuously generate neurons that populate the dentate gyrus and the olfactory bulb, respectively. The regulation of NPC proliferation in the adult brain has been widely investigated in the past few years. Yet, the intrinsic cell cycle machinery underlying NPC proliferation remains largely unexplored. In this review, we discuss the cell cycle components that are involved in the regulation of NPC proliferation in both neurogenic areas of the adult brain.
Nuclear deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor-1 (NUDR/Deaf-1) and five prime repressor element under dual repression (Freud-1) are novel transcriptional regulators of the 5-HT(1A) receptor, a receptor that has been implicated in the pathophysiology of various psychiatric illnesses. The antidepressant effect of 17-Estradiol (17E(2)) is purported to involve the downregulation of this receptor. We investigated the possible role of NUDR and Freud-1 in 17E(2)-induced downregulation of the 5-HT(1A) receptor in the neuroblastoma cell line SH SY5Y. Cells were treated with 10 nM of 17E(2) for 3 or 48 h, followed by a 24-h withdrawal period. Proteins were isolated and analyzed by western blotting. 17E(2) treatment increased NUDR immunoreactivity while Freud-1 and the 5-HT(1A) receptor showed significant decreases. Upon withdrawal of 17E(2), protein expression returned to control levels, except for NUDR, which remained significantly elevated in the 3-h treatment. Taken together, these data support a non-genomic downregulation of 5-HT(1A) receptor protein by 17E(2), which does not involve NUDR and Freud-1. Rather, changes in both transcription factors seem to be compensatory/homeostatic responses to changes in 5-HT(1A) receptor induced by 17E(2). These observations further highlight the importance of NUDR and Freud-1 in regulating 5-HT(1A) receptor expression.
We have explored the possible role of dual specificity phosphatases (DUSPs) on acute EGF-mediated ERK signalling using high content imaging and a delayed MEK inhibition protocol to distinguish direct and indirect effects of the phosphatases on ERK activity. Using siRNAs, we were unable to find evidence that any of the MAPK phosphatases (MKPs) expressed in HeLa cells acts directly to dephosphorylate ppERK1/2 (dual phosphorylated ERKs 1 and/or 2) in the acute time-frame tested (0-14 min). Nevertheless, siRNAs against two p38/JNK MKPs (DUSPs 10 and 16) inhibited acute EGF-stimulated ERK activation. No such effect was seen for acute effects of the protein kinase C activator PDBu (phorbol 12,13 dibutyrate) on ERK activity, although effects of EGF and PDBu on ERK-dependent transcription (Egr-1 luciferase activity) were both reduced by siRNA targeting DUSPs 10 and 16. Inhibition of EGF-stimulated ERK activity by these siRNAs was reversed by pharmacological inhibition of p38 MAPK and single cell analysis revealed that the siRNAs did not influence the nuclear-cytoplasmic distribution of ppERK1/2. Thus, DUSPs 10 and 16 are positive regulators of activation, apparently acting by modulating cross-talk between the p38 and ERK pathways. A simplified mathematical model of this scenario accurately predicted the experimental data, supporting the conclusion that the major mechanism by which MKPs influence acute EGF-stimulated ERK responses is the negative regulation of p38, resulting in the positive regulation of ERK phosphorylation and activity.
Organization of locomotor behavior is altered in mice knockout for the 2 subunit of the nicotinic receptor-2-/- mice-during novelty exploration. We investigated the neuronal basis of this alteration by measuring activation of the immediate early gene c-fos in the brains of wild-type (WT) and 2-/- mice after exploration of a novel or a familiar environment. Results show 1) no constitutive difference between WT and 2-/- mice in c-fos gene expression in any brain region, 2) novelty exploration triggered activation of the hippocampus and the reward circuit while exploration of a familiar environment produced increased activation in the amygdala, and 3) in 2-/- mice, exploration of novelty, but not familiarity, induced an increase in activation in the prelimbic prefrontal cortex (PFC) compared with WT mice. c-Fos immunoreactivity after different stages of learning in a maze increased similarly in the prelimbic area of both WT and 2-/- mice, while their performance differed. In WT mice, exploration of a novel environment triggered an increase in c-Fos expression in the reward circuit and the hippocampus, while in 2-/- mice, the amygdala and the motor cortex were additionally activated. We also highlight the role of nicotinic receptors during activation of the PFC, specifically during free exploration of a novel environment.
ATP is known to be coreleased with glutamate at certain central synapses. However, the nature of its release is controversial. Here, we demonstrate that ATP release from cultured rat hippocampal neurons is sensitive to RNAi-mediated knockdown of the recently identified vesicular nucleotide transporter (VNUT or SLC17A9). In the intact brain, light microscopy showed particularly strong VNUT immunoreactivity in the cerebellar cortex, the olfactory bulb, and the hippocampus. Using immunoelectron microscopy, we found VNUT immunoreactivity colocalized with synaptic vesicles in excitatory and inhibitory terminals in the hippocampal formation. Moreover, VNUT immunolabeling, unlike that of the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1, was enriched in preterminal axons and present in postsynaptic dendritic spines. Immunoisolation of synaptic vesicles indicated presence of VNUT in a subset of VGLUT1-containing vesicles. Thus, we conclude that VNUT mediates transport of ATP into synaptic vesicles of hippocampal neurons, thereby conferring a purinergic phenotype to these cells.
A key question in developmental neuroscience involves understanding how and when the cerebral cortex is partitioned into distinct functional areas. The present study used functional connectivity MRI mapping and graph theory to identify putative cortical areas and generate a parcellation scheme of left lateral parietal cortex (LLPC) in 7 to 10-year-old children and adults. Results indicated that a majority of putative LLPC areas could be matched across groups (mean distance between matched areas across age: 3.15 mm). Furthermore, the boundaries of children's putative LLPC areas respected the boundaries generated from the adults' parcellation scheme for a majority of children's areas (13/15). Consistent with prior research, matched LLPC areas showed age-related differences in functional connectivity strength with other brain regions. These results suggest that LLPC cortical parcellation and functional connectivity mature along different developmental trajectories, with adult-like boundaries between LLPC areas established in school-age children prior to adult-like functional connectivity.
Neurons in layer IV of the rodent whisker somatosensory cortex are tangentially organized in periodic clusters called barrels, each of which is innervated by thalamocortical axons transmitting sensory information from a single principal whisker, together forming a somatotopic map of the whisker pad. Proper thalamocortical innervation is critical for barrel formation during development, but the molecular mechanisms controlling layer IV neuron clustering are unknown. Here, we investigate the role in this mapping of the nuclear orphan receptor ROR, which is expressed in neurons in layer IV during corticogenesis. We find that ROR protein expression specifically increases in the whisker barrel cortex during barrel formation and that in vivo overexpression of ROR is sufficient to induce periodic barrel-like clustering of cortical neurons. Remarkably, this clustering can be induced as early as E18, prior to innervation by thalamocortical afferents and whisker derived-input. At later developmental stages, these ectopic neuronal clusters are specifically innervated by thalamocortical axons, demonstrated by anterograde labeling from the thalamus and by expression of thalamocortical-specific synaptic markers. Together, these data indicate that ROR expression levels control cytoarchitectural patterning of neocortical neurons during development, a critical process for the topographical mapping of whisker input onto the cortical surface.
Involuntary visual spatial attention is captured when a salient cue appears in the visual field. If a target appears soon after the cue, response times to targets at the cue location are faster relative to other locations. However, after longer cue-target intervals, responses to targets at the cue location are slower, due to inhibition of return (IOR). IOR depends on striatal dopamine (DA) levels: It varies with different alleles of the DA transporter gene DAT1 and is reduced in patients with Parkinson's disease, a disease characterized by reduced striatal dopaminergic transmission. We examined the role of DA in involuntary attention and IOR by administering the DA D2 receptor-specific agonist bromocriptine to healthy human subjects. There was no effect of either DAT1 genotype or bromocriptine on involuntary attention, but participants with DAT1 alleles predicting higher striatal DA had a larger IOR. Furthermore, bromocriptine increased the magnitude of IOR in participants with low striatal DA but abolished the IOR in subjects with high striatal DA. This inverted U-shaped pattern resembles previously described relationships between DA levels and performance on cognitive tasks and suggests an involvement of striatal DA in IOR that does not include a role in involuntary attention.
We investigated training-related improvements in listening in noise and the biological mechanisms mediating these improvements. Training-related malleability was examined using a program that incorporates cognitively based listening exercises to improve speech-in-noise perception. Before and after training, auditory brainstem responses to a speech syllable were recorded in quiet and multitalker noise from adults who ranged in their speech-in-noise perceptual ability. Controls did not undergo training but were tested at intervals equivalent to the trained subjects. Trained subjects exhibited significant improvements in speech-in-noise perception that were retained 6 months later. Subcortical responses in noise demonstrated training-related enhancements in the encoding of pitch-related cues (the fundamental frequency and the second harmonic), particularly for the time-varying portion of the syllable that is most vulnerable to perceptual disruption (the formant transition region). Subjects with the largest strength of pitch encoding at pretest showed the greatest perceptual improvement. Controls exhibited neither neurophysiological nor perceptual changes. We provide the first demonstration that short-term training can improve the neural representation of cues important for speech-in-noise perception. These results implicate and delineate biological mechanisms contributing to learning success, and they provide a conceptual advance to our understanding of the kind of training experiences that can influence sensory processing in adulthood.
Visual processing of biological motion (BM) produced by living organisms is of immense value for successful daily-life activities and, in particular, for adaptive social behavior and nonverbal communication. Investigation of BM perception in neurodevelopmental disorders related to autism, preterm birth, and genetic conditions substantially contributes to our understanding of the neural mechanisms underpinning the extraordinary tuning to BM. The most prominent research outcome is that patients with daily-life deficits in social cognition are also compromised on visual body motion processing. This raises the question of whether performance on body motion perception tasks may serve a hallmark of social cognition. Overall, the findings highlight the role of structural and functional brain connectivity for proper functioning of the neural circuitry involved in BM processing and visual social cognition that share topographically and dynamically overlapping neural networks.
Working memory (WM) representations can bias visual selection to matching stimuli in the field. WM biases can, however, be modulated by the level of cognitive load, with WM guidance reduced as memory load increases. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to distinguish between competing hypotheses for the reduction of WM guidance under load: 1) poor neural representations of memory contents under high load, 2) strategic control at high loads to direct attention away from search distracters matching the WM content, and 3) reduction of frontal top-down biasing of visual areas with increasing memory loads. We show that matching between WM contents and the visual display appeared to be well represented in visual areas under high memory loads, despite a lack of WM guidance at the behavioral level. There was little engagement of &quot;cognitive control&quot; areas in the prefrontal cortex during search at high loads. More importantly, WM guidance at low loads engaged a set of frontal regions in the superior and inferior ventral frontal cortex. Functional connectivity analyses revealed frontal regions working in concert with occipital areas at low memory loads, but this coupling was disrupted by increased memory load. We discuss the implications for understanding the mechanisms supporting the interplay between WM and attention.
The conditions under which we identify entities as animate agents and the neural mechanisms supporting this ability are central questions in social neuroscience. Prior studies have focused upon 2 perceptual cues for signaling animacy: 1) surface features representing body forms such as faces, torsos, and limbs and 2) motion cues associated with biological forms. Here, we consider a third cue--the goal-directedness of an action. Regions in the social brain network, such as the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and fusiform face area (FFA), are activated by human-like motion and body form perceptual cues signaling animacy. Here, we investigate whether these same brain regions are activated by goal-directed motion even when performed by entities that lack human-like perceptual cues. We observed an interaction effect whereby the presence of either human-like perceptual cues or goal-directed actions was sufficient to activate the right pSTS and FFA. Only stimuli that lacked human-like perceptual cues and goal-directed actions failed to activate the pSTS and FFA at the same level.
Visuospatial working memory (WM) capacity is highly correlated with mathematical reasoning abilities and can predict future development of arithmetical performance. Activity in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) during visuospatial WM tasks correlates with interindividual differences in WM capacity. This region has also been implicated in numerical representation, and its structure and activity reflect arithmetical performance impairments (e.g., dyscalculia). We collected behavioral (N = 246) and neuroimaging data (N = 46) in a longitudinal sample to test whether IPS activity during a visuospatial WM task could provide more information than psychological testing alone and predict arithmetical performance 2 years later in healthy participants aged 6-16 years. Nonverbal reasoning and verbal and visuospatial WM measures were found to be independent predictors of arithmetical outcome. In addition, WM activation in the left IPS predicted arithmetical outcome independently of behavioral measures. A logistic model including both behavioral and imaging data showed improved sensitivity by correctly classifying more than twice as many children as poor arithmetical performers after 2 years than a model with behavioral measures only. These results demonstrate that neuroimaging data can provide useful information in addition to behavioral assessments and be used to improve the identification of individuals at risk of future low academic performance.
Perceptual decision making requires a complex set of computations to implement, evaluate, and adjust the conversion of sensory input into a categorical judgment. Little is known about how the specific underlying computations are distributed across and within different brain regions. Using a reaction-time (RT) motion direction-discrimination task, we show that a unique combination of decision-related signals is represented in monkey frontal eye field (FEF). Some responses were modulated by choice, motion strength, and RT, consistent with a temporal accumulation of sensory evidence. These responses converged to a threshold level prior to behavioral responses, reflecting decision commitment. Other responses continued to be modulated by motion strength even after decision commitment, possibly providing a memory trace to help evaluate and adjust the decision process with respect to rewarding outcomes. Both response types were encoded by FEF neurons with both narrow- and broad-spike waveforms, presumably corresponding to inhibitory interneurons and excitatory pyramidal neurons, respectively, and with diverse visual, visuomotor, and motor properties, albeit with different frequencies. Thus, neurons throughout FEF appear to make multiple contributions to decision making that only partially overlap with contributions from other brain regions. These results help to constrain how networks of brain regions interact to generate perceptual decisions.
To better define the underlying brain network for the decoding of emotional prosody, we recorded high-resolution brain scans during an implicit and explicit decoding task of angry and neutral prosody. Several subregions in the right superior temporal gyrus (STG) and bilateral in the inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) were sensitive to emotional prosody. Implicit processing of emotional prosody engaged regions in the posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG) and bilateral IFG subregions, whereas explicit processing relied more on mid STG, left IFG, amygdala, and subgenual anterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, whereas some bilateral pSTG regions and the amygdala showed general sensitivity to prosody-specific acoustical features during implicit processing, activity in inferior frontal brain regions was insensitive to these features. Together, the data suggest a differentiated STG, IFG, and subcortical network of brain regions, which varies with the levels of processing and shows a higher specificity during explicit decoding of emotional prosody.
Chronic pain affects 1.5 billion people worldwide, an estimated 100 million of whom live in the United States. Yet we currently have no effective treatment options. Fortunately, writes David Borsook, director of the Pain and Imaging Neuroscience Group at Children's Hospital Boston, Massachusetts General Hospital, and McLean Hospital, research advances have determined some of the ways in which chronic pain changes the brain, and several promising research areas could lead to better treatment approaches. Dr. Borsook recommends steps to facilitate these new treatments, including the establishment of integrated clinical neuroscience centers bridging the gap between bench and bedside.
Photoreceptor cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are the principal ion channels responsible for transduction of the light-induced change in cGMP concentration into an electrical signal. The ligand sensitivity of photoreceptor CNG channels is subject to regulation by intracellular signaling effectors, including calcium-calmodulin, tyrosine kinases and phosphoinositides. Little is known, however, about regulation of channel activity by modification to extracellular regions of CNG channel subunits. Extracellular proteases MMP9 and -2 are present in the interphotoreceptor matrix adjacent to photoreceptor outer segments. Given that MMPs have been implicated in retinal dysfunction and degeneration, we hypothesized that MMP activity may alter the functional properties of photoreceptor CNG channels. For heterologously expressed rod and cone CNG channels, extracellular exposure to MMPs dramatically increased the apparent affinity for cGMP and the efficacy of cAMP. These changes to ligand sensitivity were not prevented by destabilization of the actin cytoskeleton or by disruption of integrin mediated cell adhesion, but could be attenuated by inhibition of MMP catalytic activity. MMP-mediated gating changes exhibited saturable kinetic properties consistent with enzymatic processing of the CNG channels. In addition, exposure to MMPs decreased the abundance of full-length expressed CNGA3 subunits, with a concomitant increase in putative degradation products. Similar gating effects and apparent proteolysis were observed also for native rod photoreceptor CNG channels. Furthermore, constitutive apparent proteolysis of retinal CNGA1 and retinal MMP9 levels were both elevated in aged mice compared with young mice. Together, these results provide evidence that MMP-mediated proteolysis can regulate the ligand sensitivity of CNG channels.

A unique extra-suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) oscillator, operating independently of the light-entrainable oscillator, has been hypothesized to generate feeding and drug-related rhythms. To test the validity of this hypothesis, sham-lesioned (Sham) and SCN-lesioned (SCNx) rats were housed in constant dim-red illumination (LL(red)) and received a daily cocaine injection every 24 h for 7 d (Experiment 1). In a second experiment, rats underwent 3-h daily restricted feeding (RF) followed 12 d later by the addition of daily cocaine injections given every 25 h in combination with RF until the two schedules were in antiphase. In both experiments, body temperature and total activity were monitored continuously. Results from Experiment 1 revealed that cocaine, but not saline, injections produced anticipatory increases in temperature and activity in SCNx and Sham rats. Following withdrawal from cocaine, free-running temperature rhythms persisted for 2-10 d in SCNx rats. In Experiment 2, robust anticipatory increases in temperature and activity were associated with RF and cocaine injections; however, the feeding periodicity (23.9 h) predominated over the cocaine periodicity. During drug withdrawal, the authors observed two free-running rhythms of temperature and activity that persisted for &gt;14 d in both Sham and SCNx rats. The periods of the free-running rhythms were similar to the feeding entrainment (period = 23.7 and 24.0 h, respectively) and drug entrainment (period = 25.7 and 26.1 h, respectively). Also during withdrawal, the normally close correlation between activity and temperature was greatly disrupted in Sham and SCNx rats. Taken together, these results do not support the existence of a single oscillator mediating the rewarding properties of both food and cocaine. Rather, they suggest that these two highly rewarding behaviors can be temporally isolated, especially during drug withdrawal. Under stable dual-entrainment conditions, food reward appears to exhibit a slightly greater circadian influence than drug reward. The ability to generate free-running temperature rhythms of different frequencies following combined food and drug exposures could reflect a state of internal desynchrony that may contribute to the addiction process and drug relapse.
Diabetic retinopathy is a common complication of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes and is the leading cause of blindness in people of working age. Current treatment strategies are mostly limited to laser photocoagulation, which restricts proliferative retinopathic changes but also causes irreversible damage to the retina. This review examines two important pathways involved in regulating vascular function and their role in the development of diabetic retinopathy. One, the renin-angiotensin system, is well known and has established angiogenic effects on the retina that increase in diabetic retinopathy. The other, the kallikrein-kinin system, has recently been found to be important in the development of diabetic retinal complications. This review describes the components of the two signalling networks, examines the current animal model studies investigating the role of these pathways in diabetic retinopathy and reviews the clinical studies that have been undertaken examining systemic inhibition of different points in these pathways. These systems are promising targets for therapies aimed at inhibiting the development of diabetic retinopathy and in the future, combination therapies that take advantage of both pathways might result in new treatment options for this debilitating complication of diabetes.








Abnormal sleep is an endophenotype of schizophrenia. Here we provide an overview of the genetic mechanisms that link specific sleep physiological processes to schizophrenia-related cognitive defects. In particular, we will review the possible relationships between catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), sleep regulation and schizophrenia development. Recent studies validate the hypothesis that COMT mutations may trigger disturbances during adolescence that affect sleep and cortical development. Anomalies in cortical development during this critical developmental phase may increase the susceptibility for schizophrenia. In conclusion, in view of therapeutic efficacy, we can envisage indications for future investigations into the role of COMT for sleep regulation, cognitive performance and sleep-related cognitive deficits.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is a promising target for modulation of cognitive functions and dysfunctions. COMT dominates the regulation of dopamine metabolism in the prefrontal cortex. Thus, COMT effects are particularly evident in prefrontal cortex-dependent cognitive functions including executive control, working memory, attentional control and long-term memory. This has been determined by both genetic and pharmacological studies that we will highlight in the present review. In particular, we will discuss how common functional variants of the COMT gene may predict individual variation in selective cognitive abilities and vulnerability to cognitive deficits that characterize several neuropsychiatric disorders. Moreover, COMT genetic variants represent one source of individual differences in the cognitive responses to medications such as those used in psychiatric illnesses. COMT genetic testing may then predict some cognitive dysfunctions often seen in certain psychiatric illnesses even from presymptomatic stages and the efficacy/dosage of drugs used to treat them. The consideration of COMT-dependent differences may be important for the development of more efficient personalized healthcare.
One of the most important enzymes in the catecholamine cycle, catecholamine-O-methyltransferase (COMT), plays a critical role in the extracellular metabolism of dopamine and norepinephrine both in the periphery and the central nervous system. COMT has attracted strong interest in regards to its role in dopamine-related pathologies, particularly Parkinson's disease. There are several mechanisms for the potential involvement of COMT-related processes in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease or the consequences of L-DOPA treatment. COMT-mediated metabolism of LDOPA in the periphery influences brain dopamine levels, while the product of central COMT-mediated dopamine metabolism, 3-methoxytyramine, can affect movement via interaction with Trace Amine-Associated Receptor 1 (TAAR1). COMT inhibitors have a long history of clinical use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Several clinical genetic studies have shown that variants of COMT gene contribute to the manifestations or treatment responses of this disorder. Here, we review the basic molecular mechanisms that could be involved in COMT-dependent processes in Parkinson's disease, the pharmacological properties of COMT inhibitors used in the treatment of this disorder and the clinical genetic observations involving COMT gene variants as modulators of pathological processes and responses to dopamine replacement therapies used in the treatment of the disorder.
22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is a genetic syndrome associated with a microdeletion of the chromosome 22 band q11.2 with an estimated prevalence between 1:2,500 and 1:4,000. Studies of school-age children have shown that individuals with 22q11DS have high rates of psychiatric morbidity. In particular, by late adolescence, about 30% of patients with 22q11DS develop psychotic symptoms. One of the genes located in the microdeletion region of 22q11DS is the Catechol-O-Methyl transferase (COMT) which codes for an enzyme critically involved in the catabolic clearance of dopamine. COMT is critically involved in cognitive related disturbances, and it has often been suggested as a sensitive factor in the development of psychiatric disorders. Several studies have been conducted on the impact of COMT functional polymorphism in 22q11DS and its related cognitive/psychiatric correlates. In this review, we summarize mainly current knowledge on the correlation between schizophrenia/cognitive related symptoms and COMT genetic variations in 22q11DS. A selective literature review on this topic was undertaken. COMT might play an important role in modulating cognitive functions in 22q11DS but a clear relationship between COMT polimorphism and schizophrenia in 22q11DS need further investigation. Despite controversial results, 22q11DS represent a powerful model for studying the role of COMT and other genetic variations in schizophrenia. This is due to high risk in 22qDS patients of developing this disorder and their relative genetic homogeneity. Further research is needed to evaluate all of the polymorphic markers in the COMT gene and its nearby regulatory elements for association with schizophrenia. Identification of specific COMT-dependent molecular, cellular and circuit deficits will provide targets for the development of more efficient treatments for the cognitive and psychiatric symptoms in 22q11DS.
Animal models of memory have been considered as the subject of many scientific publications at least since the beginning of the twentieth century. In humans, memory is often accessed through spoken or written language, while in animals, cognitive functions must be accessed through different kind of behaviors in many specific, experimental models of memory and learning. Among them, the novel object recognition test can be evaluated by the differences in the exploration time of novel and familiar objects. Its application is not limited to a field of research and enables that various issues can be studied, such as the memory and learning, the preference for novelty, the influence of different brain regions in the process of recognition, and even the study of different drugs and their effects. This paper describes the novel object recognition paradigms in animals, as a valuable measure of cognition. The purpose of this work was to review the neurobiology and methodological modifications of the test commonly used in behavioral pharmacology.
In this essay, I explore how cognitive science could illuminate the concept of beauty. Two results from the extensive literature on aesthetics guide my discussion. As the term &quot;beauty&quot; is overextended in general usage, I choose as my starting point the notion of &quot;perfect form.&quot; Aesthetic theorists are in reasonable agreement about the criteria for perfect form. What do these criteria imply for mental representations that are experienced as beautiful? Complexity theory can be used to specify constraints on mental representations abstractly formulated as vectors in a high-dimensional space. A central feature of the proposed model is that perfect form depends both on features of the objects or events perceived and on the nature of the encoding strategies or model of the observer. A simple example illustrates the proposed calculations. A number of interesting implications that arise as a consequence of reformulating beauty in this way are noted.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major cause of dementia in the elderly. Pathologically, AD is characterized by the accumulation of insoluble aggregates of A-peptides that are proteolytic cleavage products of the amyloid- precursor protein (&quot;plaques&quot;) and by insoluble filaments composed of hyperphosphorylated tau protein (&quot;tangles&quot;). Familial forms of AD often display increased production of A peptides and/or altered activity of presenilins, the catalytic subunits of -secretase that produce A peptides. Although the pathogenesis of AD remains unclear, recent studies have highlighted two major themes that are likely important. First, oligomeric A species have strong detrimental effects on synapse function and structure, particularly on the postsynaptic side. Second, decreased presenilin function impairs synaptic transmission and promotes neurodegeneration. The mechanisms underlying these processes are beginning to be elucidated, and, although their relevance to AD remains debated, understanding these processes will likely allow new therapeutic avenues to AD.
Parkinson's disease (PD), like a number of neurodegenerative diseases associated with aging, is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of protein in a specific subset of neurons. Although researchers have recently elucidated the genetic causes of PD, much remains unknown about what causes increased protein deposition in the disease. Given that increased protein aggregation may result not only from an increase in production, but also from decreased protein clearance, it is imperative to investigate both possibilities as potential PD culprits. This article provides a review of the systems that regulate protein clearance, including the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosomal pathway. Literature implicating failure of these mechanisms-such as UPS dysfunction resulting from environmental toxins and mutations in -synuclein and parkin, as well as macroautophagic pathway failure because of oxidative stress and aging-in the pathogenesis of PD is also discussed.
The confluence of innovations in transgenic labeling and light microscopy techniques in recent years has greatly advanced our understanding of dynamic cell biological events underlying neuronal function and plasticity. Increasingly, it has become possible to perform fundamental experiments inside the relevant subcellular compartments of a neuron embedded in three-dimensional living tissues. Overcoming the limiting role of diffraction in far-field light microscopy, nanoscopy is advancing our ability to see and manipulate cellular events well below the diffraction barrier of 200 nm. The first concrete and implemented concept of nanoscopy was STED (stimulated emission depletion) microscopy. This article gives an example of the power that STED microscopy holds for neuroscience research. It provides a method for live-cell time-lapse imaging of the dynamic morphology of dendritic spines of pyramidal neurons. Imaging is performed in an organotypic hippocampal slice culture system, with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) used as a volume marker for the synaptic structures. In addition, the article describes the basic elements needed to assemble a custom-built STED microscope capable of live cell imaging and how to use it for physiology experiments.
Xenopus laevis is an ideal organism in which to study the mechanisms linking genetics, the embryogenesis of the central nervous system, and the generation of cognitive behavior. Frog embryos facilitate the targeting of many pathways of importance to neuroscience via pharmacological, genetic, and surgical manipulations. A limiting factor for investigations of memory and learning has been the difficulty of eliciting learning in Xenopus. Here, we outline a simple strategy for aversive conditioning (associative learning) in Xenopus tadpoles, and present sample data using a quantitative automated analysis system. We also discuss the factors and variables that must be considered to ensure optimal learning and recall performance, for use as behavioral endpoints in any experiment.
This paper expands on recent findings that link dynamic patterns of striatal activity with patterns of movement and exploration in wild-type and transgenic mice (R6/2) that model Huntington disease (HD), a fatally inherited neurological condition. Here, with HD as a backdrop, we further develop the concept of entropy conservation in brain and behavior. In particular, we propose that entropy conservation could serve as a rule that guides the process of redistributing brain activity dynamics in order to alter behavior, allowing the adaptation to an ever-changing external environment. This concept is further linked to recent neuroimaging studies in human aging, building a new bridge between our recent findings of entropy conservation and the extant literature.
The use of ion channels to control defined events in defined cell types at defined times in the context of living tissue or whole organism represent one of the major advance of the last decade, and optogenetics (i.e the combination of genetic and optical methods) obviously played a key role in this achievement.(1) Although the existence of light-activated ion channels (i.e ospin channels) has been known since 1971,(2) it took about 35 y before the concept of an ion channel used for bioengineering control of cell or tissue activity becomes reality.(3) From that moment forward, rhodopsine channels(4) (,) (5) (i.e blue light-gated non-specific Na(+) channels that depolarize cells thus increasing cell excitability) or halorhodopsin channels(6) (i.e yellow light-gated Cl(-) channels that hyperpolarize cells thus decreasing cell excitability) have been extensively used to turn neurons on and off in response to diverse colors of light, with an extremely high temporal precision (i.e milliseconds range). Although optogenetics has been originally established in neuroscience, it addresses now to non-neuronal systems, including cardiac, smooth and skeletal muscles, glial cells or even embryonic stem cells.(7) (-) (9) However, although light stimulation allows control of cell excitability with a high spatio-temporal specificity, light waves present the disadvantage to not penetrate deep tissue, and implanted devices are required for in vivo light stimulation. In contrast to visible light-waves, radio-waves (i.e longer wavelength and lower frequency) can penetrate deep tissues with minimal energy absorption.

To account for the selective, progressive and multimodal conceptual disruption observed in semantic dementia (SD), Patterson etal., 2007 have proposed that the neural network for semantic memory cannot consist of a 'distributed only' system, but requires a single convergence zone or 'hub' that supports the interactive activation of representations in all modalities and for all semantic categories. This 'semantic hub' should be bilaterally supported by anterior regions of the temporal lobes (ATL) and contain amodal representations. However, anatomo-clinical data show that it is only in the moderate to advanced stages of the disease, when atrophy affects the ATL bilaterally, that the semantic impairment is 'multi-modal', whereas in its early stages, when important asymmetries can be observed at the level of the ATL, the semantic impairment can be modality-specific. In these cases, it mainly affects the lexical-semantic knowledge when the left temporal lobe is more atrophic and the pictorial representations when the atrophy prevails on the right side. In different sections of our position paper we review: (a) the lines of research suggesting that in lateralized forms of SD the semantic impairment is modality-specific; (b) other data suggesting a prevalent involvement of the left TL in verbal and of the right TL in pictorial/sensory aspects of conceptual knowledge; (c) recent data supporting respectively the model of a bilateral amodal semantic hub and that of two lateralized, modality-specific semantic networks. Taken together, the surveyed data suggest that the semantic disorder observed in SD is due to the co-occurrence of verbal and non-verbal defects, resulting from left and right ATL atrophy and that the multimodal semantic impairment observed in advanced stages of SD is due to the joint disruption of pictorial and verbal representations, rather than to the loss of an amodal knowledge, bilaterally supported by the ATL.
The critical involvement of the left and right intraparietal sulci (IPS) in numerosity and length processing was tested with neuro-navigated repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Participants had to categorize linear arrays of dots as containing &quot;few&quot; or &quot;many&quot; dots, and filled rectangles as &quot;short&quot; or &quot;long&quot;. The stimulation sites were determined for each individual participant by identifying the IPS areas showing peak activity during a number comparison task in earlier functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. Compared to the stimulation of the vertex chosen as a control site, rTMS over the right IPS increased the error rate in both tasks. This result indicates that the integrity of the right IPS is a necessary condition not only for discriminating numerosities but also for performing accurate judgements of lengths. We propose that these two processes rely on a common representation and/or mechanism in the right IPS.
Direct cortical electrostimulation was used to study cortical areas hypothetically involved in translation in bilinguals during brain tumour resections, with a view to sparing these functional areas. A series of seven proficient bilingual patients was studied: two left-handed and five right-handed individuals with no pre-existing language deficit. Hemispheric cortex (on the side contralateral to the patient's hand-dominance) was directly stimulated whilst the patient performed naming and reading tasks in both languages and a translation task (of a written text from their second 'learned' language to their first or 'native' language). Of the 147 different cortical sites studied, 26 'language functional sites' were detected, where electrostimulation affected reading and/or naming in the patient's native and/or second learned language. Of these, 8 sites (in 4 patients) were &quot;task-specific&quot; and &quot;language-specific&quot; i.e., affecting only naming or reading in only one of the patient's languages. Of the 26 &quot;language sites&quot;, only 3 produced any interferences in translation. All of these were located in frontal regions. Electrostimulation at these sites caused the patient to stop translating abruptly, but no language switching or other translation-related phenomenon was observed. No site was found that was involved only in translation and not other language tasks. Overall, in contrast to other language tasks, cortical structures of the convexity were rarely involved in translation. We suggest that translation interference could be more readily detected by subcortical stimulations. This spatial dissociation within the brain of translation function versus other language functions could explain the cases of dissociated language impairments observed in some bilingual patients with brain lesions. On a practical level, because the cortical sites found by translation tasks are few and related with other cortical language sites, we think that translation tasks provide little additional helpful information for cortical brain mapping in bilingual neurosurgical patients.



Previous studies have examined the relationship between problematic Internet use (PIU) with pathological gambling and impulsivity. However, few studies have investigated the association between PIU and other impulse control disorders. This study aimed to assess whether PIU is related to compulsive buying, kleptomania, trichotillomania, intermittent explosive disorder, and pyromania, among a sample of Iranian university students. A cross-sectional study design was used among a random sample of (n=950) university students. Self-reported questionnaires, including demographic, Problematic Internet Use Questionnaire (PIUQ) and Minnesota Impulse Disorders Interview were utilized. The prevalence of PIU was 21.2 percent. Students with diagnosis of either compulsive buying, or intermittent explosive disorder, or pyromania had significantly higher scores on PIUQ compared to the students without the diagnosis. Multivariate regression analyses indicated that in the male gender, the diagnosis of either compulsive buying or intermittent explosive disorder were significant predictors of the risk of the PIU. The results support the proposal that PIU should be considered as a spectrum of impulse control disorder.
Cerebellum development involves the coordinated production of multiple neuronal cell types. The cerebellar primordium contains two germinative zones, the rhombic lip (RL) and the ventricular zone (VZ), which generate different types of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively. What regulates the specification and production of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons as well as the subtypes for each of these two broad classes remains largely unknown. Here we demonstrate with conditional genetic approaches in mice that SMAD4, a major mediator of BMP and TGF signaling, is required early in cerebellar development for maintaining the RL and generating subsets of RL-derived glutamatergic neurons, namely neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei, unipolar brush cells, and the late cohort of granule cell precursors (GCPs). The early cohort of GCPs, despite being deficient for SMAD4, is still generated. In addition, the numbers of GABAergic neurons are reduced in the mutant and the distribution of Purkinje cells becomes abnormal. These studies demonstrate a temporally and spatially restricted requirement for SMAD4 in generating subtypes of cerebellar neurons.

Mitochondrial diseases in children are often associated with a peripheral neuropathy but the presence of the neuropathy is under-recognized because of the overwhelming involvement of the central nervous system (CNS). These mitochondrial neuropathies are heterogeneous in their clinical, neurophysiological, and histopathological characteristics. In this article, we provide a comprehensive review of childhood mitochondrial neuropathy. Early recognition of neuropathy may help with the identification of the mitochondrial syndrome. While it is not definite that the characteristics of the neuropathy would help in directing genetic testing without the requirement for invasive skin, muscle or liver biopsies, there appears to be some evidence for this hypothesis in Leigh syndrome, in which nuclear SURF1 mutations cause a demyelinating neuropathy and mitochondrial DNA MTATP6 mutations cause an axonal neuropathy. POLG1 mutations, especially when associated with late-onset phenotypes, appear to cause a predominantly sensory neuropathy with prominent ataxia. The identification of the peripheral neuropathy also helps to target genetic testing in the mitochondrial optic neuropathies. Although often subclinical, the peripheral neuropathy may occasionally be symptomatic and cause significant disability. Where it is symptomatic, recognition of the neuropathy will help the early institution of rehabilitative therapy. We therefore suggest that nerve conduction studies should be a part of the early evaluation of children with suspected mitochondrial disease.

Pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) deficiency causes encephalomyopathies, of which there are four major categories: (1) neonatal encephalopathy with lactic acidosis; (2) an early infantile form, which (3) at times resembles Leigh syndrome; and (4) a later-onset form. Long-term clinical and radiological follow-up is still incompletely elucidated. We report a 12-year-old male with intermittent-relapsing PDHC deficiency who presented with three typical acute episodes of metabolic decompensation over 7years. Neuroimaging showed reversible signal abnormalities in the basal ganglia, inferior olivary nuclei, periaqueductal grey matter, and dentate nuclei, with evidence of lactate on magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Molecular analysis of PDH1A revealed a novel hemizygous c.1045G&gt;A mutation, predicting a p.A349T missense mutation. He was treated with thiamine supplementation and, while on this regimen, he experienced several intercurrent febrile episodes without neurological compromise. This case report stresses the importance of performing neuroimaging during acute clinical episodes because brain lesions in PDHC deficiency may be transient and reversible, and false-negative results may mislead the diagnosis and delay the treatment.
Pubertal development is marked by significant decreases in cellular proliferation and neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. Although it is unclear what mediates these developmental changes in the dentate gyrus, gonadal hormones have been implicated in modulating many neurobiological processes during puberty and various parameters of neurogenesis in adulthood. Thus, it is possible that the gradual and sustained increase in gonadal hormones experienced during puberty plays a role in these changes in neurogenesis. In this experiments, we first quantified cellular proliferation and neurogenesis using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and doublecortin (DCX) immunohistochemistry, respectively, in the dentate gyrus of prepubertal (30 d), midpubertal (45 d), and adult (90 d) male rats. We found the decline in BrdU and DCX cell numbers throughout these ages was coincident with increases in their plasma testosterone levels. We next tested whether exposure to the pubertal rise in gonadal hormones was necessary for this decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis to occur. Thus, we examined cellular proliferation and neurogenesis in intact 30 day (prepubertal) and 60-day-old (late-pubertal) rats, as well as 60-day-old rats that had previously been gonadectomized or sham-gonadectomized at 30 days of age. Although we again found the expected decline in BrdU and DCX cell numbers between 30 and 60 days of age in the intact groups, there were no differences among the 60-day-old animals, regardless of gonadal status. These data indicate that the pubertal-related decline in hippocampal cellular proliferation and neurogenesis is independent of the pubertal change in gonadal hormones.
Eyeblink classical conditioning in pre-weanling rabbits was examined in the present study. Using a custom lightweight headpiece and restrainer, New Zealand white littermates were trained once daily in 400ms delay eyeblink classical conditioning from postnatal days (PD) 17-21 or PD 24-28. These ages were chosen because eyeblink conditioning emerges gradually over PD 17-24 in rats [Stanton et al., (1992) Behavioral Neuroscience, 106(4):657-665], another altricial species with neurodevelopmental features similar to those of rabbits. Consistent with well-established findings in rats, rabbits trained from PD 24-28 showed greater conditioning relative to littermates trained from PD 17-21. Both age groups displayed poor retention of eyeblink conditioning at retraining 1 month after acquisition. These findings are the first to demonstrate eyeblink conditioning in the developing rabbit. With further characterization of optimal conditioning parameters, this preparation may have applications to neurodevelopmental disease models as well as research exploring the ontogeny of memory.
Four of the articles published in this special section of Developmental Psychology build on and refine psychosocial acceleration theory. In this short commentary, we discuss some of the adaptive assumptions of psychosocial acceleration theory that have not received much attention. Psychosocial acceleration theory relies on the behavior of caregivers being a reliable cue of broader ecological conditions and on those ecological conditions being somewhat stable over the individual's lifetime. There is a scope for empirical and theoretical work investigating the range of environments over which these assumptions hold, to understand more deeply why it is that early life family environment exerts such reliable effects on later life-history strategy.
Behavioral activation that is associated with incentive-reward motivation increases in adolescence relative to childhood and adulthood. This quadratic developmental pattern is generally supported by behavioral and experimental neuroscience findings. It is suggested that a focus on changes in dopamine neurotransmission is informative in understanding the mechanism for this adolescent increase in reward-related behavioral activation and subsequent decline into adulthood. Evidence is presented to indicate that incentive-reward motivation is modulated by mesoaccumbens dopamine, and that it increases in adolescence before declining into adulthood because of normative developmental changes at the molecular level. Potential mechanisms of variation in functional mesoaccumbens dopamine transmission are discussed with a focus on the interplay between tonic and phasic modes of dopamine transmission in modulating both general incentive-motivational biases and the efficacy of reward learning during exposure to novel reward experiences. Interactions between individual difference factors and these age-related trends are discussed.
Cognitive deficits and particularly deficits in working memory (WM) capacity are common features in neuropsychiatric disorders. Understanding the underlying mechanisms through which WM capacity can be improved is therefore of great importance. Several lines of research indicate that dopamine plays an important role not only in WM function but also for improving WM capacity. For example, pharmacological interventions acting on the dopaminergic system, such as methylphenidate, improve WM performance. In addition, behavioral interventions for improving WM performance in the form of intensive computerized training have recently been associated with changes in dopamine receptor density. These two different means of improving WM performance--pharmacological and behavioral--are thus associated with similar biological mechanisms in the brain involving dopaminergic systems. This article reviews some of the evidence for the role of dopamine in WM functioning, in particular concerning the link to WM development and cognitive plasticity. Novel data are presented showing that variation in the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) influences improvements in WM and fluid intelligence in preschool-age children following cognitive training. Our results emphasize the importance of the role of dopamine in determining cognitive plasticity.
Cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are increasingly accepted as core features of this disorder that play a role as vulnerability indicators, as enduring abnormalities during clinical remission, and as critical rate-limiting factors in functional recovery. This article demonstrates the lasting influence of Norman Garmezy through his impact on one graduate student and then through his later collaborative research with colleagues. The promise of core cognitive deficits as vulnerability indicators or endophenotypes was demonstrated in research with children born to a parent with schizophrenia as well as with biological parents and siblings of individuals with schizophrenia. In studies of patients with a recent onset of schizophrenia, cognitive deficits were found to endure across psychotic and clinically remitted periods and to have a strong predictive influence on likelihood of returning successfully to work or school. Converging lines of evidence for the enduring core role of cognitive deficit in schizophrenia have led in recent years to a burgeoning interest in developing new interventions that target cognition as a means of improving functional recovery in this disorder.
Previous studies suggest that musical training in children can positively affect various aspects of development. However, it remains unknown as to how early in development musical experience can have an effect, the nature of any such effects, and whether different types of music experience affect development differently. We found that random assignment to 6 months of active participatory musical experience beginning at 6 months of age accelerates acquisition of culture-specific knowledge of Western tonality in comparison to a similar amount of passive exposure to music. Furthermore, infants assigned to the active musical experience showed superior development of prelinguistic communicative gestures and social behaviour compared to infants assigned to the passive musical experience. These results indicate that (1) infants can engage in meaningful musical training when appropriate pedagogical approaches are used, (2) active musical participation in infancy enhances culture-specific musical acquisition, and (3) active musical participation in infancy impacts social and communication development.
To understand the molecular mechanisms of development it is essential to be able to turn genes on and off at will and in a spatially restricted fashion. Morpholino oligonucleotides (MOs) are very common tools used in several model organisms with which it is possible to block gene expression. Recently developed photo-activated MOs allow control over the onset of MO activity. However, deactivation of photo-cleavable MO activity has remained elusive. Here, we describe photo-cleavable MOs with which it is possible to activate or de-activate MO function by UV exposure in a temporal and spatial manner. We show, using several different genes as examples, that it is possible to turn gene expression on or off both in the entire zebrafish embryo and in single cells. We use these tools to demonstrate the sufficiency of no tail expression as late as tailbud stage to drive medial precursor cells towards the notochord cell fate. As a broader approach for the use of photo-cleavable MOs, we show temporal control over gal4 function, which has many potential applications in multiple transgenic lines. We demonstrate temporal manipulation of Gal4 transgene expression in only primary motoneurons and not secondary motoneurons, heretofore impossible with conventional transgenic approaches. In another example, we follow and analyze neural crest cells that regained sox10 function after deactivation of a photo-cleavable sox10-MO at different time points. Our results suggest that sox10 function might not be critical during neural crest formation.
The cerebral neocortex is segregated into six horizontal layers, each containing unique populations of molecularly and functionally distinct excitatory projection (pyramidal) neurons and inhibitory interneurons. Development of the neocortex requires the orchestrated execution of a series of crucial processes, including the migration of young neurons into appropriate positions within the nascent neocortex, and the acquisition of layer-specific neuronal identities and axonal projections. Here, we discuss emerging evidence supporting the notion that the migration and final laminar positioning of cortical neurons are also co-regulated by cell type- and layer-specific transcription factors that play concomitant roles in determining the molecular identity and axonal connectivity of these neurons. These transcriptional programs thus provide direct links between the mechanisms controlling the laminar position and identity of cortical neurons.
Transcription factor codes play an essential role in neuronal specification and axonal guidance in both vertebrate and invertebrate organisms. However, how transcription codes regulate axon pathfinding remains poorly understood. One such code defined by the homeodomain transcription factor Even-skipped (Eve) and by the GATA 2/3 homologue Grain (Grn) is specifically required for motor axon projection towards dorsal muscles in Drosophila. Using different mutant combinations, we present genetic evidence that both Grn and Eve are in the same pathway as Unc-5 in dorsal motoneurons (dMNs). In grn mutants, in which dMNs fail to reach their muscle targets, dMNs show significantly reduced levels of unc-5 mRNA expression and this phenotype can be partially rescued by the reintroduction of unc-5. We also show that both eve and grn are required independently to induce expression of unc-5 in dMNs. Reconstitution of the eve-grn transcriptional code of a dMN in dMP2 neurons, which do not project to lateral muscles in Drosophila, is able to reprogramme those cells accordingly; they robustly express unc-5 and project towards the muscle field as dMNs. Each transcription factor can independently induce unc-5 expression but unc-5 expression is more robust when both factors are expressed together. Furthermore, dMP2 exit is dependent on the level of unc-5 induced by eve and grn. Taken together, our data strongly suggests that the eve-grn transcriptional code controls axon guidance, in part, by regulating the level of unc-5 expression.
Evidence shows that diabetes increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many efforts have been done to elucidate the mechanisms linking diabetes and AD. To demonstrate that mitochondria may represent a functional link between both pathologies, we compared the effects of AD and sucrose-induced metabolic alterations on mouse brain mitochondrial bioenergetics and oxidative status. For this purpose, brain mitochondria were isolated from wild-type (WT), triple transgenic AD (3xTg-AD), and WT mice fed 20% sucrose-sweetened water for 7 months. Polarography, spectrophotometry, fluorimetry, high-performance liquid chromatography, and electron microscopy were used to evaluate mitochondrial function, oxidative status, and ultrastructure. Western blotting was performed to determine the AD pathogenic protein levels. Sucrose intake caused metabolic alterations like those found in type 2 diabetes. Mitochondria from 3xTg-AD and sucrose-treated WT mice presented a similar impairment of the respiratory chain and phosphorylation system, decreased capacity to accumulate calcium, ultrastructural abnormalities, and oxidative imbalance. Interestingly, sucrose-treated WT mice presented a significant increase in amyloid  protein levels, a hallmark of AD. These results show that in mice, the metabolic alterations associated to diabetes contribute to the development of AD-like pathologic features.

2-Oxoglutarate (2OG) and iron (Fe(II)) dependent dioxygenases catalyze a wide range of biological oxidations, including hydroxylation and demethylation of proteins and nucleic acids. AlkB from Escherichia coli directly reverses certain methyl lesions in DNA, and defines a subfamily of 2OG/Fe(II) dioxygenases that has so far been shown to be involved in both nucleic acid repair and modification. The human genome encodes nine AlkB homologs and the function of most of these is still unknown. The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe has two AlkB homologs and here we have addressed the function of one of these, Abh1, which appears not to possess a classical AlkB-like repair activity. No enzymatic activity was found toward methylated DNA or etheno adducts, nor was the yeast abh1- mutant sensitive toward alkylating agents. Interestingly, heterologous expression of E. coli AlkB protected the fission yeast cells from alkylation induced cytotoxicity, suggesting that S. pombe lacks systems for efficient repair of lesions that are AlkB substrates. Further, we show that Abh1 possesses an unexpected DNA incision activity at apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) sites. This AP lyase activity did not depend on 2OG and Fe(II) and was not repressed by dioxygenase inhibitors. Survival and complementation analyses failed to reveal any biological role for AP lyase cleavage by Abh1. It appears that in vitro AP lyase activity can be detected for a number of enzymes belonging to structurally and functionally unrelated families, but the in vivo significance of such activities may be questionable.
Lithium salts have a well-established role in the treatment of major affective disorders. More recently, experimental and clinical studies have provided evidence that lithium may also exert neuroprotective effects. In animal and cell culture models, lithium has been shown to increase neuronal viability through a combination of mechanisms that includes the inhibition of apoptosis, regulation of autophagy, increased mitochondrial function, and synthesis of neurotrophic factors. In humans, lithium treatment has been associated with humoral and structural evidence of neuroprotection, such as increased expression of anti-apoptotic genes, inhibition of cellular oxidative stress, synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), cortical thickening, increased grey matter density, and hippocampal enlargement. Recent studies addressing the inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK3B) by lithium have further suggested the modification of biological cascades that pertain to the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A recent placebo-controlled clinical trial in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) showed that long-term lithium treatment may actually slow the progression of cognitive and functional deficits, and also attenuate Tau hyperphosphorylation in the MCI-AD continuum. Therefore, lithium treatment may yield disease-modifying effects in AD, both by the specific modification of its pathophysiology via inhibition of overactive GSK3B, and by the unspecific provision of neurotrophic and neuroprotective support. Although the clinical evidence available so far is promising, further experimentation and replication of the evidence in large scale clinical trials is still required to assess the benefit of lithium in the treatment or prevention of cognitive decline in the elderly.

Changes in animal movement (frequency or speed of locomotion) following exposure to a toxicant are frequently considered a biomarker of contaminant exposure and are some of the most widely reported behavioral results in toxicological literature. However, the ecological consequences of such behavioral changes, such as effects on toxicant transfer in foodwebs, are far less well understood, complicated in part by the short-term nature of laboratory experiments and the lack of complementary field studies where the nature of toxicant exposure is more complex. Here we examine whether naturally exposed individuals of the round goby, a benthic, site-loyal fish, move in a manner similar to conspecifics from less contaminated habitats. In the laboratory, round goby from a relatively cleaner site showed greater activity and exploration than goby from two highly contaminated sites. Male fish were more active than females but the site effects were similar in both sexes. In contrast to laboratory findings, a field mark-recapture study of 881 round goby showed that fish from the cleaner site did not move greater distances or exhibit shorter residence times within the site than round goby from highly contaminated sites. Our results indicate that while behavioral changes in the laboratory may be one of several useful diagnostics of toxicant exposure of wild-exposed animals, they do not necessarily translate readily into measurable differences in a natural context. Thus, the potential fitness consequences of toxicant exposure based on behavioral changes need to be assessed carefully.

The endocrine component of the stress response is regulated by glucocorticoids and sex steroids. Testosterone down-regulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity; however, the mechanisms by which it does so are poorly understood. A candidate testosterone target is the oxytocin gene (Oxt), given that it too inhibits HPA activity. Within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, oxytocinergic neurons involved in regulating the stress response do not express androgen receptors but do express estrogen receptor- (ER), which binds the dihydrotestosterone metabolite 3,17-diol (3-diol). Testosterone regulation of the HPA axis thus appears to involve the conversion to the ER-selective ligand 5-androstane, 3-diol. To study mechanisms by which 3-diol could regulate Oxt expression, we used a hypothalamic neuronal cell line derived from embryonic mice that expresses Oxt constitutively and compared 3-diol with estradiol (E2) effects. E2 and 3-diol elicited a phasic response in Oxt mRNA levels. In the presence of either ligand, Oxt mRNA levels were increased for at least 60 min and returned to baseline by 2 h. ER occupancy preceded an increase in Oxt mRNA levels in the presence of 3-diol but not E2. In tandem with ER occupancy, 3-diol increased occupancy of the Oxt promoter by cAMP response element-binding protein and steroid receptor coactivator-1 at 30 min. At the same time, 3-diol led to the increased acetylation of histone H4 but not H3. Taken together, the data suggest that in the presence of 3-diol, ER associates with cAMP response element-binding protein and steroid receptor coactivator-1 to form a functional complex that drives Oxt gene expression.
Vitamin D deficiency (VDD) is widespread and considered a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and stroke. Low vitamin D levels are predictive for stroke and more fatal strokes in humans, whereas vitamin D supplements are associated with decreased risk of all-cause mortality. Because VDD occurs with other comorbid conditions that are also independent risk factors for stroke, this study examined the specific effect of VDD on stroke severity in rats. Adult female rats were fed control or VDD diet for 8 wk and were subject to middle cerebral artery occlusion thereafter. The VDD diet reduced circulating vitamin D levels to one fifth (22%) of that observed in rats fed control chow. Cortical and striatal infarct volumes in animals fed VDD diet were significantly larger, and sensorimotor behavioral testing indicated that VDD animals had more severe poststroke behavioral impairment than controls. VDD animals were also found to have significantly lower levels of the neuroprotective hormone IGF-I in plasma and the ischemic hemisphere. Cytokine analysis indicated that VDD significantly reduced IL-1, IL-1, IL-2, IL-4, IFN-, and IL-10 expression in ischemic brain tissue. However, ischemia-induced IL-6 up-regulation was significantly higher in VDD animals. In a separate experiment, the therapeutic potential of acute vitamin D treatments was evaluated, where animals received vitamin D injections 4 h after stroke and every 24 h thereafter. Acute vitamin D treatment did not improve infarct volume or behavioral performance. Our data indicate that VDD exacerbates stroke severity, involving both a dysregulation of the inflammatory response as well as suppression of known neuroprotectants such as IGF-I.
Status epilepticus (SE) is associated with significant mortality and morbidity. A reliable prognosis may help better manage medical resources and treatment strategies. We examined the role of preexisting comorbidities on the outcome of patients with SE, an aspect that has received little attention to date. We prospectively studied incident SE episodes in 280 adults occurring over 55months in our tertiary care hospital, excluding patients with postanoxic encephalopathy. Different models predicting mortality and return to clinical baseline at hospital discharge were compared, which included demographics, SE etiology, a validated clinical Status Epilepticus Severity Score (STESS), and comorbidities (assessed with the Charlson Comorbidity Index) as independent variables. The overall short-term mortality was 14%, and only half of patients returned to their clinical baseline. On bivariate analyses, age, STESS, potentially fatal etiologies, and number of preexisting comorbidities were all significant predictors of both mortality and return to clinical baseline. As compared with the simplest predictive model (including demographics and deadly etiology), adding SE severity and comorbidities resulted in an improved predictive performance (C statistics 0.84 vs. 0.77 for mortality, and 0.86 vs. 0.82. for return to clinical baseline); comorbidities, however, were not independently related to outcome. Considering comorbidities and clinical presentation, in addition to age and etiology, slightly improves the prediction of SE outcome with respect to both survival and functional status. This analysis also emphasizes the robust predictive role of etiology and age.


We studied the temporal resolution ability in patients with refractory complex partial seizures and mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) using Gaps-In-Noise (GIN) test in a prospective cross-sectional study. Thirteen patients with right MTS (age: 317.67 years; M:F=8:5) and 13 patients with left MTS (age: 25.768.26 years; M:F=9:4) having normal hearing and mini-mental state examination (MMSE) score of &gt;23/30 were recruited. Fifty healthy volunteers (26.35.17 years; M:F=28:22) formed the control group. Gaps-In-Noise test demonstrated impaired temporal resolution: 69.2% of patients with right MTS (RMTS) and 76.9% of patients with left MTS (LMTS) had abnormal scores in the right ear for gap detection threshold (GDT) measure. Similarly, 53.8% of patients in the RMTS group and 76.9% of patients in the LMTS group had abnormal scores in the left ear. In percentage of correct identification (PCI), 46.1% of patients with RMTS and 69.2% of patients with LMTS had poorer scores in the right ear, whereas 46.1% of patients with RMTS and 61.5% of patients with LMTS had poorer scores in the left ear. Both patient groups, viz., RMTS and LMTS, demonstrated bilateral temporal resolution deficits.
Seizure monitoring unit (SMU) research typically focuses on diagnostic utility and medical management of epilepsy. However, patient safety and satisfaction are also imperative to high-quality SMU care. This study uses a standardized tool to evaluate patient experience on a SMU compared to a general neurology unit (GNU). The 27-item Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) survey was telephone-administered post-discharge to a sample of patients from our SMU and GNU. Data from a 33-month period were reviewed, encompassing 217 SMU patient admissions and 317 GNU patient admissions. On average, SMU patients were 14.7 years younger and stayed in the hospital 4.2 days longer than GNU patients. SMU patients provided lower overall mental health ratings (p&lt;.001), perceived nursing staff to be more responsive to the call button (p&lt;.001), and assigned higher overall ratings to their stay (p&lt;0.05). Lower education was associated with more favorable hospital ratings on both units (p&lt;0.05).
Newer antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are increasingly prescribed and seem to have a comparable efficacy as the classical AEDs; however, their impact on status epilepticus (SE) prognosis has received little attention. In our prospective SE database (2006-2010), we assessed the use of older versus newer AEDs (levetiracetam, pregabalin, topiramate, lacosamide) over time and its relationship to outcome (return to clinical baseline conditions, new handicap, or death). Newer AEDs were used more often toward the end of the study period (42% of episodes versus 30%). After adjustment for SE etiology, SE severity score, and number of compounds needed to terminate SE, newer AEDs were independently related to a reduced likelihood of return to baseline (p&lt;0.001) but not to increased mortality. These findings seem in line with recent findings on refractory epilepsy. Also, in view of the higher price of the newer AEDs, well-designed, prospective assessments analyzing the impact of newer AEDs on efficacy and tolerability in patients with SE appear mandatory.
In 2009, new guidelines were established by the American Academy of Neurology regarding pregnancy in women with epilepsy. A questionnaire was developed to assess patient knowledge of current guidelines related to epilepsy and pregnancy. Patients were recruited from a single outpatient clinic in a large Canadian tertiary care center. Patients were eligible to participate if they were female, of reproductive age, had active epilepsy for at least 6 months and were not cognitively impaired. One hundred women completed the survey (response rate 87%) with a median score of 40%. A significant association was found between total score and years of education (p&lt;0.001). Significant associations were not found between total score and epilepsy duration (p=0.37), previously being pregnant (p=0.22), and polytherapy (p=0.31). Patient knowledge of the impact of epilepsy on pregnancy is low. More knowledge translation efforts are required to increase knowledge of issues related to pregnancy for women with epilepsy.

The effects of time-varying magnetic fields (MF) on humans have been actively investigated for the past three decades. One important unanswered question is the potential for MF exposure to have acute effects on human biology. Different strategies have been used to tackle this question using various physiological, neurophysiological and behavioral indicators. For example, researchers investigating electroencephalography (EEG) have reported that extremely low frequency (ELF, &lt;300 Hz) MF can increase resting occipital alpha rhythm (8-12 Hz). Interestingly, other studies have demonstrated that human motricity can be modulated by ELF MF: a reduction of anteroposterior standing balance or a decrease of physiological tremor intensity have been reported as consequences of exposure. However, the main limitation in this domain lies in the lack of results replication, possibly originating from the large variety of experimental approaches employed. Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate the effects of a 60 Hz, 1,800 T MF exposure on neurophysiological (EEG) and neuromotor (standing balance, voluntary motor function, and physiological tremor) aspects in humans using a single experimental procedure. Though results from this study suggest a reduction of human standing balance with MF exposure, as well as an increase of physiological tremor amplitude within the frequency range associated with central nervous system contribution, no exposure effect appeared on other investigated parameters (e.g., EEG or voluntary motor control). These results suggest that 1 h of 60 Hz, 1,800 T MF exposure may modulate human involuntary motor control without being detected in the cortical electrical activity.


The vertebrate thalamus contains multiple sensory nuclei, and relays sensory information to corresponding cortical areas. Moreover, the thalamus actively regulates information transmission to the cortex by modulating the response magnitude, firing mode and synchrony of neurons according to behavioral demands. The thalamus serves many other functions including motor control, learning and memory, and emotion. Such functional importance of the thalamus necessitates a better understanding of its developmental mechanisms. In this review, we will first describe the morphological organization of the developing thalamus. We will then discuss how neuronal diversity is generated and nuclei are formed during thalamic development. The first step in generating neuronal diversity is the formation of spatial diversity of thalamic progenitor cells, which is controlled by locally-expressed signaling molecules such as Sonic hedgehog (Shh), Wnt proteins and Fgf8. Lastly we will describe the roles of several transcription factors in specification of neuronal identity and nuclei formation in the thalamus. Our review will provide a molecular perspective for the organization of the thalamus prior to thalamus-cortex circuit formation.
The topographical mapping of input is a fundamental organizing principle of sensory pathways. In the somatosensory system, a precise topographical representation of the face is first generated in the brainstem and then faithfully replicated in the thalamus and cortex. Although our knowledge of the distinct polysynaptic pathways that link cutaneous mechanoreceptors of the face with neocortical neurons has recently expanded, the molecular mechanisms controlling their neuron-type-specific assembly during development remain poorly understood. The increasing availability of genetic tools that enable manipulation of these developing circuits with cellular resolution now opens new perspectives in our understanding of the molecular mechanisms through which input from the periphery is converted into patterned central pathways.
Learned helplessness is a maladaptive response to uncontrollable stress characterized by impaired motor escape responses, reduced motivation and learning deficits. There are important individual differences in the likelihood of becoming helpless following exposure to uncontrollable stress but little is known about the neural mechanisms underlying these individual differences. Here we used structural MRI to measure gray and white matter in individuals with chronic pain, a population at high risk for helplessness due to prolonged exposure to a poorly controlled stressor (pain). Given that self-reported helplessness is predictive of treatment outcomes in chronic pain, understanding such differences might provide valuable clinical insight. We found that the magnitude of self-reported helplessness correlated with cortical thickness in the supplementary motor area (SMA) and midcingulate cortex, regions implicated in cognitive aspects of motor behavior. We then examined the white matter connectivity of these regions and found that fractional anisotropy of connected white matter tracts along the corticospinal tract was associated with helplessness and mediated the relationship between SMA cortical thickness and helplessness. These data provide novel evidence that links individual differences in the motor output pathway with perceived helplessness over a chronic and poorly controlled stressor.
The ability to predict the actions of others is quintessential for effective social interactions, particularly in competitive contexts (e.g. in sport) when knowledge about upcoming movements allows anticipating rather than reacting to opponents. Studies suggest that we predict what others are doing by using our own motor system as an internal forward model and that the fronto-parietal action observation network (AON) is fundamental for this ability. However, multiple-duty cells dealing with action perception and execution have been found in a variety of cortical regions. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to explore, in expert basketball athletes and novices, whether the ability to make early predictions about the fate of sport-specific actions (i.e. free throws) is underpinned by neural regions beyond the classical AON. We found that, although involved in action prediction, the fronto-parietal AON was similarly activated in novices and experts. Importantly, athletes exhibited relatively greater activity in the extrastriate body area during the prediction task, probably due to their expert reading of the observed action kinematics. Moreover, experts exhibited higher activation in the bilateral inferior frontal gyrus and in the right anterior insular cortex when producing errors, suggesting that they might become aware of their own errors. Correct action prediction induced higher posterior insular cortex activity in experts and higher orbito-frontal activity in novices, suggesting that body awareness is important for performance monitoring in experts, whereas novices rely more on higher-order decision-making strategies. This functional reorganization highlights the tight relationship between action anticipation, error awareness and motor expertise leading to body-related processing and differences in decision-making processes.
Childhood-onset chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) are generally responsive to conventional immunosuppressant treatments. However about 20% of patients may be refractory to several treatments and the disease has poor outcome. Rituximab is becoming a promising treatment in selected adult cases of severe CIDPs. We report the effectiveness of Rituximab in a refractory childhood-onset CIDP and we suggest this treatment as an effective choice in unresponsive childhood CIDP.
Childhood cerebellar ataxias, and particularly congenital ataxias, are heterogeneous disorders and several remain undefined. We performed a muscle biopsy in patients with congenital ataxia and children with later onset undefined ataxia having neuroimaging evidence of cerebellar atrophy. Significant reduced levels of Coenzyme Q10 (COQ10) were found in the skeletal muscle of 9 out of 34 patients that were consecutively screened. A mutation in the ADCK3/Coq8 gene (R347X) was identified in a female patient with ataxia, seizures and markedly reduced COQ10 levels. In a 2.5-years-old male patient with non syndromic congenital ataxia and autophagic vacuoles in the muscle biopsy we identified a homozygous nonsense mutation R111X mutation in SIL1 gene, leading to early diagnosis of Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome. We think that muscle biopsy is a valuable procedure to improve diagnostic assesement in children with congenital ataxia or other undefined forms of later onset childhood ataxia associated to cerebellar atrophy at MRI.

The second generation antipsychotic drug (SGA) olanzapine has an efficacy to treat schizophrenia, but can cause obesity and type II diabetes mellitus. Cholinergic muscarinic M3 receptors (M3R) are expressed on pancreatic -cells and in the brain where they influence insulin secretion and may regulate other metabolic hormones via vagal innervation of the gastrointestinal tract. Olanzapine's M3R antagonism is an important risk factor for its diabetogenic liability. However, the effects of olanzapine on central M3Rs are unknown. Rats were treated with 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg olanzapine/kg or vehicle (3/day, 14-days). M3R binding densities in the hypothalamic arcuate (Arc) and ventromedial nuclei (VMH), and dorsal vagal complex (DVC) of the brainstem were investigated using [3H]4-DAMP plus pirenzepine and AF-DX116. M3R binding correlations to body weight, food intake, insulin, ghrelin and cholecystokinin (CCK) were analyzed. Olanzapine increased M3R binding density in the Arc, VMH and DVC, body weight, food intake, circulating plasma ghrelin and CCK levels, and decreased plasma insulin and glucose. M3R negatively correlated to insulin, and positively correlated to ghrelin, CCK, food intake and body weight. Increased M3R density is a compensatory up-regulation in response to olanzapine's M3R antagonism. Olanzapine acts on M3R in regions of the brain that control food intake and insulin secretion. Olanzapine's M3R blockade in the brain may inhibit the acetylcholine pathway for insulin secretion. These findings support a role for M3Rs in the modulation of insulin, ghrelin and CCK via the vagus nerve and provide a mechanism for olanzapine's diabetogenic and weight gain liability.
Schizophrenia is a complex and devastating mental disorder of unknown etiology. Hypofunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are implicated in the disorder, since phencyclidine (PCP) and other NMDA receptor antagonists mimic schizophrenia-like symptoms in humans and animals so well. Moreover, genetic linkage and post mortem studies strongly suggest a role for altered neuregulin 1 (Nrg1)/erbB4 signaling in schizophrenia pathology. This study investigated the relationship between the NMDA receptor and Nrg1 signaling pathways using the perinatal PCP animal model. Rats (n=5/group) were treated with PCP (10 mg/kg) or saline on postnatal days (PN) 7, 9 and 11 and were sacrificed on PN12, 5 weeks and 20 weeks for biochemical analyses. Western blotting was used to determine total and phosphorylated levels of proteins involved in NMDA receptor/Nrg1 signaling in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In the cortex, PCP treatment altered Nrg1/erbB4 expression levels throughout development, including decreased Nrg1 and erbB4 at PN12 (-25-30%; p&lt;0.05); increased erbB4 and p-erbB4 (+18-27%; p&lt;0.01) at 5 weeks; and decreased erbB4 and p-erbB4 (-16-18%; p&lt;0.05) along with increased Nrg1 (+33%; p&lt;0.01) at 20 weeks. In the hippocampus, levels of Nrg1/erbB4 were largely unaffected apart from a significant decrease in p-erbB4 at 20 weeks (-13%; p&lt;0.001); however NMDA receptor subunits and PSD-95 showed increases at PN12 and 5 weeks (+20-32%; p&lt;0.05), and decreases at 20 weeks (-22-29%; p&lt;0.05). This study shows that NMDA receptor antagonism early in development can have long term effects on Nrg1/erbB4 expression which could be important in understanding pathological processes which might be involved in schizophrenia.



The lateral line system of fishes and amphibians comprises two ancient sensory systems: mechanoreception and electroreception. Electroreception is found in all major vertebrate groups (i.e. jawless fishes, cartilaginous fishes, and bony fishes); however, it was lost in several groups including anuran amphibians (frogs) and amniotes (reptiles, birds, and mammals), as well as in the lineage leading to the neopterygian clade of bony fishes (bowfins, gars, and teleosts). Electroreception is mediated by modified &quot;hair cells,&quot; which are collected in ampullary organs that flank lines of mechanosensory hair cell containing neuromasts. In the axolotl (a urodele amphibian), grafting and ablation studies have shown a lateral line placode origin for both mechanosensory neuromasts and electrosensory ampullary organs (and the neurons that innervate them). However, little is known at the molecular level about the development of the amphibian lateral line system in general and electrosensory ampullary organs in particular. Previously, we identified Eya4 as a marker for lateral line (and otic) placodes, neuromasts, and ampullary organs in a shark (a cartilaginous fish) and a paddlefish (a basal ray-finned fish). Here, we show that Eya4 is similarly expressed during otic and lateral line placode development in the axolotl (a representative of the lobe-finned fish clade). Furthermore, Eya4 expression is specifically restricted to hair cells in both neuromasts and ampullary organs, as identified by coexpression with the calcium-buffering protein Parvalbumin3. As well as identifying new molecular markers for amphibian mechanosensory and electrosensory hair cells, these data demonstrate that Eya4 is a conserved marker for lateral line placodes and their derivatives in all jawed vertebrates.
The reach-to-grasp movement is composed of a number of movement elements including hand transport, hand shaping, and grasping. These movement elements are featured in grasping when it is guided by vision, when it is guided by haptic input from the non-reaching hand or other body parts, and when it is guided by off-line perceptual (remembered) knowledge. An unanswered question is how is the reach-to-grasp movement achieved when all information about the target must be acquired by the grasping hand? The answer to this question was obtained by asking participants to reach for three randomly presented food items that varied in size: an orange slice, a small round donut ball, or a blueberry. In order to constrain the grasping pattern, participants were asked to pick up an item with the intention of placing it in the mouth. Thus, in the unsighted condition, participants did not know which item they were reaching for until they made haptic contact with it. Hand transport, shaping, and grasping were examined using frame-by-frame video analysis and linear kinematics. These measures showed that in unsighted reaching, hand transport first served to establish haptic contact between either the second or third digit and the target. After haptic identification of the target, the hand and/or grasping digits adjusted their trajectory, reshaped, and reoriented for grasping. A comparison of haptically guided grasping and visually guided grasping indicated that the two were very similar. This similarity is discussed in relation to contemporary ideas concerning the neural mechanisms that guide hand use.
Little is known about the effects of successful treatment on brain function in chronic pain. This study examined changes in pain-evoked brain activation following behavioral extinction training in fibromyalgia patients. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, brain activation to painful mechanical stimuli applied to the 2nd phalanx of the left 2nd digit (m. flexor digitorum) was assessed in 10 patients with fibromyalgia syndrome (FM) before and after behavioral extinction training. The behavioral treatment significantly reduced interference from pain in the FM patients. Mechanical pain threshold and pain tolerance increased significantly after treatment. Activation in the insula shifted bilaterally from a more anterior site before treatment to a more posterior location after treatment. The pre- to post-treatment reduction in both interference related to pain and pain severity were significantly associated with bilateral activation in pain-evoked activity in the posterior insula, the ipsilateral caudate nucleus/striatum, the contralateral lenticular nucleus, the left thalamus and the primary somatosensory cortex contralateral to the stimulated side. These data show a relation between successful behavioral treatment and higher activation bilaterally in the posterior insula and in the contralateral primary somatosensory cortex. Future studies should compare responders and non-responders for differential treatment effects and examine in more detail the mechanisms underlying these changes.
The stability of the maximal muscle response (M(max)) is critical to H reflex methodology. It has previously been reported that the amplitude of M(max) declines over time. If reproducible, this finding would have implications for all experimental studies that normalise the output of the motoneurone pool against the M wave. We investigated the effect of time on changes in M(max) and the maximal H reflex (H(max)) evoked at 4-s intervals over 60 min. To identify an influence of homosynaptic depression, we extended the interstimulus interval to 10 s and the time to 100 min. Two recording montages over soleus were used to ensure that interelectrode distance was not a critical factor. The soleus M(max) and H reflex were evoked by stimulation of the tibial nerve in the popliteal fossa in 7 subjects who sat with the knee flexed to 30 and the ankle plantar flexed by ~30. We found no change in the pooled data for M(max), H(max), a reflex 50% of maximal, or the current required to produce it. However, one subject had a statistically significant increase in M(max) and a concurrent decrease in H(max) regardless of the interstimulus interval. On average, there was no change in the H(max)/M(max) ratio over time. While both M(max) and H(max) may change in response to many factors, these results suggest that, typically, time is not one of them.
The present study aimed at determining whether the observation of two functionally compatible artefacts, that is which potentially concur in achieving a specific function, automatically activates a motor programme of interaction between the two objects. To this purpose, an interference paradigm was used during which an artefact (a bottle filled with orange juice), target of a reaching-grasping and lifting sequence, was presented alone or with a non-target object (distractor) of the same or different semantic category and functionally compatible or not. In experiment 1, the bottle was presented alone or with an artefact (a sphere), or a natural (an apple) distractor. In experiment 2, the bottle was presented with either the apple or a glass (an artefact) filled with orange juice, whereas in experiment 3, either an empty or a filled glass was presented. In the control experiment 4, we compared the kinematics of reaching-grasping and pouring with those of reaching-grasping and lifting. The kinematics of reach, grasp and lift was affected by distractor presentation. However, no difference was observed between two distractors that belonged to different semantic categories. In contrast, the presence of the empty rather filled glass affected the kinematics of the actual grasp. This suggests that an actually functional compatibility between target (the bottle) and distractor (the empty glass) was necessary to activate automatically a programme of interaction (i.e. pouring) between the two artefacts. This programme affected the programme actually executed (i.e. lifting). The results of the present study indicate that, in addition to affordances related to intrinsic object properties, &quot;working affordances&quot; related to a specific use of an artefact with another object can be activated on the basis of functional compatibility.
There has traditionally been a separation between voluntary control processes and the fast feedback responses which follow mechanical perturbations (i.e., stretch &quot;reflexes&quot;). However, a recent theory of motor control, based on optimal control, suggests that voluntary motor behavior involves the sophisticated manipulation of sensory feedback. We have recently proposed that one implication of this theory is that the long-latency stretch &quot;reflex&quot;, like voluntary control, should support a rich assortment of behaviors because these two processes are intimately linked through shared neural circuitry including primary motor cortex. In this review, we first describe the basic principles of optimal feedback control related to voluntary motor behavior. We then explore the functional properties of upper-limb stretch responses, with a focus on how the sophistication of the long-latency stretch response rivals voluntary control. And last, we describe the neural circuitry that underlies the long-latency stretch response and detail the evidence that primary motor cortex participates in sophisticated feedback responses to mechanical perturbations.
The repetition of nociceptive stimuli of identical modality, intensity and location at short (1s) and constant inter-stimulus interval (ISI) determines a strong habituation of the corresponding electroencephalographic (EEG) responses. To understand what determines this response habituation, we (1) examined the effect of introducing a selective change in the spatial location of the repeated stimulus (i.e., without altering its modality, intensity and timing), and (2) dissected the relative contribution of bottom-up, stimulus-driven spatial changes and top-down, cognitive expectations of such a change. Multichannel EEG was recorded while participants received a triplet of stimuli (S1-S2-S3) delivered to the hand dorsum at 1-s ISI. S3 was delivered either to the same hand as S1 and S2 or to the other hand, and participants were either explicitly informed or not informed of the location of S3. We found that, unlike the introduction of a change in the sensory modality of the repeated stimulus (Valentini et al. in J Cogn Neurosci 23:2822-2837, 2011), introducing a change in its spatial location did not produce a significant dishabituation of the laser-evoked N1, N2 and P2 peaks, but only a small amplitude increase following the P2 peak, maximal on the hemisphere contralateral to the stimulated hand. Furthermore, the magnitude of the elicited responses was not significantly affected by cognitive expectations. Altogether, these results indicate that bottom-up, stimulus-driven novelty resulting from a change in stimulus spatial location does not revert the habituation caused by repetition suppression, but determines a small increase of neural activity over the contralateral central-parietal cortex, likely reflecting shifts in spatial attention.
Ubiquitin-modification of proteins by E3 ubiquitin ligases is an important post-translational mechanism implicated in neuronal survival and injury following cerebral ischemia. However, of the 500 or so E3s thought to be present in mammalian cells, very few specific E3s have been identified and associated with brain ischemia. Here, we demonstrate endogenous induction of HECT-type E3 ligases of the Nedd4 family and their adaptor Nedd4-family interacting protein 1 (Ndfip1) following transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats. Ndfip1 is upregulated in surviving cortical neurons and its neuroprotective activity is correlated with Nedd4-2 upregulation, but not two other Nedd4 family members examined (Nedd4-1 and Itch). Immunoprecipitation assays confirmed biochemical binding of Ndfip1 with Nedd4-2 in the brain, with or without ischemic stroke, indicating their endogenous interaction. While Ndfip1 and Itch have been previously shown to interact outside of the nervous system, ischemic induction of Itch in the present study was associated with cellular survival independent of Ndfip1. Together, these findings demonstrate specific and differential regulation of Nedd4 family E3 ligases under ischemic conditions, and identify two E3 ligases and their adaptor that potentially regulate ubiquitination in ischemic stroke to provide neuroprotection.
The transactivation DNA-binding protein (TDP-43) pathology is associated with fronto-temporal lobar dementia (FTLD) with ubiquitinated inclusions and some cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Proteolytic fragments of -amyloid precursor protein (APP) are detected in AD as well as the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from FTLD and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) patients, suggesting alteration in APP processing. Because of the overlap in TDP-43 pathology between FTLD and AD, we sought to determine whether there is a relationship between TDP-43 and APP metabolism. We generated gene transfer models using lentiviral delivery of human TDP-43 and A(1-42) into the rat primary motor cortex and examined their role 2 weeks post-injection. Expression of TDP-43 and/or A(1-42) increase pro-inflammatory markers, including Interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-), glial neurofibrillary proteins (GFAP) and ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 (IBA-1). Lentiviral A(1-42) up-regulates endogenous TDP-43 and promotes its phosphorylation, aggregation and cleavage into 35 kDa fragments. Inversely, lentiviral TDP-43 expression increases the levels and activity of -secretase (BACE), accelerating production of APP C-terminal fragments (C99) and A(1-40). Here we show that TDP-43 up-regulates APP metabolism and suggest a mechanistic link between TDP-43 and BACE.
Development of relevant models of Parkinson's disease (PD) is essential for a better understanding of the pathological processes underlying the human disease and for the evaluation of promising targets for therapeutic intervention. To date, most pre-clinical studies have been performed in the well-established rodent and non-human primate models using injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydroxypyridine (MPTP). Overexpression of the disease-causing protein -synuclein (-syn), using adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors, has provided a novel model that recapitulates many features of the human disease. In the present study we compared the AAV--syn rat model with models where the nigro-striatal pathway is lesioned by injection of 6-OHDA in the striatum (partial lesion) or the medial forebrain bundle (full lesion). Examination of the behavioural changes over time revealed a different progression and magnitude of the motor impairment. Interestingly, dopamine (DA) neuron loss is prominent in both the toxin and the AAV--syn models. However, -syn overexpressing animals were seen to exhibit less cell and terminal loss for an equivalent level of motor abnormalities. Prominent and persistent axonal pathology is only observed in the -syn rat model. We suggest that, while neuronal and terminal loss mainly accounts for the behavioural impairment in the toxin-based model, similar motor deficits result from the combination of cell death and dysfunction of the remaining nigro-striatal neurons in the AAV--syn model. While the two models have been developed to mimic DA neuron deficiency, they differ in their temporal and neuropathological characteristics, and replicate different aspects of the pathophysiology of the human disease. This study suggests that the AAV--syn model replicates the human pathology more closely than either of the other two 6-OHDA lesion models.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) often leads to impaired breathing. In most cases, such severe respiratory complications lead to morbidity and death. However, in the last few years there has been extensive work examining ways to restore this vital function after experimental spinal cord injury. In addition to finding strategies to rescue breathing activity, many of these experiments have also yielded a great deal of information about the innate plasticity and capacity for adaptation in the respiratory system and its associated circuitry in the spinal cord. This review article will highlight experimental SCI resulting in compromised breathing, the various methods of restoring function after such injury, and some recent findings from our own laboratory. Additionally, it will discuss findings about motor and CNS respiratory plasticity and adaptation with potential clinical and translational implications.
The consequences of spinal cord injury (SCI) are often viewed as the result of white matter damage. However, injuries occurring at any spinal level, especially in cervical and lumbar enlargement regions, also entail segmental neuronal loss. Yet, the contributions of gray matter injury and plasticity to functional outcomes are poorly understood. The present study addressed this issue by investigating changes in respiratory function following bilateral C(3)/C(4) contusion injuries at the level of the phrenic motoneuron (PhMN) pool which in the adult rat extends from C(3) to C(5/6) and provides innervation to the diaphragm. Despite extensive white and gray matter pathology associated with two magnitudes of injury severity, ventilation was relatively unaffected during both quiet breathing and respiratory challenge (hypercapnia). On the other hand, bilateral diaphragm EMG recordings revealed that the ability to increase diaphragm activity during respiratory challenge was substantially, and chronically, impaired. This deficit has not been seen following predominantly white matter lesions at higher cervical levels. Thus, the impact of gray matter damage relative to PhMNs and/or interneurons becomes evident during conditions associated with increased respiratory drive. Unaltered ventilatory behavior, despite significant deficits in diaphragm function, suggests compensatory neuroplasticity involving recruitment of other spinal respiratory networks which may entail remodeling of connections. Transynaptic tracing, using pseudorabies virus (PRV), revealed changes in PhMN-related interneuronal labeling rostral to the site of injury, thus offering insight into the potential anatomical reorganization and spinal plasticity following cervical contusion.
In the adult, both neurologic recovery and anatomical growth after a CNS injury are limited. Two classes of growth inhibitors, myelin associated inhibitors (MAIs) and extracellular matrix associated inhibitors, limit both functional recovery and anatomical rearrangements in animal models of spinal cord injury. Here we focus on how MAIs limit a wide spectrum of growth that includes regeneration, sprouting, and plasticity in both the intact and lesioned CNS. Three classic myelin associated inhibitors, Nogo-A, MAG, and OMgp, signal through their common receptors, Nogo-66 Receptor-1 (NgR1) and Paired-Immunoglobulin-like-Receptor-B (PirB), to regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and inhibit growth. Initially described as inhibitors of axonal regeneration, subsequent work has demonstrated that MAIs also limit activity and experience-dependent plasticity in the intact, adult CNS. MAIs therefore represent a point of convergence for plasticity that limits anatomical rearrangements regardless of the inciting stimulus, blurring the distinction between injury studies and more &quot;basic&quot; plasticity studies.
Myelin-associated inhibitors of axon growth, including Nogo, MAG and OMgp, have been the subject of intense research. A myriad of experimental approaches have been applied to investigate the potential of targeting these molecules to promote axonal repair after spinal cord injury. However, there are still conflicting results on their role in axon regeneration and therefore a lack of a cohesive mechanism on how these molecules can be targeted to promote axon repair. One major reason may be the lack of a clear definition of axon regeneration in the first place. Nevertheless, recent data from genetic studies in mice indicate that the roles of these molecules in CNS axon repair may be more intricate than previously envisioned.
Both low-frequency electro-acupuncture (EA) and manual acupuncture improve menstrual frequency and decrease circulating androgens in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). We sought to determine whether low-frequency EA is more effective than manual stimulation in regulating disturbed oestrous cyclicity in rats with PCOS induced by 5-dihydrotestosterone. To identify the central mechanisms of the effects of stimulation, we assessed hypothalamic mRNA expression of molecules that regulate reproductive and neuroendocrine function. From age 70 days, rats received 2 Hz EA or manual stimulation with the needles five times per week for 4-5 weeks; untreated rats served as control animals. Specific hypothalamic nuclei were obtained by laser microdissection, and mRNA expression was measured with TaqMan low-density arrays. Untreated rats were acyclic. During the last 2 weeks of treatment, seven of eight (88%) rats in the EA group had epithelial keratinocytes, demonstrating oestrous cycle change (P = 0.034 versus control rats). In the manual group, five of eight (62%) rats had oestrous cycle changes (n.s. versus control animals). The mRNA expression of the opioid receptors Oprk1 and Oprm1 in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus was lower in the EA group than in untreated control rats. The mRNA expression of the steroid hormone receptors Esr2, Pgr and Kiss1r was lower in the manual group than in the control animals. In rats with 5-dihydrotestosterone-induced PCOS, low-frequency EA restored disturbed oestrous cyclicity but did not differ from the manual stimulation group, although electrical stimulation lowered serum testosterone in responders, those with restored oestrus cyclicity, and differed from both control animals and the manual stimulation group. Thus, EA cannot in all aspects be considered superior to manual stimulation. The effects of low-frequency EA may be mediated by central opioid receptors, while manual stimulation may involve regulation of steroid hormone/peptide receptors.

INTRODUCTION: Anorexia and bulimia nervosa are severe psychiatric disorders and the availability of brain imaging techniques hold promise that those techniques will be useful in clinical practice. AREAS COVERED: In this review I describe currently available brain imaging techniques and focus on the brain imaging methods functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). Those techniques have helped describe alterations in brain circuitry in AN and BN that related to anxiety and reward processing. Novel computational models help further define brain function in relation to particular neurotransmitters. EXPERT OPINION: Brain imaging techniques are exciting methods to learn about brain function and progress has been made to identify in healthy populations brain circuits that code behaviors. These techniques have been used in AN and BN over the past decade and have improved our understanding of brain function in those disorders. Still, human brain imaging is not at a point yet where it could be used diagnostically. However, with the refinement of imaging hardware as well as improved models that describe brain function we will get closer to our aims to not only better understand the neurobiology of those disorders, but predict illness development, treatment response and long term prognosis.

Neurocognitive function (NCF) impairment is an important component of primary and metastatic brain tumors and their therapeutic interventions. As a result, modern clinical trials of cranial irradiation for adult cancer patients have incorporated NCF testing as a primary or secondary end point. In doing so, these clinical trials have provided a novel insight into our understanding of the NCF effects of cranial irradiation and brain tumor progression. In this article, we review these clinical trials both in terms of the trial findings and in terms of the types of NCF tests used in these trials. We also provide an introduction to the strengths and limitations of these NCF tests, as well as expert commentary on the current status and future directions of NCF testing in brain tumor trials.
Adolescence is a critical developmental period during which most adult smokers initiate their habit. Adolescents are more vulnerable than adults to nicotine's long-term effects on addictive and cognitive behavior. We investigated whether adolescent nicotine exposure in rats modifies expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in the short and/or long term, and whether this has functional consequences. Using receptor binding studies followed by immunoprecipitation of nAChR subunits, we showed that adolescent nicotine exposure, as compared with saline, caused an increase in mPFC nAChRs containing 4 or 2 subunits (24 and 18%, respectively) 24 h after the last injection. Nicotine exposure in adulthood had no such effect. This increase was transient and was not observed 5 wk following either adolescent or adult nicotine exposure. In line with increased nAChRs expression 1 d after adolescent nicotine exposure, we observed a 34% increase in amplitude of nicotine-induced spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in layer II/III mPFC pyramidal neurons. These effects were transient and specific, and observed only acutely after adolescent nicotine exposure, but not after 5 wk, and no changes were observed in adult-exposed animals. The acute nicotine-induced increase in 42-containing receptors in adolescents interferes with the normal developmental decrease (37%) of these receptors from early adolescence (postnatal day 34) to adulthood (postnatal day 104) in the mPFC. Together, this suggests that these receptors play a role in mediating the acute rewarding effects of nicotine and may underlie the increased sensitivity of adolescents to nicotine.
Morphology parallels function on a variety of levels in reproductive circuits in anole lizards, as in many vertebrate groups. For example, across species within the anole genus the muscle fibers regulating extension of a throat fan used in courtship are larger in males than females. Endocrine factors controlling behavior and morphology have been studied in detail in one species, the green anole (Anolis carolinensis). This review briefly describes the results that have been obtained and highlights key areas for future investigation that will provide insights on mechanisms from a comparative perspective.
Several protostomian molecules that structurally resemble chordate gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) have been identified through cloning, biochemical purification or data mining. These molecules share considerable sequence and structural similarities with chordate GnRH, leading to the current belief that protostomian and chordate forms of GnRH share a common ancestor. However, the physiological significance of these protostomian GnRH-like molecules remains poorly understood. This knowledge gap hampers our understanding of how GnRH has evolved functionally over time. This review provides a summary of our recent functional characterization of a GnRH-like molecule (ap-GnRH) in a gastropod mollusk, Aplysia californica, and presents preliminary proof for a cognate ap-GnRH receptor (ap-GnRHR). Our data reveal that ap-GnRH is a general neural regulator capable of exerting diverse central and motor effects, but plays little or no role in reproductive activation. This notion is supported by the abundance of a putative ap-GnRHR transcript in the central nervous system and the foot. Comparing these results to the available functional data from a cephalopod mollusk, Octopus vulgaris, we surmise that protostomian GnRH-like molecules are likely to assume a wide range of physiological roles, and reproductive activation is not an evolutionarily conserved role of these molecules. Future functional studies using suitable protostomian models are required to identify functional changes in protostomian GnRH-like molecules that accompany major taxa-level transitions.

Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is often misdiagnosed early in the clinical course and may be confused with primary psychiatric disorders. This is especially true when patients have a psychiatric history. In this report, we describe a case that illustrates the diagnostic challenge of FTD in a patient with a history of obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Vacuolar H(+) -ATPases (v-ATPases) are multimeric proton pumps which acidify various intra-cellular organelles and may participate in pHe and pHi regulation in cancer cell lines. The ATP6V0A4 gene encodes the a4 subunit which is expressed in kidney and epididymis. Because we found a4 mRNA highly expressed in C6Bu1 glioma cell line, we measured it in 205 glioma biopsies and 11 brain biopsies from epileptic patients. a4 was absent in epileptic brain biopsies, but was expressed by 34% (11/32) of grade III oligodendrogliomas, independently of the chromosome 1p19q codeletion. a4 expression in grade III oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas without the 1p19q codeletion tended to be associated with a shorter overall survival of patients. We also observed a4 expression in biopsies of pilocytic astrocytomas (68%; 19/28) and gangliogliomas (37%; 6/16). In pilocytic astrocytomas a4 expression was associated with a tandem duplication of the 7q34 chromosome region, distant 0.5 Mb to the ATP6V0A4 gene locus. In conclusion, a4 expression identifies subtypes of oligodendrogliomas, pilocytic astrocytomas and gangliogliomas and may contribute to refine characterization of these tumors.  2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Activated microglia are observed in various neurodegenerative diseases and are thought to be involved in the processes of neuronal cell death. Motoneuron damage in the facial nuclei after facial nerve avulsion is accelerated in presymptomatic transgenic rats expressing human mutant Cu(2+) /Zn(2+) superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), compared with that in wild-type rats. To reveal the functional role of microglia in motoneuronal death, we investigated the microglial response after facial nerve avulsion in presymptomatic mutant SOD1(H46R) (mSOD1(H46R) ) rats. At 3 days after avulsion, microglial clusters were observed in the facial nuclei of both wild-type and mSOD1(H46R) rats. The numbers of microglial clusters, proliferating microglia, and microglial attachments to motoneurons were significantly higher in mSOD1(H46R) rats, compared with those in wild-type rats. Immunopositive signals for the phagocytic marker ED1 were significantly stronger in mSOD1(H46R) rats, compared with that in wild-type rats, at 2 weeks after avulsion. Furthermore, primary microglia prepared from mSOD1(H46R) rats showed enhanced phagocytic activity, compared with that in wild-type rats. The expression of P2Y(12) mRNA was higher in the facial nuclei of mSOD1(H46R) rats, compared with that in wild-type rats. A laser microdissection system revealed that the expression of ATF3 mRNA was higher in the motoneurons of mSOD1(H46R) rats, compared with that in wild-type rats, at 2 days after avulsion. These results indicate that microglial activation in response to early neuronal damage increased in mSOD1(H46R) rats and suggest that the enhanced activation of microglia may lead to an increase in the vulnerability of motoneurons after avulsion in mSOD1(H46R) rats.
The role of zinc in neurobiology has been the subject of intense interest particularly because of zinc's presence in and release from glutamatergic synapses, and its association with major neurological disorders. Initially considered inert to Zn(2+) signaling and resistant to Zn(2+) toxicity, glia, like neurons, is now known to be vulnerable to Zn(2+) , albeit to a lesser degree and in ways that are type-specific. The discovery of Zn(2+) transporters and the development of highly sensitive zinc sensors has led to a new understanding regarding the role of this metal ion in glial physiology. Dynamic changes in Zn(2+) content are now linked to executive functions, signaling and fate in glia. In this review, we focus on these issues and discuss the broader implication of glial Zn(2+) signaling in neuron glial-interactions.
Abnormal iron homeostasis is increasingly thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders. We have previously reported impaired iron homeostasis in a mouse model of spinal cord injury and in a mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Both these disorders are associated with CNS inflammation. However, what effect inflammation, and in particular, inflammatory cytokines have on iron homeostasis in CNS glia remains largely unknown. Here we report that the proinflammatory cytokine TNF-, and the anti-inflammatory cytokine TGF-1 affect iron homeostasis in astrocytes and microglia in distinct ways. Treatment of astrocytes in vitro with TNF- induced the expression of the iron importer &quot;divalent iron transporter 1&quot; (DMT1) and suppressed the expression of the iron exporter ferroportin (FPN). However, TGF-1 had no effect on DMT1 expression but increased the expression of FPN in astrocytes. In microglia, on the other hand, both cytokines caused induction of DMT1 and suppression of FPN expression. Iron influx and efflux assays in vitro confirmed that iron homeostasis in astrocytes and microglia is differentially regulated by these cytokines. In particular, TNF- caused an increase in iron uptake and retention by both astrocytes and microglia, while TGF-1 promoted iron efflux from astrocytes but caused iron retention in microglia. These data suggest that these two cytokines, which are expressed in CNS inflammation in injury and disease, can have profound and divergent effects on iron homeostasis in astrocytes and microglia.
Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, where its toxic build-up leads to synaptic dysfunction and excitotoxic cell death that underlies many neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, efforts have been made to understand the regulation of glutamate transporters, which are responsible for the clearance of extracellular glutamate. We now report that adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A) R) control the uptake of D-aspartate in primary cultured astrocytes as well as in an ex vivo preparation enriched in glial plasmalemmal vesicles (gliosomes) from adult rats, whereas A(1) R and A(3) R were devoid of effects. Thus, the acute exposure to the A(2A) R agonist, CGS 21680, inhibited glutamate uptake, an effect prevented by the A(2A) R antagonist, SCH 58261, and abbrogated in cultured astrocytes from A(2A) R knockout mice. Furthermore, the prolonged activation of A(2A) R lead to a cAMP/protein kinase A-dependent reduction of GLT-I and GLAST mRNA and protein levels, which leads to a sustained decrease of glutamate uptake. This dual mechanism of inhibition of glutamate transporters by astrocytic A(2A) R provides a novel candidate mechanism to understand the ability of A(2) (A) R to control synaptic plasticity and neurodegeneration, two conditions tightly associated with the control of extracellular glutamate levels by glutamate transporters.
The development, function, and pathology of the brain depend on interactions of neurons and different types of glial cells, namely astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia, and ependymal cells. Understanding neuron-glia interactions in vivo requires dedicated experimental approaches to manipulate each cell type independently. In this review, we first summarize techniques that allow for cell-specific gene modification including targeted mutagenesis and viral transduction. In the second part, we describe the genetic models that allow to target the main glial cell types in the central nervous system. The existing arsenal of approaches to study glial cells in vivo and its expansion in the future are key to understand neuron-glia interactions under normal and pathologic conditions.

Virtually everyone can recall an experience, migraine or not, in which pain had a throbbing, pulsatile quality, particularly in association with intense pain. Its pulsatile character strongly reinforces the common presumption that it coincides with the heartbeat. For migraine, a cerebral vascular origin of the throbbing quality is a central tenet of the prevailing scientific view of migraine pain. However, recent data challenge this perspective, with implications for our understanding of throbbing pain not only for migraine but also for the pathophysiology of throbbing pain in other conditions as well.

The postsynaptic density (PSD) protein complex has long been a major target of proteomics in neuroscience. As the number of glutamate receptors on a synapse is one of the main determinants of synaptic efficacy, determining the absolute numbers of receptors in the PSD is necessary for estimating the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) in individual synapses. Moreover, as the receptor molecules are embedded in a macromolecular complex within the PSD, stoichiometry between the receptors and other PSD proteins could help explain the functional and regional specialization of the synapses and their possible roles in synaptic plasticity. Here, I review various studies concerned with the quantification of PSD proteins.
Transcriptomics and proteomics approaches give a unique perspective for understanding brain and hippocampal functions but also pose unique challenges because of the singular complexity of the nervous system. The proliferation of genome-wide expression studies during the last decade has provided important insight into the molecular underpinnings of brain anatomy, neural plasticity, and neurological diseases. Microarray technology has dominated transcriptomics research, but this situation is rapidly changing with the recent technological advances in high-throughput sequencing. The full potential of transcriptomics in the neurosciences will be achieved as a result of its integration with other &quot;-omics&quot; disciplines as well as the development of novel analytical bioinformatics and systems biology tools for meta-analysis. Here, we review some of the most relevant advances in the gene profiling of the hippocampus, its relationship with proteomics approaches, and the promising perspectives for the future.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and ageing are associated with impaired learning and memory, and recent findings point toward modulating chromatin remodeling through histone acetylation as a promising therapeutic strategy. Here we report that systemic administration of the HDAC inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (PBA) reinstated fear learning in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. Tg2576 mice develop age-dependent amyloid pathology and cognitive decline that closely mimics disease progression in humans. Memory reinstatement by PBA was observed independently of the disease stage: both in 6-month-old Tg2576 mice, at the onset of the first symptoms, but also in aged, 12- to 16-month-old mice, when amyloid plaque deposition and major synaptic loss has occurred. Reversal of learning deficits was associated to a PBA-induced clearance of intraneuronal A accumulation, which was accompanied by mitigation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and to restoration of dendritic spine densities of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons to control levels. Furthermore, the expression of plasticity-related proteins such as the NMDA receptor subunit NR2B and the synaptic scaffold SAP102 was significantly increased by PBA. Our data suggest that the beneficial effects of PBA in memory are mediated both via its chemical chaperone-like activity and via the transcriptional activation of a cluster of proteins required for the induction of synaptic plasticity and structural remodeling.
Synaptic junctions are generated by adhesion proteins that bridge the synaptic cleft to firmly anchor pre- and postsynaptic membranes. Several cell adhesion molecule (CAM) families localize to synapses, but it is not yet completely understood how each synaptic CAM family contributes to synapse formation and/or structure, and whether or how smaller groups of CAMs serve as minimal, functionally cooperative adhesive units upon which structure is based. Synapse structure and function evolve over the course of development, and in mature animals, synapses are composed of a greater number of proteins, surrounded by a stabilizing extracellular matrix, and often contacted by astrocytic processes. Thus, in mature networks undergoing plasticity, persistent changes in synapse strength, morphology, or number must be accompanied by selective and regulated remodeling of the neuropil. Recent work indicates that regulated, extracellular proteolysis may be essential for this, and rather than simply acting permissively to enable synapse plasticity, is more likely playing a proactive role in driving coordinated synaptic structural and functional modifications that underlie persistent changes in network activity.
The neurokinin receptors (NK-R), NK(2)- and NK(3)-R, have been implicated in behavioral processes, but apparently in opposite ways: while NK(2)-R agonism disrupts memory and has anxiogenic-like action, NK(3) -R agonists facilitate memory and display anxiolytic-like effects. Systemic application of NK(2)-R antagonists block the release of acetylcholine (ACh) in the hippocampus, which is induced by intraseptal administration of the NK(2)-R ligand, neurokinin A (NKA). We investigated the effects of medial septal injection of NKA and a preferred ligand of NK(3)-R, neurokinin B (NKB), on the activity of cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain and assessed the role of the medial septal NK(2)-R in the control of extracellular ACh levels in cholinergic projection areas. ACh was dialysed in the frontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus of anesthetized animals and was analysed by HPLC-EC. ACh levels in hippocampus and amygdala, but not in frontal cortex were increased after intraseptal injection of either NKA or NKB (0.1, 1, 10 M). Application of the nonpeptidic NK(2)-R antagonist, saredutant SR48968 (1, 10, 100 pM), followed by NKA (1 M) or NKB (10 M) injection into the medial septum, blocked the ACh increase in hippocampus and amygdala. These results indicate that medial septal NK(2)-R have an important role in mediating ACh release, for one, via the septal-hippocampal cholinergic projection and, secondly, via direct or indirect route to the amygdala, but not frontal cortex. They also support the hypothesis that hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission controls amygdala function suggesting that this interaction is regulated via NK(2)-R in the medial septum.
Physiological processes in the cochlea associated with sound transduction and maintenance of the unique electrochemical environment are metabolically demanding. Creatine maintains ATP homeostasis by providing high-energy phosphates for ATP regeneration which is catalyzed by creatine kinase (CK). Cellular uptake of creatine requires a specific high affinity sodium- and chloride-dependent creatine transporter (CRT). This study postulates that this CRT is developmentally regulated in the rat cochlea. CRT expression was measured by quantitative real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry in the postnatal (P0-P14) and adult (P22-P56) rat cochlea. The maximum CRT expression was reached at the onset of hearing (P12), and this level was maintained through to adulthood. CRT immunoreactivity was strongest in the sensory inner hair cells, supporting cells and the spiral ganglion neurons. Cochlear distribution of the CK brain isoform (CKB) was also assessed by immunohistochemistry and compared with the distribution of CRT in the developing and adult cochlea. CKB was immunolocalized in the organ of Corti supporting cells, and the lateral wall tissues involved in K(+) cycling, including stria vascularis and spiral ligament fibrocytes. Similar to CRT, CKB reached peak expression after the onset of hearing. Differential spatial and temporal expression of CRT and CK in cochlear tissues during development may reflect differential requirements for creatine-phosphocreatine buffering to replenish ATP consumed during energy-dependent metabolic processes, especially around the period when the cochlea becomes responsive to airborne sound.
Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) comprises a multitude of disciplines, for example, acupuncture, ayurvedic medicine, biofeedback, herbal medicine, and homeopathic medicine. While research on CAM interventions has increased and the CAM literature has proliferated since the mid-1990s, a number of our colleagues have expressed difficulties in deciding where to publish CAM articles. In response, we created a short guide to peer-reviewed MEDLINE-indexed journals that publish CAM articles. We examined numerous English-language sources to identify titles that met our criteria, whether specific to or overlapping CAM. A few of the resources in which we found the journal titles that we included are Alternative Medicine Foundation, American Holistic Nurses Association, CINAHL/Nursing Database, Journal Citation Reports database, MEDLINE, PubMed, and Research Council for Complementary Medicine. We organized the 69 selected titles for easy use by creating 2 user-friendly tables, one listing titles in alphabetical order and one listing them in topical categories. A few examples of the topical categories are Acupuncture, CAM (general), Chinese Medicine, Herbal/Plant/Phytotherapy, Neuroscience/Psychology, Nursing/Clinical Care. Our study is the first to list general CAM journals, specialty CAM journals, and overlapping mainstream journals that are peer reviewed, in English, and indexed in MEDLINE. Our goal was to assist both authors seeking publication and mainstream journal editors who receive an overabundance of publishable articles but must recommend that authors seek publication elsewhere due to space and priority issues. Publishing in journals indexed by and included in MEDLINE (or PubMed) ensures that citations to articles will be found easily.

Source localization based on invasive recordings by subdural strip and grid electrodes is a topic of increasing interest. This simulation study addresses the question, which factors are relevant for reliable source reconstruction based on sLORETA. MRI and electrode positions of a patient undergoing invasive presurgical epilepsy diagnostics were the basis of sLORETA simulations. A boundary element head model derived from the MRI was used for the simulation of electrical potentials and source reconstruction. Focal dipolar sources distributed on a regular three-dimensional lattice and spatiotemporal distributed patches served as input for simulation. In addition to the distance between original and reconstructed source maxima, the activation volume of the reconstruction and the correlation of time courses between the original and reconstructed sources were investigated. Simulations were supplemented by the localization of the patient's spike activity. For noise-free simulated data, sLORETA achieved results with zero localization error. Added noise diminished the percentage of reliable source localizations with a localization error 15 mm to 67.8%. Only for source positions close to the electrode contacts the activation volume correctly represented focal generators. Time-courses of original and reconstructed sources were significantly correlated. The case study results showed accurate localization. sLORETA is a distributed source model, which can be applied for reliable grid and strip based source localization. For distant source positions, overestimation of the extent of the generator has to be taken into account. sLORETA-based source reconstruction has the potential to improve the localization of distributed generators in presurgical epilepsy diagnostics and cognitive neuroscience.

In addition to memory deficits, attentional impairment is a common manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study examines the abnormalities of attention-related functional networks in AD using resting functional MRI (fMRI) technique and evaluates the sensitivity and specificity of these networks as potential biomarkers compared with the default mode network (DMN). Group independent component analysis (Group ICA) was applied to fMRI data from 15 AD patients and 16 normal healthy elderly controls (NC) to derive the dorsal attention network (DAN) and the ventral attention network (VAN) which are respectively responsible for the endogenous attention orienting (&quot;top-down&quot;) process and the exogenous attention re-orienting (&quot;bottom-up&quot;) process. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed for activity in core regions within each of these networks. Functional connectivity analysis revealed disrupted DAN and preserved (less impaired) VAN in AD patients compared with NC, which might indicate impairment of a &quot;top-down&quot; and intact &quot;bottom-up&quot; attentional processing mechanisms in AD. ROC curve analysis suggested that activity in the left intraparietal sulcus and left frontal eye field from DAN as well as the posterior cingulate cortex from the DMN could serve as sensitive and specific biomarkers distinguishing AD from NC.
Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a key susceptibility gene implicated in major mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder and autism, but the link between this protein and the pathology of these diseases remains unclear. Recently, DISC1 has been demonstrated to form insoluble protein aggregates in vitro and in human post-mortem brain tissue but the cellular dynamics of these DISC1 aggregates and their effects on neuronal function are unknown. Using a combination of biochemistry and live cell confocal and video microscopy, we characterize the properties of DISC1 aggregates and their effects on cellular function. We demonstrate that DISC1 protein aggregates are recruited to the aggresome and degraded there by the autophagic pathway. We show that there is a compromised exchange between DISC1 in aggresomes and the cytosolic DISC1 pool, and that the large DISC1 aggregates, which can also co-recruit endogenous soluble DISC1, exhibit altered trafficking. Moreover, we demonstrate that large DISC1 aggregates have a pathological effect in neurons by causing the disruption of intracellular transport of key organellar cargo, such as mitochondria. These data, therefore, show that DISC1 is recruited to aggresomes with negative effects on neuronal function, and suggests a novel DISC1-based mechanism for neuronal pathology.
A proline-to-serine substitution at position 56 in the gene encoding vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B (VAPB; VAPBP56S) causes some dominantly inherited familial forms of motor neuron disease, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) type-8. Here, we show that expression of ALS mutant VAPBP56S but not wild-type VAPB in neurons selectively disrupts anterograde axonal transport of mitochondria. VAPBP56S-induced disruption of mitochondrial transport involved reductions in the frequency, velocity and persistence of anterograde mitochondrial movement. Anterograde axonal transport of mitochondria is mediated by the microtubule-based molecular motor kinesin-1. Attachment of kinesin-1 to mitochondria involves the outer mitochondrial membrane protein mitochondrial Rho GTPase-1 (Miro1) which acts as a sensor for cytosolic calcium levels ([Ca(2+)]c); elevated [Ca(2+)]c disrupts mitochondrial transport via an effect on Miro1. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying the VAPBP56S effect on mitochondrial transport, we monitored [Ca(2+)]c levels in VAPBP56S-expressing neurons. Expression of VAPBP56S but not VAPB increased resting [Ca(2+)]c and this was associated with a reduction in the amounts of tubulin but not kinesin-1 that were associated with Miro1. Moreover, expression of a Ca(2+) insensitive mutant of Miro1 rescued defective mitochondrial axonal transport and restored the amounts of tubulin associated with the Miro1/kinesin-1 complex to normal in VAPBP56S-expressing cells. Our results suggest that ALS mutant VAPBP56S perturbs anterograde mitochondrial axonal transport by disrupting Ca(2+) homeostasis and effecting the Miro1/kinesin-1 interaction with tubulin.
The use of model organisms to provide information on gene function has proved to be a powerful approach to our understanding of both human disease and fundamental mammalian biology. Large-scale community projects using mice, based on forward and reverse genetics, and now the pan-genomic phenotyping efforts of the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium, are generating resources on an unprecedented scale, which will be extremely valuable to human genetics and medicine. We discuss the nature and availability of data, mice and embryonic stem cells from these large-scale programmes, the use of these resources to help prioritize and validate candidate genes in human genetic association studies, and how they can improve our understanding of the underlying pathobiology of human disease.
There is an increasing accumulation of data on disease-related mutations and associated phenotypes in a wide variety of databases worldwide. Exploiting these data in the context of whole genome sequencing is inhibited because the phenotype information in these databases is often difficult to search meaningfully or relate between data sets, and automated computational integration is not possible. Key to this integration is the development of ontology-based methods for describing diseases in terms of their component phenotypes. This would allow analysis of variation in disease manifestation, relationships between diseases and phenotypes in model organisms, and linking diseases to gene mutations, pathways, and phenotypes. Building a systematic link to phenotypes manifested in model organisms will be of particular importance with the advent of new, large-scale phenotyping projects such as the International Mouse Phenotyping Consortium. In addition to improved semantic description, funding and organizational innovations are required to support this integration. In particular, a series of national or international hubs to hold genotype and phenotype data are needed which could feed data to a central database. In addition, better coordination of clinical and bioinformatics experts and, crucially, development of a transnational funding and international coordination infrastructure will be required.

Recently, there has been a concentrated effort by companies to better understand the needs and desires of their consumers. Such efforts usually employ different and sophisticated analysis techniques for monitoring the consumers preferences and how such consumers perceive the advertising communication campaign from a specific company.
Communication and marketing campaigns have traditionally been divided into two lines: above the line (ATL) and below the line (BTL). ATL campaigns refer to communications such as TV, print, and outdoor displays that are intended to reach large audiences. The effects of ATL are inherently difficult to measure; we do not see the direct consequences of viewing an advertisement (i.e., a talking baby giving financial advice) and actual purchase of the product. ATL is intended to indirectly improve the impression of a brand. BTL campaigns refer to promotions and in-store displays and are designed to affect the point-of-purchase behavior. The effects of BTL are easier to measure; we see direct consequences of viewing a display (i.e., Today Only, Two for the Price of One) and eventual purchase of the product. BTL is intended to directly improve the impression of a brand. Neuroscience plays an important role in measuring the effects of marketing campaigns. Traditional methods of measurement (such as surveys and interviews) depend on the verbal ability of the consumer to articulate their motivations for purchasing a product. It is well known that participants are poor at introspective reasoning, leading to an eventual purchase that omits emotional elements. Recently, methods normally employed in cognitive neuroscience have been adapted for use in the evaluation of campaign effectiveness. These methods have increased our understanding of factors leading to economic decisions. The application of neuroscience in ATL campaigns is relatively straightforward. Participants view TV commercials, for example, seated in a comfortable setting with minimal movement while electroencephalogram (EEG) measures are monitored. These brain waves reveal cognitive events related to the media. Participants are exposed to a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanner to monitor changes in blood flow in various regions of the brain. Both of these methods are sensitive to underlying cognitive and emotional activity and are complimentary. EEG is more sensitive to time-locked events (i.e., story lines), whereas fMRI is more sensitive to the brain regions involved. The application of neuroscience in BTL campaigns is significantly more difficult to achieve. Participants move unconstrained in a shopping environment while EEG and eye movements are monitored. In this scenario, fMRI is not possible. fMRI can be used with virtual store mock-ups, but it is expensive and seldom used. We have developed a technology that allows for the measurement of EEG in an unobtrusive manner. The intent is to record the brain waves of participants during their day-to-day shopping experience. A miniaturized video recorder, EEG amplifiers, and eye-tracking systems are used. Digital signal processing is employed to remove the substantial artifact generated by eye movements and motion. Eye fixations identify specific viewings of products and displays, and they are used for synchronizing the behavior with EEG response. The location of EEG sources is determined by the use of a source reconstruction software.
It is important for the marketing industry to better understand the role of the unconscious and emotions in advertising communication and shopping behavior. Yet, traditional consumer research is not enough for such a purpose. Conventional paper-and-pencil or verbal declarations favor conscious pragmatism and functionality as the principles underlying consumer decisions and motives. These approaches should be combined with an emerging discipline (consumer neuroscience or neuromarketing) to examine the brain and its functioning in the context of consumer choices. It has been widely acknowledged that patterns of brain activity are closely related to consumers cognition and behavior. Thus, the analysis of consumers neurophysiology may increase the understanding of how consumers process incoming information and how they use their memory and react emotionally (See &quot;Three Types of Brain Wave Research on TV Advertisements&quot;): Moreover, as the majority of consumer mental processes occur below the level of conscious awareness, observations of the brain reactions enable researchers to reach the very core (which is consciously inaccessible) foundations of consumer decisions, emotions, motivations, and preferences.
In scientific literature, the most accepted definition of consumer neuroscience or neuromarketing is that it is a field of study concerning the application of neuroscience methods to analyze and understand human behavior related to markets and marketing exchanges. First, it might seem strange that marketers would be interested in using neuroscience to understand consumer's preferences. Yet in practice, the basic goal of marketers is to guide the design and presentation of products in such a way that they are highly compatible with consumer preferences. To understand consumers preferences, several standard research tools are commonly used by marketers, such as personal interviews with the consumers, scoring questionnaries gathered from consumers, and focus groups. The reason marketing researchers are interested in using brain imaging tools instead of simply asking people for their preferences in front of marketing stimuli, arises from the assumption that people cannot (or do not want to) fully explain their preference when explicitly asked. Researchers in the field hypothesize that neuroimaging tools can access information within the consumer's brain during the generation of a preference or the observation of a commercial advertisement. The question of will this information be useful in further promoting the product is still up for debate in marketing literature. From the marketing researchers point of view, there is a hope that this body of brain imaging techniques will provide an efficient tradeoff between costs and benefits of the research. Currently, neuroscience methodology includes powerful brain imaging tools based on the gathering of hemodynamic or electromagnetic signals related to the human brain activity during the performance of a relevant task for marketing objectives. These tools are briefly reviewed in this article.
Electrical stimulation of nervous tissue has been extensively used as both a tool in experimental neuroscience research and as a method for restoring of neural functions in patients suffering from sensory and motor disabilities. In the central nervous system, intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) has been shown to be an effective method for inducing or biasing perception, including visual and tactile sensation. ICMS also holds promise for enabling brain-machine-brain interfaces (BMBIs) by directly writing information into the brain. Here we detail the design of a high-side, digitally current-controlled biphasic, bipolar microstimulator, and describe the validation of the device in vivo. As many applications of this technique, including BMBIs, require recording as well as stimulation, we pay careful attention to isolation of the stimulus channels and parasitic current injection. With the realized device and standard recording hardware-without active artifact rejection-we are able to observe stimulus artifacts of less than 2 ms in duration.



Tetraspanins are small transmembrane proteins present on the cell surface of almost every eukaryotic cell. Through binding with other transmembrane and intracellular proteins, they regulate diverse cellular processes ranging from cell adhesion and motility to synapse formation and tumor progression. Here, we provide a brief overview of molecular, cellular and clinical studies to illustrate how the multiple functions of this fascinating family of molecules stem from their interplay with multiple molecular partners. In particular, we emphasize the special relationship between tetraspanins and the cell adhesion molecules integrins in regulating cell physiology in health and disease.

Tumour growth at primary or secondary extravasation sites leads to localised regions of reduced oxygen tension (hypoxia) in cells both within and surrounding the tumour. Although the angiogenic response of the tumour cell to hypoxia has been widely examined, the effect of hypoxia on other cell types within the tumour microenvironment is less clear. The endothelium is highly responsive to local hypoxia and regulates tumour cell dissemination and ultimately metastatic success through differential regulation of hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs). The endothelial response to hypoxia particularly mediates key processes that regulate tumour vascularisation and cancer progression, including proliferation, migration, adherence, and vascular permeability. This article describes current understanding of the HIF-mediated endothelial response to hypoxia during cancer progression. Endothelial HIF signalling regulates tumour growth and metastasis and is therefore an attractive putative target for treatments that inhibit cancer progression.
Abnormal dopaminergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus may be involved in certain aspects of cognitive dysfunction. In the hippocampus, there is little, if any, expression of dopamine transporters (DAT), indicating that the mechanism for dopamine clearance differs from that in the striatum. Here, by means of in-vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats, we tested the hypothesis that the norepinephrine transporter (NET) is involved in dopamine clearance in the hippocampus. We found that systemic administration of the selective NET inhibitor reboxetine (3 mg/kg) and the psychostimulants amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) and cocaine (10 mg/kg) increased hippocampal dopamine efflux. Local administration of reboxetine (300 M) produced a large increase in hippocampal dopamine levels that could not be further enhanced by the addition of the NET/DAT inhibitor nomifensine (100 M). Administration of the specific DAT inhibitor GBR12909 at a concentration (1 mM) that robustly increased dopamine in the nucleus accumbens had a comparably smaller effect in the hippocampus. In line with a minor role of DAT in the hippocampus, we detected very little DAT in this area using ligand binding with radiolabelled RTI-55. Moreover, in contrast to raclopride (100 M), a dopamine D2-autoreceptor antagonist, local administration of the 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (100 M) increased hippocampal dopamine. Taken together, our data demonstrate an interaction between dopamine and norepinephrine systems in the hippocampus. It is proposed that this interaction originates from a shared uptake mechanism at the NET level.

It has been reported that GSM electromagnetic fields (GSM-EMFs) of mobile phones modulate - after a prolonged exposure - inter-hemispheric synchronization of temporal and frontal resting electroencephalographic (EEG) rhythms in normal young and elderly subjects (Vecchio et al., 2007, 2010). Here we tested the hypothesis that this can be even more evident in epileptic patients, who typically suffer from abnormal mechanisms governing synchronization of rhythmic firing of cortical neurons. Eyes-closed resting EEG data were recorded in ten patients affected by focal epilepsy in real and sham exposure conditions. These data were compared with those obtained from 15 age-matched normal subjects of the previous reference studies. The GSM device was turned on (45 min) in the &quot;GSM&quot; condition and was turned off (45 min) in the other condition (&quot;sham&quot;). The mobile phone was always positioned on the left side in both patients and control subjects. Spectral coherence evaluated the inter-hemispheric synchronization of EEG rhythms at the following frequency bands: delta (about 2-4 Hz), theta (about 4-6 Hz), alpha1 (about 6-8 Hz), alpha2 (about 8-10 Hz), and alpha3 (about 10-12 Hz). The effects on the patients were investigated comparing the inter-hemispheric EEG coherence in the epileptic patients with the control group of subjects evaluated in the previous reference studies. Compared with the control subjects, epileptic patients showed a statistically significant higher inter-hemispheric coherence of temporal and frontal alpha rhythms (about 8-12 Hz) in the GSM than &quot;Sham&quot; condition. These results suggest that GSM-EMFs of mobile phone may affect inter-hemispheric synchronization of the dominant (alpha) EEG rhythms in epileptic patients. If confirmed by future studies on a larger group of epilepsy patients, the modulation of the inter-hemispheric alpha coherence due to the GSM-EMFs could have clinical implications and be related to changes in cognitive-motor function.



The Australian Clinical Guidelines for Stroke Management 2010 represents an update of the Clinical Guidelines for Stroke Rehabilitation and Recovery (2005) and the Clinical Guidelines for Acute Stroke Management (2007). For the first time, they cover the whole spectrum of stroke, from public awareness and prehospital response to stroke unit and stroke management strategies, acute treatment, secondary prevention, rehabilitation and community care. The guidelines also include recommendations on transient ischaemic attack. The most significant changes to previous guideline recommendations include the extension of the stroke thrombolysis window from 3 to 4.5 h and the change from positive to negative recommendations for the use of thigh-length antithrombotic stockings for deep venous thrombosis prevention and the routine use of prolonged positioning for contracture management.
Onset of psychosis may be associated with abnormal adolescent neurodevelopment. Here we examined the neurocognitive profile of first-episode, adolescent onset psychosis (AOP) as compared to typically developing adolescents, and asked whether neurocognitive performance varied differentially as a function of age in the cases compared with controls. A comprehensive neuropsychological battery was administered to 35 patients experiencing a first-episode of a DSM-IV psychotic disorder and to 31 matched controls. Clinicians also rated subjects' social and role functioning, both at the time of neuropsychological assessment and 1 year later. Although patients displayed a wide range of impairments relative to controls, their most pronounced deficits included verbal memory, sensorimotor dexterity and cognitive processing speed. Among these, only processing speed showed a significant group-by-age interaction, consistent with an aberrant developmental course among AOP patients. Processing speed also accounted for substantial variance in other areas of deficit, and predicted social functioning 1 year later. AOP patients fail to show normal age-related increases in processing speed, which in turn predicts poorer functional outcomes. This pattern is consistent with the view that adolescent brain developmental processes, such as myelination, may be disrupted in these patients.
The present study evaluated preventive effects of the Incredible Years program for parents of preschool children who were at risk for a chronic pattern of conduct problems, in the Netherlands. In a matched control design, 72 parents of children with conduct problems received the Incredible Years program. These families (intervention group) were compared with 72 families who received care as usual (control group). Two years after termination of the intervention, it appeared that observed and selfrated parenting skills were significantly improved in the intervention group. Likewise, in this group, observed child conduct problems showed sustained intervention effects. The decrease in observed critical parenting mediated the decrease in observed child conduct problems over time. In addition, it appeared that parental influence increased over time.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) research portrays a mixed picture of attentional abilities with demonstrations of enhancements (e.g., superior visual search) and deficits (e.g., higher distractibility). Here we test a potential resolution derived from the Load Theory of Attention (e.g., Lavie, 2005). In Load Theory, distractor processing depends on the perceptual load of the task and as such can only be eliminated under high load that engages full capacity. We hypothesize that ASD involves enhanced perceptual capacity, leading to the superior performance and increased distractor processing previously reported. Using a signal-detection paradigm, we test this directly and demonstrate that, under higher levels of load, perceptual sensitivity was reduced in typical adults but not in adults with ASD. These findings confirm our hypothesis and offer a promising solution to the previous discrepancies by suggesting that increased distractor processing in ASD results not from a filtering deficit but from enhanced perceptual capacity.
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) workgroup for disruptive behavior disorders is considering adopting a frequency threshold for symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder (ODD). In the present study, the impact of substituting the term &quot;often&quot; with a specific age-based frequency on impairment and prognosis among preschool children was tested in a longitudinal design. Mutually exclusive groups were created to identify children who met criteria for ODD based on a symptom threshold of &quot;often,&quot; as in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-4), and those that met criteria for ODD based on a threshold of &quot;1-2 times per day,&quot; which approximated the proposal for DSM-5. Comparisons of these groups to each other and to nondiagnosed peers determined the impact of changing the symptom threshold on impairment and prognosis. Close to one-third of children who met DSM-4 criteria for ODD did not meet criteria under the alternative diagnosis; African American children were overrepresented in this group. Preschoolers who met DSM-4, but not the alternative criteria, had higher rates of ODD, conduct disorder (CD), and were more impaired than their nondiagnosed peers at baseline and follow-up. Preschoolers meeting DSM-4 criteria were less impaired than children meeting the alternative ODD criteria at baseline according to parent, but not according to teacher report. No differences could be detected between those meeting DSM-4 and those meeting the alternative criteria in rate of ODD, CD, or impairment at follow-up. Among clinically referred preschool children, changing the symptom threshold for ODD could result in a sizable group of children who would no longer meet diagnostic criteria, despite demonstrating significant morbidity concurrently and prospectively.
Bilateral cochlear implant patients are unable to localize as well as normal hearing listeners. Although poor sensitivity to interaural time differences clearly contributes to this deficit, it is unclear whether deficits in terms of interaural level differences are also a contributing factor. In this study, localization was tested while manipulating interaural time and level cues using head-related transfer functions. The results indicate that bilateral cochlear implant users' ability to localize based on interaural level differences is actually greater than that of untrained normal hearing listeners.
The current understanding of mammalian sound localization is that azimuthal (horizontal) position assignments are dependent upon the relative activation of two populations of broadly-tuned hemifield neurons with overlapping medial borders. Recent psychophysical work has provided evidence for a third channel of low-frequency interaural time difference (ITD)-sensitive neurons tuned to the azimuthal midline. However, the neurophysiological data on free-field azimuth receptive fields, especially of cortical neurons, has primarily studied high-frequency cells whose receptive fields are more likely to have been shaped by interaural level differences (ILDs) than ITDs. In four experiments, a selective adaptation paradigm was used to probe for the existence of a midline channel in the domain of ILDs. If no midline channel exists, symmetrical adaptation of the lateral channels should not result in a shift in the perceived intracranial location of subsequent test tones away from the adaptors because the relative activation of the two channels will remain unchanged. Instead, results indicate a shift in perceived test tone location away from the adaptors, which supports the existence of a midline channel in the domain of ILDs. Interestingly, this shift occurs not only at high frequencies, traditionally associated with ILDs in natural settings, but at low frequencies as well.
Previous studies investigating sensitivity to step changes in tempo and prediction of tone onset time have generally utilized isochronous sequences. This study investigates subjects' ability to detect deviations from a gradual change in the tempo of a tone sequence (experiment 1) and their judgment of the perceptually optimal timing of this tone (experiment 2). In experiment 1, inter-onset-intervals within pairs of eight-tone sequences followed a geometric progression to create a gradual tempo change. In one sequence, the final tone was presented either earlier or later than specified by the progression. Subjects performed well at detecting deviations that exaggerated the tempo progression but poorly when it was counteracted. Experiment 2 used similar pairs except that the final tone was always presented earlier in one sequence than the other. Final interval length was adaptively adjusted to subjects' judgments; it was adjudged in best agreement with the progression when its length was roughly half way between the mathematically correct value and the length of the penultimate interval. The data support &quot;multiple-look&quot; and entrainment models of tempo sensitivity and suggest that temporal prediction is based less on the tempo contour of a whole sequence than on the duration of the preceding interval.







The eighth edition of the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals recognizes the widespread use of aquatic and semiaquatic research animals by including, among other references, an entire section on aquatic animals in its chapter on environment, housing, and management. Recognizing the large number of aquatic and semiaquatic species used in research and the inherent diversity in animal needs, the Guide refers the reader to texts and journal reviews for specific recommendations and suggests consultations with persons experienced in caring for aquatic species. Here we present considerations that may add to the basic information presented in the Guide and offer some recommendations that may be useful for aquatic animal model caregivers and researchers.

Little is known about the role of Ca(2+) in central chemosensitive signaling. We use electrophysiology to examine the chemosensitive responses of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-insensitive oscillations and spikes in neurons of the locus ceruleus (LC), a chemosensitive region involved in respiratory control. We show that both TTX-insensitive spikes and oscillations in LC neurons are sensitive to L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibition and are activated by increased CO(2)/H(+). Spikes appear to arise from L-type Ca(2+) channels on the soma whereas oscillations arise from L-type Ca(2+) channels that are distal to the soma. In HEPES-buffered solution (nominal absence of CO(2)/HCO(3)(-)), acidification does not activate either oscillations or spikes. When CO(2) is increased while extracellular pH is held constant by elevated HCO(3)(-), both oscillation and spike frequency increase. Furthermore, plots of both oscillation and spike frequency vs. intracellular [HCO(3)(-)]show a strong linear correlation. Increased frequency of TTX-insensitive spikes is associated with increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations. Finally, both the appearance and frequency of TTX-insensitive spikes and oscillations increase over postnatal ages day 3-16. Our data suggest that 1) L-type Ca(2+) currents in LC neurons arise from channel populations that reside in different regions of the neuron, 2) these L-type Ca(2+) currents undergo significant postnatal development, and 3) the activity of these L-type Ca(2+) currents is activated by increased CO(2) through a HCO(3)(-)-dependent mechanism. Thus the activity of L-type Ca(2+) channels is likely to play a role in the chemosensitive response of LC neurons and may underlie significant changes in LC neuron chemosensitivity during neonatal development.
Intermittent hypoxia (IH) conditioning minimizes neurocognitive impairment and stabilizes brain mitochondrial integrity during ethanol withdrawal (EW) in rats, but the mitoprotective mechanism is unclear. We investigated whether IH conditioning protects a key mitochondrial enzyme, cytochrome c oxidase (COX), from EW stress by inhibiting mitochondrially directed apoptotic pathways involving cytochrome c, Bax, or phosphor-P38 (pP38). Male rats completed two cycles of a 4-wk ethanol diet (6.5%) and 3 wk of EW. An IH program consisting of 5-10 bouts of 5-8 min of mild hypoxia (9.5-10% inspired O(2)) and 4 min of reoxygenation for 20 consecutive days began 3 days before the first EW period. For some animals, vitamin E replaced IH conditioning to test the contributions of antioxidant mechanisms to IH's mitoprotection. During the second EW, cerebellar-related motor function was evaluated by measuring latency of fall from a rotating rod (Rotarod test). After the second EW, COX activity in cerebellar mitochondria was measured by spectrophotometry, and COX, cytochrome c, Bax, and pP38 content were analyzed by immunoblot. Mitochondrial protein oxidation was detected by measuring carbonyl contents and by immunochemistry. Earlier IH conditioning prevented motor impairment, COX inactivation, depletion of COX subunit 4, protein carbonylation, and P38 phosphorylation during EW. IH did not prevent cytochrome c depletion during EW, and Bax content was unaffected by EW  IH. Vitamin E treatment recapitulated IH protection of COX, and P38 inhibition attenuated protein oxidation during EW. Thus IH protects COX and improves cerebellar function during EW by limiting P38-dependent oxidative damage.
In this study, the coordinated activation of ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP), autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP), and mitochondrial remodeling including mitophagy was assessed by measuring protein markers during ultra-endurance running exercise in human skeletal muscle. Eleven male, experienced ultra-endurance athletes ran for 24 h on a treadmill. Muscle biopsy samples were taken from the vastus lateralis muscle 2 h before starting and immediately after finishing exercise. Athletes ran 149.8  16.3 km with an effective running time of 18 h 42 min (  41 min). The phosphorylation state of Akt (-74  5%; P &lt; 0.001), FOXO3a (-49  9%; P &lt; 0.001), mTOR Ser2448 (-32  14%; P = 0.028), and 4E-BP1 (-34  7%; P &lt; 0.001) was decreased, whereas AMPK phosphorylation state increased by 247  170% (P = 0.042). Proteasome 2 subunit activity increased by 95  44% (P = 0.028), whereas the activities associated with the 1 and 5 subunits remained unchanged. MuRF1 protein level increased by 55  26% (P = 0.034), whereas MAFbx protein and ubiquitin-conjugated protein levels did not change. LC3bII increased by 554  256% (P = 0.005), and the form of ATG12 conjugated to ATG5 increased by 36  17% (P = 0.042). The mitochondrial fission marker phospho-DRP1 increased by 110  47% (P = 0.003), whereas the fusion marker Mfn1 and the mitophagy markers Parkin and PINK1 remained unchanged. These results fit well with a coordinated regulation of ALP and UPP triggered by FOXO3 and AMPK during ultra-endurance exercise.
Recently the DRD3 gene has been associated with ASD in two independent samples. Follow up analysis of the risk allele of the SNP rs167771 in 91 subjects revealed a significant association with a specific type of repetitive behavior: the factor &quot;insistence on sameness&quot; (IS) derived from the Autism Diagnostic Interview. This risk allele was associated with a decreased risk for IS, but not with any other symptomatology. Further study and replication of this finding is necessary, bearing in mind that these results would not be statistically significant if corrected for multiple testing.
In this study we investigated the contribution of gender to global gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and healthy controls. We observed that, in contrast to the conventional approach, gender-based case-control comparisons resulted in genelists with significantly reduced heterogeneity in human populations. In addition, MS was characterized by significant changes both in the quantity and in the quality of the sex-specific genes. Application of stringent statistics defined gender-based signatures which classified a second independent MS population with high precision. The global unsupervised cluster analyses for 60 subjects showed that 29/31 female and 27/29 male samples were properly identified. Notably, MS was associated in women and in men with distinct gene signatures which however shared several molecular functions, biological processes and interactors. Issues regarding epigenetic control of gene expression appeared as the main common theme for disease, with a central role for the functional modules related to histone deacetylase, NF-kappaB and androgen receptor signaling. Moreover, in silico analyses predicted that the differential expression in MS women and men were depending on the transcription factor SP1. Specific targeting of this pathway by the bis-anthracycline WP631 impaired T cell responses in vitro and in vivo, and reduced the incidence and the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, indicating that SP1 dependent gene transcription sustains neuroinflammation. Thus, the gender-based approach with its reduced heterogeneity and the systems biology tools with the identification of the molecular and functional networks successfully uncovered the differences but also the commonalities associated to multiple sclerosis in women and men. In conclusion, we propose gender-based systems biology as a novel tool to gain fundamental information on disease-associated functional processes.
In this study, we attempted to elucidate whether the effects of ethanol extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (GBE) observed previously on isolated rat heart mitochondria may be realized in situ (in case of isolated heart perfused under normal conditions and under ischemia-reperfusion). We found that GBE at low concentrations (0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 L/mL) does not affect the heart rate and parameters of electrocardiogram (ECG) but produces a small increase in the coronary flow. Higher concentration of GBE (0.2 and 0.3 L/mL) diminished the heart rate, decreased the coronary flow, and tended to enhance the parameters of ECG. The contractility of isolated rat heart and mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide reduced form fluorescence decreased in a GBE concentration-dependent manner. Mitochondria isolated from hearts pre-perfused with GBE (0.05 L/mL) for 20 minutes before nonflow global ischemia-reperfusion (45 min/15 min) showed higher respiratory rates with pyruvate + malate in state 2 and state 3, higher respiratory control index, and diminished HO generation compared with untreated group. Higher GBE concentration, 0.4 L/mL, had no effect on H2O2 generation and did not prevent the ischemia-reperfusion-induced decrease of pyruvate + malate oxidation in state 3 but even enhanced it. However, in the case of nonischemic perfusions, this GBE concentration had no significant effect on these parameters of respiratory functions of isolated heart mitochondria.
Psychosis has been recognized as a common feature in neurodegenerative diseases and a core feature of dementia that worsens most clinical courses. It includes hallucinations, delusions including paranoia, aggressive behaviour, apathy and other psychotic phenomena that occur in a wide range of degenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, synucleinopathies (Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies), Huntington's disease, frontotemporal degenerations, motoneuron and prion diseases. Many of these psychiatric manifestations may be early expressions of cognitive impairment, but often there is a dissociation between psychotic/behavioural symptoms and the rather linear decline in cognitive function, suggesting independent pathophysiological mechanisms. Strictly neuropathological explanations are likely to be insufficient to explain them, and a large group of heterogeneous factors (environmental, neurochemical changes, genetic factors, etc.) may influence their pathogenesis. Clinico-pathological evaluation of behavioural and psychotic symptoms (PS) in the setting of neurodegenerative and dementing disorders presents a significant challenge for modern neurosciences. Recognition and understanding of these manifestations may lead to the development of more effective preventive and therapeutic options that can serve to delay long-term progression of these devastating disorders and improve the patients' quality of life. A better understanding of the pathophysiology and distinctive pathological features underlying the development of PS in neurodegenerative diseases may provide important insights into psychotic processes in general.
Two small GTPases, Rab and Arf, are well-known molecular switches that function in diverse membrane-trafficking routes in a coordinated manner; however, very little is known about the direct crosstalk between Rab and Arf. Although Rab35 and Arf6 were independently reported to regulate the same cellular events, including endocytic recycling, phagocytosis, cytokinesis and neurite outgrowth, the molecular basis that links them remains largely unknown. Here we show that centaurin-2 (also known as ACAP2) functions both as a Rab35 effector and as an Arf6-GTPase-activating protein (GAP) during neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells. We found that Rab35 accumulates at Arf6-positive endosomes in response to nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulation and that centaurin-2 is recruited to the same compartment in a Rab35-dependent manner. We further showed by knockdown and rescue experiments that after the Rab35-dependent recruitment of centaurin-2, the Arf6-GAP activity of centaurin-2 at the Arf6-positive endosomes was indispensable for NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. These findings suggest a novel mode of crosstalk between Rab and Arf: a Rab effector and Arf-GAP coupling mechanism, in which Arf-GAP is recruited to a specific membrane compartment by its Rab effector function.
G-protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) channels (GIRKs; also called Kir3) are a family of K(+) channels, which are activated (opened) via a signal transduction cascade starting with ligand-stimulated G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Four GIRK genes have been identified (GIRK1-4). GIRK4 (Kir3.4) has a role in regulating energy homeostasis, since mice with a targeted mutation in the GIRK4 gene exhibit a predisposition to late-onset obesity. GIRK4 mRNA is expressed in hypothalamic regions that harbor neurons involved in the regulation of food intake and body weight. Using goat and rabbit antisera to the GIRK4 protein, the cellular localization and transmitter content of GIRK4-immunoreactive neurons was determined in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus, a region that contains neurons which are accessible to circulating hormones and is intimately associated with the control of body weight. GIRK4-immunoreactive large cell bodies were demonstrated in the ventrolateral part of the arcuate nucleus, with smaller neuronal cell bodies in the ventromedial part of the nucleus. Double-labeling showed presence of GIRK4 immunoreactivity in large neurons of the ventrolateral arcuate nucleus containing the peptides -melanocyte-stimulating hormone (-MSH), a marker for pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons, and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). GIRK4 immunoreactivity was also seen in neurons of the ventromedial part of the arcuate nucleus containing agouti-regulated peptide (AgRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY). The results suggest that the GIRK4 channel protein plays a role in regulating membrane excitability in chemically defined neurons of the arcuate nucleus that control body weight.
The question of whether child and adolescent mental disorders are best classified using dimensional or categorical approaches is a contentious one that has equally profound implications for clinical practice and scientific enquiry. Here, we explore this issue in the context of the forth coming publication of the DSM-5 and ICD-11 approaches to classification and diagnosis and in the light of recent empirical studies. First, we provide an overview of current category-based systems and dimensional alternatives. Second, we distinguish the various strands of meaning and levels of analysis implied when we talk about categories and dimensions of mental disorder--distinguishing practical clinical necessity, formal diagnostic systems, meta-theoretical beliefs and empirical reality. Third, we introduce the different statistical techniques developed to identify disorder dimensions and categories in childhood populations and to test between categorical and dimensional models. Fourth, we summarise the empirical evidence from recent taxometric studies in favour of the 'taxonomic hypothesis' that mental disorder categories reflect discrete entities with putative specific causes. Finally, we explore the implications of these findings for clinical practice and science.

A fast and sensitive liquid chromatographic (fast-LC) method with radiometric detection was developed and validated to analyze positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands in plasma during PET studies. The plasma samples were deproteinized with acetonitrile and the extracts were injected into the fast-LC system coupled to an on-line radioactivity detector. Under the optimum conditions, complete separation of target PET radioligands from their radioactive metabolites was achieved within the short run time of only 3.5-min. The limits of detection were 1.0-1.2 Becquerel (Bq) for (11)C and (18)F-labeled compounds. This method can successfully be applied to study the metabolism of a wide variety of PET radioligands in human and monkey plasma with higher numbers of samples to be analyzed compared to the traditional LC method.



Relationship problems and depression often influence one another in a bidirectional, recursive fashion. Results from several clinical trials have demonstrated that couple therapy is effective in improving depression and reducing relationship problems. In this article, we describe an approach to working with depression in partnered individuals who are also unhappy in their relationship. This cognitive-behavior approach strives to (a) eliminate major stressors and reestablish positive activities in the relationship, (b) improve communication and problem solving in the relationship, and (c) solidify gains made in therapy and prevent relapse. The typical course of therapy is described and demonstrated in a case illustration. Couple therapy is a promising treatment for depressed individuals in distressed relationships.
Attention is attracted exogenously by physically salient stimuli, but this effect can be dampened by endogenous attention settings, a phenomenon called &quot;contingent capture.&quot; Emotionally salient stimuli are also thought to exert a strong exogenous influence on attention, especially in anxious individuals, but whether and how top-down attention can ameliorate bottom-up capture by affective stimuli is currently unknown. Here, we paired a novel spatial cueing task with fMRI to investigate contingent capture as a function of the affective salience of bottom-up cues (face stimuli) and individual differences in trait anxiety. In the absence of top-down cues, exogenous stimuli validly cueing targets facilitated attention in low-anxious participants, regardless of affective salience. However, although high-anxious participants exhibited similar facilitation following neutral exogenous cues, this facilitation was completely absent following affectively negative exogenous cues. Critically, these effects were contingent on endogenous attentional settings, such that explicit top-down cues presented before the appearance of exogenous stimuli removed anxious individuals' sensitivity to affectively salient stimuli. fMRI analyses revealed a network of brain regions underlying this variability in affective contingent capture across individuals, including the fusiform face area (FFA), posterior ventrolateral frontal cortex, and SMA. Importantly, activation in the posterior ventrolateral frontal cortex and the SMA fully mediated the effects observed in FFA, demonstrating a critical role for these frontal regions in mediating attentional orienting and interference resolution processes when engaged by affectively salient stimuli.
In analyses of the motor system, two hierarchies are often posited: The first-the action hierarchy-is a decomposition of an action into subactions and sub-subactions. The second-the control hierarchy-is a postulated hierarchy in the neural control processes that are supposed to bring about the action. A general assumption in cognitive neuroscience is that these two hierarchies are internally consistent and provide complementary descriptions of neuronal control processes. In this article, we suggest that neither offers a complete explanation and that they cannot be reconciled in a logical or conceptually coherent way. Furthermore, neither pays proper attention to the dynamics and temporal aspects of neural control processes. We will explore an alternative hierarchical organization in which causality is inherent in the dynamics over time. Specifically, high levels of the hierarchy encode more stable (goal-related) representations, whereas lower levels represent more transient (actions and motor acts) kinematics. If employed properly, a hierarchy based on this latter principle of temporal extension is not subject to the problems that plague the traditional accounts.
The aim of the present research is to perform a detailed and empirical investigation of schizophrenia patients' deficits in recognizing and recovering a communicative failure. In particular, this paper investigates the role of Theory of Mind (ToM) and of the complexity of the mental representations involved in explaining patients' deficits in recognizing and recovering different kinds of communicative failures, i.e. failure of the expressive act, failure of communicative meaning and failure of the communicative effect. Twenty-two patients with schizophrenia and an equal number of healthy controls took part in the experiment. The experimental protocol consisted of videotaped stories in which two agents interact, showing a communicative failure; the participants were asked to recognize and repair the observed failure. Some classical ToM tests (Sally and Ann, Modified Smarties and a selection of six Strange Stories) were also administered. Our results revealed a deficit in patients, when compared with healthy controls, in recognizing and recovering communicative failures. Furthermore, focusing on schizophrenia patients' performance per se, we observed a trend with regard to the increasing difficulty of understanding and recognizing different kinds of communicative failures, i.e. failure of expression act, failure of communicative meaning, and failure of the communicative effect. Learning outcomes: The reader becomes aware that schizophrenic patients perform less well than healthy controls in recognizing and recovering different kinds of communicative failures, and of the role played by Theory of Mind, and representational complexity involved in such different kinds of failures, in explaining patients' performance.
Individual types of retinal neurons are distributed to minimize proximity to neighboring cells. Many of these same cell types extend dendrites to provide coverage of the retinal surface. These two cardinal features of retinal mosaics are disrupted, for certain cell types, in mice deficient for the Down syndrome cell adhesion molecule, Dscam, exhibiting an aberrant clustering of somata and fasciculation of dendrites. The Dscam mutant mouse retina also exhibits excess numbers of these same cell types. The present study compared these two features in Dscam mutant retinas with the Bax knockout retina, in which excess numbers of two of these cell types, the melanopsin-positive retinal ganglion cells (MRGCs) and the dopaminergic amacrine cells (DACs), are also present. Whole retinas were immunolabeled for both populations, and every labeled soma was plotted. For the MRGCs, we found a gene dosage effect for Dscam, with the Dscam+/- retinas showing smaller increases in cell number, clustering, and fasciculation. Curiously, Bax-/- retinas, showing numbers of MRGCs intermediate to those found in the Dscam-/- and Dscam+/- retinas, also had clustering and fasciculation phenotypes that were intermediate to retinas with those genotypes. DACs, by comparison, showed changes in both the Dscam-/- and the Bax-/- retinas that did not correlate with their increases in DAC number. The fasciculation phenotype in the Dscam-/- retina was particularly prominent despite only modest clustering. These results demonstrate that the somal clustering and fasciculation observed in the Dscam mutant retina are not unique to Dscam deficiency and are manifested distinctively by different retinal cell types.
Zebrin II (aldolase C) is expressed in a subset of Purkinje cells in the mammalian and avian cerebella such that there is a characteristic parasagittal organization of zebrin-immunopositive stripes alternating with zebrin-immunonegative stripes. Zebrin is expressed not only in the soma and dendrites of Purkinje cells but also in their axonal terminals. Here we describe the distribution of zebrin immunoreactivity in both the vestibular and the cerebellar nuclei of pigeons (Columba livia) and hummingbirds (Calypte anna, Selasphorus rufus). In the medial cerebellar nucleus, zebrin-positive labeling was particularly heavy in the shell, whereas the core was zebrin negative. In the lateral cerebellar nucleus, labeling was not as heavy, but a positive shell and negative core were also observed. In the vestibular nuclear complex, zebrin-positive terminal labeling was heavy in the dorsolateral vestibular nucleus and the lateral margin of the superior vestibular nucleus. The central and medial regions of the superior nucleus were generally zebrin negative. Labeling was moderate to heavy in the medial vestibular nucleus, particulary the rostral half of the parvocellular subnucleus. A moderate amount of zebrin-positive labeling was present in the descending vestibular nucleus: this was heaviest laterally, and the central region was generally zebrin negative. Zebrin-positive terminals were also observed in the the cerebellovestibular process, prepositus hypoglossi, and lateral tangential nucleus. We discuss our findings in light of similar studies in rats and with respect to the corticonuclear projections to the cerebellar nuclei and the functional connections of the vestibulocerebellum with the vestibular nuclei.
The A13 dopaminergic nucleus belongs to the incerto-hypothalamic area. It is thought to exert autonomous roles by integrating sensory input to autonomic, neuroendocrine, and motor output. Although its early development has been well characterized, the factors that contribute to later steps of its formation remain unknown. Transcription factors of the Onecut family have been detected in the A13 nucleus, raising the question of possible roles of these factors during A13 development. Using a combination of immunofluorescence analyses on sections and after whole-mount labeling followed by 3D reconstructions, we further characterized the second phase of development of the A13 nucleus in the mouse, described the distribution of the Onecut proteins throughout A13 development, and analyzed the phenotype of this nucleus in single or compound mutant embryos for the Onecut factors. Here we show that A13 development can be divided into two successive phases. First, during radial migration toward the pial surface the A13 cells differentiate into dopaminergic neurons. Second, these cells gather in the vicinity of the third ventricle. Onecut factors are dynamically and differentially expressed in the A13 nucleus during these two phases of development. In Onecut mutant embryos, the A13 neurons differentiate normally but scatter in the diencephalon and fail to properly gather close to the third ventricle. Hence, Onecut factors are markers of the A13 nucleus throughout embryonic development. They are dispensable for the first phase of A13 development but are required for the second phase of development and for maintenance of this nucleus.
Morphine, codeine, morphine-6-glucuronide, and morphine-3-glucuronide are synthesized de novo in mammalian cells and in the central nervous system. Knowledge on endogenous morphine-like compound distribution in the adult mouse brain has been recently improved, and new hypotheses have been suggested about the potential implications in brain physiology. Endogenous morphine-like compounds have been shown to be synthesized in the spinal cord, but their localization is unknown. Here we describe the distribution of endogenous morphine-like compounds (morphine and/or its glucuronides and/or codeine) in the adult mouse spinal cord using a well-validated antibody. By using different microscopy approaches, we found the presence of morphine, codeine, or morphine glucuronides in -aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurons and astrocytes of the spinal cord. Whereas GABAergic neurons containing endogenous morphine-like compounds were located primarily in the ventral horn, astrocytes that were labeled for morphine-like compounds were found throughout the gray matter and the white matter. Our study demonstrates the possibility that endogenous morphine-like compounds in the central nervous system have other functions beyond their analgesic functions.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a family of inherited diseases causing progressive photoreceptor death. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) form the biological substrate for various therapeutic approaches designed to restore vision in RP individuals. Assessment of survival and preservation of RGCs in animal paradigms mimicking the human disease is of key importance for appropriate implementation of vision repair strategies. Here we studied the survival of RGCs in the rd1 mutant mouse, a known model of early onset, autosomic recessive RP, at various stages of photoreceptor degeneration. Furthermore, we analyzed the morphology of various types of RGCs using the newly generated transgenic mouse rd1/Thy1-GFP, in which the rd1 mutation is associated with green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression in a small population of different RGCs. We found excellent survival of cells at up to 1 year of age, a time at which the inner retina is known to have severely reorganized and partially degenerated. However, 50% of the cells analyzed within all RGC types exhibit an undersized dendritic tree, spanning about half of the normal area. Undersized cells are found both in adult and in very young (1-month-old) mice. This suggests that their aberrant phenotype is due to incomplete dendritic development, possibly as a consequence of altered visual input at the time of dendritic arbor refinement. These data show the importance of the timing of photoreceptor death in RGC dendritic development.


Pancreatic cells contain specialised stores for ATP. Purinergic receptors (P2 and P1) and ecto-nucleotidases are expressed in both endocrine and exocrine calls, as well as in stromal cells. The pancreas, especially the endocrine cells, were an early target for the actions of ATP. After the historical perspective of purinergic signalling in the pancreas, the focus of this review will be the physiological functions of purinergic signalling in the regulation of both endocrine and exocrine pancreas. Next, we will consider possible interaction between purinergic signalling and other regulatory systems and their relation to nutrient homeostasis and cell survival. The pancreas is an organ exhibiting several serious diseases - cystic fibrosis, pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer and diabetes - and some are associated with changes in life-style and are increasing in incidence. There is upcoming evidence for the role of purinergic signalling in the pathophysiology of the pancreas, and the new challenge is to understand how it is integrated with other pathological processes.
Two experiments examined conditional discrimination in 4- to 6-year-olds. Children learned to choose one of two objects (e.g., circle) when the background was, say, red and to choose the other object (e.g., triangle) when the background was, say, blue. Awareness was assessed and interpreted as a marker of relational processing. In Experiment 1, most 4- and 5-year-olds did not reach the learning criterion. Children in Experiment 2 solved simpler reversal learning problems before the conditional discrimination problems. Most 4- to 6-year-olds reached criterion, but they did not necessarily demonstrate awareness, suggesting that reversal learning and conditional discrimination can be acquired through associative or relational processing. Relational processing increased with age and was used more on simpler problems. Fluid intelligence predicted Problem 2 performance in children who used relational (not associative) processing on Problem 1. Prior experience with simpler problems and awareness of relational structure are influential in children's conditional discrimination.
Neuroscience suggests that the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is responsible for conflict monitoring and the detection of errors in cognitive tasks, thereby contributing to the implementation of attentional control. Though individual differences in frontally mediated goal maintenance have clearly been shown to influence outward behavior in interference-rich contexts, it is unclear whether corresponding differences exist in neural responses that arise out of the ACC. To investigate this possibility, we conducted an electrophysiological study using a variant of the Simon Task, recording event-related potentials (ERPs) in healthy normal individuals with varying working memory capacity (high vs. low spans; a behavioral proxy for variability in goal maintenance). Primary analyses focused on the magnitude of the error-related negativity (ERN), a response-locked ERP component associated with the commission of errors thought to arise because of action monitoring in the ACC. Our results revealed that frontally mediated working memory capacity may alter error monitoring by the ACC, with high spans showing a greater ERN than low spans. These individual differences were also observed in the posterror positivity, a response-locked ERP component associated with updating cognitive strategies, suggesting greater awareness of errors with increased working memory capacity. These results are interpreted within 2-process models of attentional control, suggesting individuals with greater working memory capacity may better maintain task goals by more strongly biasing neural activity in frontal-executive networks.
How chronic exposure to aquatic pollution affects reproductive traits was assessed in nesting wild-caught plainfin midshipman Porichthys notatus in areas with low and high contaminant exposure on Vancouver Island, British Columbia. Males in high-exposure areas had a greater degree of testicular asymmetry, sperm with shorter heads and fewer live eggs in their nests. The results of this study provide important insights into the potential consequences of contaminant exposure on the reproductive physiology of wild-caught fishes.

Collaboration between human neuropsychology and comparative neuroscience has generated invaluable contributions to our understanding of human brain evolution and function. Further cross-talk between these disciplines has the potential to continue to revolutionize these fields. Modern neuroimaging methods could be applied in a comparative context, yielding exciting new data with the potential of providing insight into brain evolution. Conversely, incorporating an evolutionary base into the theoretical perspectives from which we approach human neuropsychology could lead to novel hypotheses and testable predictions. In the spirit of these objectives, we present here a new theoretical proposal, the Inferential Brain Hypothesis, whereby the human brain is thought to be characterized by a shift from perceptual processing to inferential computation, particularly within the social realm. This shift is believed to be a driving force for the evolution of the large human cortex. (JINS, 2012, 18, 394-401).
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and multiple sclerosis (MS) are chronic immunologic diseases that can cause cognitive dysfunction. MS is a central nervous system (CNS) disease characterized by demyelination and progressive brain atrophy. SLE is an autoimmune disease capable of damaging multiple organ systems, including the CNS. Cognitive disturbances are seen in both SLE and MS. The present study is concerned with understanding the similarities and differences between the cognitive profiles of SLE and MS as well as the relationship between cognitive impairment and vocational disability in these patients. We examined 47 SLE patients, 47 MS patients, and 44 healthy controls. The groups were well matched on demographics and the patient groups were also matched on disease duration and severity. Group comparisons revealed that generative verbal fluency and visual-spatial memory are more profoundly affected in MS than SLE; whereas depression, fatigue, and working memory deficits are similarly involved in both diseases. Logistic regression analysis revealed that executive function, in particular, was predictive of vocational outcomes in SLE and MS patients.
Whereas patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) experience difficulties forming and retrieving memories, their memory impairments may also partially reflect an unrecognized dysfunction in sleep-dependent consolidation that normally stabilizes declarative memory storage across cortical areas. Patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) exhibit circumscribed declarative memory deficits, and many eventually progress to an AD diagnosis. Whether sleep is disrupted in aMCI and whether sleep disruptions contribute to memory impairment is unknown. We measured sleep physiology and memory for two nights and found that aMCI patients had fewer stage-2 spindles than age-matched healthy adults. Furthermore, aMCI patients spent less time in slow-wave sleep and showed lower delta and theta power during sleep compared to controls. Slow-wave and theta activity during sleep appear to reflect important aspects of memory processing, as evening-to-morning change in declarative memory correlated with delta and theta power during intervening sleep in both groups. These results suggest that sleep changes in aMCI patients contribute to memory impairments by interfering with sleep-dependent memory consolidation.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the relative effects of unilateral (left-sided) versus bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on verbal fluency. To do this, 10 Parkinson's disease patients with predominantly bilateral motor symptoms who received bilateral STN DBS were compared with 6 patients suffering from predominantly unilateral symptoms who received STN DBS on the left side only. The results suggest that unilateral STN DBS of the speech dominant hemisphere is associated with significantly less declines in measures of verbal fluency as compared to bilateral stimulation.


Perfusion provides oxygen and nutrients to tissues and is closely tied to tissue function while disorders of perfusion are major sources of medical morbidity and mortality. It has been almost two decades since the use of arterial spin labeling (ASL) for noninvasive perfusion imaging was first reported. While initial ASL magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies focused primarily on technological development and validation, a number of robust ASL implementations have emerged, and ASL MRI is now also available commercially on several platforms. As a result, basic science and clinical applications of ASL MRI have begun to proliferate. Although ASL MRI can be carried out in any organ, most studies to date have focused on the brain. This review covers selected research and clinical applications of ASL MRI in the brain to illustrate its potential in both neuroscience research and clinical care.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is the precursor protein to amyloid  (A), the main constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Endogenous A peptides reflect the APP processing, and greater knowledge of different APP degradation pathways is important to understand the mechanism underlying AD pathology. When one analyzes longer A peptides by low-energy collision-induced dissociation tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), mainly long b-fragments are observed, limiting the possibility to determine variations such as amino acid variants or post-translational modifications (PTMs) within the N-terminal half of the peptide. However, by using electron capture dissociation (ECD), we obtained a more comprehensive sequence coverage for several APP/A peptide species, thus enabling a deeper characterization of possible variants and PTMs. Abnormal APP/A processing has also been described in the lysosomal storage disease Niemann-Pick type C and the major large animal used for studying this disease is cat. By ECD MS/MS, a substitution of Asp7  Glu in cat A was identified. Further, sialylated core 1 like O-glycans at Tyr10, recently discovered in human A (a previously unknown glycosylation type), were identified also in cat cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). It is therefore likely that this unusual type of glycosylation is common for (at least) species belonging to the magnorder Boreoeutheria. We here describe a detailed characterization of endogenous APP/A peptide species in CSF by using an online top-down MS-based method.
Studies of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) prevalence associated with deployment to Iraq or Afghanistan report wide variability, making interpretation and projection for research and public health purposes difficult. This article placed this literature within a military context. Studies were categorized according to deployment time-frame, screening case definition, and study group (operational infantry units exposed to direct combat versus population samples with a high proportion of support personnel). Precision weighted averages were calculated using a fixed-effects meta-analysis. Using a specific case definition, the weighted postdeployment PTSD prevalence was 5.5% (95% CI, 5.4-5.6) in population samples and 13.2% (12.8-13.7) in operational infantry units. Both population-level and unit-specific studies provided valuable and unique information for public health purposes; understanding the military context is essential for interpreting prevalence studies.
The NR2B subunit of NMDA receptor in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is up-regulated in viscerally hypersensitive (VH) rats induced by colonic anaphylaxis. It plays a critical role in modulation of ACC sensitization and visceral pain responses. Given the key role of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in synaptic plasticity and behavior learning and memory, we hypothesize that phosphorylation of CaMKII binding to NR2B mediates visceral pain in VH states. We performed in vivo electroporation of CaMKII siRNA produced inhibition of colorectal distension-induced visceromotor response in the VH rats. The NR2B, CaMKII and P-CaMKII-Thr protein levels were increased in 180%, 220% and 304% fold in the post-synaptic density (PSD) fraction in VH rats separately. Western blotting following co-immunoprecipitation showed that P-CaMKII-Thr bound to NR2B in the PSD, which was increased to 267% of control in VH rats. Administration of CaMKII antagonist Antennapedia-CaMKIINtide suppressed visceromotor response in VH rats in parallel with decrease of NR2B levels and reduction of the NR2B-P-CaMKII-Thr protein complex in PSD. In conclusion, CaMKII is a critical signaling molecule in the ACC glutamatergic synaptic transmission and phosphorylation of CaMKII at Thr286, which binds to NR2B subunit at post-synaptic site, modulates visceral pain in viscerally hypersensitive state.
Degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) causes the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. The development of cell-replacement therapies for Parkinson's disease motor symptoms is hampered by poor acquisition and retention of the DA phenotype by endogenous and transplanted neurons. Factors which regulate the DA phenotype in the adult SNc are, therefore, keenly sought. Transcription of the rate-limiting enzyme in DA synthesis, tyrosine hydroxylase, and possibly other DA genes, is known to be regulated by changes in membrane potential and intracellular Ca. Furthermore, emerging evidence indicates DA gene transcription is sensitive to fast membrane potential changes and intracellular Ca transients, that is, those associated with normal rates and patterns of neuronal activity. In other words, the DA phenotype is activity-dependent. In this review, we highlight the importance of spatiotemporal Ca dynamics for regulating gene expression in cells, and the possible role of fast Ca dynamics associated with normal rates and patterns of neuronal activity. We review evidence supporting activity- and Ca-dependent regulation of the DA phenotype in cells, including SNc neurons, as well as knowledge about the molecular pathways intervening between intracellular Ca and TH gene expression. We describe the electrophysiology of SNc DA neurons, emphasizing features that may regulate DA gene expression. We conclude by bringing together this information in a model of how neuronal activity might regulate the DA phenotype in SNc neurons.
A corticostriatal-dependent deficit in the release of ascorbate (AA), an antioxidant vitamin and neuromodulator, occurs concurrently in striatum with dysfunctional GLT1-dependent uptake of glutamate in the R6/2 mouse model of Huntington's disease (HD), an autosomal dominant condition characterized by overt corticostriatal dysfunction. To determine if deficient striatal AA release into extracellular fluid is related to altered GLT1 activity in HD, symptomatic R6/2 mice between 6 and 9 weeks of age and age-matched wild-type (WT) mice received single daily injections of 200 mg/kg ceftriaxone, a -lactam antibiotic that elevates the functional expression of GLT1, or saline vehicle for five consecutive days. On the following day, in vivo voltammetry was coupled with corticostriatal afferent stimulation to monitor evoked release of AA into striatum. In saline-treated mice, we found a marked decrease in evoked extracellular AA in striatum of R6/2 relative to WT. Ceftriaxone, in contrast, restored striatal AA in R6/2 mice to WT levels. In addition, intra-striatal infusion of either the GLT1 inhibitor dihydrokainic acid or dl-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate blocked evoked striatal AA release. Collectively, our results provide compelling evidence for a link between GLT1 activation and release of AA into the striatal extracellular fluid, and suggest that dysfunction of this system is a key component of HD pathophysiology.
Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The Cu-binding capacity of SOD1 has spawned hypotheses that implicate metal-mediated production of reactive species as a potential mechanism of toxicity. In past experiments, we have tested such hypotheses by mutating residues in SOD1 that normally coordinate the binding of Cu, finding that such mutants retain the capacity to induce motor neuron disease. We now describe the lack of disease in mice that express a variant of human SOD1 in which residues that coordinate the binding of Cu and Zn have been mutated (SODMD). SODMD encodes three disease-causing and four experimental mutations that ultimately eliminate all histidines involved in the binding of metals; and includes one disease-causing and one experimental mutation that eliminate secondary metal binding at C6 and C111. We show that the combined effect of these mutations produces a protein that is unstable but does not aggregate on its own, is not toxic, and does not induce disease when co-expressed with high levels of wild-type SOD1. In cell culture models, we determine that the combined mutation of C6 and C111 to G and S, respectively, dramatically reduces the aggregation propensity of SODMD and may account for the lack of toxicity for this mutant.
Cyclin-dependent kinase-5 (cdk5)/p35 and protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) are two major enzymes that control a variety of physiological processes within the nervous system including neuronal differentiation, synaptic plasticity and axonal transport. Defective cdk5/p35 and PP1 function are also implicated in several major human neurodegenerative diseases. Cdk5/p35 and the catalytic subunit of PP1 (PP1C) both bind to the brain-enriched, serine-threonine kinase lemur tyrosine kinase-2 (LMTK2). Moreover, LMTK2 phosphorylates PP1C on threonine-320 (PP1Cthr) to inhibit its activity. Here, we demonstrate that LMTK2 is phosphorylated on serine-1418 (LMTK2ser) by cdk5/p35 and present evidence that this regulates its ability to phosphorylate PP1Cthr. We thus describe a new signalling pathway within the nervous system that links cdk5/p35 with PP1C and which has implications for a number of neuronal functions and neuronal dysfunction.
Cyclooxygenases (COX)-1 and -2 are key enzymes required for the conversion of arachidonic acid to eicosanoids, potent mediators of inflammation. In patients with multiple sclerosis, COX-2 derived prostaglandins (PGs) are elevated in the CSF and COX-2 is up-regulated in demyelinating plaques. However, it is not known whether COX-2 activity contributes to oligodendrocyte death. In cuprizone-induced demyelination, oligodendrocyte apoptosis and a concomitant increase in the gene expression of COX-2 and PGE-EP2 receptor precede histological demyelination. COX-2 and EP2 receptor were expressed by oligodendrocytes, suggesting a causative role for the COX-2/EP2 pathway in the initiation of oligodendrocyte death and demyelination. COX-2 gene deletion, chronic treatment with the COX-2 selective inhibitor celecoxib, or with the EP2 receptor antagonist AH6809 reduced cuprizone-induced oligodendrocyte apoptosis, the degree of demyelination and motor dysfunction. These data indicate that the PGE EP2 receptor contributes to oligodendrocyte apoptosis and open possible new therapeutic approaches for multiple sclerosis.
Sex steroid hormones and neurotrophic factors are involved in pruning and shaping the adolescent brain and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders, including mental illness. We aimed to determine the association between altered levels of sex steroid hormones during adolescent development and neurotrophic signalling in the C57Bl/6 mouse. We first performed a week by week analysis from pre-pubescence to adulthood in male and female C57Bl/6 mice, measuring serum levels of testosterone and oestradiol in conjunction with western blot analysis of neurotrophin expression in the forebrain and hippocampal regions. Second, we manipulated adolescent sex steroid hormone levels by gonadectomy and hormone replacement at the pre-pubescent age of 5 weeks. Young-adult forebrain and hippocampal neurotrophin expression was then determined. Male mice showed significant changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the forebrain regions during weeks 7-10, which corresponded significantly with a surge in serum testosterone. Castration and testosterone or di-hydrotestosterone replacement experiments revealed an androgen receptor-dependent effect on BDNF-tyrosine kinase (Trk) B signalling in the forebrain and hippocampal regions during adolescence. Female mice showed changes in BDNF-TrkB signalling at a much earlier time point (weeks 4-8) in the forebrain and hippocampal regions and these did not correspond with changes in serum oestradiol. Ovariectomy actually increased BDNF expression but decreased TrkB phosphorylation in the forebrain regions. 17-Oestradiol replacement had no effect, suggesting a role for other ovarian hormones in regulating BDNF-TrkB signalling in the adolescent female mouse brain. These results suggest the differential actions of sex steroid hormones in modulating BDNF-TrkB signalling during adolescence. These data provide insight into how the male and female brain changes in response to altered levels of circulating sex steroid hormones and could help to explain some of the developmental sex differences in the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders, including mental illness.
Brain biopsy is well established in clinical practice when there is suspicion of CNS malignancy. However, there is little consensus regarding the indications for brain biopsy in non-malignant neurological disease. This is due in no small part to limitations in the available literature pertaining to diagnostic brain biopsies. The published evidence largely comprises small, retrospective, single-centre analyses performed over long time periods, including non-homogeneous patient groups with considerable variation in reported outcomes. Here we present pragmatic guidance for those clinicians considering diagnostic brain biopsy in a patient with non-neoplastic neurological disease and highlight practice points with the aim of maximising the probability of gaining clinically useful information from the procedure.
The objective of this study was to describe a large Italian cohort of patients with late-onset glycogen storage disease type 2 (GSDII) at various stages of disease progression and to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of alglucosidase alpha enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). Previous studies showed in late-onset patients ERT efficacy against placebo and variable response in uncontrolled studies. Seventy-four juvenile or adult GSDII patients were treated with ERT in a multicenter open label, non-randomized study, from 12 months up to 54 months. Recombinant human alpha glucosidase (rh-GAA) was injected by intravenous route at 20 mg/kg every second week. Patients were divided into three groups according to ERT duration: Group A received treatment for 12-23 months (n = 16), Group B for 24-35 months (n = 14), and Group C for more than 36 months (n = 44). Clinical assessment included a 6-min walk test (6MWT), forced vital capacity (FVC), the Walton and Gardner-Medwin score, the number of hours of ventilation, body mass index, echocardiography and blood creatine kinase (CK). Included in our cohort were 33 males and 41 females (M:F = 0.8:1), with a mean age at first symptoms of 28.3 years (range 2-55 years) and a mean age of 43 years at study entry (range 7-72 years). Seven wheelchair bound patients, as well as 27 patients requiring ventilation support, were included. After treatment we could observe an increase in distance walked on the 6MWT in the large majority of patients (48/58; 83%), with an overall mean increase of 63 m (from 320  161 to 383  178 m). After treatment in the majority of patients FVC was improved or unchanged (45/69; 65%). In ventilated patients we observed an improvement in average number of hours off the ventilator (from 15.6 to 12.1 h). Six patients stopped mechanical ventilation and two others started it. The effect of therapy was not related to ERT duration. Nine of 64 patients (13%) that underwent to echocardiography showed a variable degree of cardiac hypertrophy (left ventriculum or septum), and a positive effect was observed after 36 months of ERT in one adult case. Discontinuation of treatment occurred in four patients: one drop-off case, one patient died for a sepsis after 34 months of treatment and two patients stopped ERT for worsening of general clinical condition. Mild adverse effects were observed in four cases (5%). This study represents the largest cohort of late-onset GSDII patients treated with ERT, and confirm a positive effect of treatment. These results, obtained in a large case series on therapy, indicate a favourable effect of ERT therapy, even in more advanced stage of the disease.



High-grade (World Health Organization grades II and III) meningiomas grow aggressively and recur frequently, resulting in a poor prognosis. Assessment of tumor malignancy before treatment initiation is important. We attempted to determine predictive factors for high-grade meningioma on magnetic resonance (MR) imaging before surgery. We reviewed 65 meningiomas (39 cases, benign; 26 cases, high-grade) and assessed four factors: (1) tumor-brain interface (TBI) on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI), (2) capsular enhancement (CapE), i.e., the layer of the tumor-brain interface on gadolinium-enhanced T1WI (T1Gd), (3) heterogeneity on T1Gd, and (4) tumoral margin on T1Gd. All four factors were useful in distinguishing high-grade from benign meningiomas, according to univariate analysis. On multivariate regression analysis, unclear TBI and heterogeneous enhancement were independent predictive factors for high-grade meningioma. In meningiomas with an unclear TBI and heterogeneous enhancement, the probability of high-grade meningioma was 98%. Our data suggest that this combination of factors obtained from conventional sequences on MR imaging may be useful to predict high-grade meningioma.
Visual field deficits can be a consequence of brain tumor location or treatment. The prevalence of unrecognized visual field deficits in children diagnosed with brain tumors is not known. All children at a single tertiary care pediatric children's hospital diagnosed with a primary brain tumor were tested for visual field deficits by a child neurologist and neuro-ophthalmologist over 16 months. Children with reproducible visual field deficits on two separate occasions were included in the analysis. Patients with optic glioma, craniopharyngioma, or previously known visual field deficits were excluded. Fourteen of 92 (15.2%) children (average 8.9 years, 8 girls) had undiagnosed visual field deficits. Average time between diagnosis of tumor and unrecognized visual field deficit was 3.7 years (range 0-13 years). Unrecognized visual field deficits were not associated with age (P = 0.27) or gender (P = 0.38). Visual field deficits were attributed to direct tumor infiltration (n = 8), postoperative complications (n = 5) and post-radiation edema (n = 1). Deficits included bitemporal hemianopsia (n = 2), homonymous hemianopsia (n = 9), quadrantanopsia (n = 2), and concentric visual field loss (n = 1.) Tumor location included temporal lobe (n = 9), parietal lobe (n = 2), posterior fossa (n = 2), hypothalamic-chiasmatic (n = 2) and multifocal areas (n = 4). Children with temporal lobe tumors were more likely to have unrecognized visual field deficits (P = 0.004). In all 14 patients, visual field deficits were determined by examination only and were not reported by either the patient or caregiver regardless of age. The prevalence of unrecognized visual field deficits in children with brain tumors can be surprisingly high. Serial neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation of children with brain tumors is often required to diagnose a visual field deficit since patient or caregiver reporting may be limited.
The aim of this study was to define the histologic features of acute rejection of myofibers, particularly in the context of therapeutic myogenic cell transplantation. Myoblasts expressing or not expressing -galactosidase were transplanted into 13 macaques that were divided into 3 protocols: withdrawal of immunosuppression, low immunosuppression, and progressive reduction of immunosuppression. The biopsy samples were obtained from cell-grafted sites at different intervals, and cryostat sections of biopsies were analyzed. The grafts were lost in all the monkeys at different periods after transplantation depending on the protocol and in association with low blood levels of tacrolimus. In all cases, graft loss was associated with the presence of dense focal accumulations of CD8-positive and CD4-positive lymphocytes and a component of macrophages. The lymphocyte accumulations totally or partially surrounded some myofibers and often invaded them; they were mainly endomysial. These histopathologic patterns in nonhuman primates and their similarity with preliminary observations in humans may facilitate the translation of these results to the histologic diagnosis of acute rejection of myofibers in human clinical trials of myogenic cell transplantation and probably gene therapy.
Neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) synthesize several major neurotransmitters, including dopamine (DA), GABA, and glutamate. To classify VTA single-unit neural activity from freely moving rats, we used hierarchical agglomerative clustering and probability distributions as quantitative methods. After many parameters were examined, a firing rate of 10 Hz emerged as a transition frequency between clusters of low-firing and high-firing neurons. To form a subgroup identified as high-firing neurons with GABAergic characteristics, the high-firing classification was sorted by spike duration. To form a subgroup identified as putative DA neurons, the low-firing classification was sorted by DA D2-type receptor pharmacological responses to quinpirole and eticlopride. Putative DA neurons were inhibited by the D2-type receptor agonist quinpirole and returned to near-baseline firing rates or higher following the D2-type receptor antagonist eticlopride. Other unit types showed different responses to these D2-type receptor drugs. A multidimensional comparison of neural properties indicated that these subgroups often clustered independently of each other with minimal overlap. Firing pattern variability reliably distinguished putative DA neurons from other unit types. A combination of phasic burst properties and a low skew in the interspike interval distribution produced a neural population that was comparable to the one sorted by D2 pharmacology. These findings provide a quantitative statistical approach for the classification of VTA neurons in unanesthetized animals.
In uninjured humans, it is well established that voluntary contraction of muscles on one side of the body can facilitate transmission in the contralateral corticospinal pathway. This crossed facilitatory effect may favor interlimb coordination and motor performance. Whether this aspect of corticospinal function is preserved after chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) is unknown. Here, using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we show in patients with chronic cervical SCI (C(5)-C(8)) that the size of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) in a resting intrinsic hand muscle remained unchanged during increasing levels of voluntary contraction with a contralateral distal or proximal arm muscle. In contrast, MEP size in a resting hand muscle was increased during the same motor tasks in healthy control subjects. The magnitude of voluntary electromyography was negatively correlated with MEP size after chronic cervical SCI and positively correlated in healthy control subjects. To examine the mechanisms contributing to MEP crossed facilitation we examined short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), interhemispheric inhibition (IHI), and motoneuronal behavior by testing F waves and cervicomedullary MEPs (CMEPs). During strong voluntary contractions SICI was unchanged after cervical SCI and decreased in healthy control subjects compared with rest. F-wave amplitude and persistence and CMEP size remained unchanged after cervical SCI and increased in healthy control subjects compared with rest. In addition, during strong voluntary contractions IHI was unchanged in cervical SCI compared with rest. Our results indicate that GABAergic intracortical circuits, interhemispheric glutamatergic projections between motor cortices, and excitability of index finger motoneurons are neural mechanisms underlying, at least in part, the lack of crossed corticospinal facilitation observed after SCI. Our data point to the spinal motoneurons as a critical site for modulating corticospinal transmission after chronic cervical SCI.
A wealth of studies highlight the importance of rapid corrective responses during voluntary motor tasks. These studies used relatively large perturbations to evoke robust muscle activity. Thus it remains unknown whether these corrective responses (latency 20-100 ms) are evoked at perturbation levels approaching the inherent variability of voluntary control. To fill this gap, we examined responses for large to small perturbations applied while participants either performed postural or reaching tasks. To address multijoint corrective responses, we induced various amounts of single-joint elbow motion with scaled amounts of combined elbow and shoulder torques. Indeed, such perturbations are known to elicit a response at the unstretched shoulder muscle, which reflects an internal model of arm intersegmental dynamics. Significant muscle responses were observed during both postural control and reaching, even when perturbation-related joint angle, velocity, and acceleration overlapped in distribution with deviations encountered in unperturbed trials. The response onsets were consistent across the explored range of perturbation loads, with short-latency onset for the muscles spanning the elbow joints (20-40 ms), and long-latency for shoulder muscles (onset &gt; 45 ms). In addition, the evoked activity was strongly modulated by perturbation magnitude. These results suggest that multijoint responses are not specifically engaged to counter motor errors that exceed a certain threshold. Instead, we suggest that these corrective processes operate continuously during voluntary motor control.
Although previous research with human and nonhuman primates has examined the neural correlates of performance monitoring, discrepancies in methodology have limited our ability to make cross-species generalizations. One major obstacle arises from the use of different behavioral responses and tasks across different primate species. Specifically, it is unknown whether performance-monitoring mechanisms rely on different neural circuitry in tasks requiring oculomotor vs. skeletomotor responses. Here, we show that the human error-related negativity (ERN) elicited by a saccadic eye-movement response relative to a manual response differs in several critical ways. The human saccadic ERN exhibits a prolonged duration, a broader frontomedial voltage distribution, and different neural source estimates than the manual ERN in exactly the same stop-signal task. The human saccadic error positivity (Pe) exhibited a frontomedial voltage distribution with estimated electrical sources in supplementary motor area and rostral anterior cingulate cortex for saccadic responses, whereas the manual Pe showed a posterior scalp distribution and potential origins in the superior parietal lobule. These findings constrain models of the cognitive mechanisms indexed by the ERN/Pe complex. Moreover, by paralleling work with nonhuman primates performing the same saccadic stop-signal task (Godlove et al. 2011), we demonstrate a cross-species homology of error event-related potentials (ERPs) and lay the groundwork for definitively localizing the neural sources of performance-monitoring ERPs.
The nervous system frequently integrates parallel streams of information to encode a broad range of stimulus strengths. In mammalian retina it is generally believed that signals generated by rod and cone photoreceptors converge onto cone bipolar cells prior to reaching the retinal output, the ganglion cells. Near absolute visual threshold a specialized mammalian retinal circuit, the rod bipolar pathway, pools signals from many rods and converges on depolarizing (AII) amacrine cells. However, whether subsequent signal flow to OFF ganglion cells requires OFF cone bipolar cells near visual threshold remains unclear. Glycinergic synapses between AII amacrine cells and OFF cone bipolar cells are believed to relay subsequently rod-driven signals to OFF ganglion cells. However, AII amacrine cells also make glycinergic synapses directly with OFF ganglion cells. To determine the route for signal flow near visual threshold, we measured the effect of the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine on response threshold in fully dark-adapted retinal cells. As shown previously, we found that response threshold for OFF ganglion cells was elevated by strychnine. Surprisingly, strychnine did not elevate response threshold in any subclass of OFF cone bipolar cell. Instead, in every OFF cone bipolar subclass strychnine suppressed tonic glycinergic inhibition without altering response threshold. Consistent with this lack of influence of strychnine, we found that the dominant input to OFF cone bipolar cells in darkness was excitatory and the response threshold of the excitatory input varied by subclass. Thus, in the dark-adapted mouse retina, the high absolute sensitivity of OFF ganglion cells cannot be explained by signal transmission through OFF cone bipolar cells.
The everyday experience of stepping onto a stationary escalator causes a stumble, despite our full awareness that the escalator is broken. In the laboratory, this &quot;broken escalator&quot; phenomenon is reproduced when subjects step onto an obviously stationary platform (AFTER trials) that was previously experienced as moving (MOVING trials) and attests to a process of motor adaptation. Given the critical role of M1 in upper limb motor adaptation and the potential for transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to increase cortical excitability, we hypothesized that anodal tDCS over leg M1 and premotor cortices would increase the size and duration of the locomotor aftereffect. Thirty healthy volunteers received either sham or real tDCS (anodal bihemispheric tDCS; 2 mA for 15 min at rest) to induce excitatory effects over the primary motor and premotor cortex before walking onto the moving platform. The real tDCS group, compared with sham, displayed larger trunk sway and increased gait velocity in the first AFTER trial and a persistence of the trunk sway aftereffect into the second AFTER trial. We also used transcranial magnetic stimulation to probe changes in cortical leg excitability using different electrode montages and eyeblink conditioning, before and after tDCS, as well as simulating the current flow of tDCS on the human brain using a computational model of these different tDCS montages. Our data show that anodal tDCS induces excitability changes in lower limb motor cortex with resultant enhancement of locomotor adaptation aftereffects. These findings might encourage the use of tDCS over leg motor and premotor regions to improve locomotor control in patients with neurological gait disorders.
Diversity in the expression of K(+) channels among neurons allows a wide range of excitability, growth, and functional regulation. Ether--go-go (EAG), a voltage-gated K(+) channel, was first characterized in Drosophila mutants by spontaneous firing in nerve terminals and enhanced neurotransmitter release. Although diverse functions have been ascribed to this protein, its role within neurons remains poorly understood. The aim of this study was to characterize the function of EAG in situ in Drosophila larval motoneurons. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings performed from the somata revealed a decrease in I(Av) and I(Kv) K(+) currents in eag mutants and with targeted eag RNAi expression. Spontaneous spike-like events were observed in eag mutants but absent in wild-type motoneurons. Thus our results provide evidence that EAG represents a unique K(+) channel contributing to multiple K(+) currents in motoneurons helping to regulate excitability, consistent with previous observations in the Drosophila larval muscle.
In the primary auditory cortex, spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) are composed of multiple independent components that capture the processing of disparate stimulus aspects by any given neuron. The origin of these multidimensional stimulus filters in the central auditory system is unknown. To determine whether multicomponent STRFs emerge prior to the forebrain, we recorded from single neurons in the main obligatory station of the auditory midbrain, the inferior colliculus. By comparing results of different spike-triggered techniques, we found that the neural responses in the inferior colliculus can be accounted for by a single stimulus filter. This was observed for all temporal response patterns, from strongly phasic to tonic. Our results reveal that spectrotemporal stimulus encoding undergoes a fundamental transformation along the auditory neuraxis, with the emergence of multidimensional receptive fields beyond the auditory midbrain.
Orientation selectivity and its development are basic features of visual cortex. The original model of orientation selectivity proposes that elongated simple cell receptive fields are constructed from convergent input of an array of lateral geniculate nucleus neurons. However, orientation selectivity of simple cells in the visual cortex is generally greater than the linear contributions based on projections from spatial receptive field profiles. This implies that additional selectivity may arise from intracortical mechanisms. The hierarchical processing idea implies mainly linear connections, whereas cortical contributions are generally considered to be nonlinear. We have explored development of orientation selectivity in visual cortex with a focus on linear and nonlinear factors in a population of anesthetized 4-wk postnatal kittens and adult cats. Linear contributions are estimated from receptive field maps by which orientation tuning curves are generated and bandwidth is quantified. Nonlinear components are estimated as the magnitude of the power function relationship between responses measured from drifting sinusoidal gratings and those predicted from the spatial receptive field. Measured bandwidths for kittens are slightly larger than those in adults, whereas predicted bandwidths are substantially broader. These results suggest that relatively strong nonlinearities in early postnatal stages are substantially involved in the development of orientation tuning in visual cortex.
Goal-directed behaviors require the consideration and expenditure of physical effort. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) appears to play an important role in evaluating effort and reward and in organizing goal-directed actions. Despite agreement regarding the involvement of the ACC in these processes, the way in which effort-, reward-, and motor-related information is registered by networks of ACC neurons is poorly understood. To contrast ACC responses to effort, reward, and motor behaviors, we trained rats on a reversal task in which the selected paths on a track determined the level of effort or reward. Effort was presented in the form of an obstacle that was climbed to obtain reward. We used single-unit recordings to identify neural correlates of effort- and reward-guided behaviors. During periods of outcome anticipation, 52% of recorded ACC neurons responded to the specific route taken to the reward while 21% responded prospectively to effort and 12% responded prospectively to reward. In addition, effort- and reward-selective neurons typically responded to the route, suggesting that these cells integrated motor-related activity with expectations of future outcomes. Furthermore, the activity of ACC neurons did not discriminate between choice and forced trials or respond to a more generalized measure of outcome value. Nearly all neural responses to effort and reward occurred after path selection and were restricted to discrete temporal/spatial stages of the task. Together, these findings support a role for the ACC in integrating route-specific actions, effort, and reward in the service of sustaining discrete movements through an effortful series of goal-directed actions.
Selective attention allows us to focus on particular sensory modalities and locations. Relatively little is known about how attention to a sensory modality may relate to selection of other features, such as spatial location, in terms of brain oscillations, although it has been proposed that low-frequency modulation (- and -bands) may be key. Here, we investigated how attention to space (left or right) and attention to modality (vision or touch) affect ongoing low-frequency oscillatory brain activity over human sensory cortex. Magnetoencephalography was recorded while participants performed a visual or tactile task. In different blocks, touch or vision was task-relevant, whereas spatial attention was cued to the left or right on each trial. Attending to one or other modality suppressed -oscillations over the corresponding sensory cortex. Spatial attention led to reduced -oscillations over both sensorimotor and occipital cortex contralateral to the attended location in the cue-target interval, when either modality was task-relevant. Even modality-selective sensors also showed spatial-attention effects for both modalities. The visual and sensorimotor results were generally highly convergent, yet, although attention effects in occipital cortex were dominant in the -band, in sensorimotor cortex, these were also clearly present in the -band. These results extend previous findings that spatial attention can operate in a multimodal fashion and indicate that attention to space and modality both rely on similar mechanisms that modulate low-frequency oscillations.
Short periods of training in motor tasks can increase motor cortical excitability. This study investigated whether changes also occur at a subcortical level. Subjects trained in ballistic finger abduction or visuomotor tracking. The right index finger rotated around the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint in a splint. Surface EMG was recorded from the first dorsal interosseous. Transcranial magnetic stimulation over the back of the head (double-cone coil) elicited cervicomedullary motor evoked potentials (CMEPs) by stimulation of corticospinal axons. Responses were recorded from the relaxed muscle before, between, and after two sets of training. In study 1 (n = 7), training comprised two sets of 150 maximal finger abductions. Feedback of acceleration was provided. With training, acceleration increased significantly. CMEPs increased to 248  152% ( SD) of baseline immediately after training (P = 0.007) but returned to control level (155  141%) 10 min later. In study 2 (n = 7), subjects matched MCP joint angle to a target path on a computer screen. After 30 min of training, tracking improved as shown by increased correlation between joint angle and the target pathway, reduced time lag, and reduced EMG(rms). However, CMEPs remained unchanged. These results show that transmission through the corticospinal pathway at a spinal level increased after repeated ballistic movements but not after training in a visuomotor task. Thus, changes at a spinal level may contribute to improved performance in some motor tasks.
Reciprocal activity between populations of neurons has been widely observed in the brain and is essential for neuronal computation. The different mechanisms by which reciprocal neuronal activity is generated remain to be established. A common motif in neuronal circuits is the presence of afferents that provide excitation to one set of principal neurons and, via interneurons, inhibition to a second set of principal neurons. This circuitry can be the substrate for generation of reciprocal signals. Here we demonstrate that this equivalent circuit in the cerebellar cortex enables the reciprocal firing rates of Purkinje cells to be efficiently generated from a common set of mossy fiber inputs. The activity of a mossy fiber is relayed to Purkinje cells positioned immediately above it by excitatory granule cells. The firing rates of these Purkinje cells increase as a linear function of mossy fiber, and thus granule cell, activity. In addition to exciting Purkinje cells positioned immediately above it, the activity of a mossy fiber is relayed to laterally positioned Purkinje cells by a disynaptic granule cell  molecular layer interneuron pathway. Here we show in acutely prepared cerebellar slices that the input-output relationship of these laterally positioned Purkinje cells is linear and reciprocal to the first set. A similar linear input-output relationship between decreases in Purkinje cell firing and strength of stimulation of laterally positioned granule cells was also observed in vivo. Use of interneurons to generate reciprocal firing rates may be a common mechanism by which the brain generates reciprocal signals.
Neurons in the parietal reach region (PRR) have been implicated in the sensory-to-motor transformation required for reaching toward visually defined targets. The neurons in each cortical hemisphere might be specifically involved in planning movements of just one limb, or the PRR might code reach endpoints generically, independent of which limb will actually move. Previous work has shown that the preferred directions of PRR neurons are similar for right and left limb movements but that the amplitude of modulation may vary greatly. We now test the hypothesis that frames of reference and eye and hand gain field modulations will, like preferred directions, be independent of which hand moves. This was not the case. Many neurons show clear differences in both the frame of reference as well as in direction and strength of gain field modulations, depending on which hand is used to reach. The results suggest that the information that is conveyed from the PRR to areas closer to the motor output (the readout from the PRR) is different for each limb and that individual PRR neurons contribute either to controlling the contralateral-limb or else bimanual-limb control.
Eye movement behavior is variable, and the brain's oculomotor circuitry may not always function consistently. In a recent fMRI study, Ozyurt and Greenlee (2011) correlated the activation strength of cortical and striatal brain regions with inter- and intraindividual variability in saccade performance. We discuss the design and implications of this study with regard to the differences between inter- and intraindividual variability, and the link between the BOLD signal and oculomotor activity.
During the estrous cycle, a remodeling of synapses on somas and dendritic spines occurs in the rat hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. The synaptic remodeling is known to be induced by estradiol, but the molecular mechanisms involved still have not been fully clarified. -catenin is known to regulate synaptic plasticity, so we have assessed possible modifications of -catenin in the rat mediobasal hypothalamus during the estrous cycle. Our findings indicate that -catenin expression is increased during proestrus and estrus in comparison with diestrus day. This increase was accompanied by an enhanced phosphorylation of Akt in Ser473 and of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) in Ser9. Also, the association of -catenin with the synaptic protein PSD95 was increased during these same stages of the estrous cycle, whereas the levels of synapsin I were significantly decreased in proestrus. These findings suggest that Akt/GSK3/-catenin signaling is involved in the synaptic modifications that occur in the basal hypothalamus during the estrous cycle.
Despite years of research, epilepsy remains a poorly understood disorder. In the past several years, work has been conducted on a variety of projects with the goal of better understanding the pathogenesis and progression of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), in particular, and how to exploit those properties to generate innovative therapies for treatment of refractory epilepsies. This review seeks to give an overview of common morphological and biochemical changes associated with epilepsy and proposed treatments to address those changes. Furthering the understanding of ictogenesis and epileptogenesis remains an important goal for scientists seeking to find more effective treatments for MTLE.


Compensatory neural plasticity occurs in both hemispheres following unilateral cortical damage incurred by seizures, stroke, and focal lesions. Plasticity is thought to play a role in recovery of function, and is important for the utility of rehabilitation strategies. Such effects have not been well described in models of traumatic brain injury (TBI). We examined changes in immunoreactivity for neural structural and plasticity-relevant proteins in the area surrounding a controlled cortical impact (CCI) to the forelimb sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC), and in the contralateral homotopic cortex over time (3-28 days). CCI resulted in considerable motor deficits in the forelimb contralateral to injury, and increased reliance on the ipsilateral forelimb. The density of dendritic processes, visualized with immunostaining for microtubule-associated protein-2 (MAP-2), were bilaterally decreased at all time points. Synaptophysin (SYN) immunoreactivity increased transiently in the injured hemisphere, but this reflected an atypical labeling pattern, and it was unchanged in the contralateral hemisphere compared to uninjured controls. The lack of compensatory neuronal structural plasticity in the contralateral homotopic cortex, despite behavioral asymmetries, is in contrast to previous findings in stroke models. In the cortex surrounding the injury (but not the contralateral cortex), decreases in dendrites were accompanied by neurodegeneration, as indicated by Fluoro-Jade B (FJB) staining, and increased expression of the growth-inhibitory protein Nogo-A. These studies indicate that, following unilateral CCI, the cortex undergoes neuronal structural degradation in both hemispheres out to 28 days post-injury, which may be indicative of compromised compensatory plasticity. This is likely to be an important consideration in designing therapeutic strategies aimed at enhancing plasticity following TBI.
Clinical reports and case studies suggest that traumatic brain injury (TBI) can have significant social consequences, with social dysfunction reported to be the most debilitating problem for child and adolescent survivors. From a social neuroscience perspective, evidence suggests that social skills are not localized to a specific brain region, but are mediated by an integrated neural network. Many components of this network are susceptible to disruption in the context of TBI. In early development, a brain injury can disrupt this neural network while it is in the process of being established, resulting in social dysfunction. In order to clarify the prevalence and nature of social dysfunction after child TBI, studies of social outcomes in children and adolescents after TBI over the last 23 years have been reviewed. Despite casting a wide net initially, only 28 articles met review criteria. These studies were characterized by methodological weaknesses, including variations in definitions of TBI, limited assessment tools, reliance on parent reports, small sample sizes, and absent control groups. Despite these limitations, the weight of evidence confirmed an elevated risk of social impairment in the context of moderate and severe injury. While rarely examined, younger age at insult, pathology to frontal regions and the corpus callosum, and social disadvantage and family dysfunction may also increase the likelihood of social difficulties. More research is needed to obtain an accurate picture of social outcomes post-brain injury.
The suture middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model is used worldwide in both academia and industry. However, the variable occurrence of dysplasia in posterior communicating arteries (PcomAs) induces high mortality and instability in permanent MCAO models, limiting the model's application to transient focal ischemia. In particular, high mortality in intraluminal suture MCAO models is associated with the dysplasia of PcomAs in C57BL/6 mice. Optimization of silicone coating length is critical for reducing mortality and generating stable infarct in this model. The aim of our study is to reduce mortality and improve the reproducibility of the intraluminal suture MCAO model in C57BL/6 mice, which have high variation in PcomA dysplasia. Adult male C57BL/6 mice (n=38) underwent MCAO using sutures with various diameters and silicone coating lengths. The occlusion of cerebral vessels was examined by synchrotron radiation live angiography. The morphology of PcomAs was examined under a microscope after MICROFIL() infusion. Neurological outcome, infarct volume, and mortality were examined within 28 days. Optimizing the silicone coating on an 8-0 suture tip, we were able to reduce the model mortality to zero after permanent occlusion in C57BL/6 and produce stable brain infarct volume independent of the patency of PcomAs.
Colors defined by the two intermediate directions in color space, &quot;orange-cyan&quot; and &quot;lime-magenta,&quot; elicit the same spatiotemporal average response from the two cardinal chromatic channels in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). While we found LGN functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) responses to these pairs of colors were statistically indistinguishable, primary visual cortex (V1) fMRI responses were stronger to orange-cyan. Moreover, linear combinations of single-cell responses to cone-isolating stimuli of V1 cone-opponent cells also yielded stronger predicted responses to orange-cyan over lime-magenta, suggesting these neurons underlie the fMRI result. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that V1 recombines LGN signals into &quot;higher-order&quot; mechanisms tuned to noncardinal color directions. In light of work showing that natural images and daylight samples are biased toward orange-cyan, our findings further suggest that V1 is adapted to daylight. V1, especially double-opponent cells, may function to extract spatial information from color boundaries correlated with scene-structure cues, such as shadows lit by ambient blue sky juxtaposed with surfaces reflecting sunshine.


In this report, we describe a 15-year-old Malaysian male patient with a de novo SCN1A mutation who experienced prolonged febrile seizures after his first seizure at 6 months of age. This boy had generalized tonic clonic seizure (GTCS) which occurred with and without fever. Sequencing analysis of voltage-gated sodium channel a1-subunit gene, SCN1A, confirmed a homozygous A to G change at nucleotide 5197 (c.5197A &gt; G) in exon 26 resulting in amino acid substitution of asparagines to aspartate at codon 1733 of sodium channel. The mutation identified in this patient is located in the pore-forming loop of SCN1A and this case report suggests missense mutation in pore-forming loop causes generalized epilepsy with febrile seizure plus (GEFS+) with clinically more severe neurologic phenotype including intellectual disabilities (mental retardation and autism features) and neuropsychiatric disease (anxiety disorder).

This is a brief review of several novel strategies for therapeutic approaches to axonal damage in peripheral neuropathies. Although not comprehensive, the review addresses the challenges in axonal regrowth, newly identified roadblocks to regeneration and the concept of collateral reinnervation to restore lost neurological function.
A previously developed high performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) procedure for the simultaneous determination of antidementia drugs, including donepezil, galantamine, memantine, rivastigmine and its metabolite NAP 226-90, was transferred to an ultra performance liquid chromatography system coupled to a tandem mass spectrometer (UPLC-MS/MS). The drugs and their internal standards ([(2)H(7)]-donepezil, [(13)C,(2)H(3)]-galantamine, [(13)C(2),(2)H(6)]-memantine, [(2)H(6)]-rivastigmine) were extracted from 250 L human plasma by protein precipitation with acetonitrile. Chromatographic separation was achieved on a reverse phase column (BEH C18 2.1 mm  50 mm; 1.7 m) with a gradient elution of an ammonium acetate buffer at pH 9.3 and acetonitrile at a flow rate of 0.4 mL/min and an overall run time of 4.5 min. The analytes were detected on a tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer operated in positive electrospray ionization mode, and quantification was performed using multiple reaction monitoring. The method was validated according to the recommendations of international guidelines over a calibration range of 1-300 ng/mL for donepezil, galantamine and memantine, and 0.2-50 ng/mL for rivastimgine and NAP 226-90. The trueness (86-108%), repeatability (0.8-8.3%), intermediate precision (2.3-10.9%) and selectivity of the method were found to be satisfactory. Matrix effects variability was inferior to 15% for the analytes and inferior to 5% after correction by internal standards. A method comparison was performed with patients' samples showing similar results between the HPLC-MS and UPLC-MS/MS procedures. Thus, this validated UPLC-MS/MS method allows to reduce the required amount of plasma, to use a simplified sample preparation, and to obtain a higher sensitivity and specificity with a much shortened run-time.
Drug-eluting stents (DESs) are endovascular devices that provide controlled release of compounds to interfere with restenosis, an adverse outcome of angioplasty characterized by thickening of the arterial wall. Accumulating evidence suggests that arterial pharmacokinetics determine the biological effect and potential toxicity of stent-based therapeutics. The aim of this study was to examine how drug polarity, drug load, and protein binding influence release from a polymer film and distribution within arterial tissue. The transport and safety profile of resveratrol (RESV) and quercetin (QUER), two red wine polyphenols known to interfere with events in the pathogenesis of restenosis, were compared with paclitaxel (Taxol), a lipophilic drug used in DES. In bovine arteries, RESV showed considerable protein binding and arterial kinetics that were found to mimick Taxol. In contrast, the less lipophilic QUER showed limited tissue distribution. Measured diffusivity of RESV and QUER was coupled with a novel computational method for assessment of biphasic drug release kinetics and arterial drug retention profiles. Modeling revealed that drugs associated with high- and low-protein-binding affinity result in markedly distinct arterial drug profiles. These data underscore the importance of arterial partitioning and propagation of drug within arterial tissue in the rational design of DES coatings.
Neuroadaptations underlying sensitization to drugs of abuse seem to influence compulsive drug pursuit and relapse associated with addiction. Our previous data support a role for the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) type-1 receptor (CRF) in ethanol (EtOH)-induced psychomotor sensitization. CRF is endogenously activated by CRF and urocortin-1. Because genetic deletion of urocortin-1 did not affect EtOH sensitization, we hypothesized that CRF is the important ligand underlying EtOH sensitization. To test this hypothesis, we used heterozygous and homozygous knockout (KO) mice, which lack one or both copies of the gene coding for CRF, and their respective wild-type controls. EtOH sensitization was normal in heterozygous, but absent in homozygous, CRF KO mice. Corticosterone (CORT) levels were drastically reduced only in CRF KO mice. Because CRF/CRF initiate EtOH-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, we investigated CORT effects on EtOH sensitization. The CORT synthesis inhibitor metyrapone prevented the acquisition, but not the expression, of EtOH sensitization. Exogenous CORT administration sensitized the locomotor response to a subsequent EtOH challenge; we observed, however, that the exogenous CORT levels necessary to induce sensitization to EtOH were significantly higher than those produced by EtOH treatment. Therefore, participation of CORT seems to be necessary, but not sufficient, to explain the role of CRF/CRF in the acquisition of sensitization to EtOH. Extra-hypothalamic CRF/CRF mechanisms are suggested to be involved in the expression of EtOH sensitization. The present results are consistent with current theories proposing a key role for CRF and CRF in drug-induced neuroplasticity, dependence, and addictive behavior.
Stress and psychiatric illness have been associated with a dysregulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission. Recently, positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of the metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu) receptor have been found to exert antidepressant-like activity in rats performing under a differential reinforcement of low rate (DRL) 72-s schedule. An autoreceptor role at glutamatergic synapses is the most salient physiological role played by the mGlu receptor. Adenosine A receptors play a heteroreceptor role at many of the same forebrain synapses where mGlu autoreceptors are found. Agonists and/or PAMs of mGlu receptors act similarly to adenosine A receptor agonists with respect to a wide range of electrophysiological, biochemical, and behavioral responses mediated by limbic circuitry thought to play a role in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease and to mediate therapeutic drug effects. Therefore, the role of adenosine A receptor activation on rat DRL 72-s behavior was explored to provide preclinical evidence consistent or inconsistent with potential antidepressant effects. The adenosine A receptor agonist N-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) increased the reinforcement rate, decreased the response rate, and induced a rightward shift in inter-response time distributions in a dose-dependent fashion similar to most known antidepressant drugs. The adenosine A receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) blocked these antidepressant-like effects. These novel observations with CHA and DPCPX suggest that activation of adenosine A receptors could contribute to antidepressant effects, in addition to previous preclinical reports of anxiolytic and antipsychotic effects. By implication, targeting a dysregulated glutamatergic system may be an important principle in discovering novel antidepressant agents that may also possess anti-impulsive activity.
The transient receptor potential ankyrin-1 (TRPA1) channel has emerged as an attractive target for development of analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs. However, drug discovery efforts targeting TRPA1 have been hampered by differences between human and rodent species. Many compounds have been identified to have antagonist activity at human TRPA1 (hTRPA1), but when tested at rat TRPA1 (rTRPA1) and mouse TRPA1 (mTRPA1), they show reduced potency as antagonists, no effect, or agonist activity. These compounds are excluded from further drug development because they cannot be tested in preclinical studies using conventional rat/mouse models. To broaden our understanding of species-specific differences, we cloned and functionally characterized rhesus monkey TRPA1 (rhTRPA1) and compared its pharmacological profile to hTRPA1, rTRPA1, and mTRPA1 channels. The functional activities of a diverse group of TRPA1 ligands (both reactive and nonreactive) were determined in a fluorescent Ca influx assay, using transiently transfected human embryonic kidney 293-F cells. 4-Methyl-N-[2,2,2-trichloro-1-(4-nitro-phenylsulfanyl)-ethyl]-benzamide, menthol, and caffeine displayed species-specific differential pharmacology at TRPA1. The pharmacological profile of the rhTRPA1 channel was found to be similar to the hTRPA1 channel. In contrast, the rTRPA1 and mTRPA1 channels closely resembled each other but were pharmacologically distinct from either hTRPA1 or rhTRPA1 channels. Our findings reveal that TRPA1 function differs between primate and rodent species and suggest that rhesus monkey could serve as a surrogate species for humans in preclinical studies.
Paired associative stimulation (PAS) is a method commonly used in human studies of motor cortex synaptic plasticity. It involves repeated pairs of electrical stimuli to the median nerve and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex. If the interval between peripheral and TMS stimulation is around 2125 ms, corticospinal excitability is increased for the following 3060 min via a long term potentiation (LTP)-like effect within the primary motor cortex. Previous work has shown that PAS depends on the present and previous levels of activity in cortex, and that it can be modified by motor learning or attention. Here we show that simultaneous transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS; 2 mA) over the cerebellum can abolish the PAS effect entirely. Surprisingly, the effect is seen when the PAS interval is 25 ms but not when it is 21.5 ms. There are two implications from this work. First, the cerebellum influences PAS effects in motor cortex; second, LTP-like effects of PAS have at least two different mechanisms. The results are relevant for interpretation of pathological changes that have been reported in response to PAS in people with movement disorders and to changes in healthy individuals following exercise or other interventions.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are a subfamily of ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs) that mediate excitatory synaptic transmission, regulate neurotransmitter release, and show a remarkably selective distribution in the brain. Compared to other iGluRs, the precise contribution of KARs to brain function is less understood. Unlike recombinant KARs, native KARs exhibit characteristically slow channel kinetics. The underlying explanation for this dissimilar kinetics has remained elusive until recently. New research has identified Neto1 and Neto2 as KAR auxiliary subunits that determine unique properties of synaptic KARs, including their slow kinetics and high affinity for agonist. Whether these auxiliary subunits regulate KAR trafficking and targeting at the synapse is less clear. By regulating channel gating, Neto1 and Neto2 can increase the diversity of KAR functional properties. These auxiliary subunits may represent a starting point for a better understanding of the role played by neuronal KARs under normal and pathological conditions, but also, they may provide an alternative target for the development of new drugs regulating KARs and brain function.
Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons receive sensory inputs from the entorhinal cortex directly through the perforant path (PP) and indirectly through Schaffer collaterals (SC). Direct cortical inputs to CA1 pyramidal neurons through the PP provide instructive signals for hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity. However, the molecules conveying synaptic signalling in this new form of heterosynaptic plasticity remain unclear. Endocannabinoids, important endogenous signalling mediators, modulate synaptic efficacy primarily through inhibition of GABAergic or glutamatergic synaptic transmission via presynaptically expressed CB1 receptors. Here, we report that pairing of direct and indirect cortical inputs to CA1 pyramidal neurons resulted in a long-lasting potentiation of synaptic responses at SC synapses, but not at the PP. The pairing-potentiated synaptic transmission at the SC was accompanied by a reduced ratio of paired-pulse facilitation (PPR). Enhanced synaptic response at the SC by pairing of PPSC stimuli is Ca(2+) dependent and requires the presence of functional GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic transmissions and activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Pharmacological inhibition or genetic deletion of the CB1 receptor eliminated the pairing-induced long-term synaptic plasticity and decreased PPR at the SC. The potentiation induced by pairing of PPSC stimuli primarily is the glutamatergic synaptic transmission. While the pairing-induced long-lasting potentiation of synaptic response was blocked by inhibitors for diacylglycerol lipase (DGL), which biosynthesizes 2-AG, inhibition of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), which metabolizes 2-AG, facilitated the potentiation at SC synapses by pairing of weak PPSC stimuli. Our results suggest that 2-AG functions as a signalling mediator tuning synaptic efficacy at the proximal synapses of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons while direct and indirect cortical inputs to the same neurons are spatiotemporally primed.
There is much experimental evidence for the existence of biomechanical constraints which simplify the problem of control of multi-segment movements. In addition, it has been hypothesized that movements are controlled using a small set of basic temporal components or activation patterns, shared by several different muscles and reflecting global kinematic and kinetic goals. Here we review recent studies on human locomotion showing that muscle activity is accounted for by a combination of few basic patterns, each one timed at a different phase of the gait cycle. Similar patterns are involved in walking and running at different speeds, walking forwards or backwards, and walking under different loading conditions. The corresponding weights of distribution to different muscles may change as a function of the condition, allowing highly flexible control. Biomechanical correlates of each activation pattern have been described, leading to the hypothesis that the co-ordination of limb and body segments arises from the coupling of neural oscillators between each other and with limb mechanical oscillators. Muscle activations need only intervene during limited time epochs to force intrinsic oscillations of the system when energy is lost.
Persistent vulnerability to relapse represents a major challenge in the treatment of drug addiction. The brain circuitry that underlies relapse-like behaviour can be investigated using animal models of drug seeking. As yet there have been no comprehensive brain mapping studies that have specifically examined the neuroanatomical substrates of cue-induced opiate seeking following abstinence in a mouse operant paradigm. The aim of this study was to compare the brain regions involved in sucrose vs. morphine seeking following protracted abstinence in mice. Male CD1 mice were trained to respond for either sucrose (10% w/v) or intravenous morphine (0.1 mg kg(-1) per infusion) in an operant paradigm in the presence of a discrete cue. Once stable responding was established, mice were subjected to abstinence in their home cages for 3 weeks and then perfused for tissue collection, or returned to the operant chambers to assess cue-induced reward seeking before being perfused for tissue collection. Brain tissue was processed for Fos immunohistochemistry and Fos expression was quantified in a range of brain nuclei. We identified unique patterns of neuronal activation for sucrose and morphine seeking mice as well as some overlap. Structures activated in both relapse' groups included the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens shell, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, substantia nigra pars compacta, ventral tegmental area, hippocampus, periaqueductal grey, locus coeruleus and lateral habenula. Structures that were more activated in morphine seeking mice included the nucleus accumbens core, basolateral amygdala, substantia nigra pars reticulata, and the central nucleus of the amygdala. The dorsal raphe was the only structure examined that was specifically activated in sucrose seeking mice. Overall our findings support a cortico-striatal limbic circuit driving opiate seeking, and we have identified some additional circuitry potentially relevant to reward seeking following abstinence.
During early development, peripheral sensory systems generate physiological activity prior to exposure to normal environmental stimuli. This activity is thought to facilitate maturation of these neurons and their connections, perhaps even promoting efficacy or modifying downstream circuitry. In the mammalian auditory system, initial connections form at embryonic ages, but the functional characteristics of these early neural connections have not been assayed. We investigated processes of embryonic auditory development using a whole-head slice preparation that preserved connectivity between peripheral and brainstem stations of the auditory pathway. Transgenic mice expressing fluorescent protein provided observation of spiral ganglion and cochlear nucleus neurons to facilitate targeted electrophysiological recording. Here we demonstrate an apparent peripheral-to-central order for circuit maturation. Spiral ganglion cells acquire action potential-generating capacity at embryonic day 14 (E14), the earliest age tested, and action potential waveforms begin to mature in advance of comparable states for neurons of the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) and medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). In accordance, auditory nerve synapses in the VCN are functional at E15, prior to VCN connectivity with the MNTB, which occurs at least 1 day later. Spiral ganglion neurons exhibit spontaneous activity at least by E14 and are able to drive third-order auditory brainstem neurons by E17. This activity precedes cochlear-generated wave activity by 4 days and ear canal opening by at least 2 weeks. Together, these findings reveal a previously unknown initial developmental phase for auditory maturation, and further implicate the spiral ganglion as a potential controlling centre in this process.

How can a Ph.D. student initially trained as a biologist take part in the development of a multineuronal recording method that requires cross interaction between physics, neurobiology and mathematics? Beyond student training in the laboratory, interdisciplinary research calls for a new style of academic training of young researchers. Here we present an innovative approach to graduate student academic training that fills the need for multidisciplinary knowledge and provides students, in addition, with a deeper understanding of the interdisciplinary approach to scientific research.
Extracellular electrical stimulation of neural networks has been widely used empirically for decades with individual electrodes. Since recently, microtechnology provides advanced systems with high-density microelectrode arrays (MEAs). Taking the most of these devices for fundamental goals or developing neural prosthesis requires a good knowledge of the mechanisms underlying electrical stimulation. Here, we review modeling approaches used to determine (1) the electric potential field created by a stimulation and (2) the response of an excitable cell to an applied field. Computation of the potential field requires solving the Poisson equation. While this can be performed analytically in simple electrode-neuron configurations, numerical models are required for realistic geometries. In these models, special care must be taken to model the potential drop at the electrode/tissue interface using appropriate boundary conditions. The neural response to the field can then be calculated using compartmentalized cell models, by solving a cable equation, the source term of which (called activating function) is proportional to the second derivative of the extracellular field along the neural arborization. Analytical and numerical solutions to this equation are first presented. Then, we discuss the use of approximated solutions to intuitively predict the neuronal response: Either the &quot;activating function&quot; or the &quot;mirror estimate&quot;, depending on the pulse duration and the cell space constant. Finally, we address the design of optimal electrode configurations allowing the selective activation of neurons near each stimulation site. This can be achieved using either multipolar configurations, or the &quot;ground surface&quot; configuration, which can be easily integrated in high-density MEAs. Overall, models highlighting the mechanisms of electrical microstimulation and improving stimulating devices should help understanding the influence of extracellular fields on neural elements and developing optimized neural prostheses for rehabilitation.
Simultaneous recording of multiple neurons, or neuron groups, offers new promise for investigating fundamental questions about the neural code. We used arrays of 16 electrodes in the tonotopic, primary, auditory cortex of guinea pigs and we extracted LFP- and spike-based spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs). We confirm here that LFP signals provide broadly tuned activity which lacks frequency resolution compared to multiunit signals and, therefore, lead to large redundancy in neural responses even between recording sites far apart. Thanks to the use of multi-electrode arrays which allows simultaneous recordings, we also focused on functional relationships between neuronal discharges (through cross-correlations) and between LFPs (through coherence). Since the LFP is composed of distinct brain rhythms, the LFP results were split into three frequency bands from the slowest to the fastest components of LFPs. For driven as well as spontaneous activity, we show that components &gt;70 Hz in LFPs are much less coherent between recording sites than slower components. In general, coherence between LFPs from two recordings sites is positively correlated with the degree of frequency overlap between the two corresponding STRFs, similar to cross-correlation between multiunit activities. However, coherence is only weakly correlated with cross-correlation in all frequency ranges. Altogether, these results suggest that LFPs reflect global functional connectivity in the thalamocortical auditory system whereas spiking activities reflect more independent local processing.
Psychiatry is confronting challenges to create sweeping new paradigms for itself. The author contends that the psychosocial knowledge and psychotherapeutic skills of the psychiatrist must be integral to those paradigms. Abandoning crude, descriptive diagnostic categories in favor of discrete, dimensional measures that personalize selective neurobiological treatment for each individual is part of one proposed paradigm-but psychotherapy, especially psychodynamic therapies, have provided personalized therapy for over a century, using nature's own resources (human relationships and communication) to modulate the patient's unique, fixed patterns of thought, emotion, and behavior regardless of DSM diagnosis. Similarly, beyond the genetic core, the role of development and experience in shaping mental health and illness includes both neurobiological and interpersonal processes that dynamically modulate neural networks and their mental epiphenomena. Psychosocial interventions, using natural pathways, are vital for both prevention and treatment. Another proposed paradigm embraces closer coordination of psychiatric services with primary care in organized systems, which would probably include non-medical psychotherapists as well. Psychiatrists cannot effectively oversee, supervise, partner, or consult with other physicians or therapists if they have no psychotherapeutic awareness. Even when the primary mode of treatment is biological, skilled handling of the doctor-patient relationship is vital to adherence, to helping the patient manage his or her personal life, and even to effectiveness of medication at recommended doses. There is no substitute for instruction and extensive first-hand experience in learning to conduct psychotherapy or psychologically informed patient care. In a psychiatric residency curriculum that is likely to contain greatly increased attention to clinical neuroscience, time for the psyche must be preserved. The new paradigm might require a lengthened residency or additional fellowship years, which must include appropriate attention to psychosocial learning and psychotherapeutic expertise.
Histone acetylation, which alters the compact chromatin structure and changes the accessibility of DNA to regulatory proteins, is emerging as a fundamental mechanism for regulating gene expression. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors increase histone acetylation and enhance fear extinction. In this study, we examined whether vorinostat, an HDAC inhibitor, facilitates fear extinction, using a contextual fear conditioning (FC) paradigm, in Sprague-Dawley rats. We found that vorinostat facilitated fear extinction. Next, the levels of global acetylated histone H3 and H4 were measured by Western blotting. We also assessed the effect of vorinostat on the hippocampal levels of NMDA receptor mRNA by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR) and protein by Western blotting. 2 h after vorinostat administration, the levels acetylated histones and NR2B mRNA, but not NR1 or NR2A mRNA, were elevated in the hippocampus. The NR2B protein level was elevated 4 h after vorinostat administration. Last, we investigated the levels of acetylated histones and phospho-CREB (p-CREB) binding at the promoter of the NR2B gene using the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay followed by RT-PCR. The ChIP assay revealed increases in the levels of acetylated histones and they were accompanied by enhanced binding of p-CREB to its binding site at the promoter of the NR2B gene 2 h after vorinostat administration. These findings suggest that vorinostat increases the expression of NR2B in the hippocampus by enhancing histone acetylation, and this process may be implicated in fear extinction.
GSK372475 is a triple reuptake inhibitor with approximately equipotent inhibition of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine transporters. Two randomized, placebo- and active-controlled, double-blind studies examined the efficacy and safety of GSK372475 in outpatients (aged 18-64 years) with a diagnosis of major depressive episode associated with major depressive disorder (MDD). Patients were randomized 1:1:1 to placebo, GSK372475 (1-2 mg/d), or active control (Study 1: venlafaxine XR 150-225 mg/d; Study 2: paroxetine 20-30 mg/d). GSK372475 did not significantly differ from placebo on any of the key efficacy endpoints (six-item Bech scale, IDS-Clinician Rated, MADRS) in either study. Both active controls demonstrated significant antidepressant activity compared with placebo on both primary and secondary endpoints. The most common adverse effects (AEs) with GSK372475 were dry mouth, headache, insomnia, and nausea. AEs were more frequent for GSK372475 versus placebo for sleep, anxiety-related, gastrointestinal, and tachycardia events. Increases in mean change from baseline in heart rate and sitting blood pressure were greater for GSK372475 than observed for either placebo or active control groups. Completion rates were lower for GSK372475 (49%, 58%) compared with placebo (67%, 74%), venlafaxine XR (63%), or paroxetine (77%). GSK372475 was neither efficacious nor well tolerated in patients with MDD in two 10-week studies.
There is convincing evidence that schizophrenia is characterized by progressive brain volume changes during the course of the illness. In a large longitudinal study it was shown that different age-related trajectories of brain tissue loss are present in patients compared with healthy subjects, suggesting that brain maturation that occurs in the third and fourth decade of life is abnormal in schizophrenia. Studies show that medication intake is an important confounding factor when interpreting brain volume (change) abnormalities. Atypical antipsychotics have been found to be related to smaller decreases in tissue loss. Moreover, independent of antipsychotic medication intake, the brain volume abnormalities appear associated to the outcome of the illness. Before being able to intervene with therapies and prevent the brain from shrinking, one has to understand the underlying mechanism of the progressive changes in the brains of schizophrenia patients.


Telemedicine can provide stroke evaluations in locations with limited available expertise. The reliability of telestroke has been established. Decision making efficacy has been shown in the National Institutes of Health's STRokE DOC trial. No prospective trial has assessed long-term telestroke outcomes, however. In an institutional review board-approved trial (NCT00936455), we contacted patients originally enrolled in the STRokE DOC trial. A telephone script was used to verify consent. Patients were asked standardized questions regarding disposition, modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score, mortality, and recurrent stroke for 2 retrospective time points (6 and 12 months postevent) and one current time point. Blind was maintained. Primary outcome measures of mortality and percent mRS score of 0-1 [%mRS(0-1)] at 6 months are reported. Wilcoxon's rank-sum test was used for continuous variables, and Fisher's exact was used for categorical variables. Of the original 222 participants, 75 patients or surrogates could be contacted. Mean time from enrollment was 3.96  1.0 years (range, 2.33-5.45 years). Mean National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score was 8  7 (5  8 for telephone; 12  8 for telemedicine; P = .002). The rate of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) use was 31%. Six-month %mRS(0-1) outcome was not different, at 42%. Mortality after imputation to the entire study sample also was not different, at 18%. There was no difference in the rate of recurrent stroke (P = .61). Some 85% of patients were home at 6 months. This study reports a good 6-month outcome for stroke patients evaluated by telemedicine or telephone. This design is limited by the time since original enrollment and resultant inability to contact participants. Although these findings can add to the limited data on telemedicine outcomes, a prospective trial is needed.





Large population studies show that polyunsaturated fatty acids are important for human health, but determining relationships between the health benefits and the fatty acid content has been hampered by the unavailability of labor-effective high-throughput technologies. An automated high throughput fatty acid analysis was developed from a previous procedure based on direct transesterification including the automation of chemical procedures, data acquisition and automatic data processing. The method was validated and applied to umbilical cord serum samples in an epidemiological study. The method was linear in the range of 1-600 g/mL serum with r  0.99. The within-run CV was &lt;5.4% for 23 fatty acids and a range of recoveries over three concentrations were 76-119% in a low-lipid matrix with the exception of 14:0. The fatty acid concentration as measured by the robotic method for human plasma was in good agreement with the Lepage &amp; Roy method. The fatty acid profile in umbilical cord serum from American subjects (n = 287) showed an average of 38.0, 24.9, 32.0 and 4.6% of total fatty acids for saturates, monounsaturates, n-6 and n-3 polyunsaturates, respectively. This is the first report of a complete, validated, cost-effective, automated, high throughput fatty acid measurement method along with application to a population-based study. Automated fatty acid analysis coupled with automated data processing greatly facilitates the high throughput, 72 samples transesterified in 6 h, required for large population-based studies.
Although event-related fMRI is able to reliably detect brief changes in brain activity and is now widely used throughout systems and cognitive neuroscience, there have been no previous reports of event-related spinal cord fMRI. This is likely attributable to the various technical challenges associated with spinal fMRI (e.g., imaging a suitable length of the cord, reducing image artifacts from the vertebrae and intervertebral discs, and dealing with physiological noise from spinal cord motion). However, with many of these issues now resolved, the largest remaining impediment for event-related spinal fMRI is a deprived understanding of the spinal cord fMRI signal time course. Therefore, in this study, we used a proton density-weighted HASTE sequence, with functional contrast based on signal enhancement by extravascular water protons (SEEP), and a motion-compensating GLM analysis to (i) characterize the SEEP response function in the human cervical spinal cord and (ii) demonstrate the feasibility of event-related spinal fMRI. This was achieved by applying very brief (1 s) epochs of 22C thermal stimulation to the palm of the hand and measuring the impulse response function. Our results suggest that the spinal cord SEEP response (time to peak 8 s; FWHM 4 s; and probably lacking pre- and poststimulus undershoots) is slower than previous estimates of SEEP or BOLD responses in the brain, but faster than previously reported spinal cord BOLD responses. Finally, by detecting and mapping consistent signal-intensity changes within and across subjects, and validating these regions with a block-designed experiment, this study represents the first successful demonstration of event-related spinal fMRI.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging provides access to fiber pathways and structural integrity in fibrous tissues such as white matter in the brain. In order to enable better access to the sensitivity of the diffusion indices to the underlying microstructure, it is important to develop artificial model systems that exhibit a well-known structure, on the one hand, but benefit from a reduced complexity on the other hand. In this work, we developed a novel multisection diffusion phantom made of polyethylene fibers tightly wound on an acrylic support. The phantom exhibits three regions with different geometrical configuration of fibers: a region with fibers crossing at right angles, a region with parallel fibers and homogeneous density, and, finally, a region with parallel fibers but with a gradient of fiber density along the axis of symmetry. This gives rise to a gradual change of the degree of anisotropy within the same phantom. In this way, the need to construct several phantoms with different fiber densities is avoided, and one can access different fractional anisotropies in the same experiment under the same physical conditions. The properties of the developed phantom are demonstrated by means of diffusion tensor imaging and diffusion kurtosis imaging. The measurements were performed using a diffusion-weighted spin-echo and a diffusion-weighted stimulated-echo pulse sequence programmed in-house. The influence of the fiber density packing on the diffusion parameters was analyzed. We also demonstrate how the novel phantom can be used for the validation of high angular resolution diffusion imaging data analysis.
Fibromyalgia is a chronic widespread pain disorder commonly associated with comorbid symptoms, including fatigue and nonrestorative sleep. As in the management of other chronic medical disorders, the approach for fibromyalgia management follows core principles of comprehensive assessment, education, goal setting, multimodal treatment including pharmacological (eg, pregabalin, duloxetine, milnacipran) and nonpharmacological therapies (eg, physical activity, behavioral therapy, sleep hygiene, education), and regular education and monitoring of treatment response and progress. Based on these core management principles, this review presents a framework for primary care providers through which they can develop a patient-centered treatment program for patients with fibromyalgia. This proactive and systematic treatment approach encourages ongoing education and patient self-management and is designed for use in the primary care setting.
This experiment examined whether age-related changes in CREB and pCREB contribute to the rapid forgetting seen in aged animals. Young (3-month-old) and aged (24-month-old) Fischer-344 rats received inhibitory avoidance training with a low (0.2 mA, 0.4 s) or moderate (0.5 mA, 0.5 s) foot shock; memory was measured 7 days later. Other rats were euthanized 30 min after training, and CREB and pCREB expression levels were examined in the hippocampus, amygdala, and piriform cortex using immunohistochemistry. CREB levels decreased with age in the hippocampus and amygdala. After training with either shock level, young rats exhibited good memory and increases in pCREB levels in the hippocampus and amygdala. Aged rats exhibited good memory for the moderate but not the low shock but did not show increases in pCREB levels after either shock intensity. These results suggest that decreases in total CREB and in pCREB activation in the hippocampus and amygdala may contribute to rapid forgetting in aged rats. After moderate foot shock, the stable memory in old rats together with absence of CREB activation suggests either that CREB was phosphorylated in a spatiotemporal pattern other than analyzed here or that the stronger training conditions engaged alternate mechanisms that promote long-lasting memory.
We describe a new term: glutamate-based depression (GBD). GBD is defined as a chronic depressive illness associated with environmental stress and diseases associated with altered glutamate neurotransmission. We hypothesize that glutamate-induced over-activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors in the subgenual cingulate area called Brodmann's 25 plays an important role in the etiology of depression and may be responsible for the high incidence of co-morbid depression associated in diseases with glutamate etiology. While depression is a syndrome with multiple possible etiologies, we propose that a disruption in glutamatergic neurotransmission may underline a substantial proportion of clinically observed depression. The high rates of depressive symptoms associated with various disorders in which altered glutamatergic functions have been identified, may suggest a common pathophysiological mechanism is underlying the diverse clinical presentations.
Mental rotation is thought to underlie the increase in response times (RTs) for deciding whether rotated letters are normal or mirrored versions. However, mental rotation predicts a linear increase in RTs, whereas the mirror/normal letter discrimination task typically produces a curved function. Recently, Kung and Hamm suggested that this curved function results from a mixture of trials in which mental rotation is employed and trials in which it is not. The mixture ratio may vary between individuals, with some individuals relying more on mental rotation than others. There is no factor in the Kung and Hamm model that reflects such individual differences. In the present study, we suggest that a possible exponent parameter could be added to the Kung and Hamm model to capture individual differences in the mixture ratio. This exponent parameter appears to capture an individual characteristic since the value obtained correlates between the mirror/normal letter task and a left/right object facing task. The development of a quantity that represents the mixture ratio will aid further testing of processes involved in the visual imagery system.

The synaptotagmins (syts) are a family of molecules that regulate membrane fusion. There are 17 mammalian syt isoforms, most of which are expressed in the brain. However, little is known regarding the subcellular location and function of the majority of these syts in neurons, largely due to a lack of isoform-specific antibodies. Here we generated pHluorin-syt constructs harboring a luminal domain pH sensor, which reports localization, pH of organelles to which syts are targeted, and the kinetics and sites of exocytosis and endocytosis. Of interest, only syt-1 and 2 are targeted to synaptic vesicles, whereas other isoforms selectively recycle in dendrites (syt-3 and 11), axons (syt-5, 7, 10, and 17), or both axons and dendrites (syt-4, 6, 9, and 12), where they undergo exocytosis and endocytosis with distinctive kinetics. Hence most syt isoforms localize to distinct secretory organelles in both axons and dendrites and may regulate neuropeptide/neurotrophin release to modulate neuronal function.
Peripheral nerve injury leads to a rapid and robust increase in the synthesis of neurotrophins which guide and support regenerating axons. To further optimize neurotrophin supply at the earliest stages of regeneration, we over-expressed NGF in Schwann cells (SCs) by transducing these cells with a lentiviral vector encoding NGF (NGF-SCs). Transplantation of NGF-SCs in a rat sciatic nerve transection/repair model led to significant increase of NGF levels 2weeks after injury and correspondingly to substantial improvement in axonal regeneration. Numbers of NF200, ChAT and CGRP-positive axon profiles, as well as the gastrocnemius muscle weights, were significantly higher in the NGF-Schwann cell group compared to the animals that received control SCs transduced with a lentiviral vector encoding GFP (GFP-SCs). Comparison with other models of NGF application signifies the important role of this neurotrophin during the early stages of regeneration, and supports the importance of developing combined gene and cell therapy for peripheral nerve repair.
The Locus Coeruleus (LC), the main noradrenergic nucleus in the vertebrate CNS, contributes to the regulation of several processes including arousal, sleep, adaptative behaviors and stress. Regulators controlling the formation of the LC have been identified but factors involved in its maintenance remain unknown. Here, we show that members of the Onecut (OC) family of transcription factors, namely HNF-6, OC-2 and OC-3, are required for maintenance of the LC phenotype. Indeed, in embryos lacking any OC proteins, LC neurons properly differentiate but abnormally migrate and eventually lose their noradrenergic characteristics. Surprisingly, the expression of Oc genes in these neurons is restricted to the earliest differentiation stages, suggesting that OC factors may regulate maintenance of the LC in a non cell-autonomous manner. Accordingly, the OC factors are present throughout development in a population directly adjacent to the LC, the rhombencephalic portion of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (MTN). In the absence of OC factors, rhombencephalic MTN neurons fail to be generated, suggesting that OC proteins cell-autonomously control their production. Hence, we propose that OC factors are required at early developmental stages for differentiation of the MTN neurons that are in turn necessary for maintenance of the LC.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR), a leading cause of vision loss and blindness among working-age adults, holds several hallmarks of an inflammatory disease. The increase in cell death in neural retina is an early event in the diabetic retina, preceding the loss of microvascular cells. Since tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) has been shown to trigger the death of perycites and endothelial cells as well as the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier, we set out to investigate whether TNF- acting through tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), the major receptor responsible for mediating TNF-induced cell death, could also be responsible for the early neuronal cell death observed in DR. We used retinal neural cell cultures exposed to high glucose conditions, to mimic hyperglycaemia, and evaluated the contribution of TNFR1 in neural cell death. TNFR1 was found to be present to a great extent in retinal neurons and the levels of this receptor were found to be altered in cells cultured in high glucose conditions. High glucose induced an early decrease in cell viability, an increase in apoptosis and a higher immunoreactivity for the cleaved caspase-3, indicating a high glucose-induced caspase-dependent cell death. These observations were correlated with an increase in TNF- expression. Nonetheless, inhibiting the activation of TNFR1 was sufficient to prevent the decrease in cell viability and the increase in retinal cell death by apoptosis. In conclusion, our data indicate that TNF- acting through TNFR1 is responsible for the high glucose-induced cell death and that blocking the activity of this receptor is an adequate strategy to avoid cell loss in such conditions.
In addition to its role as a morphogen, Sonic hedgehog (Shh) has also been shown to function as a guidance factor that directly acts on the growth cones of various types of axons. However, the noncanonical signaling pathways that mediate the guidance effects of Shh protein remain poorly understood. We demonstrate that a novel signaling pathway consisting of protein kinase C (PKC) and integrin-linked kinase (ILK) mediates the negative guidance effects of high concentration of Shh on retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons. Shh rapidly increased Ca(2+) level and activated PKC and ILK in the growth cones of RGC axons. By in vitro kinase assay, PKC was found to directly phosphorylate ILK on threonine-173 and -181. Inhibition of PKC or expression of a mutant ILK with the PKC phosphorylation sites mutated (ILK-DM), abolished the Shh-induced macropinocytosis, growth cone collapse and repulsive axon turning. In vivo, expression of a dominant negative PKC or ILK-DM disrupted RGC axon pathfinding at the optic chiasm but not the projection toward the optic disk, supporting that this signaling pathway plays a specific role in Shh-mediated negative guidance effects.
Dendrite morphogenesis is a complex but well-orchestrated process and includes the development of dendritic branches, forming characteristic dendrite arbors, and dendritic spines, allowing neurons to communicate with each other. Various studies report that many neuropsychiatric disorders are characterized by dendritic and synaptic pathology, including abnormal spine density and morphology, synapse loss, and aberrant synaptic signaling and plasticity. In this review, we discuss dendrite development and branching, and in specific, morphology, cytoskeletal architecture, and how the complexity of the dendrite tree and its functional capabilities are altered in various brain disorders. Identifying and understanding these changes in dendrite morphology are essential for understanding brain function in normal and disease states.
Synapses enable the transmission of information within neural circuits and allow the brain to change in response to experience. During the last decade numerous proteins that can induce synapse formation have been identified. Many of these synaptic inducers rely on trans-synaptic cell-cell interactions to generate functional contacts. Moreover, evidence now suggests that the same proteins that function early in development to regulate synapse formation may help to maintain and/or regulate the function and plasticity of mature synapses. One set of receptors and ligands that appear to impact both the development and the mature function of synapses are Eph receptors (erythropoietin-producing human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line) and their surface associated ligands, ephrins (Eph family receptor interacting proteins). Ephs can initiate new synaptic contacts, recruit and stabilize glutamate receptors at nascent synapses and regulate dendritic spine morphology. Recent evidence demonstrates that ephrin ligands also play major roles at synapses. Activation of ephrins by Eph receptors can induce synapse formation and spine morphogenesis, whereas in the mature nervous system ephrin signaling modulates synaptic function and long-term changes in synaptic strength. In this review we will summarize the recent progress in understanding the role of ephrins in presynaptic and postsynaptic differentiation, and synapse development, function and plasticity.
The inhibitor of NF-B alpha (IB) protein is an important regulator of the transcription factor NF-B. In neurons, IB has been shown to play a role in neurite outgrowth and cell survival. Recently, a phosphorylated form of IB (pIB Ser32/36) was reported to be highly enriched at the axon initial segment (AIS) and was proposed to function upstream of ankyrinG in AIS assembly, including ion channel recruitment. However, we report here that the AIS clustering of ankyrinG and Na(+) channels in the brains of IB knockout (Nfkbia(-/-)) mice is comparable to that in wild-type littermates. Furthermore, we found that multiple phospho-specific antibodies against pIB Ser32/36 non-specifically label AIS in Nfkbia(-/-) cortex and AIS in dissociated Nfkbia(-/-) hippocampal neurons. With the exception of ankyrinG, shRNA-mediated knockdown of known AIS proteins in cultured hippocampal neurons did not eliminate the AIS labeling with pIB antibodies. Instead, the pIB antibodies cross-react with a phosphorylated epitope of a protein associated with the microtubule-based AIS cytoskeleton that is not integrated into the AIS membrane complex organized by ankyrinG. Our results indicate that pIB is neither enriched at the AIS nor required for AIS assembly.
Retroviral integration provides us with a powerful tool to realize prolonged gene expressions that are often critical to gene therapy. However, the perturbation of gene regulations in host cells by viral genome integration can lead to detrimental effects, yielding cancer. The oncogenic potential of retroviruses is linked to the preference of retroviruses to integrate into genomic regions that are enriched in gene regulatory elements. To better navigate the double-edged sword of retroviral integration we need to understand how retroviruses select their favored genomic loci during infections. In this study I showed that in addition to host proteins that tether retroviral pre-integration complexes to specific genomic regions, the epigenetic architecture of host genome might strongly affect retroviral integration patterns. Specifically, retroviruses showed their characteristic integration preference in differentiated somatic cells. In contrast, retroviral infections of hES cells, which are known to display decondensed chromatin, produced random-like integration patterns lacking of strong preference for regulatory-element-rich genomic regions. Better identification of the cellular and viral factors that determine retroviral integration patterns will facilitate the design of retroviral vectors for safer use in gene therapy.
PLP1 amino acid substitutions cause accumulation of misfolded protein and induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, causing Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD), a hypomyelinating disorder of the central nerve system. Currently no effective therapy is available for PMD. Promoted by its curative effects in other genetic disease models caused by similar molecular mechanisms, we tested if curcumin, a dietary compound, can rescue the lethal phenotype of a PMD mouse model (myelin synthesis deficient, msd). Curcumin was administered orally to myelin synthesis deficit (msd) mice at 180 mgkg(-1)day(-1) from the postnatal day 3. We evaluated general and motor status, changes in myelination and apoptosis of oligodendrocytes by neuropathological and biochemical examination, and transcription levels for ER-related molecules. We also examined the pharmacological effect of curcumin in cell culture system. Oral curcumin treatment resulted in 25% longer survival (p&lt;0.01). In addition, oligodendrocytes undergoing apoptosis were reduced in number (p&lt;0.05). However, no apparent improvement in motor function, neurological phenotype, and myelin formation was observed. Curcumin treatment did not change the expression of ER stress markers and subcellular localization of the mutant protein in vitro and/or in vivo. Curcumin partially mitigated the clinical and pathological phenotype of msd mice, although molecular mechanisms underlying this curative effect are yet undetermined. Nonetheless, curcumin may serve as a potential therapeutic compound for PMD caused by PLP1 point mutations.
Force generation in smooth muscle is driven by phosphorylation of myosin light chains (MYL), which is regulated by the equilibrium between the activities of myosin light chain kinase (MYLK) and myosin phosphatase (MYLP). MYLK is activated by Ca(2+)-calmodulin whereas MYLP is inhibited by phosphorylation of its myosin-binding subunit (MYPT1) by Ca(2+)-independent mechanisms, leading to generation of increased MYL phosphorylation and force for a given intracellular Ca(2+) concentration, a phenomenon known as 'calcium-sensitization'. The regulation of MYPT1 phosphorylation in human myometrium, which shows increasing phasic contractility at the onset of labour, has yet to be fully investigated. Here, we explore phosphorylation of MYPT1 at Thr696 and Thr853, alongside phosphorylation of MYL, in fresh human myometrial tissue and cultured myometrial cells. We report that pMYPT1 (Thr853) levels are dependent on the activity of Rho-associated kinase (ROCK), determined using the ROCK inhibitor g-H-1152 and siRNA-mediated knockdown of ROCK1/2, and are highly correlated to ppMYL (Thr18/Ser19) levels. Pharmacological inhibition of ROCK was associated with a decrease in oxytocin (OXT)-stimulated contractility of myometrial strips in vitro. Moreover, we have measured pMYPT1 and pMYL levels between and during spontaneous and OXT-stimulated phasic contractions by rapidly freezing contracting muscle, and demonstrate for the first time functional coupling between increases in pMYPT1 (Thr853), ppMYL (Thr18/Ser19) and phasic contractility that is ROCK-dependent. The combined approach of measuring contractility and phosphorylation has demonstrated that the phosphorylation of MYPT1 (Thr853) changes dynamically with each contraction and has elucidated a defined role for ROCK in regulating myometrial contractility through MYLP, providing new insights into uterine physiology which will stimulate further research into treatments for preterm labour.
Acetylcholine activates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) by binding to an extracellular site located at the interface of two adjacent subunits. In contrast, recent studies have provided evidence that positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) such as TQS (4-(naphthalen-2-yl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide) and allosteric agonists such as 4BP-TQS (4-(4-bromophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide) interact at an intrasubunit transmembrane site. Here, we describe the synthesis and pharmacological characterization of a series of chemically related allosteric modulators of the 7 nAChR. Minimal changes in the chemical structure of these compounds have been found to exert profound effects on their pharmacological properties. For example, compounds containing a bromine atom at either the ortho or meta position on the phenyl ring, such as 2BP-TQS (4-(2-bromophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide) and 3BP-TQS (4-(3-bromophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide), rather than at the para position (4BP-TQS), display no allosteric agonist activity but retain PAM activity on 7 nAChRs, demonstrating the importance of the location of the halogen atom on pharmacological properties. Replacement of the bromine atom in 4BP-TQS with either a chlorine [4CP-TQS (4-(4-chloroophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide)] or an iodine atom [4IP-TQS (4-(4-iodoophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide)] results in compounds that have pharmacological properties characteristic of allosteric agonists but display differences in activation rates, in inactivation rates, and in levels of desensitization. In contrast, replacement of the bromine atom in 4BP-TQS with a fluorine atom [4FP-TQS (4-(4-fluorophenyl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide)] generated a compound that lacks allosteric agonist activity but acts a potentiator of responses to acetylcholine. In addition, 4FP-TQS was found to act as an antagonist of responses evoked by allosteric agonists such as 4BP-TQS. These findings provide evidence of the pharmacological diversity of compounds interacting with the allosteric transmembrane site on 7 nAChRs.
Optogenetics is an emerging field that combines optical and genetic approaches to non-invasively interfere with cellular events with exquisite spatiotemporal control. Although it arose originally from neuroscience, optogenetics is widely applicable to the study of many different biological systems and the range of applications arising from this technology continues to increase. Moreover, the repertoire of light-sensitive proteins used for devising new optogenetic tools is rapidly expanding. Light, Oxygen, or Voltage sensing (LOV) and Blue-Light-Utilizing flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) (BLUF) domains represent new contributors to the optogenetic toolkit. These small (100-140-amino acids) flavoprotein modules are derived from plant and bacterial photoreceptors that respond to UV-A/blue light. In recent years, considerable progress has been made in uncovering the photoactivation mechanisms of both LOV and BLUF domains. This knowledge has been applied in the design of synthetic photoswitches and fluorescent reporters with applications in cell biology and biotechnology. In this review, we summarize the photochemical properties of LOV and BLUF photosensors and highlight some of the recent advances in how these flavoproteins are being employed to artificially regulate and image a variety of biological processes.
Impaired regulation of emotional memory is a feature of several affective disorders, including depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder. Such regulation occurs, in part, by interactions between the hippocampus and the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Recent studies have indicated that within the adult hippocampus, newborn neurons may contribute to support emotional memory, and that regulation of hippocampal neurogenesis is implicated in depressive disorders. How emotional information affects newborn neurons in adults is not clear. Given the role of the BLA in hippocampus-dependent emotional memory, we investigated whether hippocampal neurogenesis was sensitive to emotional stimuli from the BLA. We show that BLA lesions suppress adult neurogenesis, while lesions of the central nucleus of the amygdala do not. Similarly, we show that reducing BLA activity through viral vector-mediated overexpression of an outwardly rectifying potassium channel suppresses neurogenesis. We also show that BLA lesions prevent selective activation of immature newborn neurons in response to a fear-conditioning task. These results demonstrate that BLA activity regulates adult hippocampal neurogenesis and the fear context-specific activation of newborn neurons. Together, these findings denote functional implications for proliferation and recruitment of new neurons into emotional memory circuits.
Genetic factors, externalizing personality traits such as impulsivity, and brain processing of salient stimuli all can affect individual risk for alcoholism. One of very few confirmed genetic association findings differentiating alcoholics from non-alcoholics is with variants in the inhibitory -amino butyric acid 2 receptor subunit (GABRA2) gene. Here we report the association of two of these GABRA2 variants with measures of alcohol symptoms, impulsivity and with insula cortex activation during anticipation of reward or loss using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In a sample of 173 families (449 subjects), 129 of whom had at least one member diagnosed with alcohol dependence or abuse, carriers for the G allele in two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes were more likely to have alcohol dependence symptoms (rs279858, P=0.01; rs279826, P=0.05; haplotype, P=0.02) and higher NEO Personality Inventory-Revised (NEO-PI-R) Impulsiveness scores (rs279858, P=0.016; rs279826, P=0.012; haplotype, P=0.032) with a stronger effect in women (rs279858, P=0.011; rs279826, P=0.002; haplotype, P=0.006), all P-values are corrected for family history and age. A subset of offspring from these families (n=44, 20 females), genotyped for GABRA2, participated in an fMRI study using a monetary incentive delay task. Increased insula activation during reward (r(2)=0.4; P=0.026) and loss (r(2)=0.38; P=0.039) anticipation was correlated with NEO-PI-R Impulsiveness and further associated with the GG genotype for both SNPs (P's&lt;0.04). Our results suggest that GABRA2 genetic variation is associated with Impulsiveness through variation of insula activity responses, here evidenced during anticipatory responses.
High total plasma homocysteine (tHcy) has been associated with cognitive impairment in later life, but it is unclear if this association is causal or is due to confounding. The C677T polymorphism of the 5,10 methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR) increases basal tHcy, but its contribution to cognitive impairment has not been established. We designed this study to determine if tHcy is causally related to cognitive impairment in later life by investigating its association with high tHcy and the MTHFR-C677T polymorphism. We recruited 1778 older men from the Health in Men Study cohort and established caseness on the basis of the participants' scores on a Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status score 27 in 2008. Exposure to tHcy, gene status and other variables of interest were obtained from assessments 4-7 years earlier. Multivariate logistic regression showed that the odds of cognitive impairment increased with a doubling of tHcy (adjusted odds ratio, OR 1.36; 95% confidence interval, 95% CI 1.02-1.82). Compared with the wild CC genotype, participants with the MTHFR-TT genotype had 46% greater odds of cognitive impairment (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.01-2.11, P=0.043). The results of this study are consistent with, but do not prove the hypothesis that high tHcy causes cognitive impairment in later life.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors have shown remarkable efficiency for gene delivery to cultured cells and in animal models of human disease. However, limitations to AAV vectored gene transfer exist after intravenous transfer, including off-target gene delivery (e.g., liver) and low transduction of target tissue. Here, we show that during production, a fraction of AAV vectors are associated with microvesicles/exosomes, termed vexosomes (vector-exosomes). AAV capsids associated with the surface and in the interior of microvesicles were visualized using electron microscopy. In cultured cells, vexosomes outperformed conventionally purified AAV vectors in transduction efficiency. We found that purified vexosomes were more resistant to a neutralizing anti-AAV antibody compared to conventionally purified AAV. Finally, we show that vexosomes bound to magnetic beads can be attracted to a magnetized area in cultured cells. Vexosomes represent a unique entity which offers a promising strategy to improve gene delivery.
Dystonia is considered one of the classical features of corticobasal degeneration and is reported in up to 83% in clinical, not pathologically confirmed, series. Here, we aimed to establish the frequency and the clinical characteristics of dystonia in CBD by reviewing the literature on 404 pathologically proven cases. Further, we aimed to identify the frequency and characteristics of dystonia in all described phenotypes with CBD pathology. Dystonia was present in only 37.5% of the 296 cases with adequate information. The majority of the cases with dystonia presented with a corticobasal syndrome, and dystonia occurred in the first 2 years from disease onset, affecting the upper limb. In cases with dystonia that presented with a &quot;dementia&quot; phenotype, dystonia tended to appear later in the disease course and to more affect the cervical region and the face. With regard to the distribution of the phenotypes, fifty-four percent of 374 cases presented as corticobasal syndrome, 15% as frontotemporal dementia, and 10.7% as progressive supranuclear palsy. Dystonia and myoclonus were present in about half of all cases with corticobasal syndrome, implying that these features may not be as frequent in corticobasal syndrome as are akinetic-rigid syndrome and apraxia (100% and 86.3%, respectively). Dystonia and myoclonus almost co-occurred in our analysis, suggesting a possible association. In conclusion, despite dystonia being an inclusion criterion in all sets of clinical criteria for corticobasal degeneration, this was present in only one third of the pathologically proven cases presented here. More accurate characterization of dystonia in corticobasal degeneration would be of importance for clinical diagnosis and development of treatment strategies.








Ataxia telangiectasia is a neurodegenerative disease caused by mutation of the Atm gene. Here we report that ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) deficiency causes nuclear accumulation of histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) in neurons and promotes neurodegeneration. Nuclear HDAC4 binds to chromatin, as well as to myocyte enhancer factor 2A (MEF2A) and cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), leading to histone deacetylation and altered neuronal gene expression. Blocking either HDAC4 activity or its nuclear accumulation blunts these neurodegenerative changes and rescues several behavioral abnormalities of ATM-deficient mice. Full rescue of the neurodegeneration, however, also requires the presence of HDAC4 in the cytoplasm, suggesting that the ataxia telangiectasia phenotype results both from a loss of cytoplasmic HDAC4 as well as its nuclear accumulation. To remain cytoplasmic, HDAC4 must be phosphorylated. The activity of the HDAC4 phosphatase, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), is downregulated by ATM-mediated phosphorylation. In ATM deficiency, enhanced PP2A activity leads to HDAC4 dephosphorylation and the nuclear accumulation of HDAC4. Our results define a crucial role of the cellular localization of HDAC4 in the events leading to ataxia telangiectasia neurodegeneration.
Neoplastic metastatic epidural spinal cord compression is a common complication of cancer that causes pain and progressive neurologic impairment. The previous standard treatment for this condition involved corticosteroids and radiotherapy (RT). Direct decompressive surgery with postoperative radiotherapy (S + RT) is now increasingly being chosen by clinicians to significantly improve patients' ability to walk and reduce their need for opioid analgesics and corticosteroids. A cost-utility analysis was conducted to compare S + RT with RT alone based on the landmark randomized clinical trial by Patchell et al. (2005). It was performed from the perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care. Ontario-based costs were adjusted to 2010 US dollars. S + RT is more costly but also more effective than corticosteroids and RT alone, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US$250 307 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. First order probabilistic sensitivity analysis revealed that the probability of S + RT being cost-effective is 18.11%. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed that there is a 91.11% probability of S + RT being cost-effective over RT alone at a willingness-to-pay of US$1 683 000 per QALY. In practice, the results of our study indicate that, by adopting the S + RT strategy, there would still be a chance of 18.11% of not paying extra at a willingness-to-pay of US$50 000 per QALY. Those results are sensitive to the costs of hospice palliative care. Our results suggest that adopting a standard S + RT approach for patients with MSCC is likely to increase health care costs but would result in improved outcomes.
Gliomas are the most common form of tumor in the CNS and are exceptionally heterogeneous. Accurately characterizing gliomas, in terms of grade and type, is essential for predicting the rate of tumor progression. Histopathological grading and analysis based on biopsied tissue remains the gold standard, but non- and semi-invasive neuroimaging also plays a key role. Neuroimaging has been used to guide and optimize biopsies for several decades, but more recently molecular imaging and variants of MRI have shown promise in independently predicting glioma grade. Here we evaluated whether magnetoencephalographic (MEG) measurements of population-level physiology within the glioma space were predictive of the inherent grade of the tissue, based on definitive histopathological analyses. High-density MEG data were recorded from 11 patients who were undergoing functional mapping in preparation for resective surgery. The primary results indicated that glioma grade was positively correlated with the local amplitude of activity within the glioma space in the theta (4-7 Hz), alpha (8-14 Hz), and beta bands (14-30 Hz). Additionally, activity within the glioma was significantly elevated relative to the nonaffected homologue area in the same frequency bands. These results indicate that pathological levels of synchronization exist within the tumor space and that MEG may be a viable tool for noninvasively differentiating gliomas by their grade. Although these results should be considered preliminary and are only correlative in nature, these data suggest that MEG can potentially detect neurophysiological signatures or markers that predict the inherent grade of a glial tumor.
The present study is aimed to assess age-related structural changes in corpus callosum with stereology in 21 postmortem human brains without neuropathology, of age 65-75 (Group A, n = 7), 80-85 (Group B, n = 7), and 94-105 (Group C, n = 7) years. Cross-sectional area, fiber number and density decrease in Group B compared with Group A, then remain unchanged in Group C. Mean fiber diameter increases with age. Cross-sectional area shows strong positive correlation to fiber numbers and negative correlation to mean fiber thickness. With age, modest but significant change in fiber size including a decrease in the percentage of 1-2-m fibers and an increase in 2-3-m fibers was observed. Fiber density shows a steeper decline with age in the anterior compared with posterior segments. Neurodegeneration is an ongoing process where the anterior corpus callosum is more susceptible to age-related degeneration. Corpus callosum cross-sectional area atrophy is mostly related to decline in fiber number and density rather than demyelination, with preferential disruption of small caliber fibers.
In view of the increase in the aging population and the unavoidable parallel increase in the incidence of age-related neurodegenerative diseases, a key challenge in neuroscience is the identification of clinical signatures which change with age and impact on neuronal and cognitive function. Early diagnosis offers the possibility of early therapeutic intervention, thus magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is potentially a powerful diagnostic tool. We evaluated age-related changes in relaxometry, blood flow, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability in the rat by magnetic resonance imaging and assessed these changes in the context of the age-related decrease in synaptic plasticity. We report that T2 relaxation time was decreased with age; this was coupled with a decrease in gray matter perfusion, suggesting that the observed microglial activation, as identified by increased expression of CD11b, MHCII, and CD68 by immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, or polymerase chain reaction (PCR), might be a downstream consequence of these changes. Increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier was observed in the perivascular area and the hippocampus of aged, compared with young, rats. Similarly there was an age-related increase in CD45-positive cells by flow cytometry, which are most likely infiltrating macrophages, with a parallel increase in the messenger mRNA expression of chemokines IP-10 and MCP-1. These combined changes may contribute to the deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cell synapses of aged animals.
Age-related cognitive decline is likely promoted by accumulated brain injury due to chronic conditions of aging, including neurodegenerative and vascular disease. Because common neuronal mechanisms may mediate the adaptation to diverse cerebral insults, we hypothesized that susceptibility for age-related cognitive decline may be due in part to a shared genetic network. We have therefore performed a genome-wide association study using a quantitative measure of global cognitive decline slope, based on repeated measures of 17 cognitive tests in 749 subjects from the Religious Orders Study. Top results were evaluated in 3 independent replication cohorts, consisting of 2279 additional subjects with repeated cognitive testing. As expected, we find that the Alzheimer's disease (AD) susceptibility locus, APOE, is strongly associated with rate of cognitive decline (P(DISC) = 5.6  10(-9); P(JOINT)= 3.7  10(-27)). We additionally discover a variant, rs10808746, which shows consistent effects in the replication cohorts and modestly improved evidence of association in the joint analysis (P(DISC) = 6.7  10(-5); P(REP) = 9.4  10(-3); P(JOINT) = 2.3  10(-5)). This variant influences the expression of 2 adjacent genes, PDE7A and MTFR1, which are potential regulators of inflammation and oxidative injury, respectively. Using aggregate measures of genetic risk, we find that known susceptibility loci for cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and inflammatory diseases are not significantly associated with cognitive decline in our cohort. Our results suggest that intermediate phenotypes, when coupled with larger sample sizes, may be a useful tool to dissect susceptibility loci for age-related cognitive decline and uncover shared molecular pathways with a role in neuronal injury.
The present study evaluated cerebrovascular disease (CVD), -amyloid (A), and cognition in clinically normal elderly adults. Fifty-four participants underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Pittsburgh compound B (PIB)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, and neuropsychological evaluation. High white matter hyperintensity burden and/or presence of infarct defined CVD status (CVD-: n = 27; CVD+: n = 27). PIB-positron emission tomography ratios of A deposition were extracted using Logan plotting (cerebellar reference). Presence of high levels of A in prespecified regions determined PIB status (PIB-: n = 33; PIB+: n = 21). Executive functioning and episodic memory were measured using composite scales. CVD and A, defined as dichotomous or continuous variables, were unrelated to one another. CVD+ participants showed lower executive functioning (p = 0.001) when compared with CVD- individuals. Neither PIB status nor amount of A affected cognition (ps  0.45), and there was no statistical interaction between CVD and PIB on either cognitive measure. Within this spectrum of normal aging CVD and A aggregation appear to be independent processes with CVD primarily affecting cognition.
Optineurin (OPTN) mutations have been reported in a cohort of Japanese patients with familial (FALS) and sporadic (SALS) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In Caucasian patients, OPTN mutations have been identified in FALS patients, but were not detected in a cohort of 95 SALS patients. Moreover, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in OPTN that could raise amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) susceptibility have not been investigated. Therefore, we screened a large Dutch cohort of 1191 patients with SALS, 94 patients with FALS, and 1415 control subjects for mutations and SNPs in OPTN. We identified 1 novel nonsense mutation (Q165X) and 1 unreported missense mutation (Q454E) in individual SALS patients. These patients demonstrated rapid disease progression with an average survival of 24.5 months. No heterozygous or homozygous OPTN mutations were identified in our cohort of FALS patients. SNP analysis did not reveal significant differences between ALS patients and control subjects. Therefore, variations in OPTN appear to be a rare cause of rapidly progressive SALS in the Netherlands.
The nuclear receptor related 1 (Nurr1) transcription factor contributes to the development and maintenance of dopamine (DA) neurons in the brain. We found that heterozygous Nurr1 knockout (Nurr1 +/-) influenced the age-dependent decline in the number of DA neurons and influenced DA signaling. We examined the DA marker, tyrosine hydroxylase, using immunohistochemistry, and we measured DA signaling using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in 3 age groups of wild-type (Nurr1 +/+) and mutant (Nurr1 +/-) mice: 3-6, 9-12, and 15-23 mo old. Prior to significant loss of DA neurons and to the onset of parkinsonian symptoms, young Nurr1 +/- mice (3-6 mo) exhibited a decrease in peak evoked DA release that was partially countered by a decrease in the rate of DA reuptake. As peak evoked DA release declined with age for both the wild-type and Nurr1 +/- mice, both genotypes manifested decreased DA reuptake. As the DA release fell further with age, decreased DA reuptake eventually could not adequately compensate the Nurr1 +/- mice. The results indicated that Nurr1 deficiency led to impaired DA release even before significant DA neuron loss.
Intracellular Ca(2+) dysregulation is an underlying component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology, and recent evidence implicates the ryanodine receptor (RyR) in the disease pathway. Three genes code for different RyR isoforms and each gene transcript gives rise to several alternatively spliced messenger RNAs (mRNAs). These variants confer distinct functionality to the RyR channel, such as altering Ca(2+) release properties or subcellular localization. Changes in RyR isoform expression and alternative splicing have not been examined for potential roles in AD pathogenesis. Here, we compare mRNA levels of the RyR2 and RyR3 isoforms as well as specific alternatively spliced variants across vulnerable brain regions from postmortem samples of individuals with no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and AD. We find an increase in RyR2 transcripts in MCI brains compared with no cognitive impairment. In addition, there is a reduction in a RyR2 splice variant, associated with an antiapoptotic function, in MCI and AD brains. These alterations in RyR expression at early disease stages may reflect the onset of pathologic mechanisms leading to later neurodegeneration.
With 90% of neuroscience clinical trials failing to see efficacy, there is a clear need for the development of disease biomarkers that can improve the ability to predict human Alzheimer's disease (AD) trial outcomes from animal studies. Several lines of evidence, including genetic susceptibility and disease studies, suggest the utility of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) as a potential biomarker with congruency between humans and animal models. For example, early in AD, patients present with decreased glucose metabolism in the entorhinal cortex and several regions of the brain associated with disease pathology and cognitive decline. While several of the commonly used AD mouse models fail to show all the hallmarks of the disease or the limbic to cortical trajectory, there has not been a systematic evaluation of imaging-derived biomarkers across animal models of AD, contrary to what has been achieved in recent years in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (Miller, 2009). If animal AD models were found to mimic endpoints that correlate with the disease onset, progression, and relapse, then the identification of such markers in animal models could afford the field a translational tool to help bridge the preclinical-clinical gap. Using a combination of FDG-PET and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined the Tg2576 mouse for global and regional measures of brain glucose metabolism at 7 and 19 months of age. In experiment 1 we observed that at younger ages, when some plaque burden and cognitive deficits have been reported, Tg2576 mice showed hypermetabolism as assessed with FDG-PET. This hypermetabolism decreased with age to levels similar to wild type (WT) counterparts such that the 19-month-old transgenic (Tg) mice did not differ from age matched WTs. In experiment 2, using cerebral blood volume (CBV) fMRI, we demonstrated that the hypermetabolism observed in Tg mice at 7 months could not be explained by changes in hemodynamic parameters as no differences were observed when compared with WTs. Taken together, these data identify brain hypermetabolism in Tg2576 mice which cannot be accounted for by changes in vascular compliance. Instead, the hypermetabolism may reflect a neuronal compensatory mechanism. Our data are discussed in the context of disease biomarker identification and target validation, suggesting little or no utility for translational based studies using Tg2576 mice.
Oxidative stress and glucose affect the expression of various genes that contribute to both reactive oxygen species generation and antioxidant systems. However, systemic alteration of oxidative stress-related gene expression in normal brains and in brains with a high-glucose status after ischemic-reperfusion has not been explored. Using a polymerase chain reaction array system, we demonstrate that thioredoxin-interacting protein (Txnip) is induced by both oxidative stress and glucose. We found that Txnip mRNA is induced by ischemic-reperfusion injury and that Txnip is located in the cytoplasm of neurons. Moreover, in vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and subsequent reoxygenation without glucose and in vivo administration of 3-nitropropionic acid also promoted an increase in Txnip in a time-dependent manner, indicating that oxidative stress without glucose can induce Txnip expression in the brain. However, calcium channel blockers inhibit induction of Txnip after OGD and reoxygenation. Using the polymerase chain reaction array with ischemic and hyperglycemic-ischemic samples, we confirmed that enhanced expression of Txnip was observed in hyperglycemic-ischemic brains after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Finally, transfection of Txnip small interfering RNA into primary neurons reduced lactate dehydrogenase release after OGD and reoxygenation. This is the first report showing that Txnip expression is induced in neurons after oxidative or glucose stress under either ischemic or hyperglycemic-ischemic conditions, and that Txnip is proapoptotic under these conditions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder and is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. Accumulating evidence in AD research suggests that alterations in the microRNA (miRNA) network could contribute to risk for the disease. miRNAs are conserved small non-coding RNAs that control gene expression at the posttranscriptional level and are essential for neuronal function and survival. The results from recent profiling experiments in humans suggest that a number of specific miRNAs are misregulated in disease conditions, several of which have been implicated in the regulation of key genes involved in AD, including APP, BACE1 and MAPT. Moreover, rare disease-specific polymorphisms have been identified in known and putative miRNA target sites located within the 3'untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of APP and BACE1 genes. Here, we review current findings regarding miRNA research in humans and various cellular and animal models to provide a strong basis for future research aimed at understanding the potential contribution of miRNAs to AD pathophysiology.
Pre-adolescence and adolescence are developmental periods associated with increased vulnerability for tobacco addiction, and exposure to tobacco during these periods may lead to long-lasting changes in behavioral and neuronal plasticity. The present study examined the short- and long-term effects of nicotine and nicotine withdrawal on fear conditioning in pre-adolescent, adolescent, and adult mice, and potential underlying substrates that may mediate the developmental effects of nicotine, such as changes in nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) binding, CREB expression, and nicotine metabolism. Age-related differences existed in sensitivity to the effects of acute nicotine, chronic nicotine and nicotine withdrawal on contextual fear conditioning (no changes in cued fear conditioning were seen); younger mice were more sensitive to the acute effects and less sensitive to the effects of nicotine withdrawal 24 h post treatment cessation. Developmental differences in nAChR binding were associated with the effects of nicotine withdrawal on contextual learning. Developmental differences in nicotine metabolism and CREB expression were also observed, but were not related to the effects of nicotine withdrawal on contextual learning 24 h post treatment. Chronic nicotine exposure during pre-adolescence or adolescence, however, produced long-lasting impairments in contextual learning that were observed during adulthood, whereas adult chronic nicotine exposure did not. These developmental effects could be related to changes in CREB. Overall, there is a developmental shift in the effects of nicotine on hippocampus-dependent learning and developmental exposure to nicotine results in adult cognitive deficits; these changes in cognition may play an important role in the development and maintenance of nicotine addiction.
A promising target for memory improvement is phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5), which selectively hydrolyzes cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). In rodents, PDE5 inhibitors (PDE5-Is) have been shown to improve memory performance in many behavioral paradigms. However, it is questioned whether the positive effects in animal studies result from PDE5 inhibition in the central nervous system or the periphery. Therefore, we studied the effects of PDE5 inhibition on memory and determined whether compound penetration of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is required for this activity. Two selective PDE5-Is, vardenafil and UK-343,664, were tested in the object recognition task (ORT) in both a MK-801- and scopolamine-induced memory deficit model, and a time-delay model without pharmacological intervention. Compounds were dosed 30 min before the learning trial of the task. To determine if the PDE5-Is crossed the BBB, their concentrations were determined in plasma and brain tissue collected 30 min after oral administration. Vardenafil improved object recognition memory in all three variants of the ORT. UK-343,664 was ineffective at either preventing MK-801-induced memory disruption or time-dependent memory decay. However, UK-343,664 attenuated the memory impairment of scopolamine. Vardenafil crossed the BBB whereas UK-343,664 did not. Further, co-administration of UK-343,664 and scopolamine did not alter the brain partitioning of either molecule. This suggests that the positive effect of UK-343,664 on scopolamine-induced memory decay might arise from peripheral PDE5 inhibition. The results herein suggest that there may be multiple mechanisms that mediate the efficacy of PDE5 inhibition to improve memory performance in tasks such as the ORT and that these involve PDE5 located both within and outside of the brain. To further elucidate the underlying mechanisms, the cellular and subcellular localization of PDE5 needs to be determined.
The aim of the present studies was to characterise cell death following inhibition of mitochondrial complex I with rotenone in a transformed cell line (RGC-5 cells) and to examine the neuroprotective properties of the flavonoids genistein, epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), epicatechin (EC) and baicalin. Rotenone-induced cell death of RGC-5 cells results in a generation of reactive oxygen species, a breakdown of DNA, the translocation of membrane phosphatidylserine, an up-regulation of haemoxygenase-1 and is unaffected by necrostatin-1 (inhibitor of necroptosis), z-VAD-fmk (pan caspase inhibitor) or NU1025 (PARP inhibitor) but attenuated with SP600125 (JNK inhibitor). Rotenone-induced toxicity of RGC-5 cells also caused an activation of mitogen-activated kinases indicated by an up-regulation and translocation into mitochondria of p-c-Jun, pJNK and pp38. Exposure of RGC-5 cells to rotenone does not affect apoptosis inducing factor or significantly stimulate caspase-3 activity. EGCG and EC both significantly blunt rotenone toxicity of RGC-5 cells at concentrations of 50 M while genistein and baicalin were without effect. Significantly, genistein is approximately 20 times less efficacious than EGCG (IC(50) 2.5 M) and EC (IC(50) 1.5 M) at inhibiting sodium nitroprusside-induced lipid peroxidation. These studies show that rotenone toxicity of RGC-5 cells is neither necroptosis nor caspase-dependent apoptosis but involves the activation of mitogen-activated kinases and is inhibited by a JNK inhibitor, EGCG and EC. Genistein attenuates lipid peroxidation less efficaciously than EC and EGCG and does not affect rotenone toxicity of RGC-5 cells.
Lysophosphatidylinositol (LPI) is a biologically active lipid that produces a number of responses in cultured cells, and has been suggested to have neuroprotective properties in vivo. Some of the actions of LPI are mediated by G-protein coupled receptors, but it is not known whether G-protein coupled receptor-mediated responses can be seen in intact brain tissue. In consequence, in the present study, we investigated autoradiographically whether LPI increased the [(35)S]GTPS binding level in brain tissue slices. In standard assay conditions, where as a positive control a robust response to cannabinoid receptor activation by the agonist ligand CP55,940 was seen, there was no increase in the autoradiographic density over basal produced by LPI. However, when the conditions were modified (incubation at 4C rather than at 25C, incubation time increased to 3 h, GDP concentration reduced from 2 to 0.1 mM), a significant increase in [(35)S]GTPS autoradiographic density in response to 10 M LPI was seen in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and cortex at the level of the hippocampus, although the degree of increase was small and very variable. No significant increases were seen in the hypothalamus or cerebellum. It is concluded that LPI, in the right conditions, can activate a sufficient number of G-proteins in the rat prefrontal cortex and hippocampus to produce a response in the [(35)S]GTPS autoradiographic assay of G-protein coupled receptor function.
Several previous studies utilizing selective pharmacological antagonists have demonstrated that type 5 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR5) are potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of numerous disorders of the central nervous system, but the role of mGluR5 activation in traumatic brain injury (TBI) is not fully understood. Here in an in vitro TBI model, the mGluR5 agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5- hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) and the positive allosteric modulators 3-cyano-N-(1,3- diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl) benzamide (CDPPB) were used to investigate the neuroprotective potency of mGluR5 activation. Data showed that CHPG and CDPPB suppressed the increase of LDH release and caspase-3 activation induced by traumatic neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner, and the salutary effects were also present when these compounds were added 1 h after injury. Western blot was used to examine the activation of three members of mitogen-activated protein kinases: extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 kinase (p38). CHPG and CDPPB enhanced the activation of ERK after traumatic neuronal injury, and PD98059 and U0126, two selective MEK/ERK inhibitors, partly revised the protective effects. Furthermore, we also investigated the role of protein kinase C (PKC) in CHPG and CDPPB-induced neuroprotection. With the pretreatment of chelerythrine chloride, a PKC inhibitor, the surpressing effects of CHPG and CDPPB on traumatic injury-evoked LDH release and caspase-3 activation were blocked. All of these findings extended the protective role of mGluR5 activation in an in vitro model of TBI and suggested that these protective effects might be mediated by the PKC-dependent activation of MEK/ERK pathway. These results may have important implications for the development of mGluR5 modulators to treat TBI.
